1 Peter chapter 5. Before I read this, just it's been probably uh, I don't know if it's been a month or so since we've been in Peter. And just a reminder, I think it's important for us to remember who Peter is writing to. He is writing to believers. This is not a letter to unbelievers. It's not an evangelistic book in the Bible, although he does touch on the gospel through it. He's writing to folks who have trusted Christ as Savior. They have dedicated their lives to Jesus Christ as a disciple. They're committed to Jesus Christ. You understand there's a there's a it's possible you'd be a be a believer, but not really be dedicated to Christ. We see instances of that in Scripture. But these are folks they believed on Christ and they have sold out for the Lord Jesus Christ to the point That their communities and many of their families have turned against them because of their faith in Christ and have run them out of their homes have run them out of their communities, many of them suffered physically, beaten, whatnot, loss of jobs, some of them no doubt lost family members lost their lives, all because of their commitment to Jesus Christ. And so now they're scattered into these regions, uh we call Asia Minor, they're they're scattered into these towns and cities where they're strangers. They're not home, they don't have family there, they don't have friends, they're just driven out of their homes. And so he's writing to them to encourage them and to urge them to stay faithful to the Lord. He gives them some instructions. Now we get to chapter 5, and I mentioned this before, but I just want to remind us, I think what's happening here is as these believers, and it's thousands of them, it's a significant number, have been driven out And as they're getting out, things are settling down and they're beginning to gravitate to each other in the various areas they've been run to And they're starting to gravitate. You know, I found that Christians love the who love the Lord also love other Christians. And they wanted to be together and they wanted to assemble together. So they start assembling together what's and being developed here in a sense are new churches being developed. And in a time of persecution, uh leadership in these churches is vitally important. I'll I'll say this leadership in a church is vitally important Whether it's persecution or not. But especially in a time like that, it's vitally important that they have leadership and that they have biblical leadership And that is what he's addressing here. If you would notice there in verse number one of 1 Peter 5, he says, The elders, and we talked about that, the elders which are among you I exhort. Who am also an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed And now he addresses these elders. And if you remember, elder is a term for, in this case here, is a term for what? What's another term we could use? Preacher, the pastor. In fact, I have written in the margin of my Bible, pastors. It's a same office, different title. And so now he's addressing the elders, and this is what I'm going to want us to look at tonight. He says, Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. Neither as being lords over God's inheritage, but being ensamples to the flock. So he's writing to the elders of this church. Let's pray. Father, I ask now you'd bless our time in this portion of your word. I ask you to speak to our hearts. And Lord, though you are addressing elders, the leadership here, what you say applies to all of us and affects all of us as members of the body of Christ. As part of the flock of God, to use your term here. So please open our hearts. Holy Spirit, I ask that you would apply these instructions given here to each of our lives. That we can grow in our faith and be strong in our witness and have victory in our Christian lives. I yield my will to you again this evening, Lord. I present my body anew, and I ask with all my heart That you fill me with your Spirit and you speak through me your word. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Now you remember we said there was the term elders is used three ways in the Bible, and I already mentioned what it is here, but sometimes it simply refers to uh old people and uh just elders, just folks that have been around for a while. Sometimes the term elder talks about is is referring to spiritually mature believers. Generally They're older folks, but they've been around for a while. They know a few things about the Lord and about the Christian life. You know it's one thing to know what the it's one thing to believe To understand and believe what the Bible says because it says it. It's another thing to understand and believe what the Bible says, not just because it says it, but because you've experienced it. And that's the elders here. They've experienced much of this Christian life that the Bible instructs us in. Then The term elder as here, as I said, is used to refer to an office in the church, that of pastor. And so he's addressing You notice in verse number one, we mentioned before that first thing Peter does is he mentions his dedication to Christ. He's kind of, verse number one, Peter is kind of giving his resume. He's addressing these elders. He's instructing them in a few things. But he says, first of all, he says, listen, I'm one of you guys. I am myself an elder. I've pastored, I've uh provided leadership as an apostle. He's fulfilled much of this. So he's giving his credentials here. He's giving his resume. And if you remember the last message, we ended with this. I can't leave somebody somewhere where I'm not. And he says, listen, I'm there, I'm in this position, and he's already there. Now, here's where I want to pick up tonight in the little time we have. I want us to notice, verse 2 and 3, the duties of the elders, the pastors. The duties. You say, well, preacher, why are we here? You're preaching that yourself. Well, it's given to all of us. So look what it says here. Verse 2. He starts verse 1. The elders which are among you, I exhort. I'm challenging you, I'm instructing you, urging you. This is what you need to do. Verse 2, he picks it up: feed the flock of God which is over you. Now in the New Testament church, there are two offices. One is pastor, elder. Sometimes they'll use the term bishop Minister is sometimes used. And there's a second office. What's the second office? Deacon In a New Testament church, biblic, in a biblical New Testament church, by the way, if it's not biblical, it's not New Testament. But if uh in a New Testament chur It's two offices, pastor and deacon. No others. You say, I thought we have trustees. That's a legal issue. The Bible doesn't forbid it, but it doesn't call for it. The only two offices the Bible recognizes in the church is pastor and deacon. And um they have similar qualities, qualifications. They're very similar. And if we had time, we'd go to 1 Peter 3. He gives the qualifications for the pastor. He gives the qualifications for the deacons very similar. Very few differences in the qualifications there, requirements to hold that office. These are biblical, what God says. Very few differences in the qualifications. However, there are significant differences in the responsibilities of the deacon and the pastor. Just to summarize a little bit, the deacons are given to serve. I put it this way. The church, now I hope you'll get this, because this is important. The church calls the deacons. The church calls someone to be a deacon. Come with me. Keep your place there. Go with me to Acts chapter 6. In Acts chapter 6, we have the introduction of deacons in the New Testament. There was some fussing going on in the church. That tells us it was a Baptist church. And uh there's a little fussing going on in Acts chapter number six. The church was glow growing, explosive growth. Verse number one says, in those days when the ch number of the disciples was multiplied. That's like, you know, this week we had 180 some people, next week we got 430 people, then the next week we got 1200. It's multiplying That's what's happening to the explosive. And look what it says. And there rose a what? Murmuring among the Grecians against the Hebrews. Well, that's an age-old contention and it's crept in the body of Christ. It's crept into the body of believers. And it needs to be dealt with. The Grecians against the Hebrews because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. Now it doesn't tell us if it was deliberate or not. But whatever the case is, they're taking care of these widows in this massively, rapidly growing church. Some are getting overlooked. Now I hate to think that they would be deliberate. So whether I would hate to think that, but whatever the case, they were being neglected. And so now there's murmuring, there's dissension within the church. So that's the context, that's the setting. Then verse 2. Then the twelve called unto the multitude of the disciples. They got their church together unto them and said, It's not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. You know, we don't uh uh uh uh it's not our place to take care of this, take care of the widows, in this case It's not reason we should leave the word of God and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look at this, look ye out among you seven men, and then they give some basic qualifications Honest report, full of the Holy Ghost, wisdom and wisdom, whom when they appoint over this business And we will give ourselves continually to prayer and to the ministry of the word. They need to stay focused on providing the spiritual leadership of the church. And they wanted the church to call out among themselves some folks that could deal with this distribution issue. And the saying pleased the whole multitude, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith, and of the Holy Ghost and Philip, and then they list these other fellows here, seven of them. Whom they set before the apostles, and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them. Now that's an interesting phrase. I think we talked about this before. But the laying the hands on them, the idea is they're stretching forth their hand on these people. You know what I think is taking place? They're having a congregational vote Here's the men. They meet the qualifications. The church laid their hands on them. Yep, we support this. We support these people. We vote for this, so to speak. And so the church chose out from among the body of believers men that met the qualifications to serve. In fact, if you come back there, verse 2 at the end, it's not reason that we should lead the Word of God and serve tables. That word serve is the same word as beacons. That we deacon the tables, we serve the tables. So here we have the instance where the deacons are being chose, called by the church for this in this case to resolve this issue And the precedent being sent that that is part of the responsibility of deacons is to keep the church functioning on the physical level, the material aspect of the church, keep that thing functioning. So the church calls out the deacons. I had a fellow years ago, he came to me and said, Pastor, he said, I think God's called me to be a deacon. I said, well, it doesn't exactly work that way. God, uh, the church calls deacons And if you study this carefully, you never have someone coming and saying, oh, ooh, ooh, ooh, I want to be a deacon. Ooh, ooh, ooh. Now there's nothing wrong with having that desire to want to serve, but it's the church's decision. You follow what I'm saying? It's a church's decision. And so the church calls out the deacons here in Act 6. However, God calls the pastors. God calls the pastors. And then the church, of course, they have a say in who their pastor is, but God calls the pastors. And we see that in Acts 13 in various places. where uh God would call out the pastors. Can I just give personal testimony? Been here coming up on 29 years, and uh there's been, you know, for the most part it has been uh just the greatest joy of my life. But there's some rough roads here and there. And, you know, sometimes you hit a little hit a valley or you hit a little struggle And I'll tell you something that has kept me, this is just me personally, something that's kept me, is knowing that it is God's call and God's will for me to be here as pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And when the old comes in the head, uh you need to move on, you go go find something else, immediately I had a this has been a number of years ago, maybe I shouldn't say this, a number of years ago I got a call And uh uh a great friend of mine's called and says, Hey, there's a church, and he told me, and um good church and and uh you know uh pretty wealthy and just a nice setup And he says, uh they're looking for a pastor. Would you consider? And when he told me the situation, there was a part of me that said, Ooh. But I'm telling you, it wasn't two seconds. And the Spirit of God said, I want you to stay right where you're at. In the will of God, in the will of God. So God calls people. Now if the church would say, well, we don't think it's God's will, vote me out, then I'll take that as not God's will But God calls the pastors. You follow what I'm trying to say? I got a little on a rabbit trail there, but God calls the pastors. There's no doubt in my mind. And there's no doubt in my mind, God created me and gave me life for the purpose of being pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church all these years. No doubt in my mind. Now, I don't know what the future holds, but that's what I believe. That's what I believe. And so the church calls out the deacons, God calls the elders. The office of elder is a calling of God. Now, John R. Rice, whom I tremendously respect and read about everything he's ever written, Um he said, now God calls a pastor, but he'll take volunteers. And so, you know, uh I'm not sure. Now, if you would come back to Peter here. So nevertheless, I wanted to emphasize the point That deacons, there's two offices, deacon and pastor, elder, bishop, whatever you want the term you want to use, uh very similar qualifications, very different responsibilities One is called out by the church, the other is called by God. Now, come back here, if you would, to verse number two. I notice three duties Of the elders. And I believe, and I could be wrong in this, I wouldn't fuss with anybody about this, but I kind of got the idea that these are listed in the order of importance to an extent. Notice the first part of verse 2. He says, verse 1, he says, The elders which are among you, I exhort. Verse 2, feed the flock of God which is among you. So number one The responsibility of the pastor, the deacon, the pastor, the elder, the bishop, the number one responsibility is to feed the church. Feed the church. That's to give provision. Now I looked up that word feed. I did a little study on that. It means this: to nourish, to provide food for. And here I thought this was an interesting definition. It was in a theological dictionary. It said this: to supply the need for the soul. So when God tells the pastor, the elder, to feed the flock of God which is among you, he's not talking about hot dogs, roasts, and um uh pizza parties and uh Fried chicken dinners, and although I'm all for that. He's talking about feeding the what? Spiritual. Spiritually, feed the church spiritually. Feed the Word of God. Now, if you would, and I'm I'm no doubt not going to get through this, if you would come to Matthew chapter 4. We're going to look at a couple verses here. Matthew chapter 4. He says to the elders, they're out, they've been scattered, they're reassembling together, they're organizing, they're establishing leadership. God has called men to lead these churches, these elders And he's instructing them. He's exhorting them. And he says, number one, first and foremost, you must feed the flock of God that is among you. Feed them. All right, what are we feeding them? Well, we're ideas feed their soul. Well, what are we feeding their soul? Are we giving them philosophy? Uh do we take courses on psychology? Feed the soul Look at Matthew chapter 4 and look down with me at verse number 4. Jesus is being tempted by the devil. The devil tempts him to turn the rocks into bread. He's been fasting for 40 days, 40 nights, so no doubt he's hungry. Satan Satan jumps on that. Says, hey, if you're God, if you be the Son of God, he says there, uh thou be the Son of God, verse 3, command these stones be made to brick. That would be tempting if you haven't eaten forty days. Look what the Lord says. But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but what? Every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. You know what he's saying? That the word of God is bread for our soul. The Word of God is the nourishment for our soul. The Word of God is what nurtures and nourishes the spiritual needs in our heart and life. And the pastor, the elder, is responsible to feed the flock, to feed the church, the word of God, the bread of God. The bread of God. Turn with me, if you would, over to 2 Timothy. If you would come back, 2 Timothy. We're going to jump around here a little bit. And I give you my word. If it hits 11 o'clock, I'm just going to quit. Uh second Timothy, look find chapter four of Second Timothy And he's writing to this young preacher boy. He's writing to this young elder. A young elder. Young pastor. And he's n he's mentoring him, he's training him, he's taking him under wing. Now he's writing to him under the inspiration of God. And look what he says. And this is recorded for pastors of all ages now. And he says, verse one, he says, Second Peter four, I charge thee before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom. Sounds like he wants them to take this seriously, right? Look what he says. Preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort. with all longsuffering and doctrine. Man, that's thorough teaching there. That's thorough preaching there. For the time will come when they will not endorse sound doctrine But after their own lust shall they reap heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. And they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall be turned in the and shall be turned unto fables. What's he saying? He says, preach the word. Preach the word. You feed that body of believers. You feed that flock of God. You feed that church that God has placed you in as an elder, and you feed them the Word of God I was visiting down here in Mountain Lake Park, it's been a number of years ago, down along the train tracks down there if you're familiar, all the way down to the bottom. I knocked on these little row houses they had there, these little duplex, and uh a guy answered the door and said, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. He goes, Oh yeah, I've heard about your church. I heard you guys preach the Bible and try and get everybody saved. I said, Well that kinda sums it up, yeah. But I tell you, encouraged my heart when the first thing he thought about our church was, is they preach the Bible. That's what we're supposed to do. Feed the flock of God. Turn with me, if you would, to Hebrews. Hebrews chapter number four. Hebrews chapter number four The very first thing he tells these elders is, you feed the flock of God which is among you. Feed them. Hebrews chapter 4, look at verse 12. This is a good verse to underscore in your Bible if you don't have it He says this, for the word of God, that's the bread that Jesus referenced in Matthew, for the word of God is quick and powerful. Sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and the joints of marrow, and is discerner of the thoughts And intents of the heart. What's he saying? He's saying the word of God is what deals with our soul. The word of God is what affects our spirit. The Word of God is what takes that which is out of order and puts it back in order. The Word of God deals with our hearts. I don't know how many times. I I I couldn't, there's no way I could count. I've had people, I've preached the Bible as best I could Now listen, there's a lot of folks that can preach this Bible better than I can, but nobody can preach a better Bible than what I preach. You follow what I'm saying? I don't know how many times after the service somebody comes back and say, Preacher, man, you dealt with this in my life. And I'm thinking, I didn't even mention that. I didn't even talk about that. But you know what? The bread I was preached in the Bible and the Holy Spirit of God was taking the truths of this book and feeding it to hearts and souls as he knew those people needed. Even though I might not have brought that point out. It was in the Word of God, and the Holy Spirit of God used the preaching of His Word to feed the flock. I'm telling you, I wouldn't want to be a part of a church that didn't believe and preach and teach the Bible. I wouldn't go to a Sunday school class that didn't teach the Word of God. I wouldn't want to be a part of a music program that didn't sing the Word of God. He says, preach the word. Feed the flock which is among you. The flock of God which is among you. The word of God. Then he says, come back here to Peter. And I'll end with this. He says, feed, and then notice the next statement. Now, this is all under this heading, Feed the Church. He says, feed. Now notice how he refers to the church. Feed the flock of God, which is among you. He doesn't say feed the church, feed the body of Christ. He says feed the flock of God. Now, sometimes the Bible will refer to the church as the church, called out assembly. Sometimes he refers, God will reference the church as the body of Christ. Sometimes he refers to as the bride of Christ, eventually. Hearing refers to it as the flock of God. Now, what is a flock? Well, obviously, when you think of flock, we're not talking about birds, we're talking about what? Sheep. A flock of sheep. A flock is, this is my definition, you're going to be glad you came to church tonight. A flock of sheep is a crowd of sheep. Right? Let me put it this way. A flock of sheep. Now think this through. I'm a little simple-minded, so think this through with me. A flock of sheep is an assembly of sheep. A flock of sheep are sheep that have assembled together. You with me? If there's a sheep up in the fa up in the woods there and another sheep's down by the creek and another one's out by the lake and another one's over by a river and there's two laying up there in the field and they all got their internet on I'm sorry. Is that a flock? It's not a flock. A flock is when they all come together. Now, I I want to get myself out of trouble here. I thank God that there's people who can join us by way of internet. And I understand, I understand that. And uh please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But watching a church program on TV is not a flock. Follow what I'm saying? It's assembled. It's a flock, the flock of God. The church is a called-out assembly. When he assemble together. And so he says, the flock of God. In Hebrews chapter ten, verse twenty-five, the Bible says, Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. Can I put it this way in context of our message? Forsake not the flocking of yourselves together. Or a flock here tonight. And again, please don't misunderstand, and I uh uh uh uh I would never want to hurt anybody or run anybody off, but we're glad for folks join us by way of internet But a church is an assembly, a flock of God. And so he says, feed the flock Assemble believers, feed them the Word of God. And then notice what else he says here. Now this struck home with me. Feed the flock of The elder. No. Feed the flock of who? The idea is whose flock is it? It's God's flock. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is not Leatherman's Church. It's not Treesy's Church. It's not Heinball's Church. Put any name in there you want. This is the body of Christ. This is the flock of God. It's the Lord's church. And he says, you feed that flock that belongs to God. You are given the delegated the responsibility to preach and teach and feed the Word of God to that flock that is the Lord's. And I'll tell you, that becomes a responsibility. It's not mine. I've got to be very, very careful. The pastor, the elder has to be very, very careful. How he treats, and how he administers, and how he leads the church, because that is not his church. It is God's church. It's the body of Christ. And so you have to be very, very careful. He says, you feed, you get the word of God, you give the word of God to that assembled group of sheep. By the way, God refers to us as sheep That's not really that impressive, you know, when you know sheep a little bit, but we're very much like them. And you feed them because they're the Lord's. They're the Lord's. So I've got to be careful. Can I I'll end with this, but let me throw this out. If this is God's flock, this right here, and by the way, the building isn't the church. It's all y'all and me. Oh, all y'all, all us all. If this is the body of Christ, this is the bride of Christ, this is God's flock, we ought to be very, very careful how we treat. Can I say this? We ought to be very careful about how we talk about God's flock. People say some awful things about churches. He will say awful things. We need to be very careful. I believe God takes that very seriously. Listen, before you get bent out of shape because somebody didn't do something the way you think they should, or before you get all bent out of shape and start running your mouth, Because something didn't go the way you think it should, you better stop and just take pause and say, wait a minute, this is the body of Christ. Is this the best way to address this? I don't we don't have any problem with that as far as I know. But what I'm saying is we need to respect the flock of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the instructions you've given. It's very clear, very serious, very sober responsibility for myself and For teachers, anybody that handles the Word of God in the church. And I pray you'd help us stay faithful to this book. Help me. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I need to take my role in the flock of God as a part of this body, I need to take my responsibility, my part in this body. I need to take that a little more seriously. Maybe be a little more faithful to church, be a more positive, more prayerful, more investing a little bit more And the success of the flock of God. Any like that, preacher? I just need to. I just need to. Now I don't want anybody to raise their hand. It's between you and God. But maybe some would say, you know, I just gotta need the Lord to help me with my attitude. I get a little this and out of sorts with that and this and I try and get my way here Maybe we just need to come and say, Lord, listen, I'm just a sheep as part of an assembled group of other sheep. We love each other and help each other best we can to do what God's called us to do. Father, bless our invitation now as we go to Lord's Supper. Help us, Lord, just to put our all on the altar and open our hearts and be honest with ourselves and with you, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.