All right, Matthew chapter number one. And I'd like for us, if you would, read together. Verse number twenty-three. Matthew chapter one and verse number twenty-three. If you have it there, let's all read this together. Ready all together? Behold, a virgin shall be with child and shall bring forth a son. And they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us. Emmanuel. I want to speak about that this morning. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven. Lord, we thank you for the opportunity to assemble together. Folks here in the service, those at home listening in online, but we are together in our hearts and minds, I have no doubt And I ask now that you would take this message this morning on this name of Jesus Christ, Emmanuel. And I ask, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts. And help us to grasp the meaning of this name and the significance it has in our lives. I pray, Lord, if there would be somebody listening in that does not know Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, Lord, my prayer that this day would be the day of salvation for them, that they would come and humble themselves before you and call on you and trust you, uh believe that you died for them, was buried, and rose again, and uh put their faith and trust in Christ. So, Lord, we ask you to have your way. Revive us, Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask, Father, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name, amen The angel of the Lord appears to Joseph here, and uh the angel is trying to clarify in Joseph's mind Exactly what has taken place with Mary and his relationship with Mary. As you no doubt know, Joseph was a spouse to Mary. They were It's a type of engagement, a very binding engagement to marry, a little different than our engagements. But they were espoused to be married. They were uh committed to each other to be married And Joseph finds out that Mary is with child. So, of course, his only conclusion could be he knew that they were doing right and they were keeping themselves for marriage. And he comes to find out that this woman that he's espoused to, that he's engaged to, is now with child. And so his only conclusion would be what? That she had been what? Unfaithful She had been with another man. And of course, he being a good man, a godly man, uh he uh he he thinks to himself, he says, I cannot marry this woman I can't trust her. But he's a just man, if you would come back and look there, verse number 19. Then Joseph her husband, now they're not really married yet, but an espousal is a very binding uh arrangement, and so then Joseph, her husband, being a what? What kind of man A just man. He doesn't want to do wrong. And he doesn't want to do wrong to marry. And so what he does, he's very gracious, he's very kind. And not willing to make her a public example. He doesn't want to uh broadcast the fact that in his mind she sinned. He doesn't want to broadcast the fact to everybody she'd been unfaithful. He just wants to deal with this in a quiet and private way. I thought of Proverbs where the Bible says Love covers a multitude of sins. Listen, when somebody sins, somebody sins against us, we don't need to go out and broadcast it to everybody. Amen. I was accused years ago. I had a person accuse me, preacher, you're covering up sin. Somebody in the church had done wrong, and I was dealing with it, helping them make it right. This person found out about it. Preacher, you're covering up sin. You know, I said you're exactly right. Because love covers a multitude of sins. It wasn't that we weren't dealing with it. Joseph was dealing with the sin, dealing with it in a kind, gracious, scriptural, spiritual way. There's no reason to make it public. Hey, he didn't get on Facebook and advertise to everybody what had been done to him. Amen? Let's put her away privately. Privily. He's a kind man. He's a just man. He wants to do right. And then I've noticed in verse number twenty he says, but while he thought on these things, another thing I notice about Joseph, and this really isn't my message. this morning, but I noticed another thing about Joseph. He stops and thinks things through. He didn't react in just jump on this. He thought, I need to think about this. And while he's thinking this through, and while he's trying to decide, how do I deal with this? How do I respond? What am I going to do here? This angel appears to him and explains to him exactly what was happening. And it wasn't the way it appeared at all. The angel explains to Joseph that this child in Mary's womb, this conception, is miraculous. She had been faithful, she had been true. And God had chosen his wife to be Mary, to be the mother of the Savior of the world. How about that Can you imagine? Put yourself in Joseph's shoes. Can you imagine what was going through his mind trying to process all of this? His heart is shattered. I mean his world is absolutely shaken when he finds out Mary's with child. Then an angel of the Lord appears to him says, no, no, no. She's going to be the mother of the Savior of the world. I just can't imagine what was going through Joseph's mind. But in the explanation by the angel of the Lord to Joseph about what's happening, the angel mentions two names. That are to be given to Jesus Christ. The first one we see in verse number 21, it says, And thou shalt call his name what? Jesus. Why call him Jesus? For he shall save his people from their sins. And then down in verse 23, she's quoting Isaiah, and she said, the angel of the Lord, I should say, is quoting Isaiah. And says this, behold, a virgin shall be with child, that's Mary, and shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name what? Emmanuel. See, you have two different names here. The name Jesus means this: Jehovah is salvation. It's the Greek form of the Hebrew word Joshua. And so one name, the angel of the Lord tells Joseph, all right, this child, this miraculously conceived child, when Mary gives birth, you're to name him Jesus. Jehovah is salvation, for he shall save his people from their sins. And then in the next statement, he says, he shall be called Emmanuel. Now, according to verse 23, I need you to talk with me this morning. According to verse 23, what does the name Emmanuel mean? God with us. God with us. Now somebody has suggested, I don't know, somebody has suggested that the name Jesus would have been Jesus' earthly name And the name Emmanuel would be his heavenly name. Now, whether that's the case or not, or what the significance, I'm not sure. But I do want us to consider this name Emmanuel this morning. The girls sang of him here just a few moments ago. That name Emmanuel, there are literally millions and millions of Christmas cards that carry the name Emmanuel. Christmas hymns, Christmas carols that had the name Emmanuel. I want us to consider first of all the meaning of this name Emmanuel, the definition of the name Emmanuel. Isaiah chapter 4, Isaiah chapter 7. Now if you would keep your place here in Matthew and come back with me to Isaiah Chapter number seven. This is the reference that this angel of the Lord is quoting when uh dealing uh when addressing Joseph here. I think I just turned my mic on, Jamie. I think I forgot to before Are we good? There we go. Isaiah chapter number seven. And notice with me verse number fourteen. Isaiah seven and verse fourteen. Therefore, the Lord Himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and thou shalt call his name Emmanuel Then of course in Matthew 1, verse 23, thou shalt call his name Emmanuel. Now, if you notice here, this is just a little aside, if you notice here there's a slight difference in the spelling of the two words. And Isaiah used the word, it starts with the letter I and Matthew the letter E. Don't let that throw you. That's not that significant. The difference is uh in um In Isaiah, it's being translated from a Hebrew word. In Matthew, it's being translated from a Greek word. So there's slight spelling, and you'll see that in the New and Old Testament's names are spelled differently. And so, uh, this name Emmanuel, we're clearly told what the definition of the name Emmanuel is simply this: God with us. That little baby born in a manger. There on that Christmas morning, that little baby, the angel of the Lord, said, his name is Manuel. God is with us. God is with us. So number one, the definition of the name Emmanuel is God with us. Number two, I'd like for us to consider the designation of that name. In other words, is there any significance to the angel of the Lord saying this child's name is to be Emmanuel? Is there any significance to that? Is there a reason? That God, through the angel of the Lord, has chosen this name for this baby. Well, I'll say this: God doesn't give names out just haphazardly Just at random. In fact, names in the Bible uh are very, very significant ha and have uh uh ha and have purpose uh for being given those names. God does not give names out at random. He doesn't give them out with significance. So this name Emmanuel means God with us. Now, I got looking up the words here. Come back to Matthew if you would with me. I got looking at the words here. And there's a little word in there that caught my attention as I was studying the definitions of these that brought out some significance, I believe, to this title. First Corinthians, Joseph being uh um Verse 23. Behold a virgin shall be his child, and shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted God now that next word is what caught my attention. God what? With us. Now I never paid much attention to that word. I just read it a million times. And I thought, I'm going to look up that word with. God, with us. God. With us. I got looking it up and I found out it means a little bit what you might expect to some extent. It means to be in our midst. God is now in our midst. God is with us. One of the definitions, I was looking up the different dictionaries with this word. One of them suggested this idea with the word with. It means to be in front of To be right in my presence and to be behind. God is now with us. God is now in our midst. God is now in our presence. He's in front of us, behind us, and right where we are. And then there was a third definition I came across, and this is the one that really struck me. That's going to call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted God with us. And this was a definition that caught my attention: to participate in. To participate in. In other words, God Almighty, the creator of heaven and earth, the God, the everlasting. Omnipotent, all-powerful, all-wise, holy God that spoke this world into existence is now entering into human experience. He is now participating in this experience called being a person, humanity. God becoming a man. That to me is an amazing, amazing thing. God is now one of us. The Muhormans teach that as man is now, God once was As God is now, man may be. In other words, the Mormon false doctrine teaches that you and I can become a God. Listen, there's no man that ever became a God. There's no man that ever became a God. But the one living, eternal, true God did become a man. Isn't that an amazing thing? Now I don't know. I just throw this out. This just entered into my mind. And I found that if something enters my mind, I better deal with it right away, because it usually doesn't stick around very long Isn't that just like the devil to take the truth and twist it around and make it the exact opposite? God became a man. The devil says, oh yeah, man, you can become God. The devil's a liar and the father of lies. Thou shalt call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted as God is now with us. God is now in our presence. God has now entered our experience. God has become a man. God has become a man. The birth of Jesus Christ is literally God become a man. I think my favorite Christmas carol, at least as far as the words and the truths and the teaching of the carol, has to be heart to hero, what angels say. What a powerful, powerful song that is. If you pay attention to the doctrine, we sang it just a little bit ago. The doctrine that is in that song is just absolutely tremendous. Says this, veiled in flesh, the Godhead see. Hail, the incarnate deity, deity becoming flesh Pleased as man with men to dwell, Jesus, our Emmanuel. God, eternal God, never had a beginning, never has an end, holy, all-powerful. Becomes a man, becomes part of what you and I are, enters into this experience. That we live our lives. The birth of Jesus Christ is literally God becoming a man. The birth of Jesus Christ is literally God entering into human life and human experience. If you would, take your Bibles. I want us to look at a few verses here. Go to the Gospel of John. Now you're in Matthew, Mark, Luke, John. And we actually looked at these verses, I think, a week ago in the message, but look at John chapter number 1, if you would, with me. Now keep your place there in Matthew, or we'll probably end up back there before this is over. John chapter 1, and notice with me verse number 14. Now, verse number 1 says: In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God. And the word uh in the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. Now look at verse 14 with me. And the word was made flesh. Jesus Christ is the Word. The Word is God. And it was made flesh. Became a man The word was made flesh. Now look at that next phrase. This is what captured my attention, and this is what I'm trying to make the point of this message. The word became flesh and did what? Dwelt among us, God with us, the word becoming flesh And dwelling among us. Go over to 1 John, way back farther in your New Testament there, getting back towards Revelation. Hebrews, James. You get the 1 John. And notice with me again, verse number 1. Now, this is the same penman, Gospel of John and this epistle of John here, same penman, John Same author, God. But look at verse number one of 1 John 1. That which was from the beginning. Now pay attention to what John says here. That which was from the beginning, which we have what? Heard. I underlined that in my Bible. Which we have Seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon. Now look at this next statement. And our hands have handled of the word of life. Who's he referring to? Jesus Christ, this word became made flesh. God, now with us, participating as a human And he says here that we've heard him, we've seen him, we've looked upon him, and then he says, we handled him with uh we've handled him. How does he say it there? We hand and our hands have handled him. Now think with me for a moment. Think about this Here's John, one of the disciples. He spends three and a half years with the Lord Jesus Christ before he's crucified, resurrected, and ascends. And he's writing later on, and he says, we saw Jesus, we saw God in the flesh. And we heard his voice with our ears. And we looked on him. And our hands have handled him. We touched God. We held hands. We embraced. We pulled fish nets in. We climbed in boats. We walked dusty streets With God in the flesh. I thought of Peter when he's in the boat and Jesus Christ in the midst of storm and Jesus Christ says, peace, be still. The storm stops. And Peter is absolutely struck with awe. What kind of man is this? That even the winds and the seas obey him. I'll tell you what kind of man he is, and the disciples are learning. This is God. In the flesh, become man, God with us. I tell you, that name has significance The truth behind that statement, the angel of the Lord, says to Joseph, thou shalt call his name Emmanuel, being interpreted. God is now with us. He ate, he slept, he walked with them, he hungered, he lived in man's shoes and a man's body. 100% man, yet 100% God. Never before, never again, will be a person like the Lord Jesus Christ. God in the flesh. God in the flesh. I thought you think God is Becoming a man, God taking on human flesh. You'd think he would live in some palace separated from sinful mankind. You'd think he'd live in some estate high and lifted up. And separated from us. No, no, no. It is God with us. He's dwelling among us I'm so glad. I'm so glad Jesus ate meals with old sinners and publicans, aren't you? Because you know what I am? Just an old sinner. I'm glad he didn't live in some palace separated from the common man from people like you and I, old sinners, said things we ought not to say and Done things we've ought not to have done and gone places we shouldn't have gone and and uh treated people in ways we shouldn't have treated people and uh failed to do things we shouldn't have done We've sinned against this holy God. Yet he became down and came one of us and dwelt among us. God with us. God with us. Emmanuel. He slept and ate and walked and hungered and lived in a man's body, walked in man's shoes, became one of us. So, number one, the definition of this name, Emmanuel, God with us. The designation or the significance of that is God is now man. God is now entered into our experience. And my last thought is this, the third one, is I want us consider the declaration of Emmanuel. In other words, what does it mean for you and I? What does it mean in the year 2020, in the midst of a pandemic? Frustration, change has taken place in our world that is mind-boggling? Time of fear and concern and anxious, what shall be? I'm here to tell you, in Christmas 2020, God is with us. We're not alone. We're not in this by ourselves. That name, Emmanuel, has tremendous significance. Today and in our time and age. God is with us. I put down a few ways that God is with us, a few areas. Number one, I put this down. He is with us in our walk. Now, what I mean by that is as a believer, living my life as a believer, I have the presence of God. in my life. Now every one of these thoughts, these five here, could be a sermon in and of itself. But he is with us in our walk, in our life. The Bible clearly teaches that the moment a person trusts Jesus Christ as their Savior, That very moment, the Spirit of Christ in the person of the Holy Spirit, enters into our bodies. He seals us. He keeps us. And you and I let me ask, let me back up. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Come on, now don't be afraid to you all sound like it's Amen. Come on, if you're saved, then you know it's saved. That's a little better. I've got to crank it up here this morning. Prime the pump a little bit How many people are glad to be saved? Man, can just stop man alive, can you imagine being unsaved in this experience we're going through now? No wonder people are taking their lives. No wonder people are fighting in the streets. When a moment a person trusts Jesus Christ as Savior, that split second, the Holy Spirit of God, the person of Christ, God. The person of the Holy Spirit indwells our body. God with us. Right now, where you're sitting, you're saved, right where you are. God Almighty that spoke this universe in existence Anybody hear about the Christmas star tomorrow night supposed to be up there? Anybody been seeing that? The God that spoke that into existence dwells inside the bodies of every believer. I don't know about you. That ought to give us a little confidence, huh? That ought to give us a little that ought that ought to humble us. God is in me. This massive chest you see right here. God What? God Almighty. Isn't that amazing? God's in me. In you. God is. The Bible says that if a person does not know Jesus Christ as Savior, if a person has never humbled themselves, acknowledging their sin, putting their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, who died on that cross, who was buried, rose again for our sins. The person does not put their trust in him. Ephesians tells us they are without God and without hope in this world. What a tragic condition to be in. Say, I'm without God. I'm without hope in this world. Believer can never say that. By the way, if you're happen to be here, you're listening in, you've never trusted Christ as Savior Tragic fact is you are without God and we are without hope in this world, but it's not hopeless because you can come to Christ and trust Christ as your Savior. Find forgiveness and have the presence of God living in your life. So the Lord Jesus Christ is with us in our walk. I've had people say to me over the years, and I try to witness to folks, and I'll try and encourage encourage them, I'll show them how to be saved. I try and encourage them to trust Christ as Savior. And I've had people say this to me, preacher, I would get saved, but I don't think I could live it. I cannot live that Christian life. I can't get saved because I couldn't live the Christian life. You know what my answer to that is? Every time, without fail, I say, welcome to the club. There's not a person in this world can live the Christian life in and of their own strength on their own alone But the great news is we have Emmanuel. God is with us. And when we trust Christ as Savior, we have the presence of the Holy Spirit. We have the presence of God in our lives. And He is the one that enables us to live that Christian life. Nobody's going to get to the judgment seat of Christ. No believer's going to get to the judgment seat of Christ and say, boy, look how great a Christian life I lived. Nobody's going to say that at all. You know what we're going to say? We're going to fall before Christ and say, without you, I'd be nothing. The presence of God in our life as a believer is what enables us to live the Christian life. I could have never, I would have never gotten off of drugs if it wasn't for the presence of Jesus Christ in my life. I couldn't do that myself. I couldn't have changed my life. I couldn't have changed my very nature and very character, become a new man in and of myself. It's the presence of God. How many folks are glad you have the presence of God in your life? Say amen. I'm with you. God with us. So he's with us in our walk. Number two, I put this down. He's with us in our worship. In our worship. Matthew chapter 18, verse 20 says, where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them. He's saying when folks get together in the name of Jesus Christ, when folks get together not to have a party It's not for some rock and roll show, it's not for some entertainment, it's not for some religious rituals, but we get together as believers in the name of Jesus Christ, he says, I'm right there with you I am right there with you, Emmanuel, God with us. Now we may not be aware of it this morning I'm telling you, God is present in this place right now in a unique way, whether we are aware of it or not. I don't know about you, but I came to church this morning in the name of Jesus Christ. Come for entertainment. I enjoy the fellowship. I enjoy seeing and talking with everybody and all of that. But we're here to worship Jesus Christ. We're here to honor the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen or not? And he says, where just two or three do that. I'm right there in the presence. Now, thing is, we don't always sense that so much. And I'm afraid, and again, I gotta be careful, I've got to answer for our own church. We can't answer for other churches, but I'm afraid there's a whole lot of religion goes on out there, and very little relationship with the presence of Jesus Christ. A lot of churches just doing stuff for their own glory and their own appeasement and their own satisfaction, and it's not in the name of Jesus Christ. I bet I remember I got thinking as I was preparing this, I got thinking back years ago, some of the big meetings, preaching meetings, back old time. Revivals and conferences down at Highland Park Baptist Church. I don't know if you've ever been in something like this, and I think we've had it here a number of times over the years. But you walk into a service, see if anybody knows what I'm talking about. You walk into a service and you can sense the presence of God in that place. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You can just sense it And the singing and the preaching and the presence of God. And people come under conviction. I remember one meeting down at Highland Park uh big revival meeting going on and the preacher preached the power of God was there the presence of God was there and he gave the invitation four hundred people responded trusting Christ as Savior one evening. I was there saw it I'm telling you the presence of God. We need to get back to that old-time presence and power and sensing and knowing Here. Amen. I'm God with us. God with us. In our daily walk, living the Christian life. I've got with God with me. Lord is present with me as a believer. In our worship, we get together in the name of Jesus Christ. He's here. He's here. But we need to get our sin and self out of the way so the presence of God can be manifest in the power of God in people's lives. I don't know about you. I'm praying for revival Is there anybody here worried about our country? I'm worried about our world. I tell you, the answer to the problems in this world are believed, I believe, are found in the local churches, revival in the local churches. We can be active as we want and all that, and I'm all for it. But I'm telling you, until the church is revived, this old world is going to have very little impact. There's no answers outside this old book and the body of Christ. And so the presence of God. We have uh Emmanuel, God, with us, in our walk, our daily walk. I get up in the morning, God is with me. I go to the workplace, God is with me. I go to the marketplace, God is with me. I come home. God is with me. Emmanuel, God with us. In our walk, in our worship. I put this down. God is with us in our warfare. Take your Bible, if you would, and go to Hebrews chapter number 4. Hebrews chapter of number four, he said, Preacher, I'm not in any warfare. Oh yes, you are If you're saved, you're in a spiritual warfare, whether you know it or not, whether you like it or not. By the way, uh unless your head is in the sand, you can't look at what's going on in our world and not realize there is a spiritual warfare going on. It is between God and the devil. It is between right and wrong. It is between truth and lies. You and I are in a spiritual warfare. And notice with me, if you would, Hebrews chapter number four, and I want to read verse number fourteen down through the end of the chapter Hebrews chapter 4, seeing then that we have a great high priest. Who is this great high priest? Talk to me. It's Jesus Christ. He's ascended, he's at the right hand of the Father. They've seen then that we have a great high priest that has passed into the heavens. Here it is, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our profession. Look at this. For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. But was in all points tempted, look at this next statement, like as we are, yet what? Without sin. Now look at the next verse. Let us therefore, because we have a high priest that was tempted just like you and I are, all points, just like you and I are, but he didn't sin Look at verse 16. Let us therefore come boldly to the throne of grace, that we may obtain new houses and better vacations and fancier cars. Wait a minute, nope. That we may obtain what? Mercy and find grace to help in a time of need. You know what he's saying here? Our great high priest, Jesus Christ, came one of us. Dwelt among us. He was tempted in all points, just like you and I. But yet he didn't sin. Therefore, you and I can come directly to the throne of God and find mercy. And grace to help in a time of need. I'm telling you, we are in a spiritual warfare. I heard a this is what made me think of this, or actually this thought. Earlier in the week I was listening to the radio station and one of the preachers on there said that his goal for 2021, get this, listen to this. His goal for the year 2021 was he uh his goal was to not sin in the year 2021. How many people agree? That's a pretty good goal to set. I'm not going to sin. And uh he was I think he was being serious, but uh understanding, none of us are gonna get through without sinning, right? I mean, it's real. We're in a spiritual warfare. But I thought, what a approach to have. I'm entering this year and I'm going to war against sin. And Jesus says, you're not going to war alone. I was tempted. Just every place you're going to be tempted. I had victory over it, so you can come to me And you can find grace to help, and you can find mercy as you go to war against sin. What would it be like to go one year without sinning? That'd be amazing. Be amazing. Now, whether we can accomplish that or not, it's highly unlikely. But we do have God with us in that battle. You catch what I'm trying to say? God with us. I just often think this anytime I'm on this subject, I think of this. One of the most wonderful things about heaven. There's a lot of wonderful things about heaven. Some of us have loved ones, been there now for a while. Daddy's been up ten months now almost One of the most wonderful things about heaven is this. This old sin nature is going to be gone. No more spiritual warfare, no more battles in my heart and soul between right and wrong. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Can you imagine getting into the presence of God and every thought is pure? Every motive is holy. No conflict, no struggle. Every action is pleasing to God. We're not there yet. We're in a spiritual warfare, but we have God with us And the Lord can give us victory. Maybe I'm talking to someone that's battling some awful sin, some besetting sin, and you say, Preacher, I can't beat this thing. I can't have victory. I'm here to tell you we have a high priest That was tempted just like you and I, and we can come to him, and we have the presence of God, and he can give us victory. He can give us Give us victory. Number one, Emmanuel, God with us in our daily walk. Number two, God with us in our worship as we get together. Number three, God with us in our warfare. I put this one down real quick. God is with us in our witness. Matthew chapter 28, verse 18 through 20, Jesus says, All power is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them. In the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever commanded you, and lo, I am what? With you always, even unto the end of the year. An amazing thing. I'm telling you, one of the things, dearest, I am convinced the more I study that old book, I am convinced That one of the dearest things to the heart of God is one Christian taking the gospel to unsaved people. Christian people sharing the gospel and winning others to Christ An old missionary out on the mission field. I was watching this morning. I was watching some missionary preachers that are online, just they're doing the same thing we are, uh, over in other country. I was watching a A fella down in Dominican, one of the young men out of Steve Siddler's church, and he started another church and he's online And I was watching him preaching this morning earlier this morning and uh it was all in Spanish. I don't know what he said. He mentioned something about tacos, that caught my attention. But um uh just preaching away. I'm telling you Wherever the gospel is being preached, there is the special presence of Jesus Christ. I remember going out soul winning early on in my Christian life, I'd be so scared And uh knocking on the door. This is the way you should knock. If you're out knocking on doors, tell people about Jesus, this is the way you should knock. That's the way I do it now. Back then I used to knock like this Oh, nobody's home. Oh well, too bad. I was just scared to death to talk to people. But I learned something. When I'm there with my Bible in hand Or a gospel track, and I'm trying to show somebody about the Lord Jesus Christ, trying to introduce somebody to Jesus Christ. I don't see him. I can't hear his voice or feel his skin. Jesus Christ is right there with me. Right there with me. How many people would be a little bolder in your witness if Jesus was standing physically right beside you? Anybody here? Oh brother, I'd let them all have it. I'll tell you right now. I'd be Fact of the matter is, Jesus Christ is with us. God with us. God with us. I want to challenge you this coming year. Give your life to win others to Christ. Here in Garrett County. Here in our surrounding areas. Let's just commit ourselves. He said, hello, I'm with you always I'm with you always. I'm gonna put Brother Ron on the spot. I just saw him there. He came in my office. He guys been dealing with me about being a witness, a soul winner. He wrote up a plan of salvation. He said, I'm going to send this. All my friends and family. Tell them how to be saved. I'm telling you, God's in that God's in that. I had people come this morning and say, Preacher, I got some tracks. Preacher, I'm putting these out. I'm telling you, God's in that Emmanuel, God with us. He's with us in our walk. He's with us in our worship, our warfare, our witness. Let me give you one other one real quick. I'll end with this. He's with us in our weeping In our weeping. Psalm 46, 10. God is our refuge and strength. A very present help in trouble. A very present help in trouble. That word present there means to be with to enter into, to participate with. Almost identical to the word with God with us. A very present help in trouble. Tell you, when our heart's broken. Late at night, the lights are out, all alone and weeping, heart is shattered. I believe the Bible teaches very clearly we have the special presence of God with us in those times. A very present help in trouble. I think she's listening in, she's normally sits back here. I thought of Charlotte. And I thought of Brother Paul signs And as he was approaching the time of his home going, so sick, I'd go visit and the family we'd be there. And I don't know why it was with Paul that last time I visited, and I shared this with the family, and I shared it in the funeral. Last time I was there, and I don't know if anybody else sensed this or not, but I just sensed there as Paul was about to cross over Jordan I sense the presence of God in a very real and unique way. I put this down in my notes. No Christian ever dies alone. God with us. I put this down. No Christian ever weeps alone. He's a present help in trouble. Present help in trouble. A little personal, my daddy, when he was dying, they just started locking things down, if you remember. I went up, he was so sick, up in the in the uh ICU, and I went in to visit them, and they said, we talked to the administrator of the hospital, you cannot go up and see your father. Cannot go up for five, six days as he was approaching his death. No family. He just moved down here a year before, alone Tell you my heart was broke. God assured me that Daddy wasn't alone. And he wasn't alone. Very present help in trouble. God with us. God with us. I don't know what's going on in your life. I'm confident of this. Talking to some folks, broken heart. I may be talking to some people that cried their self-to-sleep last night. I don't know. But I know this. No Christian ever cries alone. No Christian ever dies alone. God with us. God with us. Going into, I don't know what 2021 holds, to be honest with you. In fact, I'm trying to avoid thinking ahead too far. I'm just trying to stay focused on today. What's going on? What do I need to do now? But I know this, whatever tomorrow holds, Christ is already there. Christ is already there. Let's pray. Father in heaven I ask you to help us, Lord, to be aware every day, every minute of every day. Help us to be conscious of your presence in our lives as believers. Lord, as we struggle with sin and temptation. I pray you'd help us to rely upon the presence of Jesus Christ, to trust your power. Lord, I pray as we gather to worship and gather to serve you in our church service this coming year, Lord, I pray for the presence, your presence to be manifest as we sing and preach and serve. The power of God would be evident in this world. See darkness encasing everything, every aspect of this world. I pray you give us your presence and power in an evident way. Lord, that people be saved and souls would be lives would be changed. Our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I want to live my life. The presence of God. I want to be aware of that. I want it to be a part of my thinking, my mindset as I go through each day. God Is there any like that, preacher? I need that. I need to be aware of that. I need to keep that in mind. God bless your hands all around. And I found that the presence of God often brings conviction I'm aware of his presence. I see areas in my life that need attention, need adjustments, some sins need to be repented of, some instructions need to be followed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, there's areas in my life that I really need to get in tune, keeping in mind the fact that God is with me. I need to some areas need adjustment. Is there any like that, preacher? I know that between God and I There's some attitudes, actions, some things that need attention. God bless you. That's part of our warfare. And God will help us And if you're listening, you're here this morning, you're listening, and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, your desperate need in this hour, your desperate need to come to Christ and trust Him as your personal Savior. Let him give you eternal life and change your life. Father, bless her imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen