You're crazy, you know that. How many of you agree with me on that? See? You're crazy. Oh my, what a joy to be here. Didn't you enjoy that message? Wow, I'm ready to go sign up for something. I don't know what I'm just ready to sign up for something. That was uh that was a great message, Dr. Smith. Thank you so much. What a privilege to be here. And uh I uh I just am honored to be invited. I'm I'm glad he asked me to come in September, not January. I I I want you folks to know, I pray for you. in the winter. Uh and I mean that. Uh I sit in my living room and I watch uh channel thirteen or channel eleven out of Baltimore And uh they they always, you know, give the weather about about eighteen after the hour they give the weather and they tell us that, you know, it's gonna be nine degrees in Baltimore And then they say, now out in Oakland it's gonna be minus nine degrees. And I just stop and say a little prayer for you right there And then they'll say, um, uh well we're we're expecting uh uh ten to sixteen inches of snow here in Westminster But now out in Oakland they're expecting three feet. And I just always bow my head and say, Lord bless them, just bless 'em Oh my. So uh I think about you folks often. I want you to know that. That's that was the moral of that story. Uh I think about you often and just uh pray that the Lord will bless and and be with you. Uh I uh I I think it is one of the most um uh beautiful places in the world out here Uh it really is. And uh just uh just appreciate the the privilege to come and and be a part of your conference. And um Dr. Smith and I, we we decided uh years ago when he left uh church the open door and went to the sword of the Lord No, we just decided that we were gonna be friends. And I uh I I I told him one ti one day, I said, I'm not gonna believe what they tell me about you and don't you believe what they tell you about me. How's that? And we shook hands on it and that's where we've been for all these years And um yeah we're we're just gonna go with that. And uh so it it's uh we were friends. We were friends. We met uh uh back in In uh I think around 1990, somewhere around in there, uh we met at a in a motel lobby in Jacksonville, Florida. Uh we were both down there for the same uh conference and uh and uh we met. We were both late And uh we were in the lobby waiting on somebody, praying somebody would swing by and pick us up and take us to the conference. And uh he introduced himself and I I introduced myself and uh he said, Do you have anyone to sit with tonight and I said I said, No, I don't I don't really know a whole lot of people at this conference. And he said, Well, why don't you just sit with me And uh so right there started a friendship. And um and the next thing I know I was going to Westminster to speak to uh to the staff at the beginning of the school year and then uh then a couple m several months after that I was back to speak uh in a church service and uh and so we just became friends and we were friends when he went to the sword and when I uh w took the the church uh in November of nineteen ninety five. And uh and so we have just developed that friendship and now there's absolutely nothing that I wouldn't do for him and there's absolutely nothing he wouldn't do for me So we just go around doing nothing for each other all the time. That's that's what we do. And it works. And uh and I enjoy it so much. We uh he came up a little early, I don't know if he told you this or not, but he came up a little early for this conference and Uh we uh went down to watch the Orioles uh play baseball and we do that a couple times a year and uh both of us are dyed in the wool uh Orioles fans and uh so we we uh try to get in a couple of games a year and uh it's just a joy uh to uh to be able to hang around. I get to tell folks that one of my best friends is the is Dr. Shelt Smith, editor of the sword of the Lord. And uh and I say that meaning every word of it So it's good to be here. And Pastor, thank you so much for the invitation. I am just thrilled to be here. All right. Let's take our Bibles tonight and turn to the Gospel of John chapter 2. John chapter 2. I know y'all are dying to get home to watch the debate. I know I know you just can't you just you you you just can't make up your mind whether to vote for Hillary, I know. You know, I just feel like saying, Go home, go away Just go away. We're tired of it. We're tired of you. Just go away. But never want to listen to me, so. Done doing good. Alright, let's look at uh verse one, chapter two, John's Gospel, chapter two, verse one. And the Bible here says, and the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee. And the mother of Jesus was there. Now let me stop right here and tell you that Cana The word Cana means the root system. Now you know what's coming in this story, right? The Lord Jesus is going to go to a wedding And is i i i is there anything more clearly portrayed than a marriage like putting down roots Alright, putting down roots, and that's that's where the Lord's going to Cana, which means the root system, and there's a marriage about to take place. Verse 2 says, and both Jesus was called and his disciples to the marriage. Alright, so the Lord and his disciples are there. And when they wanted wine. Now you and I would understand that. We don't use the word wanted in that way anymore. Uh but you and I would understand when they lacked, when they needed, when they ran out of, when they did not have any. When they wanted, they were in want of refreshments. And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine. And Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come. His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it. And there were set there six water pots of stone Not seven, not nine, not two, six. Notice that. And there were set there six water pots of stone after the manner of the purifying of the Jews containing two or three firkins apiece Jesus saith unto them, Fill the water pots with water. Notice that. And they filled them up to the brim. And he saith unto them, draw out now and bear unto the governor the feast, and they bear it. When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it was. Parentheses, but the servants which drew the water knew, close parentheses, so the governor did not know But the servants knew. The governor of the feast called the bridegroom and saith unto him, Every man at the beginning Doth set forth good wine. And when men have well drunk, then that which is worse. But thou hast kept the good wine until now. Now, you cannot end with verse ten. You must read verse eleven If you have a study Bible, you will notice in verse 12 there is the little parenthesis, the little paragraph mark. Do you notice that? The little paragraph mark? Alright, so The story does not end in verse 10. There's more to it. So look at verse eleven. John adds, this is for our understanding. This is for our benefit. And John adds this Beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee and manifested forth his glory, and his disciples believed on him. All right, let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. I pray your blessings upon it tonight. Lord, we thank you for the wonderful sermon Dr. Smith gave us and how it just charged our hearts to to want to be a good soldier in the Lord's army. And Father, I pray now that you will bless as I speak. I sure need your help tonight And I pray that folks will listen and just give their undivided attention to the to the message. And may we glean and learn something tonight that will fortify and help us and strengthen us as we serve. You. Father, thank you for the word. Bless it now. We pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. You know, the Lord Jesus was a master teacher. He gathered these men around him. We call them the apostles, the disciples. And he gathered these men around them and then spent three and a half years, every available minute, training and preparing them Because he knew that in three and a half years he was going to go back to heaven. And he was going to leave them In charge of going around the world and preaching his message, his gospel So he spent every waking moment with those men, preparing them for the day that he would leave them Go to heaven and then send them out with his message. So in that three and a half years, everything he did. Everything he said, everything that happened, every miracle, every healing, all of it was used to teach these men What he was all about. What was his message to show them who he was And to prove to them that he was who he claimed to be. Now you will notice that John gives this little addendum in verse 11. And John tells us that this was the beginning of miracles that Jesus did. Now let me ask you something, folks. If you were the Lord and you knew That in three and a half years you've got to leave these men, and you've only got three and a half years to to convince them and to show them and to get them so prepared for the day when you leave and they stay behind and then they have to go and preach your message to a lost and dying world knowing that They're going to be resisted at every turn of the road. Would you not have your first miracle Just absolutely blow them out of the water. Would you not have your first miracle be so clear and just define? Who you are and what you're all about. Well I think that your first miracle would. If i if you knew you only had a certain amount of time, the very first miracle that you would do would have to be something that would just leave them standing around going, What? What did he just do? I mean, wow, he turned water into wine. That's amazing, is it not? Now, I want you to I want you to just just to think about a couple of things here. Have you ever been to a wedding reception where they ran out of refreshments? No. That's something you prepare for, is it not? I mean, you know, can you imagine how embarrassing it must have been when at the reception This family runs out of wine. For some unaccountable reason, it is not explained in the text, but They ran out of refreshments. And so Mary comes to the Lord and she says to him, They have no wine. Now, a lot of folks have through the years debated what did she mean by that. And some have said that they uh that it was a gentle hint for the Lord to take his gluttonous disciples and probably come in there and eat them all out of house and home uh to leave the the the reception. I don't think that was it at all. I don't think that was it at all. Uh there were s uh some have suggested, well, she was trying to get the Lord to uh maybe uh you know tell some stories or perform some miracles and uh you know get their minds off the fact that they had run out of refreshments. I I don't think that was it at all. You say, Well, Pastor, what do you think she was doing? Well, I think if I could paraphrase for you what she was doing, I think she was doing this. I think she was saying, hey, some Here is your opportunity to go ahead and start the ministry, which I know you came to do. I know who you are. I know that you are God's Son. I know that you are the Son of the Living God who has come to redeem mankind. I know that you are the Redeemer that was promised to Adam all the way back in the garden. So son, here, go ahead now and start your ministry. Here's your chance. I think that's what she was saying. And you will notice here, she's pushing him into the ministry that he was sent to do. But now folks, let's go back to verse eleven. This was the beginning of miracles. This first miracle shows us what the ministry of the Lord Jesus was all about. We can see a step-by-step unveiling of what the Lord Jesus came to do for mankind. I think this shows us what all of us are supposed to do for the Lord Jesus Christ. This is what he came to do, but this shows us what we are supposed to be doing. You say, well, Pastor, uh uh how do you see that? All right, watch it carefully. I want you to look at your Bible, please. Look at verse 6. Look at verse 6. The Bible says, and there were set there six Water pots of stone. Now, six in your Bible is always the number of men. Right? You know that to be true. Your pastors taught you that. And there were six water pots there. What are we supposed to see from that? Listen, the Lord is saying, gentlemen, I want to show you who I am and what I am. And I want to show you, this is the man the Lord uses. The man the Lord uses must, number one, See himself as just an old empty vessel. You are nothing. That's where you have to see yourself. You are nothing You know, if we could just get ourselves out of the way, God could use us, right? These are just old earthen water pots Water pots of stone. That's all they are. There's nothing special about them. As a matter of fact, if you look at verse 6, you will find out That what these stone water pots were for. They were not for gathering drinking water These were for religious purposes. These water pots were for ceremonial cleansing according to the Levitical rite. And you remember back in the tabernacle and then in the temple, the priest could not do anything in service for the Lord until first they washed They had to wash their hands and their feet. If they came into the holy place and they w they were going to change the the uh uh the bread on the table. They had to first go over and pour the water out of the labor across their hands and across their feet And then they changed the bread. If they were going to change the oil in the candlestick, in in the menorah, they had to first pour the water over their hands and their feet. Why? Because you could not And so everything they did They had to wash before they did it. And so uh the pre you know, everybody talks about the the altar. Listen, listen, the labor was the most used thing in the temple, not the altar. They had to wash before they did anything. Can you hear the conversation now among the priests? They st the priest that said, wash, wash, wash. You can't do anything without washing in here. I've got dishpan hands and it's not even ten o'clock in the morning yet. Yes, and the reason uh uh is because God was saying to them and saying to us in picture that if you're going to be used of God, you've got to be a clean vessel. You've got to be clean. And so here is i i i i are these water pots, and there's six of them. Indicating that it's a picture of us. The busiest place in the tabernacle was not the altar It was the labor. And those priests had to wash all the time. So God was teaching that if you come into his presence This matter of sin has to be taken care of. There must be a cleansing of the heart and of the life. And this cleansing ritual was passed down as Israel grew away from its temple and away from its tabernacle before that, as they grew away, this ritual of washing came into the home. And that's what these water pots were doing in that home. The uh the father, the high priest of that home. He would sit down with his family and take the law of Moses, but before he read, he had to wash, and that's why they were there. But notice they're empty And that's the person. That's step number one. If you're going to be used of God, you've got to first be an empty vessel. But then, secondly, notice, just look at your Bible. Jesus said, set them out here. They set them out. And then he said, now fill them with water. Water is always a picture of the Word of God. You want to be used of God? Then you be an empty vessel. But then you fill yourself with the Word of God. I had a I had a young preacher uh a couple of months ago back in the summer And he he called and he said, Hey um I've been listening to your sermons on the uh uh on your website and I said I said uh well that's why they're there. He said, Is it all right if I preach 'em I said, well at least change the titles. He said, Man, that saved me a world of time if I could preach your sermons. And I said, Well, have at it, son. I mean, you know. But I I I said, Won't you feel yourself? Just get in the book and feel yourself. Get in the Bible and read the Bible. Hey, folks, you've got to have the water of the Word in you. You can't give anything out if you don't put anything in. Amen. I mean turn ESPN off a little bit and read your Bible. Turn Fox News off and read your Bible. I mean listen, I don't know if you've ever thought about this, but the day is coming when we're going to be in heaven. Amen. And one of these days we're going to be walking down the streets of gold and we're going to see a guy coming towards us. He's going to stop and say, Hey, it's so good to meet you. My name is Habakkuk. I wrote a book in the Bible. Amen. Did you read it? Hey, ain't no lying up there. Ouch. Oh, get in a book, folks. Get in a book. Get in that Bible and read it. Read it. And notice notice what your Bible says. Jesus said, fill them with water to the brim. In other words, you can't get enough of God's word. Just fill yourself up to the brim. And then watch, look at the next one. Draw out now. You can't draw anything out if you don't have anything in. That's what's wrong with a lot of preaching today. They don't put anything in, therefore they don't have anything to draw out. Oh how we need to get in the book. So man God uses. He's an empty vessel. He fills his vessel to the brim with the word of God, and then it's drawn out. But now look at the next thing. And then it the next one, if you if you just follow the progression down, he fills up to the brim, but then finally The drawn water becomes wine. Now, I don't have time tonight. To explain to you that the Lord Jesus did not institute happy hour right here. But that's not what this is about You see, our Lord was not a wine bibber. You say, well, it says wine. I know what it says. But I also know that our Lord did not drink liquor. You say, well, how do you know that? Okay, I I'm glad you asked. Do you remember on the eve of the crucifixion, and he had the disciples in the upper room, and he took bread. And he took wine and he served the disciples. Everybody remember that? Okay, now question. What kind of bread was it? Unleavened bread. Now think, folks, the leaven is to the bread What the fermentation is to the wine. And if he could have no fermentation in his bread Then he could have no fermentation in his wine. Amen. It was great juice. It was great juice. But now watch. Oh, this is so neat. Watch. Empty vessel, filled to the brim, drawn out. Now watch. The servants got have their trays and there's glasses on them. And the servants are sitting there and they're and they're watching and they fill the water pots up with water The disciples are standing over here and they're watching this whole thing unfold. And they're thinking to themselves, What in the world's going on here? What's this all about? They've run out of wine. He put water in there. What wonder Draw out now. Okay, so the servants take their And they take a dipper and they dip it down and they pour it in the glass. And they pour and they fill up a tray. Now, what are they dipping out of there? Water. And so the servant then says, all right, I'm going to go and deliver this. So he goes over and he delivers The water that was drawn out to the governor of the feast. The governor of the feast says, thank you, sir, takes it, drinks it, and goes, whoa Man, that's fresh squeezed grape juice. That's awesome. Sir, most people they serve this At the beginning of the ceremony. But you've waited until now to serve this. Thank you. You say, well, what happened? What happened was when you, as a servant of the Lord, are an empty vessel. And when you fill up with the Word of God And you fill up to the brim, and then you're drawn out, and somewhere in the transmission, the water of the Word becomes the wine of salvation. Hey, do you want some joy in your life? Man, that governor was happy and everybody else was happy. You want some joy? Here's how you do it Fill up your vessel and give it to somebody. And the water of the word becomes the wine of salvation. Man, I see these Christians, you know, and I probably shouldn't say this, if this gets back, I'm in trouble, but there are some people I don't ask them how they're doing Hey preacher, you know what I'm saying? I mean, I just don't ask 'em. You know why? They're gonna tell me And I don't have a half a day to stand there and listen to how terrible everything is. How you doing? Oh, I'm not doing very good, preacher. There are times when I want to change my name. Pastor, Pastor. Oh dear, here we go again. Won't you fill up your vessel? If you just fill up your vessel Pastor. Oh, shoot me. No, don't look at me like that. You felt that way sometimes. I was going to I was going to Baytown, Texas to preach in a sword conference with Dr. Smith several years ago. And my secretary arranged arranged my flight. And I was driving down to the airport and I and I was sitting in 12A. And I prayed on the way down. I said, Lord, put somebody in 12B that I can witness to. Just put somebody right there that can lead to Christ. If you pray that prayer, you'd be surprised who God puts by you. I mean it's amazing. All you gotta do is just pray that prayer and the Lord will put somebody right there that need need saved. And with this airline, I have a bunch of miles, so I I get to board first And so I got on the airplane, I'm sitting there, I'm all all strapped in, ready to go. And then general boarding started, and I'm sitting there and I'm watching as people get on. I thought, ooh, that lady needs to be saved. Look at that face. But she just kept walking by. And then I saw this teenager get on and how that child got through the metal detector I have no idea. I mean l look like it runs smack dab into a barbed wire fence. I mean just stuff everywhere. I thought, ooh, that kid needs the Lord. Look at that. Just kept going. And finally it backed up, and I'm standing there watching, and nobody sat in 12B. And then it backed up, and then all of a sudden, just like the parting of the Red Sea There stood an Episcopalian priest. I mean decked from the top of his head to the soles of his feet. Big old medallion around his neck, collar turned round backwards, wearing his pajamas the whole nine yards. And I said, Lord, you would it But he did. And that guy came and sat right down beside me. He is pulling on his gown trying to get everything squared and he got that seat belt around him. Well we got up in the air and he looks at me and he says, Are you a lawyer? 'Cause I I wear suits twenty four seven. That's I mean, you know, I never even thought about that. I never crossed my mind. Yeah. So So I I I I'm s so i are you a lawyer? And I said no I said, I'm a preacher. He said, Oh, I am too Uh, took every ounce of restraint, but I just nodded my head. I said, Yes, sir, I can see that. He said um Where do you pastor? I said, in Westminster, Maryland. He said, well, what kind of preacher are you? I said, I'm an independent Baptist. Oh, he said, my friends and I were just talking about you guys, wondering what it is you believed. You know that was that was one of these. I mean just lob it right over the middle of plate man So I reached down in my Bib uh in my case, got my Bible out, lowered that little tray, plopped that Bible down, and I said, Well sir, in just a few minutes I can show you what we believe And I started at Romans 3. 10, worked my way all the way to Romans 10. 13. That priest sat there going, huh? Well look at that. Well I declare Hmm. Well that's amazing. And I just went right through the gospel. He didn't interrupt me. He didn't stop me. He didn't question me And I just kept going. I thought, well, if he ain't go if he ain't gonna object, I'm just gonna keep going. So I just kept right on going. And I said, now sir, if you would right now accept Jesus just as he is, he will accept you just like you are. A sinner needs to be saved. Will you trust him as your Savior? He said, I think I will. I said, then sir, take my hand, and right now I said I'm going to pray. And I I didn't s ask him if it was okay to pray. I just bowed my head and started praying. And I I finished praying, I prayed the man would have faith and trust the Lord and I said, Father, help him to realize he he needs to call upon your name. I really emphasize that. I mean I hit that heart thing big, you know. Not just up here, but down here, man. Know it, feel it, sense it. And I said, now if you'd like to call on the name of the Lord and ask the Lord to save you, would you pray with me? He said, Yes, I I will And I led him in the sinner's prayer. And everybody on that airplane was looking at us. They were all looking at us. Everybody turned around and seeing what was going on over there. And we talked the whole way down. And he said, man, this is awesome. I said, yeah. He said, I'm going to preach this Sunday in my church. I see, yeah, good luck with that. But when that airplane landed and we we w we i in Atlanta, we had to go to Atlanta before I could go to Houston and And when the airplane land, he got out, he stepped back and he let me out. And I turned around and I stuck my hand out. And I said, Well man, it's been great to meet you. He just went boom like that, grabbed me in the aisle. You ever been hugged by a man wearing pajamas? I have I have. Say what'd you do? I hugged him back. Oh, it was awesome, folks. We were so happy. He was so happy. And we went down that airplane uh uh uh tarma we went the walkway, we went down that walkway rejoicing at the fact that he had gotten saved. You want some joy? Fill up your vessel. Just be an old empty vessel and fill it up with the word. Put the water of the word in there. And fill it all the way to the brim. And then draw some out, put it in a glass, and give it to somebody else. And somewhere in the transmission, from human lips To a sinner's ear, the water of the word becomes the wine of salvation. That's the man God uses. Oh, may God help us to be soul winners for Him. May God help us. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for your wonderful word, and I pray you'll bless this to our hearts tonight. It is so easy for us to lose the focus of what you were all about. You came to to help poor old sinners like us. And Lord, one day we tasted of the water of the Word, and it became the wine of salvation for us. And now, Lord, I pray you'll help us to go out of here tonight and realize that you're depending on us, just like you depended on Peter and James and John and Matthew. You're depending on us today. If we don't tell others, who will? Who's going to do it? So Father, burden our hearts for the souls of men. I pray you'll help us to be that good soldier that will enlist in the Lord's army and just go get the job done. So, Father, speak to hearts tonight we pray. With our heads bowed and our eyes closed, no one looking around. How many of you here tonight will say, Preacher, God's deal with my heart tonight? Pray for me. Would you lift your hand? Let me pray for you all over this building tonight. Amen. Good, good, good. Wonderful. Wonderful. Now with our heads bowed and our eyes closed, let's all stand together, please, everyone standing.