Thank you so much. Thank you so much. I want to say first of all I I want to thank y'all for all that you've done for us since we've been up here and And uh it's always uh uh a test of how things went and everything is when it comes to the last night and I don't want to leave. We've had such a good time with y'all and and uh just the fellowship of God's people and And getting to see old friends again and and uh being with your pastor, uh, you need to stand behind your pastor. And uh lift him up to the Lord in prayer. You know, it we're all going to be affected by the things that are happening in our country, uh, but he's going he's on the forefront For this church. He he is looking out for your souls. Amen. He's looking out for you. And and uh so Please lift him up to the Lord in prayer. Uh I just thank you again for all that you've done, all the great meals and and everything. Uh had preacher food today, that fried chicken. Amen. That was good That was so good. We do appreciate it from the bottom of our hearts. We love all of you. And uh if you ever get down to North Carolina, look us up. We're right in the middle of the state. You can't miss us. Amen. Uh and also I I wanna ask y'all to keep my uh daughter, our oldest one at home right now in your prayer. She's getting married in uh on October the tenth. Uh she's and the the main thing, you know, she's gonna live in a place called North South Carolina. Um He don't know where he's from. Uh he don't know which side of the line he's on there. Uh but to tell you where North South Carolina is, it's ninety miles southeast of Due West South Carolina I I I can't help it. That's just what they're they're doing. But but please pray for him. He's a he's a good man, as uh he's uh pastor's son and he also ha they have three of our stations down there, uh our affiliate stations. in Orangeburg, South Carolina. So so please pray for them that that God will work everything out for their wedding. We're making plans and being on the road and everything. So it uh we need the Lord's guidance and help in that. Turn in your Bibles tonight to Hebrews chapter number twelve. Hebrews chapter number twelve, I want to be bringing a message to you tonight that I hope and pray will be an encouragement to you I believe it's what the Lord has laid on my heart to give you tonight. And I want to encourage you. If we can't encourage one another, then w then we're not uh we're not much good to each other. Uh we need to uh exhort one another. We need to encourage people just to keep on for the Lord. And uh I believe uh Hebrews chapter number twelve I'm going to look at verse one first of all, and then we'll look at more. But the first verse says, Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. And let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Our precious Heavenly Father, we come to you in Jesus' name tonight, that name that's above every name. And Father, we cry out to you for help. for strength. And Lord, we need you tonight. Lord, I pray that you'll take your word and speak to hearts. And Father, I pray that you'll help us to go from here tonight uh uh with the zeal that we need to keep carrying on for you, Lord, uh, until you come uh to take us home to be with you Lord, help us to finish our course bringing honor and glory to you and magnifying Jesus Christ all along the way. All this we ask in Jesus' name. Lord, we love you. Amen. As we look at this scripture tonight, I I looked at it and sometimes I like to just take a verse of scripture and just look at every word in it. And I believe if we'll do that, if we'll meditate on the Word of God, I believe God will speak to us more uh in our daily Bible reading Sometimes we, you know, we want to get through the Bible in a year and I do the same thing. Uh I I've got four chapters a day that I I'm going to get. Uh but sometimes after my daily Bible reading, doing that, the Lord speaks to my heart that way. But I want to slow down and just look at what I just read. Pick out a couple of verses that the Lord just really brought to my attention. In verse number one it says, Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us What I see right there, first of all, that jumps out at me, is that word compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses When I think about a cloud, I uh in science class we learned that clouds are made up of millions of tiny little water droplets And uh I think someone said that even the snowflakes, they they have to have something to form around, like a particle of dust or something like that. Uh but a cloud is made up of millions of tiny little water droplets And I thought, wow, we uh you know, God's not behind. He he's not losing this fight. Uh we're on the victory side of the cross tonight, amen. And in Revelation chapter number seven and verse number nine, it talks about that right there. Revelation seven And verse number nine, the Bible says, After this I beheld and lo a great multitude which no man could number. of all nations and kindreds and people and tongues stood before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes and palms in their hands. You know, we're not a minority, folks. Uh the Christians are the majority here uh and in heaven it's all Christians, amen. Uh uh we've got so many people that we can draw strength from. This church is a large church. I go in many churches where my family outnumbers the congregation uh in many different places that we travel to. This is a good-sized church and y'all need to draw strength off of each other. Draw strength from God's Word. But this cloud of witnesses, I'm looking at this to uh this evening, we're compassed about, that means we're surrounded by a cloud of witnesses. And I and I stopped to think, who are this uh who is it that makes up this cloud of witnesses? Well the very first word in the in the verse right there says, wherefore So I look back at the chapter before and I see who is in that cloud of witnesses. It's the Great Faith chapter in chapter number eleven Without faith it is impossible to please God. Without faith, we can never have gotten saved. Amen. We must believe that He is, and He is a rewarder of them that diligently seek Him Uh he is uh we have to have faith that Jesus Christ died, was buried, and rose again the third day to for our salvation. And I I think about that. Uh they make up that great uh cloud of witnesses right there. It says, and let us lay aside every weight. And then it goes on to say, in the sin which does so easily be set us. I looked at those two things and it said, let us lay aside every way. It separated that from sin. But let us look at that for just a moment. It says, let us lay aside every weight. These things, I believe, is talking about something that's not necessarily wrong, but that can hinder our spiritual walk with God. And moving forward for the things of God. Uh I remember when me and my wife first got married. Uh later on in uh the end of my high school years and everything, I got into deer hunting And I love deer hunting. I love eating deer meat. And uh when my wife and I got married, it's like she became a deer season widow that first year of our marriage Uh I took it to the extreme. When she came home from work, I was not there. I was out on the deer stand. And and that was wrong. It was nothing necessarily wrong with it Uh I loved the the food, but I was taking it to the extreme. I should have balanced it a little bit, spent time with my wife. Uh the Bible says we're to cheer her. Amen. Uh so I don't do that. Uh I still go out. I do it out of necessity now because I got to feed all these children. Um But that uh let us lay aside every weight, there are uh there's not nothing necessarily wrong with hunting. There's nothing necessarily with maybe uh a hobby that you have. I don't know I don't know you folks that well, but there's probably things that you enjoy doing. That's not necessarily wrong. But they can become a stumbling block. They can become a weight Sometimes if you spend too much time on them, you need to set those things aside. Do everything I can't think of the word right off. But in moderation Do everything in moderation there, to where you can still be an effective witness for God. So lay aside every way in the sin which does so easily beset us. What is that sin that does so easily beset us? What is that saying? I believe in the context of this scripture, and you can uh I'm not going to argue with you, I'm not going to say that you're wrong if you believe it's something else, but I believe that faith Sometimes is that sin that does so easily beset us, the lack of faith. Because we just got through with this great faith chapter, and the sin which does so easily beset us, sometimes we do not exercise our faith And and we can get backslid on God, we can get away from Him and not being about our Father's business as we should be. And let us run with patience the race that is set before us This is a race that we're in. We're in a race against time. I believe I said this morning that that the devil knows his time is short And he's doing everything he can to destroy families, doing everything he can to destroy Christian testimonies. He's doing everything to break down the moral fiber of this country He he's doing all these things because he knows his time is short. Well guess what? Our time is short too. Our time is short too. And we must be busy. Amen. Because our time is short But we're in a race. Now I can talk about different examples of races. There was another thing that that uh got in my way in my early early married life. I like to watch auto racing. And Amen. 'Cause we live right in the middle of all that, right in Denton there. We can drive on our way to church we went by the Labony brothers shop and Kyle Petty's house and and all that and my wife grew up near Richard Petty and and uh I saw Kyle Petty play ba uh basketball in our gymnasium in high school and And uh he was the only one I'd ever seen could dunk a basketball because he was real tall and and uh I saw all these things, uh, but that became an obsession with me. watching that. Uh it was a race that we're talking about here, but it became a stumbling block to me. And when I'll just tell you what happened. Whenever Dale Earnhardt hit the wall and died, I had my children lined up and we were all watching it one Sunday afternoon and saw Dale Earnhardt hit the wall and it di and he died and we watched our children crying. I thought, why are we watching this as entertainment when people are risking their lives for a sport? Why am I doing that? Now I'm not saying if you're watching if you watch racing, I'm not saying you can probably handle it, but as for me, I can't. I could Because I became obsessed with it. I think of other races. I think of uh Eric uh Liddell You know, he was an Olympic runner and he had the opportunity. He was the gold medal champion. He was going he was a shoe-in to win. But because they were going to have the race on the Lord's Day, he refused to run I thank God for people like him with a Christian testimony. I mean he he put in some training time, years of of training and and years of excruciating uh physical fitness that he went through so that he could run the race there. But then they said it's going to be on the Lord's Day and he refused. So what a waste, no. He had a testimony for the Lord. When I was a little boy, I was not saved. I didn't get saved till I was 26 years old. When I was a little boy, I remember sitting on the sofa with dad, my dad, on Saturday. Back in 1973 and we were watching a horse race. And I don't know I I don't agree with gambling. I believe you're throwing your money away. I I don't believe in things like that, but I enjoyed watching those horses run with my dad. That's something we did together on Saturday mornings, watching the horses race. And Secretariat in nineteen seventy three ran the the final race for the Triple Crown And I remember as the as the bell went off and those horses took off, uh the other two races, Secretariat Paste himself And and ran and paced ran with patience. And then, you know, somewhere around the back, he always just went flying way ahead of everybody. Well, in this the third race, there was a horse planted beside Secretariat, and it started out of the gate wide open And the owners, the secretariat, was saying, what is going on here? This horse cannot handle this pace for the entire two-mile race. And and so they they're going neck and neck. Secretary could not stand for another horse to get out in front of us, so he would come running up right beside and then go it would go ahead And then the other one would pour on the steam and and the owners were saying, This is going to be disastrous. We're not going to win the triple crown because that horse has been obviously planted there to cause Secretariat to run out of steam and lose the race. Well something happened on the back side of the track when they were coming around and they were uh about halfway through the race and and uh secretariat just started pulling away And the other horse was doing everything it could to push and push and push, but Secretariat started just pulling away and leaving the whole field of horses uh back behind. Uh Secretariat ended up winning that race by thirty-two uh thirty-one lengths. 31 links. It said a horse has never ran that race of the Triple Crown that fast. That record has never been broken. There have been other horses to win the Triple Crown. But whenever Secretariat died, they always took a race horse that was a champion. They'd take the hooves and the heart and they'd bury it. Well, Secretariat, they buried the whole horse all complete. They would take a a racehorse's heart out and they would weigh it. And generally for a racehorse you're looking at thirteen to fifteen to sixteen pounds. a heart that size, uh pumping that blood as that horse is running. They said they didn't weigh Secretariat's horse, but by looking at the x-rays and everything, they said Secretariat's heart was somewhere between twenty-three and twenty-five pounds. That horse was running on all heart. And I know it might not be a good example to use using something like horse racing, but we're coming down to the end of our race and we need to be all heart. We need to put our heart into it. Whenever those racers, it doesn't matter if it's a foot race or an auto race or a horse race or whatever, when they come around that last bend, they pull out all the stops and they go full speed ahead towards the finish line. Says, and the sin which thus so easily besides, set all that beh beside, just lay it all aside, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Those, I want to think about those that are in that so great a cloud of witnesses. I want to look at just a few of them in in the time that we have, and and uh some of them are in verses thirty-five through thirty-eight. It says, Women received their dead, raised to life again, and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance. that they might obtain a better resurrection. Some of 'em had the opportunity and people uh that were come to put them to death, the Christians, they were come to put those Christians to death And they came up to him and said, If you'll just denounce Jesus Christ, if you'll say that you will not say anything about Jesus anymore, if you will not spread the gospel anymore, we will let you go and you can be free and you can live. But it says right here that they wouldn't do it. It says and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance that they might obtain a better resurrection. Can you imagine the rewards of those that gave everything for Jesus Christ? And others had trial of cruel malkings and scourgings. Yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonments There's many that I think of that fall into that category. The Apostle Paul, I think of uh the mockings that Jesus went through and and the scourging that he went through But I think about today we m we've I don't have any scars on my back where somebody has whipped me because I tried to tell 'em about Jesus Christ. I don't have those marks on me. I've been mocked before. Many of you have gone and knocked on doors and had the door slammed in your face. But as it says in verse 4, ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin. We've had it made in America. We're spoiled rotten. God has blessed us. God has blessed us. It says, they were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword, they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. And I like this right here. It says, of whom the world was not worthy. The world wasn't even worthy of those people. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. You know what? Those people are making up that great cloud of witnesses. They're looking over the portals of heaven and they're not saying, why are you doing what you're doing? Why are things going on? Why are you letting these things happen? No, they're encouraging us. They're saying, keep going, keep going. Keep going for the cause of Christ. We're testimony that it's worth it all. Talking about this race that we're in. In First Corinthians chapter number nine. Verse number 24, the Bible says, Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize. In this race that we're in, we're all striving for the prize. We're keeping our eyes on the prize. But it says, so run that you may obtain. And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown, but we an incorruptible. I therefore so run not as uncertainty, uncertainly, so fight I not as one that beateth the air But I keep under my body and bring it in the subjection, lest that by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be a castaway. That's an encouragement to us to keep under our bodies, keep our bodies under under ourselves. So that we can be what we need to be for Jesus Christ. Moms and dads put boundaries up around your children. Put boundaries, put barriers around your children, protect them. Be consistent at church and at home. Be consistent, what you are in front of people at church, let that be what you are at home. Don't let anger and and things come into your heart and bitterness come into your heart to where that you would be something different at home than what you are at church. Let the Lord help you to just crucify this flesh daily. That's one thing I pray every morning before I even get out of bed. I tell the Lord, Good morning. Thank you for saving me. Lord, I love you and help me control this flesh today. This is a race that we're in. Philippians chapter number three And verses thirteen and fourteen says, Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. That ought to be our goal tonight. That prize at the end of this race. Lord help us to be faithful. Do people in heaven really know what's going on down here on earth? Uh some people have been asked that question before. Some preachers have been asked that question. And I'm not going to argue with you, but in Luke chapter number um 15, I believe we have a clue. Luke chapter number 15 and verses 7 through 10, the Bible says, I say unto you That likewise joy shall be in the he in heaven over one sinner that repenteth more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance Verse 10 says, Likewise I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth I believe that there is a celebration, there is joy in the presence of the angels. It doesn't say it's the angels that are rejoicing, it's those in this presence. It's the saints of God, I believe. I don't know how many people got saved across Garrett County this morning in churches that truly trusted Christ as their Savior. I don't know how many people in the state of Maryland trusted Christ as their Savior today. I don't know how many people in the United States of America trusted Christ as their Savior. in church today or driving down the road listening to the Christian radio station who pulled off and trusted Christ as her Savior or around the world how many people altogether got saved But I can imagine there's rejoicing going on all the time in the presence of the angels in heaven. Because there's people getting saved, not just on the Lord's Day. I believe people in heaven know what's going on down here. I believe in the great cloud of witnesses that we see here. One person that makes up, that's in that great cloud of witnesses that I want to call to your attention is Job Job. We hear about the patience of Job and and in Job chapters one and two, he lost everything. He lost his wealth. People came and stole his livestock. He lost his children, his ten children, all at one time. He lost his health. Everything gone. We say, well, Job was a blessed man. So really? How could he have been blessed if he hadn't had these things? If God hadn't blessed him with his things, he couldn't have ever lost them. He was a blessed man. And Job I believe is looking over the portals of heaven this evening and looking down to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and saying it's worth it all Keep being faithful to the Lord. Keep telling about Jesus Christ. Keep your children. He made sacrifices for his children every day Because he was afraid one of them might have done something foolish and blasphemed God or something. He made sacrifices for them. He said, keep on, keep on. It's not much further. It's not much farther. Now think about Moses. Well Job said in chapter 1 verse 22, and all this Job sinned not nor charged God foolishly I think about Joe uh uh Moses there in Hebrews chapter number eleven, verses twenty-four and twenty-five. By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Yes, there is pleasure in sin That is truth, but it's only for a season, and that season is short. And if you partake of sin And decide you're going to go into that short season, it will wreck your life, it can wreck your family, and it'll wreck your testimony. Stay away from it. But Moses here, you know, in his own strength, in his own power, he killed one Egyptian. And he had to go back into the wilderness for 40 years. He was 40 years old when he left, and he was in the wilderness for 40 years, and he was 80 years old when he came back to lead the children of Israel out But in his own strength, he couldn't even cover up one killing that he did, one Egyptian that he put to death. But in God's power, the whole Egyptian army was gone Moses said stay on the straight and narrow. He's looking over the portals of heaven saying, keep going, keep going, it's worth it all There's a reward that awaits you. Just keep going for the glory of God. I think about Stephen in Acts chapter number seven. The Bible says that he was a man full of man of faith, full of the Holy Ghost. And his preaching that he did. It was the truth that he preached. And he was killed for it. It was a martyr. When the church got started there In Acts chapter number seven, verse fifty-one says, This is his message that he preached. He said, Ye stiff necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost. As your fathers did, so do ye He's preaching the truth here to these people. He said, Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted, and they have slain them which uh showed before of the coming of the just one, of whom you have been now the betrayers and murderers, who have received the law by the disposition of angels and have not kept it When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart and they gnashed on him with their teeth. But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven and saw the glory of God and Jesus standing on the right hand of God He was standing. We read scripture all through the Word of God where when Jesus sat down, he sat down on the right hand of God. But when Stephen was martyred, whenever he was coming home, Jesus stood up and took note. And received him, welcomed him in to heaven. He said, Behold, I see the heavens open and the Son of Man standing on the right hand of God. Then they cried out with a loud voice and stopped their ears and ran upon him with one accord, and cast him out of the city, and stoned him. And the witnesses laid down their clothes at the young man's feet, whose name was Saul And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit. And he kneeled down and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this he fell asleep He just passed from life to life. He closed his eyes here on earth and he woke in heaven. How many of you uh have you uh ever read Fox's Book of Martyrs? It gives a history of a lot of those that have given their lives for Jesus Christ. Do you know that there's a lot of martyrs that were here in America because they stood for the Word of God, because they were going to preach? Some of the first Baptists here in America were martyred. They were tied to poles and set on fire. I read their stories, their accounts, some of them, they would not denounce Jesus Christ, and they preached till they had no breath left. I think about James. He wrote the epistle there, and one of the disciples, James. was captured by history. We see it in history. We didn't see it in the Word of God there. But history tells us that one of the captors that actually brought him uh before the judges and everything he said uh uh james was to be beheaded and one of his captors said It's not right for you to die alone. He said, From this day I accept Jesus Christ as my Lord and Savior. He saw a testimony in James there, and both of them went down to the chopping block and had their heads taken off Told him that a testimony here. What kind of testimony do we have? How are we running our race tonight? Andrew was crucified on an X-shaped cross. Not like the one we think about Jesus being on, but he was put on an X-shaped cross, which would bring a lot more pain to a person. And suffering. Peter, the one that denied Jesus Christ, but went out and wept bitterly and got things right with God. And after the day of Pentecost he preached, and three thousand souls got saved. Three thousand souls Read about it in Acts 2. He told, he was told by Jesus Christ himself that he would be crucified. In John 21, 18, you can read it. History tells us that he said, you know, I'm not worthy to be crucified like my Lord. They say, well, we'll fix that, and they crucified him upside down. I think about Paul in 2 Corinthians. All that the Apostle Paul went through in 2 Corinthians chapter number 11 The Bible tells us in verse 24. It says of the Jews five times receive thy forty stripes, save one Thrice was I beaten with rods, once was I stoned, thrice I suffered shipwreck. I a night and a day I have been in the deep and journeying often in perils of waters Imperils of robbers, imperils of mine own countrymen, imperils by the heathen, in perils in the city, imperils in the wilderness, imperils in the sea, imperils among false brethren In weariness and painfulness, in watchings often, in hunger and thirst, in fastings often, in cold and nakedness. Beside those things that are without and with uh which cometh upon me daily and in care of all the churches, who is weak, and I'm not weak, who is offended, and I've not uh and I burn not If I must needs glory, I will glory in the things which concern mine infirmities. The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is blessed forever, evermore, knoweth that I lie not. I'm thinking about these people, Job and Moses, and Stephen and James and Andrew and Peter and Paul, just to name just a few of them. And they're saying, keep going. They're encouraging the church. Their their testimonies are written in the Word of God so that we can have something to go for. That prize that was set before them. They were able to obtain it. They made it. They got there. And they're receiving their reward. Then I think about one more in that great cloud of witnesses. He's got prints in his hand, wounds in his hands and in his feet, and there's a gaping hole in his side And there's places in his brow where there was a crown of thorns beaten down into his head. And I think about how he was sped upon You know, all these things that our Savior went through for you and for me, so that we could be free from our sins. He paid the penalty for our sins so that we wouldn't have to pay that penalty. You know, just one of these things would not be pleasant. Being sped upon would not be pleasant. I got a dear friend down at Grace Baptist Church in Newport and he was in the Vietnam War. And he came home and and he was so glad to see that American flag fly as he came home. He said, I'm home. And he walked down the street and this girl came up to him and said, Are you a Marine? Are you a soldier? He said, Yes, I just got home from Vietnam. Said, I'm a Marine. And she ran back and spit in his face. That's the hero's welcome he received. And that's the welcome that we receive here in America. Just remember this is not our home. We got a better place to go to. A building not built by hands, built for a square. Amen. The rest of the story with that fella's the girl was arrested. But many story after story of those that came home that fought for our country have not gotten a hero's welcome like they deserved. Jesus Christ was fit upon. He was crucified. The Bible tells us here As we look a verse farther, Hebrews chapter 12 and verse number 2, it says, looking unto Jesus. The author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Pass the prize. He said, who for the joy that was set before him? For the joy that was set before him, he took your punishment. He took my punishment for me. What was that joy that was set before him? Looking down at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in 2015, June 2015, and looking down and saying, I died for that one. I died for that one. They trusted me. They loved me That's the joy that's set before him. And then that joy that one by one we're going to come and be with him until he raptures us all together. All this great cloud of witnesses are cheering us on. Saying just a little further. As you're running your race with patience and everything, Satan's going to be out there. He's going to be on your warpath. He's going to try to throw out a stumbling block. Turn those stumbling blocks into stepping stones. Don't let uh keep going for God's honor and for his glory. Keep going How is it with you tonight? Are you getting tired in the race? Are you getting weary and well-doing? Just keep going a little bit farther. Just push yourself a little bit farther. Or the weights that you need to lay aside, lay them aside. That sin that does so easily beset you, lay it aside. Get it right with God. Repent of it and move forward. Lay them aside. Return to your first love. How are you running tonight? How are you running? We're in the race. If you're here tonight tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, you're not even in the race. To get in that race you must be born again. Will you come to that one, that great cloud of witnesses, that one that's seated on the right hand of God tonight and trust him as your Lord and Savior? Be the greatest day of your life. So I've got more living I want to do. I'm having fun uh in my life right now. Oh no, you're not having fun. I live twenty-six years of my life away from God The day I got saved changed my life. Father, I pray that you'll take your word now. Speak to our hearts. Use it, Lord, for your honor and glory. Lord, may your power, the power of the Holy Spirit, convict, draw, and save, and just help us. Encourage us, Lord, by that great cloud of witnesses. First that in Jesus' name we pray and we do ask. Amen