Number twenty with me if you would. If after they there will notice here in a moment, he's speaking about these false prophets that he's been addressing. If you've been in on the series for the last year, I think. Um We've been looking chapter 2 of 2 Peter and actually the entire book of Jude, which is a very small book, but very important. We're studying in Sunday school The entire, almost chapter 2 and chapter 3, really, of 2 Peter are dealing with these false prophets, how dangerous they are, how uh depraved they are, and so that's who the they is For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein and overcome The latter end is worse with them than the beginning. I want to consider this term here, entangled. Entangled. Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless. our study of this passage tonight. Lord, we've started last week, and so I pray you'd help us to pick up there and and learn these lessons. And I pray your Holy Spirit would apply these truths, these principles that are given here. The information that we are given here about false prophets, about spiritual realities, I pray your Holy Spirit would apply it to our lives and our walk with you as you know would help us. And so I yield my mind, Lord, that you control my thoughts as I'm speaking. I yield my body and present my body. You'd fill me with your spirit and empower Those biblical truths, they go off my lips to affect our lives and alter our areas that need altering in our walk with you. And so Please bless this hour. We thank you for a good day. Prepare us for this coming week, I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen Of course, as I just said, Peter is addressing these false prophets. And if you remember remember, last week, this term they, we determined by looking at Scripture that these are counterfeits One thing we are certain of these false prophets, the they he's referring to, one thing we're certain of them is they are unsaved. They're coming into the church, unsaved people in the church. That is why I believe the Bible is very, very clear, unsaved people are not to be part of a local church Not to be part of a uh of the church. Uh there ought to be at least a profession of faith and there has to be a uh baptism identified with Christ. That's biblical mandate for a member of church Any church, and generally this will be your more liberal churches, that just opens the doors of membership to anybody and everybody, y'all come on in, you can be a member, is not following the biblical pattern. Not following a biblical example. So these guys are coming into the church. They're not saved, but they're not, but they're presenting themselves as if they are saved. A counterfeit, a counterfeit dollar bill, of course, appears and is presented as if it's a legitimate currency, right? But it's not. It's not legitimate. It's counterfeit. Well that's what is taking place here. And if you'll remember, we look back in verse number one of chapter two. It says there are false prophets. There were among the people, the Jewish nation, even as there shall be false teachers among you, the church, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies. Now here's where I know that they're not saved. And we mentioned this last week They deny the Lord that bought them and bring upon themselves swift destruction. These people are not saved, never have been saved. They deny the Lord Jesus Christ. They deny his deity. They deny his blood atonement. They deny salvation by grace. They deny the Bible. And so these are unsaved people. And um and you know, and like I said, I'm just kind of repeating a little bit what we said last week. It is possible for an unsaved person to appear saved Right? We looked at the tares and wheat. Very, you know, it's hard to tell the difference, but they're very different. And so we know that it's possible for a lost person to appear like they're saved. And that's a very real possibility. And Peter says here in verse 1, he says they've escaped the pollutions of the world. By the way, that term pollution, and I think we looked at this last week, that term pollution, it's the only time it's used in the New Testament. I think it's the only time it's used in the whole Bible. And the idea is this: it refers to external nastiness. If you remember, I mentioned that last week. He doesn't say they've escaped the wrath of God because they have not. Doesn't say they've escaped the condemnation of their sins because they have not escaped that. They've escaped the appearance Of this nastiness. No, though the lifestyle they were introducing was very depraved, their appearance, their presentation was very polished. If you notice, sometimes in the media and various places, folks that are promoting an ungodly lifestyle, whether it's just promiscuous or it's flat out perverted A lot of times they'll present themselves as upstanding citizens, right or wrong. They'll come across just as a normal person, just like anybody else, but they're very, very depraved. internally and what they're promoting is very wrong. And I believe that's the case with these false teachers. They appeared saved They put off some of the outward stuff that would have uh uh condemned them. They had the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so they had the appearance of Christianity, they had the awareness of the facts about the Lord Jesus Christ. They looked apart, they talked apart, but they were not genuine. So when he says they here, because what he's going to say in the rest of this verse, it's important to understand this they are not saved people. They may look saved, they may talk saved But they're not saved people. They're lost. They're under the wrath of God. They're outside the family of God. Now, my second thought, that was last week, their counterfeits. What I want us to notice today is they were captured Notice what he says here. He says, For after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, they are again entangled. There's that word They're entangled therein and overcome. Again, entangled again. What does it mean to be entangled with something? What does it mean when he says entangled? Well the word itself has this idea, and I think you'll get this, but it literally, and it's translated uh outside of scripture and other uh literature it that word is translated to interweave with In other words, it becomes part of the very fabric. Did you ever see some piece of clothing or something where uh I don't have any of these, but they'll actually take small strands of gold and they'll interweave it in the uh in the fabric. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Or they'll take uh um uh what else do they uh The deacons know all about this expensive stuff. I don't uh but you know it means to interweave, to make it part of the fabric. The word uh entangle means to be thoroughly involved with. To become a part of, it is the idea of almost entrapped. I cannot separate myself from it. I'm entangled in it And so these people are entangled. Now look what they're entangled in. It says they are again entangled therein. What does the therein go back to? We're doing Bible study tonight. What's that therein referred to? Look at the verse carefully. Somebody talk to me. The pollutions of the world They cleaned themselves up, they had this knowledge of the Lord, they put on a show, they came across as one of us, they came across as one of God's people, a born-again child of God. But they became entangled therein, in the pollutions of the world again, and overcome. So the key word I think here is again. They had been entangled with the pollutions of the world. They cleaned their act up. They put on this counterfeit show. They had the knowledge of the Lord. They understood who the Lord was and all of that. And they put on a show And they and they privily come into the church and they begin to spread their false doctrine. They begin to pr uh uh spread their ungodly lifestyle. But the problem is they get back entangled with what they cleaned themselves up from. You see what he's saying there? They go they got back with that. They're back in it again. They went back I put it this way, they went back to what they actually were in the first place. They went back to what they actually were the whole time. The whole time. Years ago, we weren't here too long, and Kathy saw an advertisement for someone to babysit their Vietnamese pig. How many people are familiar with Vietnamese pigs? I was visiting in the apartments where you used to live there, Zach, and up on the third floor one time, I knocked on the door. The door was just a little bit partially ajar And um I knocked on the door and I heard this racket come and I looked and here comes this Vietnamese pig just snorting and charging yikes and I went down those steps so fast, Brother Jack. Well Kathy got this, somebody said, Well we need we're looking for someone, we're going away for a while, we need someone to babysit our Vietnamese pig. So Kathy thought, how how hard can that be? So uh she called him up, got the job. I forget it was a week or two, and it was it lived in the house. Downstairs. And uh they had it all cleaned up, little bow tie on it, and nice little place for it to stay, and uh had its food. They played I think they had classical music and stuff playing And oh, just a nice little pet, just the most wonderful pet. First day she got there, the place was trashed. So she cleaned it all up and fixed it up and put the bow tie back on and cleaned it up and and uh she got there the next day. The place was trashed. And every day she went there and every day the place was trashed. You know why? Because it was a pig Listen, a pig can try and act like a kitty cat. Well not a kitty cat, but um a pig can try and act like a little puppy dog. But it's still what? It's still a pig. And it's going to revert back to what it really is. And that's what Peter's saying about these false teachers. They've come in, they appear this, they look good. But uh he says, I'm here to tell you, they're going to go back to what they really are in the first place. What they really are. And so they're captured. They uh only through the blood of Christ and a genuine faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Can our natures be changed? How many people here tonight, you're a different person now than you were before you trusted Christ? I mean changed. Values have changed, principles you live by, your perspective on the world, your worldview. It's all changed. You know why? Because the change isn't outward, it's an inward change of our nature. Our very nature. And that's what these guys were lacking. That's what these guys were lacking. They appeared good, but they were captured and they were entangled again back to where they were. And then look at the last part of verse. 20 says they were entangled therein again and overcome. Look at this. And the latter end is worse with them than what? The beginning. The latter end is worse than the beginning. That term latter end is talking about their final destination. Where they're going to end up when it's all said and done. When this life is over. Where these people who put on a show, infiltrated the church, sought to corrupt the church doctrinally and morally When it's all said and done, they go back to what they really are, and in the end, it's going to be worse than what it was before. Than what it was before. Worse. That word worse there tells us something. And this is important. This is sober. This is, I'll tell you, this is borderline scary. There are degrees of judgment in hell. There are degrees of punishment and torments in hell. The Bible is very clear about that. You would. Turn with me, if you would, to Matthew, chapter number 10. Matthew chapter number 10. The torments of hell are severe. We understand that, right? There's probably not enough preaching on hell. in our churches today, to be very honest with you. Bob Jones Sr. , years ago, back I don't know back in the fifth forties, fifties, sometime there, he said there's nothing wrong, I believe it was Bob Jones Sr. He said there's nothing wrong with America Then what about six months of red-hot, half-crazed preaching on hell wouldn't solve in our country? And I have a tendency to believe that And if every if every pulpit in America would preach the biblical truth of hell, I think we could see a revival in our country, maybe We'd see people say we uh the the uh the reality of hell uh it's the and the eternality of hell, hell is forever And I'm not I want to be very, very serious about this. If a person dies in their sins, if they die unsaved They go immediately to hell. Luke 16 makes that very clear. And here's the thing: they never, ever, ever escape the wrath, condemnation, and judgment of God. Now ultimately, the hand up in the lake of fire, which I'm telling you, is no better than hell. And it is eternal To be lost, separated from God for all eternal eternity. I can't think of anything worse than that. It's a horrific truth, but it is truth. Now, having said all of that, there are degrees in that judgment. If you would, look with me at Matthew chapter 10 and verse number 15. Jesus is speaking here. By the way, Jesus spoke more about hell than he did about heaven. And Jesus preached more about hell, I think, than any other New Testament writer. He understood firsthand the reality and the and the awfulness, the horribleness of this place called hell And he's talking about it, and look what he says. He says, Verily I say unto you, it shall be, now I hope you're with me. Look at it, what are those next two words? More tolerable, I bracketed that phrase, it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrah. Question, what was Sodom and Gomorrah like? Wicked. We're worried and upset about the wickedness of our country, and I think we're approaching it, but Sodom and Gomorrah is unbelievably wicked. But he says, listen to what he says here. This is profound. It will be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrah in the day of judgment Then for that city, what city? It's talking about the city, it just heard him preach, or he had just told them of the Messiah and how they could be saved. What he's saying is this. He's saying a person that knows the truth, a person that has been exposed to the truth of God's word and the truth of the gospel and rejects it. Will suffer greater judgment than those that never heard the truth. That did not The only gospel, the only word of God that Sodom and Gomorrah were exposed to was by the man Lot. He was a horrible witness. He failed in his witness to the laws. And so they had a very, very poor example and testimony of the truth of God of God and his word. And Jesus is saying those that heard a very clear witness and were exposed to the truth are under a greater judgment than those that did not have that degree of information, that that degree of light, so to speak. You follow what he's saying? Now what does that say? What does that say about someone's in the church knows the truth and says, no, I don't want it. I reject it. And they die in that condition. I'm telling you, this stuff is serious. If you would, come with me to chapter 11. And he picks this idea up again in verse number 22. Well, let's back up to verse 20. He began, then began he, Jesus, to upbraid. That means to rebuke. To upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they what Repented not. They were exposed to who Jesus Christ was and what he's capable of doing. They heard his message, they saw his power firsthand, and they didn't repent. Whoa! Jesus speaking this. Oh, that Jesus is love, love, love. Yes, he is, he is. But he makes a strong statement here. Woe unto thee, Corazon! Woe unto thee, Bethsaida! For if the mighty works which were done in you had been done entire in Sidon Those are two wicked cities in Ezekiel. They're under the judgment of God. They would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes Now look what he says. But I say unto you, it will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon, these two cities that were judged, God judged them. It will be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon in the day of judgment than for you. You expose. You heard the word of God directly from the Son of God's lips. You saw his power. And you rejected it. You refuse to repent. Be more tolerable on the day of judgment than for you. Look at verse 23. He goes on. And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shall be brought down to hell. For if the mighty works which had been done in thee had been done in Sodom, here it is again. It would have remained unto this day. Huh? Makes me wonder if Lot would have been the witness he should have been if Sodom and Gomorrah could have escaped The judgment they face. He says they would have it would have remained unto this day. Here he goes again, verse 24. But I say unto you that it shall be more tolerable For the land of Sodom and the day of judgment, then for thee. There are degrees of judgment. And those who are exposed to the truth and reject it are under greater condemnation than those that were not exposed to that same degree of truth. Everybody follow what he's saying here? Would you agree with me? This is sobering. I can't help but think of our nation. Our nation's saturated with the Word of God. Our nation, the people of our land, have seen Firsthand in generations gone by, the power of God in revivals that have swept across across this land. They've heard the Word of God preached powerfully From the pulpits of our land and from the airwaves and in great meetings, citywide meetings, for years by the millions We live in a land that is saying no, kicking the Bible out, and rejecting God. Listen, I'm glad that the uh the presidential election went the way it did. I'm glad for that. Personally, I'm glad for that. But that is not revival. We ought to be just as burdened for our nation this Sunday as we were last Sunday. We ought to be just concerned for the spiritual well-being of our land this Sunday as we were last Sunday because I'm convinced now This is me talking, but I'm convinced that our nation will face a greater judgment of God than some nations that did not have the Word of God like we do. And it's on us. It's on us. We're the lot. We're lot. We're the witness. What kind of witness are we going to be to a nation that has seen and heard in years gone by? I don't know. I think maybe we're getting to a point where a generation that has been raised up by a generation that rejected. And now we have a generation that doesn't necessarily reject it. They're ignorant Of who God is and what God is capable of doing. And the only light there is On this planet, the only light of God's Word, the only light of spiritual truth on this planet is the local church. We're it And so we have a great responsibility to be that witness, to be that light, to be what Lot failed to be. And it's our turn. It's our place to be that light. Be that light. You with me? This this is sobering stuff, and this is this is truth. By the way, these verses we just read are just as true, just as inspired as John 3. 16. Absolutely. So they're going to be condemned. And they're going to be condemned under a greater judgment. They have a greater condemnation. Because they knew the truth. And again, back there he says, the end. Let me read it. He says, the end. The latter end is worse. With them than the beginning. It's almost like Jesus said, it'd have been better for them not to have known. Not to have been exposed. Actually, it'd be a whole lot better for them just to recede. Right? Somebody said, when's the best time to get saved when you're a little kid? When's the second time best time to get saved? Right now. But they rejected it. They rejected it. Those who know the truth and reject it are held to a more severe judgment than those who never knew it. Those who never knew it. We have a commission. We call it the Great Commission to take the Word of God into all the world. Preach it to every creature. We are to not just preach it, but we're to live it and to back up the truth of what we're saying with the power of a godly Christian life These guys missed it. And Peter is pronouncing a profound and horrific judgment upon them. Profound and horrific judgment upon them. Now, I want to end with this. If you would come over to 2 Peter chapter 2. I'm coming back to that word entangled. Now what we just preached about are the false prophets. They are not saved, they never were saved. They denied the Christ that paid for their sins. But 2 Timothy and chapter 2, and look with me if you would at verse 1. Paul now is writing to Timothy, the very opposite of a false teacher. Timothy is a man of God. Young man and uh a man of God. But look what Paul says to him. Thou, therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things which thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same Commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness As a good soldier of Jesus Christ. By the way, nowhere in the Bible do you find the ministry is easy. Nowhere in the Bible do you find living a victorious Christian life is easy. If I'm going to live for God a consistent, effective, influential Christian life, I'm going to have to endure some stuff. And that's what he's telling Timothy. You're going to have to endorse some things. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. Now look what he says, verse 4. No man that warreth, what's that next word? The only two places that word's used in the Bible is in Peter for these unsaid false teachers, but here it's been applied to a young preacher boy. No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life. That he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. I preached this morning. We're all soldiers of the cross. We're all involved in a spiritual warfare. And one of the tactics of the devil, now I'm shifting gears here a little bit, but one of the tactics of the devil. is to get God's people entangled with the affairs of this life. I just finished a book on World War II, Eisenhower and Marshall, George Marshall. And their leadership. And one of the issues during the war was American soldiers fraternizing with the enemy. And and getting involved with the affairs of the local communities where they're fighting the enemy and getting caught up. They get their little girlfriends and they get involved in stuff going on and they lost track of what they were. What they were there for. And that's what Paul's warning Timothy, and that's what God's word is warning you and me. I'm all for influencing politics, but I am adamantly against getting entangled with the issues of life. Don't let it take over. Don't don't get interweaved with this world. This world is not our home. We're just passing through. Let me let me let me modify that a bit a little bit. This world is not my ho our home. We're just in spiritual warfare going through this old world Paul's warning Timothy, as a young preacher, not to engage himself with the affairs of this world. Now it's not going to we get caught up in the stuff of this world and all the issues going on. And again, we're to be light, we're to be salt, we're to make a difference, have an influence. Amen But we don't get entangled. We won't lose our salvation, but we become ineffective in our service. Ineffective in our service. I'm still convinced, and I'll end with this. This is the Leatherman, okay? Hope you'll bear with me But I'm still convinced the greatest thing that God's people can do for this nation is win as many souls to Jesus Christ as we possibly can. And anything that entangles us away from that, anything that draws us away from that, we've got to Not let that do that happen. Amen. Amen. This week we got s we got a week ahead of us. It's the end of the first day of the week, the Lord's day. How about this Sunday night? We just commit ourselves. This coming week, I'm going to try to be the best, with God's help, I'm going to be the best witness to the gospel of Jesus Christ I can possibly be for the next seven days. How about that? How about that? I think that would do a heap of good for our community and for our nation. I hope you understand my heart tonight And I hope we understand what Peter's saying here. Heaven and hell are real. Terrific. Hell is horrific. And you and I are the witness. You and I are the light. And let's ask God to fill us, empower us, and help us. Amen? Father, bless our invitation. I hope that you can use these thoughts tonight to stir us And to take seriously the urgency of the hour and the importance of living for you completely, dedicated to Christ. And then be in that witness. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder, there's some tonight say, preacher, I want God to help me not be entangled with this old world Not put my roots too deep or hold too tight to the things of this world, but live for God. Live for God. Is there any like that uplifted hand all around? God bless you. My hand's raised I don't want to get off track. I don't want to get entangled. I want to stay focused, stay the course 100%. Father, bless our imitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads bowed, eyes closed.