2 Peter chapter 2, I'd like for us to look at verse 19 and 20. We're preaching our way through this book of the Bible, verse by verse, working our way through And uh we're come up last uh it's been a couple weeks ago, I guess, uh, but we uh we we looked at verse 19. I want to read verse 19 and 20 together because they're tied in together It says, While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption. For of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought in bondage Then 20 picks up on that. That's what we're we're going to look at, verse 20. For if after they have escaped the pollution of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein. And are overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the beginning. And so that word there in the middle of the verse, it says they were entangled again. I want us to look at this idea of being entangled. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for your word that you've given to us. That we have available to us so abundantly. And Lord, our hearts go out to people around the world that have no access to the Word of God, to the truth of your word. Help us never to take it for granted And I ask tonight, Lord, as we look at this passage here and some verses, that you would help us to see the truth that you're trying to convey to us and the principles for life that would apply to us. And so I yield my will to you. I pray you guide my thinking as I preach. I present my body anew. I pray you'd fill me with your spirit. And it would be you speaking through me your word and apply it to our lives. Again, as you know we have need. So please bless this preaching time. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're looking at the book, as I said, 2 Peter. We're going verse by verse through it. And we hit chapter 2, and Peter touches on a subject in chapter number 2 that he dwells on. For almost the rest of the book, two-thirds of the book of Peter, he is dealing with this issue of false teachers creeping into the church and influencing what the church believes and drawing the churches away from the Word of God And Peter obviously feels very strongly about this. He makes some strong statements. He reaches back into the Old Testament and he finds examples of where God judged Old Testament individuals. For doing that very thing. God judged them very severely. And he's using that as a warning to the New Testament churches to be very, very careful who and what you allow to influence. The direction your church is going, what your church believes, and what you allow in it. The book of Jude we're studying in Sunday school, and this wasn't by design, it just happened this way, but the book of Jude He is dealing with the very same thing, almost verbatim. Jude addresses this matter of false doctrine in the church and false teaching. And um this of course is God teaching us through the writings of these men by inspiration. And so it it's very important for us. If if God is going to give two-thirds of the book of Peter dealing with this subject, if the entire book of Jude, though it's small, that entire book or letter is dealing with with this. I think it's pretty important that we pay attention to it. And so I know it gets a little maybe some folks are thinking it's getting a little repetitious. I agree, but it's because the Bible is repetitious on it And so we have to follow what the Bible says. I notice there in verse number 20, a little word at the beginning of the verse gives us some information. It says, for if after they have escaped. That word for ties it back into verse 20. And in verse 20, if you remember, a couple weeks ago we looked at that, he's he's warning about these false prophets when it says while day. The they there are these people who have crept in the church. They've come in very deceitfully. They presented themselves as one of us, so to speak. And then they start introducing wrong doctrine. They start introducing ungodly living into the church and trying to sway people away from the Word of God. And it says if they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption. And we looked at that and how they're introducing a license to sin, and you can do what you want, God doesn't care. And it's a lie. It was all a lie, and he's exposing that. Now he's carrying this over into verse 20. And he says, for if after uh verse 20, for if after they have escaped the pollution of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein. Now I have three thoughts I want to give to you very quickly, as quick as I can. As quick as I can. Number one, these false teachers are counterfeits. They're counterfeits. We know for a fact that these fellows he's addressing are not saved men They are unsaved. Come back to verse 1 with me if you would. And notice. And by the way, keep your Bibles handy. We're going to look at a number of verses here in the time we have. Verse number one, this is where he's introducing the subject that he's going to spend almost the rest of the book on. But there were also false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you Now look at this. Who privily or sneakily or deceitfully shall bring in damnable heresies. Would you agree with me? Strong language. Damnable heresies. Now look, even denying the Lord that bought them. and bring upon themselves swift destruction. I think we can safely say these guys are unsaved people. They're unsaved people They're denying the Lord. Nobody gets saved by denying the Lord. You get saved by receiving The Lord, believing in the Lord, accepting that what he did on the cross for my sins and your sins, buried, rose again, but receiving that by faith and putting my faith in trust. Not denying of the Lord. These guys are unsaved. People. So when we approach verse 20, we need to keep that in mind. He's not talking about saved folks here. He's talking about unsaved people. Never come to Christ outside of the family of God. We won't take time. We go to Jude and I think it's verse 19 or there where he says they are without the Spirit. If a person doesn't have the Holy Spirit, that person's not saved Romans is very clear on that. And so we need to keep in mind that these apostates are not saved men. They're unsaved. We know this. Here's something else we need to keep in mind. A lost person, if a person is unsaved, their sins are not forgiven. They're outside the family of God. They're still under the condemnation of God. According to John chapter three, eighteen and thirty eight thirty-six, they're under the judgment of God An unsaved person, if a person is unsaved, that tells me they never have been saved before. Now, I'd like you to look at something with me. Keep your place here, because we're going to come back in a moment. But come with me to Matthew. Book of Matthew, Gospel of Matthew, first book in the New Testament. And chapter 7. Chapters 5, 6, and 7 of Matthew are what we refer to as the Sermon on the Mount. Tremendous sermon. Jesus talking to his his disciples. And he makes a statement in chapter number seven. That gives us information about an unsaved person never being saved in the first place. Look at verse number 21. Roman or Matthew chapter 7, verse 21. Not everyone that saith unto me, they're just saying this, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven But he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? Question, is prophesying in the name of the Lord a good thing? Yeah, there's nothing wrong with that. That's that's good. They said, Lord, Lord, we prophesy in thy name Have we not prophesied? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. Man, these people sound amazing. They're incredible. Prophesying the name of the Lord, casting out devils, doing many wonderful works. But look what the Lord says. Then will I profess unto them, I, that next word is extremely important. I what? Never knew thee, knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. What in the world? You see, these were people doing very religious stuff But they never were saved. They were depending on what they were doing to make them acceptable to God. You know for sure you're going to heaven when you die, you know for sure your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven, not to hell when you die? Oh, yeah, how do you know? Oh, I do many wonderful works for God. Question: Is that going to get you to heaven? No. Well, I've been uh I've been Sunny School Superintendent. Uh that'll get me to heaven. Question. Is uh being Sunny School Superintendent, does that take away my sins, get me to heaven? No. In fact, there's nothing I can do. There's no work I can come up with that will take away my sins and cleanse me and forgive me of my sins and make me acceptable to God. We're all sinners. We've all come short of the glory of God. And so these fellows were never saved in the first place. If a person is unsaved, that tells me they never were saved. It's not that they got saved and lost their salvation You don't find anywhere in Scripture where a person gets saved, then loses it, then gets saved, then loses it, then gets saved, then loses it, then gets saved. That's not in Scripture Salvation is a settled matter. I trust Christ as Savior. God forgives me and gives me a new name. He gives me new life. I'm born into the family of God. I'm a child of God. It's paid and all. Christ keeps me. I'm in his hands. So whoever these fellows that Peter is addressing here, they never were saved. Now I'm going somewhere with this here. I think you'll see what I'm trying to get at here in a moment. They never were saved. We know that. So, number one, we know these guys were not saved. Number two, we know that they weren't saved at some point and then lost their salvation. Number three, it is possible, now get this, and this is going to bring us back to Peter. It is possible for an unsaved person, a person lost, still in their sins to appear like a saved person. You with me? You follow me? A person can be outside the family of God, never trusted Christ genuine sincerely as their Savior, and seem and appear very, very Christian They have to be saved, and they might not be. It's possible to appear to be something I'm not. And we find that in Scripture. But you're here in Matthew. Come over to chapter 13 with me, if you would. Again, Jesus touches on this subject. Matthew 13, verse number 24. Notice he's telling this parable, and he and he tells the parable, I'm going to read that. Then he explains that later on the disciples come and say, What in the world were you talking about? Now the The word phrase, what in the world were you talking about? I just injected that, okay? They didn't really say that. But they approached the Lord and said, What do you mean by this parable? So let's read the parable first of all, and then we'll see how the Lord explained it Verse 24, another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field. But while man slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat and went his way. Now let me stop here and give you a little information about tares. Tares is a weed. It produces no wheat. There's no grain. It is of zero benefit. The only thing the tear does, this weed, is it absorbs the moisture that should be going to the wheat, to the grain. Takes up space, takes up moisture, and it's it's of zero value But it looks almost exactly like wheat. It's very almost identical to wheat, and it's difficult to tell the difference. So he goes on. Enemy came, so tares among the wheat went his way. But when the blade was sprung up and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also. So the servants of the household came and said unto him, Sir, did not thou sow good seed in thy field? From whence then hath this hairs? They said, we checked the seed out, it was good. There wasn't weeds in with it. Where did these come from? The servant uh um Verse 27, uh 28. And he said unto them, An enemy hath done this. And his servant said unto them, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up? He said, Nay, lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them. Let both grow together until the harvest And in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles, and burn them, and gather the wheat into my barn. So that's the parable A little bit later, the disciples verse, let's see, verse 36, the disciples come and they ask them, what were you talking about? What does that mean? Then Jesus sent the multitude, verse 36, away and went into the house, and his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the parable of the tares of the wheat. And he answered and said unto them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of Man. Who's the Son of Man here? It's Jesus. Then he says, the field is the what? The world, the unsaved world, the whole world. The good seed are the children of the kingdom. What terminology might we use to describe the children of the kingdom? Christians, saved people. That's who the good seed is. The field is the world, the good seed, the tares, look at this, are the children of who? The wake up one, of course, who's that? That's the devil, that's Satan. And here they're mixed right in. With the children of the kingdom, with God's people, children of the devil, and they're mixed right in, they're tares, and you can hardly tell the difference It is possible for a person to not know the Lord as Savior, to be outside the family of God, to still be under in their sins and under the judgment of God, and yet appear to be very, very religious, to be appear to be very, very Christian. And so, oh by the way, in 1 John 2. 19 he says that there's a group of people went out from us because they were not of us. They didn't stick around, they left, they never were saved. They look like it, they act like it, they talk like it, but they never were. So it's possible for a lost person to appear like a saved person, appear saved. Now, if you would come back to our text. Second Peter chapter two and look at verse number twenty with me. He says, for after, now look at the wording here. Now we know the people he's talking about are not saved. They denied the Lord. After they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, what I'm suggesting to you that is that these men are counterfeits. They're tares. They come in, they've escaped the pollution of the world. The word pollution there means the outward defilement and nastiness of the world. So they pushed off some of the nasty Would you agree with me? This world can be awfully nasty. There's nasty stuff goes on. Some of these festivals and some of the stuff on the internet is just There's no other word for it than nasty. And they they pushed off that pollution, that nastiness, and they appear clean cut Amen, you know, they've they've uh escaped the pollution of the world. They don't have that outward pollution Now, you can't build a doctrine on something the Bible doesn't say. So we have to be very careful. Just because it doesn't say it. You can't build a doctrine. But I think it's interesting what he doesn't say here He doesn't say they have escaped the judgment of God through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior. Doesn't say they've escaped the condemnation of God for their sins. Since they've escaped the pollution of the world. Does anybody notice a difference there? They may have cleaned up their act, as far as appearance is concerned But that doesn't mean I'm still not under the judgment of God. So they escaped the pollution. Well, then he says they did this through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The word knowledge there is an interesting word. It means this, to have correct information. It means to have the correct facts about something. Sometimes the word know or knowledge in the Bible means to have a relationship with. It means to interact, to be united. Husband and wife, husband knows his wife. They're united. They're one. That is not the term used here. This word knowledge doesn't mean have an relationship with the Lord. It means they knew the facts about the Lord. And there's a difference between knowing the facts about someone and knowing someone You could some uh you know some popular people, I don't know. Somebody says, do you n uh do you know who's somebody uh who's a famous baseball player Somebody tell me I don't know. Cal Ripkin, Baltimore. Do you know uh well I know some facts about Cal Ripkin. He doesn't play baseball anymore. He's a phenomenal pitcher. I know some facts. But do I know him? No, I don't know him. I don't have any kind of relationship to him. We never met. I couldn't, I don't know him. You know what Peter's saying here These guys, and they put off all that nastiness, they have a great appearance, they know a lot about Jesus. They've got all the facts about Jesus, but they don't have a relationship with him. They don't know him personally. They don't interact with him. And I'm telling you, that is the most dangerous position to be in. To know the facts, have the looks, but don't have a relationship with the Lord. Now, I would never in a thousand years try and get somebody that's genuinely saved to doubt their salvation. I would never ever want to do that. If someone's genuinely saved, I want to reinforce their confidence in their salvation. Amen? But these guys They had all the fact, they had the appearance, and they I put it this way, they had the appearance and they had the awareness of who Jesus is and all about him. He died on the cross. They had all that They didn't have any relationship. You know why I know they didn't have a relationship? Back to verse number one. They rejected them. They rejected the one that died for them. The one that paid the price for their sins, who they could have, by receiving and trusting, could have had all their sins forgiven, made acceptable to God, have eternal life, have assurance of a home in heaven, secure from ever ending up in hell Saved, saved, saved. But they rejected it. They rejected it. They're counterfeits. I and don't misunderstand what I'm saying. Again, I would never want a genuinely safe person to doubt their salvation. But there's no doubt in my mind that there are people in hell tonight, as tragic as that is, that maybe grew up in a church. They were in the church, but they were never in Christ. They knew all the facts, they knew how to walk the walk, and they knew how to talk the talk. But they've never genuinely trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Now, I would like to believe the members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that would not be the case with us. I would like to believe that. I have no reason not to think that we're genuine. The fact of the matter is, this has been the case for thousands of years in the church. Religious but lost. Religious but lost. My daddy grew up in a church. He believed the Bible He went to church and Sunday school. Um sometimes they got our family got when I was young, young, we got fanatical and went to church Sunday nights. Anybody that goes to church Sunday night's a nut, I'll tell you right now. I'm kidding. Oh and daddy was thirty years old. He began praying for his family, his burden about what was happening in the home. Began praying that God would save his home. And he said, I realized that I needed God to save my soul. He was religious, but he was lost. Religious, but lost. I knew when I was in Indianapolis, I was a youth pastor. Uh, for four years there, and just not long before we got there, there was a preacher in the town, and we have a brochure, I think, somewhere of his story He had preached, he went through Bible college, I think, if I remember correctly, went to seminary, married, had kids, pastored a church for a number of years. He was he wasn't young. One day he stood up before the congregation. He said, folks, I've got to tell you something. I trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior this past week. And the church was shocked. And he said, I always knew I was lost. I never was saved. I've been putting on a show, putting on a show, putting on a show, putting on a show. God saved them. It wasn't a big outward change, but there's something changed inside. And he had a settled confidence. Now I know Jesus Christ is my Savior. Now I know my sins are forgiven. I know I'm accepted by God. Now, if you've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, there's no reason for you to doubt your salvation. God promises that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, listen to this. shall be saved. Settled. But if we haven't done that And that's the most important issue in our life. Amen? Most important issue. I'm going to cut it off there. I pray. All of us, you have that settled, I would never, again, I'd never want to try and get a saved person to doubt their salvation. But if it's not there, It's just been a show and we know it if it is. We know it. These guys knew that they what they were doing. This was deliberate Let's get that settled. And those of us that know Christ as Savior, I wish I never got to the entangled part. That's what I'm excited about. Getting entangled. Not really. But if we're saved, if we know the Lord is Savior, let's keep that relationship strong Most important relationship I have is not with my wife. It's not with my children. It's not with my church. Most important relationship I have is with my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I keep that relationship the way it ought to be. Don't get entangled with stuff. Don't let this stuff going on in the nation around the world, don't let that choke out your walk with God. Get entangled. That's another message next week, I guess. Let's stay close to the Lord. Let's let Him feed us from His Word. Let's walk with Him and please Him as His children. Father, bless now, I ask, our invitation time. We thank you for the Word of God. We ask you would help us to take seriously this matter of our eternal destiny. Lord, we want everyone to know Jesus Christ as Savior. We want everyone to have assurance that their sins are forgiven, their home is heaven and not hell. And so please bless this. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some this evening would say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I am. I called on the Lord, just as the Bible says. Trusting Jesus as my personal Savior, believing he died for my sins, buried, rose again. I know that. But you'd say, preacher, I need to nurture my walk with the Lord. My relationship with him, not neglect that, but nurture it and develop it and get closer to the Lord. Is there any like that? You know what I'm talking about. Any like that, Lord. You say, Pastor, I need to nurture that. God bless you Hands all around. That's a lifelong endeavor. It's a responsibility all through our life to walk with God and keep that thing strong, that relationship strong. And let me ask this, now I know this is perhaps intensely personal, between you and God, but maybe you'd say, preacher, I'm not sure about my salvation. I wanna you know I don't know. I don't know that I I haven't followed the Bible pattern of salvation. I haven't put my faith and trust personally in Christ And you'd say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that. I'd like to know for sure my sins forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that? Any like that? Preacher, pray for me I need to have that settled in my heart and life. That God has forgiven my sins, saved my soul, on my way to heaven. Our church can't save anybody. Good heavens. Only Jesus can do that. Only Jesus Father in heaven, I ask you bless now our invitation time in Jesus name I pray. Amen