To do is start over here for the by these young men. And I want to kind of lay the table before you as we get started. There was a guy, we're going to call him King X. What's his name? I couldn't pronounce it either, you know. And his wife and uh he's found in the book of Esther. And uh he's a wicked guy Dark times. He's got a a wife named Vastai that won't give him the time of day. And she was one of those liberated women. You know, he he liberated her right out of the kingdom, amen. And and Then they they had a beauty contest going on, but before in that beauty contest there was a bunch of Jews that had been captured and slaves. One of the guys' names there was Uncle Mordecaiah. What was his name? So far so good. And he had a niece, a little name her name was Hadeshai. Or Hadesh, and they call her Esther. Now her mom and dad had been killed somewhere along the way And I believe he was the mom or dad's brother. So he kinda took her in and raised her. He adopted her. His name was what? Mordecaiah. Say that with me Well, here's the wicked King X, his wife Vasti, Mordecai was a slave and uh he worked at the palace and uh uh he uh discovered a military coup that was taking place and saved the old king's life, you know. And but he had a a a niece, adopted niece whom mom and dad had been murdered, people believe And he was raising her. And no one really knew that he was a Jew much till later on, and no one didn't think she was either. And boy, she was pretty. Ho ho ho ho ho How many of you men remember the first time you saw your wife? Not this morning, but many years ago. I I my wife walked across my eye gate and In nineteen seventy three in a dining common in Greenville, South Carolina, and Ricky uh Phillips was standing beside me and He said, Brother Dan, and he was a friend of mine, he's a preacher today. He said, There goes a that's a good girl right there. And when she turned and she didn't know me from a b bullfrog in the creek and I didn't know her about a hundred feet apart and I saw those blue eyes, that blonde hair and Ho ho ho ho ho. I fell in love, you know, and uh that's another message, preacher. But anyway Uh Had uh Hadetha Esther Mordecai entered her because the old king got rid of Vashdai and he was having a try to find a wife contest. You all know the story and and they had a bunch of girls trying out for this thing like, you know, America's got talent or something and and a wicked world they was living in. And man she got the long straw She won the contest. And she became that old king's wife. All right. Now, so far so good. King, what's his name? What's his wife's name? Oh, she's all out of the picture now. What's your uncle's name? What's the girl's name? So far so good? And there was a wicked Pot-bellied, mean, fat guy known as Hey Man. Say that with me. Not Hey Men, but Hey man. Hated the Jews, wanted them all dead. Multi-billionaire. He was in charge of everything underneath the king. And he wrote a decree, made put it out there that all the Jews should die on a certain day. So far so good He's in charge of all this and he told the king he would pay for it and put a bunch of money in the treasure. And the first time the post office is ever mentioned in scripture said the post went out. It's amazing You know, probably ran better then than it does today. But anyway, and uh uh I mean all over the world they were sending this thing, on a certain day, every Jew that's alive and breathing, we're gonna kill 'em, every one of 'em And uh little news article got out there in the daily hate to do a paper and and uh uh uh Mordecaia read that thing And it says that the uh the palace in the whole town of Sushan was in a in a in a Tiz As they say in Australia having a kafuffle. Everybody's scared because there was a day on there they were going to kill every Jew. So far so good. Are we so far so good? All right now Now I'm going to read your verse in just a couple of minutes. I want you to keep this in mind. I entitled this thought the What and The Why of Missions for Queen Esther. And I'm going to apply it to you all today. The what and the why you do this as a church. What are you doing to support these missionaries? Why do you do it? We hope to use the life of Esther and Mordecai to show us that. So far, so good? All right now, let's turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 9. Preacher, I do not need to go into the faith-promised prayer card. I preach in about 40 churches a year on this subject. I do a lot of revivals now, do some camps. I got, I think, four or five camps this summer. But Pastor Leatherman is the number one explainer of faith promised giving cards I have ever heard. I mean you you you Pat Creed taught you good, amen. But most preachers they said, I don't understand it. I believe it, don't long you do it. Alright. But it gives me time to go on and preach her a little bit more today. And I want you to see in 2 Corinthians chapter 9 and verse 6 a little bit of the what and the why. Now you know it tells us of faith promised giving, 2 Corinthians chapter 8. But let's take a look at chapter 9, verse 6. Paul says, But I say, he which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly He's speaking to farmers, city boys, and city girls. He's speaking to people, understand, if you put one tomato plant down, you get four or five tomatoes. Uh you people here, I know uh where I was at yesterday gonna throw corn out. Saw a bunch of bags of corn in there, I think. For every grain of sweet corn and field corn you put out there, you usually get two to three years. That one kernel produces three. to six hundred kernels, pretty good stuff, right? So if I want one ear of sweet corn, I only plant, might maybe throw one in there, throw one seed in the ground, and I'll probably give about three years. Man, I put ten seeds in the ground, I'll get about 30 years. All right. I mean, like sweet corn besides me. It looks like it the way it swells us up. I just want you to understand this. The God Almighty put down, for we can understand it He we shall reap sparingly if we sow sparingly. Look at the rest of that verse. And he which soweth bountifully shall reap bountifully, also reap bountifully. Every man according as he purposed in his heart, so that he can give not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. And God is able That is so good. You need to underline that. God is able to make all grace abound toward you. And you always having all sufficiency in all things may abound to every Good work. Esther was probably not the most maturous young lady in the world. Because she didn't really understand what was going on. She asked a servant, because she couldn't get to her uncle now that she was the queen. What in the world is he doing sitting around in sackcloth and ashes, exposing himself as a Jew at the middle of the city of the gate? He's one of the leaders of the city, works for the king, and then why is this going on? And she asks a sincere question. We went through the King in chapter 1 and Vasti in Chapter 2 and Mordecai in chapter 2 and 3 and I've kind of given you the clip notes of the outline of of Esther. And where I want to pick up the message in Esther today is chapter four, and let's take a look here with me for just a few minutes in verse 13 The Bible says, and then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, Think not with thyself that thou hast escaped the king's house more than all the Jews. You see, this letter went out uh to kill all the Jews on a certain date of a certain month, and these uh these uh Persians were great at dates and everything and took notes on everything. And so this this wicked man Heyman had pay uh uh had kinda paid King X, uh had uh had his uh call money into uh the banks and everything there and he was paying for all this and said I'm gonna pay you millions of dollars so I can kill all the Jews. I hate the ju I hate the Jews. You know what? I think the devil hates us. How about you? When you get in missions, he hates that with a passion. And I that old uh uh uh uh the the heyman uh uh was just a wicked person And Mordecai knew that. So Mordecai sat in the ashes and sackcloth and mourned. And his niece heard about it. She sent a message to him. to one of the servants, Atachi, and said, Hey, what uncle, what's going on here? He said, well this decree went out. Don't see a copy of it. They don't know you're a Jew. They don't the king's wife is a Jew, and and we've hid all that from the people. I want you to know when they kill every Jew, your name's going to come up And you need to take care of this. And so she's like everybody else, say, what? She was oblivious to what's going on. And so when he tells her why he's in mourning, she begins to speak in verse 13: Think not with thyself. More Kiah says, Think not with thyself, but thou shalt escape the king's house. more than all the Jews. If we die, you're gonna die. Here's a here she goes. For it if thou all altogether holdest thy peace, he tells her, at this time Then shall there be an enlargement of the deliverance arise to the Jews from another place. See, God's got you here in this church for a missions thing God had her there in that palace for a God thing, had a missions for her. All right. You also, I believe you find her in the book of Nehemiah. And I'm rebuilding the walls of Jerusalem. I think she's the the king's that uh mama in that situation. I don't want you to catch this with me. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed. Mama and dad's dead, but your whole clan's gonna go bye-bye. And your name's going to come up in that lineage. And who knoweth whether thou art to come to the kingdom for such a time as this? God has put you there, Esther. God has got you in this church, my friend. God has you in a church that believes in missions for such a time as this. And you notice it's a question mark. Answer the question. Esther, that's a title, I title it another way. Esther, answer the question. Now watch this. Then Esther bade them, or uh in verse uh uh 15, return to Mordecai this answer. Go, gather together all the Jews that are present in Sushan, fast ye for me, neither eat nor drink for three days, neither night or day. I also and my maidens will fast likewise. And so will I go unto the king, which is according to the law, and if I perish, I perish. So Mordecai went his way and did according to all that Esther had commanded him So he said, Uncle Makorda Kai, what in the world's going on? He said, here's what's happening. And this is why you're where you're at. And God wants to use you to save the day. Take the swing. God wants you to do this. Will you do it? If you don't, that's okay. You're going to miss the blessing. You're going to miss God's will because God will use someone else. Man, I'm looking at this and missions all over it I just want to encourage the church. Let's answer the what and why today, but let's also look at Esther's missionary journey. I want to, number one, let's take a look at this. The condition of her day. It was dark. I mean the w the walls are down, Jerusalem's defeated, Babylon's taken over. And I mean she's a slave and she's an orphan. And there ain't a whole lot going on. And her uncle picks her up basically off the street. And in those dark days, there was wickedness ruling. This hey man, these you read the book of Esther, you're going, you man, it sounds like downtown Minnesota a couple years ago Sounds what's going on over in the Ukraine right now. Amazing. Oh, it's coming here someday. I want you to understand we live the condition of her day was very dark. Number two, it was very dangerous days They couldn't tell anybody their legal name. You have a Jewish name behind you, man, I'm telling you. And this guy had schemed, this heyman had schemed. He I think he had all he took the senses somehow and he had millions and millions of dollars and He wanted the favor of the king and he was the king's right hand man and I'm telling you what, it was a dangerous day to be a Jew in that country. I tell you what, it's dangerous now to be a witness in a lot of countries. Amen. A lot of doors are closing. You know, uh, and I I want you to understand that the gospel is not freedom, uh what not free as it was twenty, twenty-five years ago. Just go soul winning, see what happens. Number three is this, desperate days. You see, old Mordecai said now, there ain't no more planning. Don't get that there uh little calendar on your your uh iPhone and plan the next seven years. And about two or three months, on this certain day, they're going to kill all of us, all right? Now, not only was that day it become desperate, and then that desperate here's where everybody goes, preacher. When you're desperate for God's blessing in your life, we go to that prayer place. And I want you to understand this. And she's standing there, she didn't know what was going on. And why he was praying. What in the world are you so upset about? And he told her, and he even says this, if you don't have enough backbone to stand up and talk to your husband about this To reverse this, I'm telling you what God's going to use someone else. That was a pretty good old uncle to raise him, amen He did not flinch. Well, you know, he did not flinch. Well, they know we're Baptists. Well, he did not, they know we're missionary. No, he just said this is what we are. I just want to encourage you as a church, keep up what you're doing because I tell you what, we live in rough conditions today. But God greater is He that's in you than He's in the world. Now you want missions? Don't let the devil discourage you. Number two, I wrote this down about Esther, the crisis of her decision. Look at chapter 4, verse 1 and 2. And when Mordecai had perceived that all that was done, Mordecai rent his clothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst of the city, and cried with a loud voice and a bitter cry They came even before the king's gate, for none might enter to the king's gate clothed with sack. I mean, he he was just mourning and crying and all upset and many scaring everybody and I think his niece could hear him And she didn't do a thing about it. Uh apathy. The crisis of her decision. Don't know what that word apathy say la vie Do what do you want to do? Who cares about people dying? Who cares about us all being perished here? Who cares about souls going to hell? I just want to uh uh uh uh three points in a poem every Sunday morning. I want that preacher to tickle my ears, shake my hand, make me feel good, and go back home kumbaya. Today folks is a day we need to stand up. And I believe God protects us when we see the crisis that we're in. And folks, don't have an apathy. God's got you here today. Don't stay back. Step out, step up, step forward, and say, you know what, I want to be part of this. Number two, I wrote this down, the allurement of non-involvement. Look at verse 5 in chapter 4. The allurement of non-involvement. Now yesterday w uh where's uh the guy in here that had the gun shooting yesterday, where's he at? He's downstairs, all right. He he he got a pretty good skeet shooter or thrower, doesn't he? I'm telling ya. He throws the you know, some of these guys that's through that g that He said clay right out there every every time in the same place. And then I'm I said that thing's got a wobbler on it. I said, put that thing on wobble. It throws the clay this way, that way, this way, that way. I missed every one of them The other preachers were smarter than me. See, I was allured to the wobbler. They didn't even know what that thing was. They wanted that to keep going straight because they wanted to hit. Now watch this. Esther had it made pretty get and pretty good, didn't she? I wrote down here she's got it made in the shade with all the lemonade And she did not want to get drawn into this. And verse 5 says, when Esther called for Hamet, I see one of the king's chamberlain, whom had appointed to attend her and gave him a commandment to Mordecai. Hey, what Is going on and why. I hope it does not give you any problems, basically, when you study this. I want to encourage you The allurement of non-involvement. Preacher, if I get involved in faith-promise giving, will that cost me something? Yeah. Will it will I will I you know will I run out of money? Uh will I run out of prayer time? Will I will I really get attached to these missionaries? Uh that's yes, yes, and yes. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory. Through who? Christ Jesus. He said it early, you can't put it in words, but somehow you know when you do the right thing in missions. And the old old Mordecai was telling his niece, girl, you better not, you better not be allured into non-involvement. You should know what's going on. You haven't read the letters yet You have he sent it out through the post office and got it out all over the world. I mean, we're all gonna die here. She was asleep at the switch. He answered the what? And he answered to why. I wrote the last thought here about the crisis of her decision. The alarming thought is she was kind of like little old me. What can I do? You can do a lot, Amen. Let's say this boy gets five dollars for missions, five dollars a month, and times twelve is sixty. He gives sixty dollars a month times twelve. How much is that? Is that seven hundred and twenty? And then before you start doing the multiplication, preaching and do the numbers, you know, just a little bit from everybody, is a whole bunch going down the line. Amen Now, 82 missionaries in a church this size is only because God's in it It is unbelievable. Amen. I'm in churches this side of this size about once a month, and they don't support 20. You folks have got it going on, and God has blessed you. But do not be allured. And to a well we we've hit the we've hit it. We're okay. We can hit the cruise button. No, no, no, no. Listen very carefully here what I'm about to say. Look what it says in verse 13 and 14. And when he was answering her the question of the what and the why, he made this very clear For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then there shall be an enlargement and deliverance. God will bless somebody else. God will make somebody else queen. God will give somebody else the power, the enlargement, and someone else will arise out of God's people. Watch this to bring a deliverance to the Jews from another place. Folks, you want God's blessing right here on this place. Amen. That's where you're supposed to do this. All God's people, I want that With that blessing comes peace. With that blessing comes God's hand upon your life. And I want you to catch this with me here. She was alarmingly that was an alarming thought that he hit her. Here's the what, sister, and here's the why. Now what are you going to do? Amazing. Faith promised giving as a man purposefully in his own heart, so let him give. He that soweth bountifully shall reap bountifully. He that soweth sparingly shall reap what? Just a licklick in my language. Liklic more yet, that's just a little bit. I'm telling you what. God's designed us to be givers. Not keepers. I want you to catch this with me. I want you to see this with me. The crisis of her decision. So there it is between verse 14 and verse 15. For such a time as this. Okay. Tick, tick, tick. That empty space between verse 15 and 16. What is she going to do? The Bible tells me here, thirdly, the course of her direction. She took a direction. She made a decision. Look what she said here in verse. I want you to see two things that she did, maybe three, is this. Then Esther bade them and returned to Moreki this answer. She had the answer. Hey Esther, answer the question. She's got the answer. What's the what? And what's the why? She said, here's the answer. Give it to him. And she's talking to this messenger And I want you to catch this here. Go gather together all the Jews in verse 16 that are present in Sushan and fast ye for me. Fast and pray, don't eat. Okay? Now I've fasted and I still fast from time to time. That first day's pretty tough, all right That second day is real headache, all right? You know. How many ever did that intermittent fasting diet? Okay? I suffer for 14 hours, I eat, I'm happy. Can you imagine me going 72 hours without eating? Grouchy? About half mad? Wide awake though Most of us Americans don't know how to do this, amen. I want you to see what she did here. Fast ye for me. And neither eat nor drink three days, night or day, I also and my maidens will fast likewise, and so will I go into the house unto the king. which is uh not according to the law. You if I go be toward the king, and the king don't put his sepulchre out to me, he'll take my head off knows what she says, and if I perish, I perish. She's already made the decision. She's already made the decision. There's been no 72 hours yet. She's made the decision. If I perish I perish. And that boy went and told Mordecai everything that she said. And when I see it, I go, Good night Don't get the cart ahead of the horse, but she made the decision. There's two things about her, maybe three, that we need to always have in our lives. And let me give you this first one. Can you hold your hand right there for just a minute? Go to Psalm 20, uh verse chapter 20 with me. Chapter 25. I want you to see the course of her direction. The first thought was the condition of her day. About as bad as it is today, amen. The crisis of her decision, is she going to do the right thing or not? Then here's the course she took. You know, the Bible tells me in Psalm 25, if you look with me there, please, for just a moment, look at verse 4. Show me thy ways, O Lord, teach me thy paths. It says, lead me in thy truth and teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation. On thee do I wait all day. I want you to catch this with me in that In that same chapter. Look at verse 9, where verse 8, Good and upright is the Lord. Therefore will he teach sinners in the way. And the meek will he guide in judgment, and the meek he will teach his way. This girl was meek. Find out what the name Adassah means. It'll give you a good Bible study this afternoon. I'm telling you, she might have been fallen asleep when she we started the story of man. She's wide awake now. Look what it says in verse 12. What man is he that feareth the Lord? Him shall he teach in the way, and he shall and he shall choose. He'll choose to do the right thing. I want you to catch me with me a little closer here in verse fourteen. The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him And he will show them his covenant. Boy, I want to encourage as a church. God not only has blessed you in the past, not only is he blessing you now, he wants to bless you in the future. She was teachable. Can you say that word beat she was? You want God's hand on your life? You need to be what? Teachable. Look at verse, look at go back a couple chapters more in verse chapter 37, book of Psalm. Talk about the teaching thought here. The teaching. Look at what it says in Psalm thirty-one. Fet not thyself because of evil doers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. And what's it saying in verse three? Trust in the Lord and do good Do what God puts in your heart, just trust him with that. Look what it says in verse four. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Look what he says in verse six Commit thy way unto the Lord. Hey, how uh what's it can you just say? I mean I get excited here when I say trust also in him. Delight and trust. Believe and trust. Hey, I was talking to some grandmas this morning in here. Raise your hand, grandmas. You know, and you heard the illustration where my wife so tell me to give the grandkids all the money and or give them the gifts and and they won't give me any gifts or uh or anybody else's, but Mom, grandmas, those grandchildren are specialty, are they not? And you're just waiting to give them. More than that the old man wants to give them, amen. And when push comes to grunt, we old men give it to them too, amen Uh uh two Christmases ago I I'm a uh uh I'm in Ohio with my grandkids with meet Derek. Christmas morning, if you got up with me at 6 a. m. You have to get up with me at six a. m. I've got a Christmas gift for all I had seven grandkids there, preacher. All girls and one boy. And the boy's about seven. And none of the girls said, well, Grandpa, we ain't going you nowhere, man. Six is too early. You know, we're going to sleep in Christmas Day. Oh, Walmart's open. We don't care I mean the blessings are going to be if you go with me. We don't care. We got stuff under the tree, you know, and we know you'll take care of us anyway. Oh, it's special if you go with me Man, they all stayed, but my little seven-year-old grandson got up. Man, he's up at five o'clock ready to go. And we went to Walmart. I was going to spend about fifty on him, but I spent a hundred Then I took him to the Shoney's big boy restaurant. We ate. I took him back to Walmart. Spent another fifty on him. It's amazing. I got him a fifty-dollar gifts of the cart. Spent $100 on him. All those girls that slept in, give them five bucks apiece. They're still mad at me. Now every one of them calls me, boo-boo, get grandpa in our language, boo-boo. You and me go along uh Christma uh Walmart? No, not today. That's a one-time deal. We're done. I taught my grandchildren a lesson. I'm wanting to bless you, but you gotta go with me. You gotta go how I want you to go. I guarantee you, I'll bless you. Some of us are like my grandkids on Christmas morning, except for one. We're okay. We don't need you. We don't want you. But once they see the blessing, and I am telling you, this is such a point here. The woman was teachable. And she said, if I perish, I perish. Number two, I want you to see that in that teaching, that came the prayer the prayerful one. She had a prayerful heart. Go back to your text with me, please. And that back in in in in Esther and look at verse sixteen. It says this And fast ye for me, and either eat nor drink these three days and night. That is that is a prayer. I also and my maid will fast light. I'm gonna make them pray. And so I'll go into the king. And so will I go into the king She's already made her decision up. If I perish, I perish, I've laid it out before the Lord. So Mordecai went his way and was a happy camper. Because you know she was teachable She was prayerful. I wrote a third thing down here and gotta be careful how I say it. She was honest. Very honest. She hadn't done anything. The earlier verses. God had touched her heart because her heart was teachable. She was praying, and in the praying God got a hold of her heart, and she was so honest. Kind of shame some of us sometimes Now I just want to encourage you as a church get involved in faith promise giving. I mean God will bless you in a great way. It says this, you don't need to turn it because of time. In Philippians chapter 4, verse 6, it makes this statement to us, and I want to lay this out before you. It says this, verse five, let your moderation or what controls you be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Be careful for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be known unto your unknown unto God, and the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds Through Christ Jesus. Amazing. And the rest of the chapter deals with our giving to Paul's ministries as a Philippians. I want to encourage you as a church. Take the same direction she did, and I come to my last thought, and that is this. The courage of Esther's answer But what? Here's what's going on, he told her. Why? That's what he told her. And she says this in verse 14: If I perish, I perish. That's amazing. For such a time as this, excuse me, she says down in the next verse 15 or 16, if I perish, I perish. The crisis of her decision, I want to encourage you, the course of her direction, and she had the courage just to step out, step up, and do it. You know, God's per purposeful will for the dice and uh the sla slayer sla what's your first name? For Mike and his family, because I can't pronounce his name For the folks downstairs going to Guam. God has touched their heart. He's put that purpose in them. I don't want to go to New York City. I fly through there. I don't want to get out of the airport The Philippines I've been there and I like that place because it's hot. I don't want to go to Guam. It's about the size of this room in here. I'll get cabin fever about in two minutes. I'm just telling you I mean I gotta move around. But God's got my heart and what I do here and what I do in the Papua New Guinea and Australia. And God has put that purpose in my heart. I recruit missionaries, okay These guys have ministries. And I'm telling that God's purpose that in their hearts. God's touched your heart to support them. Or going to support them. I want you to see the purpose of this. Secondly, I use the word God's position. For you as a church is the same position that he put Hadasta or Esther in. He put her in that place for such a time as this 'Cause we need a church in New York, we need a church in the Philippines, we need a church in Guam, we need a church in Oakland, Maryland, we need a church in in in P Papua New Guinea in Port Moresby Uh in Leigh, in Mount Hogan, uh in Cannes, Australia, in in Townsville, Australia, in Sydney, Australia. Where were you at in New Zealand with Brother Howe? Auckland. You know, we need those. God wants them. God has the plan, but He uses you to get them there. I want you to understand it's so important that you grasp your position in this Astra had been prepared, Uncle raised her right. I mean, put it, can I put it right, do you understand? She took the swing. She walked into that king knowing that if he did not reach that sepulchre out, I'm going to use this preacher. I don't hope I don't break it. Yeah, he sat in that chair, and she came in and And she uh exposes how bad Haman is, and if he accepts her as a king, he'll go like this. You can live. If he sets it to the side, you're gonna die. She told him the truth. She lent leaned that he leaned that sceptical forward. God opened the door, took care of, hey man, you know the rest of the story, but it's Esther that answered the what and the why. God used what is God doing with this church? Supporting missionaries. Why? To get them out across the world. To do his great commission. You read about it this morning. As you close your Bibles as we come to a close here this morning on this thought Let us take that swing. Let's do the right thing at the right time in the right way through the faith promise program of the church here. I mean, it is amazing. And all these older missionaries here could tell you things, but and and we don't bargain for this. You can't make it up. But when you support a missionary, That God has called them to a particular place, a particular position, a peculiar people, and it's God's plan to do this. God will take care of that. Missionary's got to have faith. Got to have trust, but he can't do it without you. Two years ago on Tappa New Guinea, I'd been there about three years. And I was uh I do a lot of walking now. I used to jog a lot, seven miles or so a day. Uh and because I love to eat. Amen. And uh As I was jogging, I would jog past a about two miles from my house, a little village to the right on a mountain called Tete, T-E-T-E. And in that village was Gullialas. And I am tall. They're all about that tall. I am tall compared to them. They're not quite pygmies, but they're not real and they're they're called the the Goliala thieves. I mean they're like they travel in groups of boys and men. About forty, fifty of the time and they'll they'll rob you blind, all right. They'll take your car apart while you're sleeping and take the tires off of it and take the doors off of it and and take the bot motor out of it and you'll come out there in the morning your car will be gone. They had to carry it off in pieces, all right. That I mean no one wanted them to be around and they were a dirty bunch. But I go jogging by 'em And saw some kids one day, and I had a piece of bubble gum in my pocket and I give it to that kid. Next day I'm jogging, he jogged with me. And I thought he liked me and wanted to talk here my uh language and he he said, gum. I gave him a piece of gum. Next step, jogging. I've got two pieces of gum. There's two kids. He's got his sister. Give him the gum as I'm jogging. Within a month, I gotta take a I go jogging by there. I got about 20 kids jogging with me They called me Father de Long. They thought I was a priest, you know. Father de Long, Father Dan, you know. No, I'm a missionary. I'm not a Catholic. And and and they could care less. They didn't know what that was. And I started inviting them to come to church. Their parents said no. And that the little village, about I'd say twenty acres, had a ten foot fence around it. And up into the sky of old salt wood. They had barbed wire around it. They'd squatted on this land, and there's only one way in and out of that village. It's like a two gates about eight foot wide. The truck couldn't hardly go through there. And I tried to go in there and they said, Muskie, you can't come in here. This is private. And so I tried and prayed and our church started praying because there's a bunch of kids in that village. There are probably about 3,000 in it. Probably about 300 kids. And I couldn't get in there. And they would not let me in. Well, they'll jog with me and take my gum. Start giving tracks. John Romans. Not a peep. Our church started to pray and fast for us to get into that village. About six months go by, and I'm getting ready for a Sunday afternoon sermon. And deacons knock on my door. Come on, preacher. Bring your Bible. See that preacher, that old Bible been through a lot, and that's the one I took right there. And uh there's a hanging at Tay Tay, come on we're gonna stop. I go, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I don't want to see any hanging. Why not? I don't want the American Embassy to get a hold of me and have you go to jail and s because we're all we're witnesses and we're hanging on all in New Guinea we don't have those laws. You know, somebody needs to be hanged, we'll hang them. Whoa, you know, and foreign world forward world us, right? They said, preacher, you've been praying with us. God led us to come to and three deep we went up there, took a uh a cement block, an eight-inch one, and it was for me to stand on to be taller than everybody. And underneath a tree, about from here to the back of your church, was two nooses and two people on their knees on the ground, older people. Between me and them is about a 800 and a thousand adults all voted to hang them both And so I'm in the back and standing there with this Bible and a man told me, said, Brother Dan, speak up and tell them to stop the hanging. I don't well I was I don't want to just tell them to stop the hangin'. Hold that Bible. When they saw me as a Taubother, that's a white skin, and they saw my Bible, they stopped to hang it. He said, Tell 'em that you'll pay for that and over the ones the right will lay the young man. He was uh eyes was rolled back in his head, foaming at the mouth, and they accused his mom of putting a demon in him. She was the witch underneath the tree getting hung, and so was her husband. And I didn't, you can't make this up. I didn't pray for this, but I'm standing in the middle of it. And they and and the deacon told me, tell him you'll take care of, take that boy to the hospital. You'll get a medical test to see if he's got malaria or worms, or he does have a demon in him to try to stop this hanging. I mean, I think God's gonna bless this. So I did what my deacon said to do and you know and and uh we picked that boy up and put him on back one pickup truck and uh the the mayor said, we'll wait till you come back and Made everybody sit there and the hospital was about thirty minutes away and we drove down there. I prayed all the way down there. God give him worms, God give him malaria, make him sick with that I mean I'm praying hard. You know, God, you know my heart. I don't want to have, and you know my heart, and you know my heart, and my wife sat beside me. She said, Dan, I think this is a way in. A hanging? She said, God could be in this. And so we drove down to the hospital, got in there, and they saw me and I paid for cash, so they put him right to the front of the line. He's about a eighteen year old punk's what he was And they did the test, come back full of malaria. Thank you, Lord. We rushed him back up to that place. We gave him medicine, gave him a shot, rushed him up there, and laid him on a cot. And I was in front of the crowd now addressing them and said, He is does not have a demon or a devil. He's got malaria. I took care of the medicine. I paid for the doctors. Our church did. We won't let you know he's going to be okay. And I'm telling you, do not hang this couple. I said, Mayor, you'd be a wise man not to hang him. And I know God's going to bless because of this word of God. He said, cut the ropes. They cut the ropes off their necks and they both crawled underneath the trees and went to their house and six days later I walk in there on a Saturday morning. They had the gates wide open for me. They had two Diet Coke pots for me and my wife. They had everything but blueberry pop-tarts. And I went to the house where the woman was that was going to be hung. And she said, Thank you, preacher. I'm coming to church tomorrow. They said you can come in here and invite the kids. Twenty-two kids and that woman come to church the next day. The week later she got saved. A year later I baptized her after discipleship. Six years ago I buried her That church has 180 and 190 people coming out from that village of that church every Sunday. What in the world are you doing in faith promised missions? Why in the world are you doing it? It is the cause of Christ. And in that situation, you supported me financially. Prayerfully and emotionally. And just think, if I had not answered God's call in my life, what would not have taken place? Or would it have? I think he'd have got somebody else. Old Mordecai said, DeLong, you ain't gonna do it. Esther, you ain't gonna do it. I'll get somebody else I can stand before you and decide take this with me to glory. I am so glad I did God's will. And I want you to be have the same heart to do God's will. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Preacher, I'm going to give you the invitation. It's a little different this morning Now I pray that we'll have no matter what we face in our society as we live in these dark days. And there's the crisis that seems to be sweeping the world. Can we always be on course and have the direction that God puts in our heart and give us the courage that Esther had to say, yes, Lord, I'm going to do this. And if I perish, I perish, but I'm going to do what God has put in my heart. You know, you may be here today not saved, and there's Christ as your personal Savior. I'd like you to make that decision today. You're taking the far a part of the faith promise of giving. I want you to pray about that today And I want you to make a decision that, you know, trust God. Just trust him with it. And as a man purposeth in his heart, so let him give. Pastor?