And uh old Noah's been working away since uh we were last visited with him, and he's got the art done. How about that? 120 years have passed, and And uh so we're gonna look here, just verse number one is all we're gonna look at tonight, Genesis chapter seven and verse number one. I think I'm on up here Sure. Yep. Uh let me read there verse number one, Genesis seven. And the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark, for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. I've entitled the message as, Everybody Into the Ark. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for the Word of God. I do pray that you would uh challenge us from this passage and help us to grow in our understanding of what you've done for us. Fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord. I present my body anew, I yield my will to you, and uh speak through me. And help us, Lord, to give you the glory, to trust you and obey you in our lives this coming year. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We've been looking at the various factors that led up to this day that we just read in Genesis 7. 1. when the Lord starts calling people into the ark. We looked at the things that made this day necessary. What was it that made it necessary for people to get in the ark? I suggest to you it was the sinfulness of man's heart. We looked in chapter 6. Man had so had become so corrupt. Man had become so wicked in his thoughts in his life, in his behavior, that God says a shocking, God makes a shocking statement, at least in my mind. He says, I wish I had never created man Now he says this about the people that he was dies for on the cross. He says, I wish I never made them. Sin had so grieved the Lord that uh he's going to obliterate uh mankind That's the holiness of God. That made this day necessary. Genesis 1. 6. Genesis 7. 1, I'm sorry. What made this day possible? It was the compassion of God. The holiness of God made the judgment necessary. The compassion of God made it possible for man to escape God's own judgment. God loved man. He didn't want man to die. Ezekiel tells us that the Lord does not delight in the death of the wicked. So he loved man, so he made it possible for this art to take place. Several things that we learn from this to this point. First of all, it's God's compassion that saves us. It's the fact that God loves us. What's John 3. 16 say? For God so loved the world. We ought to thank God. We have a God that loves us. That is what makes salvation possible. But the other thing that was necessary to get to Genesis 7. 1 is somebody had to be in fellowship with God to get the information from God about building the ark. You follow what I'm saying? If Noah had not been in fellowship with God, if Noah had not been right with God He would never have been able to get the communication from God to build the ark, man would have been obliterated. So somebody had to be in fellowship with God For God to communicate the information about the ark to man and have the ark built. Then you had to have somebody who was willing to fully obey God and build this thing Now, we've got to understand how, and I've tried to emphasize this in previous messages, emphasize this in previous messages, we've got to understand how inconvenient it was For Noah to build this ark. If you had to build an ark, finance it, come up with all the materials for 120 years, how many people that would inconvenience you a bit? Yes. So Noah was willing to basically set aside his life and do what God had called him to do. This was total commitment on Noah's part. And if anybody was going to survive this coming flood, if anybody was going to be saved from the judgment of God, Noah had to be willing to sell out for God and commit himself fully to this task. Now we've already preached on all of that, and now we've come to the day when God says, all right, all aboard Um Ed and Carolyn left this afternoon. They're heading south. They're going on a cruise. Is it this coming week they're going on a cruise, Paul? Next Sunday. Why do you leave here so early then, Sissy? But um anyway, they're going on a cruise. I would imagine, now I've never been on a cruise, but I would imagine at some point they say Do they say, all aboard? Has anybody knows ever been on a cruise? Do they say that? No, they don't. Well, they should I would if I had a cruise boat. Well that's basically what God is saying here. Alright, everybody on the ark, the time has come, the thing is built, it's according to specs It's exactly the way it is. Now we've got to get everybody all aboard. That's going aboard. Is basically what the Lord's saying. Now I want us to real quick, and I mean that, notice the Lord's invitation Now this is fascinating. If you've heard people preach on this much, they've probably brought this out. But notice what it says. The Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark. Here is the first invitation in the Bible, the first altar call, in a sense, you find in the Bible This is where man, God is instructing man to respond to God's information that he gave. Judgment is coming. He says, come thou. I notice this is an invitation, first of all, to escape God's wrath God, what let me ask you a question. Why is God flooding the earth? Why is he doing that? He is judging sin. It is a judgment of sin. And I want to remind all of us: sin is always judged by God. All sin is judged by God. How many people ever heard someone talk about the unpardonable sin Did you ever hear that? What's the unpardonable sin? Everybody wants to know what's the unpardonable sin? Blasphemy of the Holy Spirit, the unpardonable sin. The fact of the matter is, there is no sin that's unpardonable. All sin is condemned. God does not pardon sin. God pardons sinners. The sin is judged. That sin must be paid for. Be sure your sin will find you out. The wages of sin is death. Soul that sinneth, it shall die. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. Sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death There is no sin that God will not pardon. All sin is judged. It's the individuals that God pardons. How many people would agree with me? Noah was a sinner? Of course, there's no man that sinneth not. Noah was a sinner. He did not deserve to be in that ark any more than anyone else did. He was a sinner, but he found grace in the eyes of the Lord. He had trusted Christ. Therefore, he was able to escape the judgment. That flood coming down on the earth was in response to Noah's sin, just as everyone else's sin. God was judging sin, but this invitation was to a sinner to come and escape that judgment for their sin, not experience the consequences of it. When Jesus died on the cross, he died for every sin ever committed Absolutely every sin. Somebody says, oh yeah, what about the sin of not trusting Christ, not believing in Christ for salvation? God doesn't forgive that. How many folks here didn't believe in Christ before we got saved? I rejected them many times. But when I did receive them, I was pardoned, but that was still sin. You follow what I'm saying? And so this is an invitation by God to escape the wrath of God. God's invitation, then as it is now, is for man's kind to escape the wrath to come. The flood in Noah's day was God's wrath on sinful man. The Bible is abundantly clear. We preached on it a little bit last Sunday morning. Jesus is coming again. There is a judgment coming upon this earth that not one person will be able to escape except those who are in Christ. And our message to the world is the message Noah had. There is judgment coming, there is the wrath of God coming upon the earth. The only way to escape that is to trust Christ as your personal Savior. So I'm seeing similarities between Noah's situation and ours and our day. So this is an invitation to escape the wrath to come. Not only that, it's an invitation to accept, uh, to exercise faith. Everything that Noah has done up to this point has been by pure faith. There was absolutely no visible evidence that anything that God had said was going to happen was going to happen. It had never rained before. It had never flooded before. None of this that God had said, there was any visible evidence that it's going to take place. Nevertheless, Noah believed God. Noah believed that when God said, water is going to fall out of the sky. The whole world's going to be covered by water, and you're going to build a boat, an ark, though, and it's going to protect you and enable you to survive uh this flood that's going to flood the whole earth. Noah looked around and said, I I don't see any evidence that what God says is so. But nevertheless, he believed God. His faith was the substance of things what? Not seen. It was an act of faith. Noah says to his family, all right, we've got to get in the ark. Why? God says it's going to rain. It never rained before I know, but God said it's going to, and I believe God. I don't see any rain. God said it's going to happen. I believe God. And so by faith, they exercised faith and went into the ark. That is exactly what salvation was. I'm here to tell you, I did not see Jesus die on that cross. Some of you think I'm old, but I ain't that old. I didn't see it. As far you know what? Those of us who are saved, we are saved by faith. We believe that what this Bible says is so. We're convinced it's true, and we put our hope and faith and trust in it. So it was an opportunity to exercise faith. Salvation then and salvation now is an act of faith. By the way, salvation has always been by faith, by grace through faith. Not only is our salvation, but our Christian service Was Noah building the ark? Is that what saved his soul? No. His trust in Christ is what saved his soul. His building the ark was the response of him believing God. The result of him believing God. Let me put it this way. His service to God was a result Of his faith in God. He believed what God said, it produced works in his life. Building the ark, putting the pitch on, doing all that, getting the food together. Follow what I'm saying? We had some folks in our church were told this past year we're trying to help somebody, and they were told, they said this, the only reason you're doing that is you think that's going to get you to heaven You know what? They were dead wrong. We don't do what we do for Christ to get us to heaven. We do what we do for Christ because He's taking us to heaven. Because we're on our way to heaven. That's what Christian service is. It's a result of faith. And so this invitation Come thou. It was to escape God's wrath. It was an opportunity to exercise faith. And it was extended to his family. Look at verse 1 with me. And the Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house. God wants families to be saved. God didn't just want Noah to be saved. He wanted Mrs. Noah to be saved God didn't want just Mr. and Mrs. Noah to be saved. He wanted Junior and Shem, Ham and Japheth. Right? Is that right, James? You graduated from college. Okay. He wanted the boys to be saved. He didn't want just the boys to be saved. He wanted the boys' wives to be saved. God wants moms saved. Come on, talk to me now. God wants daddies saved. God wants boys saved. God wants little girls saved. God wants uncles to get saved. God wants aunts to get saved. He wants grandmas to get saved. He wants Grandpa to get saved God wants the whole family in the ark. And God wants all your family and my family to be saved. When Paul and Silas were in the jail in Philippi and they sang at midnight, sang praises and prayed, and the other uh prisoners heard them and God sent an earthquake and uh the jailer sprung in there and he was going to kill himself and Paul said, Do thyself no harm, for we're all here And the jailer fell on his knees before Paul and he said, What must I do to be saved? Apparently the Paul's singing and their testimony and witnessing was eating at him, he was under conviction, and finally he was on the brink of death. And he finally said, I've got to settle this matter of my salvation. I've got to know that my sins are forgiven. When I die, I'm going to heaven He goes, what must I do to be saved? And what was Paul's response? Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. But he didn't stop there. What was the last part? And thy house. God didn't want just the jailer to get saved. He wanted Mrs. Jailer to get saved. He wanted the little jail jailets. The little jailer kids to get saved. Right? He wanted the whole house to get saved. Listen, you may be here tonight and you your whole family might not be saved. I want to say something to you. Don't you give up praying on them for them. Don't you give up doing right. Don't you quit trying to be a witness. You be gracious and very kind. Peter gives us some principles of how to live with and win over a spouse that doesn't know Christ, how to do it without nagging them and preaching at them every day. But what I'm trying to say is this, don't you give up on that unsaved spouse. bec or that unsaved child or that unsaved parent because God wants them to get saved just as bad, if not worse, than you do. God wants homes to be saved. Thank God I've been talking about our bus ministry. Thank God for our bus ministry. We just had a meeting downstairs. I tell you, I am thrilled with our youth workers and our children's program. I am absolutely thrilled. God is blessing that. But you know what? God doesn't want just those little kids to get saved. He wants mom and dad at home to get saved. He wants grandma and grandpa. Many of them live with their grandparents. God wants grandma and grandpa to get saved. If all we do is reach the kids, we're not reaching all the people God wants reached. So it was extended. This invitation wasn't just to Noah, it was to his wife and kids, extended family. In a sense, it was to whosoever will could have got on that. So my point is this. First point is, I notice the invitation here. Come down and all by house into the art. The second thing I notice, real quickly, is there's an implication in this invitation. Notice in verse 1, the Lord says, Come thou. He doesn't say, go thou into the ark. If the Lord is saying, Come thou and thy household into the ark, and thy house into the ark, where does that imply that the Lord is? The Lord's in the ark! You don't say the kids out back playing, kids, y'all come on in if you're back out in the in the yard with them, right? You say you guys go in the house. You know what this verse is telling us? God was in the ark. God was calling him, inviting him to come to himself. Um salvation is coming to Christ. That's what salvation is. Can I suggest to you that the Ark without the Lord was nothing more than a boat? So it was. Uh the cross without Christ is just a piece of wood It is the presence of God. Salvation is coming to Christ. It is not just going through emotion. It is not just performing some ritual. It is not getting baptized. It is not giving an offering. It is not joining a church Salvation is putting my trust, is coming in a saving faith to a living Savior, Jesus Christ. That's what salvation is. Take your Bibles if you would. Real quickly, we're going to race through a bunch of verses here. Come to Psalms. Open your Bible right about in the middle of your Bible And you'll be in Psalms. Go to chapter 18. Now we're going to race through these because I want you to see these. Psalms chapter 18. Ready? Go. See who finds it. James 1. Psalms chapter 18. Look with me at verse 2. Psalms 18 at verse 2. Look what it says. The Lord is my rock. What's his rock? The Lord, not the church, not his good works. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer my God, my strength, in whom I will trust, my buckler and uh the horn of my salvation, my high tower I will call upon Lord. Notice he says, the Lord is my strength and my salvation. Come over to verse, chapter 18, verse 46. Same chapter. Look at verse 46. The Lord liveth, and blessed be my rock the my rock, and let the God of my salvation be exalted. Notice he doesn't say the pr ritual or the church or the uh the the the deed I did, he doesn't say my prayer is my salvation. What is his salvation? The Lord, God. Come with me to chapter 25. Psalm 25 and look at verse 5. Lead me in thy truth and teach me, for thou art the God of my salvation. Look at chapter 38. Psalm thirty-eight and verse number twenty-two. Thirty-eight twenty-two Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Now, I'm going to skip a whole bunch. I got a whole slew here. 62-2, 62-6. I want you to go with me real quick back to 1, 2 Timothy. All right. Everybody happy? All right, just about everybody? 2 Timothy, chapter 1. And look with me at verse twelve. Second Timothy one twelve. Everybody there? All right. Look. For which cause, Paul's speaking under the inspiration of God, for which cause I also suffer these things. Nevertheless, I am not ashamed. Now notice very carefully the words that Paul uses here For I know, what's the next word? Whom I have believed. You know what a lot of independent Baptists would say? I know what I've believed. Well, I know what I believe. Listen, you ought to know what you believe, but what I believe isn't as important as whom I'm believing in. And don't get me wrong. If I don't have right doctrine, then I'm not going to know about the one I'm trusting. But salvation is not in a creed, salvation is in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Are you with me? He says, I know whom I have believed. Is it possible for a person to get saved and not know all the doctrines taught in Scripture? Certainly. I didn't know. I didn't know. If you'd asked me, what do you believe about the inspiration of Scripture the night I got saved? I'd have said, huh? I'd have no idea what you're talking about. But I knew I was a sinner and I knew the Bible promised me that Jesus is the only one that could take away my sin and take me to heaven someday. The night I got saved, just like the day you got saved, if you're saved, you were trusting a person to save you. save you. Salvation is in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now that's encouraging. That's important for us to know as soul winners. When I go out and knock on a door, and I introduce myself and talk to someone there on their doorstep, and Mark had a chance to go through the gospel with a young lady this evening. And uh and Thomas Cindy the lady Lord. But uh I go through the gospel. Listen, I'm not just relaying facts into their head. You know what I'm really doing? I am introducing them to a person that can save them from hell. Right? So when the Lord says, come thou into the ark, he's calling Noah to himself. Salvation is in the person of the Lord. Soul winning is inviting people to Christ. So we have the invitation given here. Come now into the ark and thy household. We have the implication being that the Lord is in the ark. They're coming to the Lord for their salvation. And the third thing I notice is the integrity of Noah. Look with me again at verse 1. The Lord said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark. For thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. Does it seem like God is repeating Himself here about Noah? He keeps saying over and over, no, you've been righteous. No, you've been upright. You found grace in the eyes of the Lord, but boy, you've sure been living right And over and over through this chapter 6 and into chapter 7, look at the last verse of chapter 6. Thus did Noah, according to all that God commanded him. So did he. Man, what a testimony! Now God says, for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. Noah was saved by the grace of God. But Noah's godliness was recognized by the Lord. Noah's godliness is praised by the Lord. You and I are saved by trusting Jesus, not because we live right. But, you know, when we live right, God notices that. When we do right, that pleases God. Doesn't save our soul. But boy, it sure thrills the Lord. You know why God saved us? God saved us so that we can go to heaven. It's not what the Bible says. God saved us according to Ephesians 2 verse 10 so that we can perform good works, so that we can serve God acceptably. So we can live for him and please him with our life. And the byproduct of being saved is going to heaven. God saved Noah by grace. And then Noah worked for the Lord and worked hard, invested time and money in the cause of God. The cause of salvation of mankind, building this art, and sweat of his brow and uh investment of his finances And God says, I like that. That's a good thing. I've seen you righteous in this generation. Caught God's attention. It was, I put this down. The integrity of Noah was noticed by the Lord. Thee have I seen. Us Baptist preachers are notorious for about preaching that when you do wrong, God sees it. When I was a youth evangelist traveling around the country with Bible time, and then when I was on staff, uh we preached to the teenagers, Bless your heart, you kids, God sees all The kids will be trembling. God knows what you got hidden under your bed. God knows what you've got hidden in your locker at school. God sees what's in your backpack. You can't hide your sin from God. Is that true? Absolutely. God, we can't hide our sin from God. But there's another side to that coin. Not only does God see our sin. God sees when we happen to do something right. God sees and notices when we do obey Him. When we do trust him, when we do what he says. I got a verse here, and I'll go ahead and turn to it, would you, in Hebrews. And I'm winding down, so relax. Hebrews chapter 6. I really want you to see this. I put this on a lot uh occasionally, uh fairly often, I'll put this on a letter when I write to someone who's done something, maybe they've been expensive Exceptional in the ministry or whatever, or something. I like to write a letter, and I like to put tack this on at the bottom of the letter. Hebrews chapter 6, and notice with me verse number 10. I thought of this as I was studying this verse For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love, which ye have showed toward his name, in that ye have ministered unto the saints and do minister. You know what that's saying? When we do something for God, nobody else may see it, but God sees it. Let me ask you a question. How many people in the world appreciated Noah's integrity? Not too many. Mrs. Noah and the kids, probably. But God says, I've seen it Noah, I've seen you doing hey, I've seen you doing right when everyone else was doing wrong. I heard you bow your head and pray and thank God for that little meal when everyone else was making fun and laughing. You felt like an idiot. God says, I saw it. God says, yeah, I saw you give out that gospel tract, and people made fun of you and all that, and people around looked at you like you're some kind of freak. God says, I noticed that. I saw it. God is not unrighteous to forget or overlook the things we do for him. Maybe there was an opportunity at work to tell a lie. To lie about something may have saved you a little bit of a headache. Anyone else at work would have lied about it. Something inside said, you know, I I can't do that. I'm a saved person. I can't do that And you told the truth, and it was a hassle, and you think, you know, nobody even noticed it. What was the worth of even telling the truth? God says, I noticed it. I I saw that. Noah, he says to Noah, Thee have I seen righteous And the other thing I notice here in the integrity of Noah in this verse, for thee have I seen righteous before me. It wasn't just a show. It wasn't what others thought to be true about Noah, but it was what God thought to be true about Noah. You know, sometimes we can put on a pretty good show and people think we're something that we're really not. Huh? We can we can put on a show and folks or think that we're a great Christian when we stand before God, we realize I ain't that at all God didn't say, thee have I seen righteous before man. He said, thee have I seen righteous before me. It was the real deal for Noah. And by the way, his righteousness wasn't what the world considered to be righteous, it was what God said was righteous. The world, what the world thinks is right, what God says is right, you know what I'm finding to be true? It's getting different, more and more different all the time. What the world says is right. So he says, Noah, I notice your integrity. It's the real deal. It's by my standards of righteousness, not the world's. And then notice the last thing. His integrity was noticed by the Lord. It was not a show. And Noah was not a shame. Thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. In other words in front of the whole world. Sometimes we'll say something like this. Maybe you've heard someone say something like this. Yeah, he did it before God and everyone. Did you ever hear that phrase? That's what he's saying about Noah here. You did right, it didn't matter what this old ungodly world thought. You were not ashamed before this generation. I tell you, we talk about peer pressure. Who do you think of? When somebody's going to speak about peer pressure, what group of people comes to mind? Teenagers, peer pressure, teenage, and it's for real. Am I right, young people? It's for real. Hey, I got news for you. Peer pressure doesn't end when you graduate from high school Peer pressure doesn't end when you turn 21. Peer pressure doesn't end when you turn 50. It is a part of human life. This world trying to mold me into its image, that's what peer pressure is. And Noah refused to give in to this world's pressures. And re- it didn't matter what the world thought, it didn't matter what the world said, everyone else in the world can do wrong. Noah is going to do right. And I'm telling you, if we are going to have God's blessing, I mean genuine God's blessing on our church and our ministries and our homes. We have got to get to the place where our integrity stands the pressure of this world for us to compromise it. That is a good statement. Just determined. I'm going to do right. The entire world is walking away from that ark. Noah says, I'm trusting God doing right. Let's decide that 2012. We're going to do right. Now, this is another subject. Our disposition needs to be right. As we do that, we're not arrogant, self-righteous. I don't see any of that of Noah there. It's a humble commitment to doing right in the eyes of God. And let's determine that. Father, I pray you'd use the message to challenge us in this old sinful day. You said, as it was in the days of Noah, so would it be in the days before the coming of the Son of Man And Lord, we feel the pressure. I do as pastor, and no doubt men in the job and folks in the community, we feel the pressure of the world to get us to conform and compromise. I pray you'd help us to stay true to the Word of God. Though all the world do wrong, help us to do right. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, there's some areas of my life that I really need to shore up? This matter of integrity, doing right, trusting God. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me, these matters, some of these areas. How about it? Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. That's all of us But it's going to take some stamina. It's going to take a close walk with God. It's going to take strong faith in the Lord to do right. To do right. Father, bless our invitation. You know our hearts. We need you to help us, Father. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Just a verse or two of invitation