Here I've entitled it, Everybody Out of the Ark. The flood's over, God's judged the world, very sobering thing. Millions, perhaps billions, have died. And uh now the flood's over, it's receded, the ark is settled on the ground. The Bible says in verses uh 13 and 14 that uh the ground is drying up. Notice verse 13, it came to pass under first year, in the first month, and the first day of the month. You know, I got looking at why does God give all these specific dates and I was trying to look for significance there or whatever. I think one of the things might be just verifying this is a legitimate j legitimate event. that actually took place. He's saying, on this date, at this time, this is what happened. And so perhaps that's one of the aspects there. The waters were dried up from the earth, and Noah removed the covering of the ark and looked, and behold, the face of the ground was dry. And on the second month, on the seventh and twentieth day of the month, was the earth dry. I think there's two events there. He looks out. The surface of the earth is dry, but it's probably pretty soggy And so they wait another month and they go out, and lo and behold, the it's gra solid ground now, it's dried out enough where they can get out and function. Then look verse fifteen. And God spake unto Noah, saying, Go forth of the ark, thou And thy wife and thy sons and thy sons' wives with thee. Verse seventeen Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of all flesh, fowl and cattle, every creeping thing that creepeth on the earth, and They may breed abundantly in the earth and be fruitful and multiply on the earth. And Noah went forth his sons, his wife and his sons' wives with him, and every beast, and every creeping thing, and every fowl, and whatsoever creepeth uh upon the earth. Must have been a creepy place there. Um and after their kinds went forth out of the ark. Everybody needs to get out of the ark now. Let's pray. I'll give you two thoughts real quick and uh we'll wind this up. Father, Lord, uh it's been a good day. You've blessed us and uh things, exciting things going on I hope us now just to stop for a moment, open our hearts, and give us some food for our soul, Lord, and some direction and uh help from your word before we uh finish out our day. Fill me with your spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. First thing I want you to notice tonight is God's instructions to Noah. If you'll notice very carefully going through this whole event God is continually giving Noah instructions, and Noah is doing what he's instructed to do. And that was the key to Noah's success. He simply did what God instructed him to do. And what was true for Noah is true for you and I. You know, the Bible consists of a lot of instructions. Uh this is how you do this. Do this. Don't do that. Do this. Do be careful you do this. Husbands, here's your instructions for you. Wives, here's instructions for you. Parents. Here's instructions concerning kids. Uh pastor, here's instructions for the church. Church, here's instructions for ministry. And the success of our Christian lives, the success of our ministries, well very much simply depends on us doing what God instructs us to do. And uh it's no more complicated than that. Uh just God telling us what to do. Noah's instructions are twofold. Look in verse 16, the first part. He says, go forth. Then if you look in verse 17, the first two words, he says, bring forth. So there's two things Noah is told to do. The phrase go forth. Now I'm not a English uh specialist in any way, but I'm told that phrase go forth is an active form. In other words, something Noah is doing for himself. Something he needs to take care of. He needs to get himself off of that ark. In verse 17, the bring forth, I am told, is in a passive form. In other words, he is doing this for something else, for the animals. It's not for Noah, it's for the animals. The animals needed Noah's influence to get where they needed to be. If he just got out and let the animals go, some of them no doubt would have just stayed in there. Uh when I worked on the farm growing uh as a young teen boy, I had a job for four years on a farm milking cows. And some of those dumb cows, uh, you couldn't get them to move And uh anybody here work on dairy farm? Stuart, you ever work on a dairy farm? And um uh try and get those cows out of the stall. We'd take their tails and twist. Did you ever do that? Twist their tail? Don't tell anybody we did that. But um Uh man, you had those little shocking sticks and uh man get those things to move. And so uh Noah uh uh those animals needed his influence. He they needed to get him out there. It's interesting. The Bible compares Christians and people to animals a lot. Do you know that? Go through the Bible compare to different kinds of animals And uh that tells me that people need to be influenced if they're going to get to where they need to be. Uh Noah needed to make sure all those animals get out there. Uh that's why God gives us leaders To help us get and be where we need to be. That's why God gives the church teachers, Sunday school teachers and and uh different youth directors and those types of things to help the people get and be where they need to be, to bring them forth. Pastors, to lead the church, leaders in our lives. Listen, don't despise the leaders God has given in your life. If you have godly leaders, thank God for that. God uses them to influence us and get us where we need to be. So uh his instructions were twofold, but I see a priority here in his instructions also. If you knew how far much ground I have covered in the last four minutes You'd be speaking in tongues right now. You'd be so excited. His instructions are prioritized. First he says, go forth, verse 16. Then he says, bring forth You know what that tells me? Noah had to be where he was supposed to be before he was able to help anyone else get where they're supposed to be. And that is true in the Christian ministry. I cannot lead people somewhere where I'm not myself. I must get where I'm supposed to be before I can get others where they need to be. In this matter of salvation, you're going to have a hard time leading other people, Lord, if you're not settled in your salvation Now God can do it. God can use anything. He can use a piece of paper. He can use a lost person to share the gospel. But it's awfully tough to give others assurance of salvation if I don't have it myself. I need that matter settled Uh the matter of dedicating my life to the Lord. Uh hey mom and dad, you're gonna have a tough time getting your kids dedicate their life to the Lord if you're not dedicated to the Lord. We're gonna have a hard time leading others to selling out to the Lord if I'm not sold out to the Lord. There needs to be a priority. First go forth, then bring forth. Get where I need to be and I can bring others. Matter of separation, soul winning. Um if I the rare occasions I get to call talk to pastors, preach to pastors I always try and emphasize this. Listen, if you want your people to be soul winners and witness, you better get out there and be a soul winner and witness yourself. It's hard to lead people where you're not at And so this idea, do as I say, not as I do, that doesn't work in Christianity. That ain't gonna fly We've got to set the example and be out there. So I see his instructions, and last of all, I notice Noah's submission. Look at verse 18. And so Noah went forth Verse 16, go forth. Verse 18, Noah went forth. Verse 17, bring forth. And verse 19, all the creeping animals in the earth, their kinds, went forth as the ark. Noah did exactly what he was told to do. Here's the thing. He'd been in that arc at a minimum of 370 days. That's a long time to be inside a building, a vessel. I would imagine, how many folks if you were in an ark for 370 days you'd be itching to get out? Yeah, I would. Um Uh, he's ready to go. But God keeps holding off. Wait a minute, take the roof, let the birds out. All right, wait another month. Look out. Oh, it's starting to dry. Wait another month. All right, wait a minute. All right. Okay, now Noah did exactly what I was told. This is what I took away from this. God had everything in place when it was time for Noah to step out of the ark. Several factors, and I'll I'm speculating here, but I see several factors need to be in place before Noah can get out of that arc. First of all, the ground's got to be dry enough. That they can build foundations and stuff. It can't be soaking wet, right? So that took time. The other thing is, do you ever think about this? There needed to be time for plants to germinate and start growing for those animals to have food. They'd all gone out there before the plants. They couldn't have survived a month or two without eating. They'd have starved and died, ran off and died somewhere. So God, listen, God may be stirring in your heart about something to do for Him. But he's delaying it, delaying it, delaying it. Don't despise those delays. When it's time for you to step out, everything will be in place. You follow what I'm saying? Sometimes missionaries complain to me a little bit. They'll say, oh, deputation takes a year or two, three sometimes, out on deputation. Why can't we just get the money and go? I always say this, don't despise that time. God's preparing you God's putting things in place. When it's time, it'll come together and you can step out. Did you know Paul, Apostle Paul was called to preach the day he was saved? Did you know that? Acts chapter 9. Read it Did you know he didn't go out and go in full-time ministry till thirteen years later? Now he was witnessing, he was teaching, doing all that, but he spent thirteen years in the back side of a desert, God teaching him, till he stepped out in the ministry. Now listen, young people sometimes call to preach or whatever, call to ministry, call to mission field, and uh, oh wait a minute, you got to go through that process of Bible college, get the training, get things in place And when it's time, God will work it out. Now that doesn't mean when it's time there's not going to be any work to do. Noah had a heap of work to do. Getting those animals out of there? Uh there's a real possibility those elephants were in some sort of hibernated state. You try you ever try and wake up an elephant I don't imagine that's a job. Wake up, you idiot! Wake up! It's time to get out! And uh so it doesn't mean that there wasn't any work to do. It does mean this. When it's time God puts things in place. So we just wait on God. Let the Lord lead. Let the Lord direct. Remember the priests when they were going to go into the land of Canaan and God said, take the ark And uh he said, Cross that river and it'll dry up. Uh if those priests would have stood at the edge of the river waiting for it to dry up, they'd have never gotten down. But when they put their foot in the water, what happened? It dried up. When they got to where they were supposed to be, God had everything in place for them. Now it took 40 years for them to get there But when it was time, it was time. I don't know. God may be stirring your heart about doing something for him. God may be leading in your life But you just wait on him, you just trust him, you just follow his instructions, and when it's time to step out, the ground will be dry. Provisions will be in place and you can go forward. Amen? Isn't that good? So uh God's instructions and Noah's submission. When God calls us to do something, he'll put things in place. Might take a little time, might require a little effort. And uh they went out and did it. And by the way, he did it in the exact order God told him to. And uh I was reading about Sudan Interior Mission. This was a ministry, uh a missions ministry been around for years I don't know much about the state, what there are today, but the founder of its name was Roland Bingham. And he was telling how he had got his heart stirred about the nation of of Sudan He met a woman by the name of Mrs. Gowans. She lived in Canada. Her one daughter was called of God to go as a missionary to China. Her oldest son, Walter, was called to go to the sedan. And she told, he went to visit her, she told him how her kids were going, and she had surrendered them to the Lord. And they were at uh a year and a half after her son Walter got to uh Sedan Um he was killed. Him and his partner Thomas Kent were buried. Uh uh died there on the mission field Roland Bingham had the responsibility of taking his personal belongings back to Mrs. Gowan, his mother He said this. I visited the Gowans, Mrs. Gowan's, to take her the few personal belongings of her son. She met me with an extended hand, and we stood there in silence Then she said these words. Now listen carefully. Well, Mr. Bingham, I would rather have had Walter go out to the sedan and die there all alone Then have him home today disobeying God. Isn't that powerful? That's a mother saying, I would rather my son lose his life in the will of God, obeying, submitting his life to God, than have him alive living in disobedience. That's a powerful testimony. Noah learned to obey God. Just follow his instructions, do what God said, and God laid everything out Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us, Lord, to learn to trust you, to wait on you. And Lord, let the results, let the uh uh consequences uh fall on your hands, and we distrust you. And follow us to lead us. I wonder if there's some, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder if there's some this evening. And I rushed through this. But maybe there's some this evening that say, Pastor, I do feel God stirring my heart about serving Him Maybe very specific, maybe just in a general sense. But you say, Pastor, I I I want to just wait on God. I want his perfect timing done As God leads me and directs me, I want the wisdom. And in the meantime, I just want to follow his instructions. Do I say? Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Peter, Pastor, I do feel God stirring my heart about serving the Lord Not necessarily on a mission field, but just in some capacity. How about, God bless you, a lot of hands around. No, we do. We wait on God, do what he says, follow step-by-step instructions, and when it's time, God opens it up and we step out Father in heaven, bless our missionaries. We thank you for the opportunity you give us as a church to be so involved in the lives of missionaries around the world, to have a part in what you're doing through them. Help us, Lord, to wait on you and trust you and follow your leadership. Bless the hands that were raised. God, you know where we're at. You have plans for our lives. Make it clear. What we should do, help us to submit ourselves to you, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.