To deuteronomy while I get rigged up here. I was got caught up in the song and forgot to put my microphone on, so The sound room gets bad mad at me when I don't put the mic on and I get mad at them when they don't turn it on. So we're in a perpetual fuss. There we go. I think I think we're rigged up now. Deuteronomy chapter 33. Do you hear about the two antennas that fell in love? They uh no. I'm glad you didn't, because I was gonna tell ya. They fell in love, decided to get married, went ahead with the marriage plans. The wedding was great, but the reception was terrible. That is Kane Browning's joke. He came up with that himself. And uh I tell you I found out one thing that um my jokes are very important in the Browning home. If I don't give a joke, it is what's wrong? Something's wrong. And here's another statistic I thought you might be interested. Two out of every five home improvement projects end in divorce. I thought that was funnier than that. Deuteronomy thirty-three, what I would like for us to do is read the first half. Of chap of verse 27, together in unison, just the first F there. Ready? Read it with me The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms. Isn't that a beautiful statement? Let's read that again together, okay? I like it. The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms. I've entitled the message, Everlasting Arms. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for the Word of God. Lord, for the good music and the fellowship's been sweet. Lord, I notice the sun shining outside a little bit, and that's always a blessing. Now we're going to look into your word, Father, and we're asking that you would open our hearts and minds. Lord, open our spiritual eyes that we can see what you have for us in our lives today. this coming week. God, I have nothing. I publicly and before you acknowledge I have nothing in and of myself of any eternal spiritual value to offer anybody this morning. So it has to come from you, dear God. And with that in mind, Lord, I yield my will to yours. I yield my mind over to you that you would guide and direct my thoughts as I'm preaching. I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body as a vessel to you, Lord, and that we would leave here with a clearer understanding of who you are, your love for us. Your plan for our lives, your expectations for us as your creatures, and Lord, stir our hearts and help us. If there's any within the sound of my voice that do not have assurance that their sins are forgiven, That when they die, they have eternal life. I pray that that would be settled today. That you would get the victory in this hour. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. I wonder how many people can relate to this phrase. Have you ever zoned out? Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Zoned out. Truck drivers know what I'm talking about. Or anybody that travels down the road. You're just driving along and you just kind of get zoned out And about a half hour later, all of a sudden you come to and you think, I don't even remember driving that last 50 miles. Can I get a witness? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Maybe at work, maybe you work a job and uh you do a repetitious job and you get going, get going, and you just get zoned out And uh next thing you know, it's going by and you say, man, I don't even remember doing all that stuff. Uh this I think this happens in any category at home, the housewife at home. Just get doing things and and you get zoned out, driving down the road. What I'm trying to describe is this. We get to the point where we're just going through the motions And not really paying attention to what we're doing. Do you understand what I'm saying? Just going through the motions. Uh kids in school. They'll sit there and and um uh the teachers up there going through a thing and they're just Drool starts coming out. Huh If we're not careful, we can get to that point in our lives spiritually. And by that I mean not necessarily, and I've seen this, I've experienced it in my own life. And I've seen it in the lives of others, where I wouldn't describe my life in this situation as spinning out of control Although there are some people whose lives are doing that. I've talked to people many times over the years, they say They say, uh, Pastor Leatherman, I feel like my life is just spinning out of control. I've lost control. I don't know where I'm going. I don't know what I'm doing. My life is out of control. Now for someone in that situation, uh I've got good news. Jesus Christ can take control for you. He can work that out, straighten it out, give direction in your life, bring those things back under uh his control. If we'll just try And yield ourselves to them. But that's not what I'm talking about this morning. That's not the issue at hand here. Somebody whose life is spinning out of control. What I'm addressing here this morning is just someone whose life is not going anywhere. It's just blah. It's just going through the motions. And it seems like nothing I'm doing has any particular significance. To me or anyone else. I'm just zoned out. I hate to admit it, but a Christian can get to that point in life. Just zone down. Now here's what we need to understand. When we are in that frame of mind, whether it's driving an 18-wheeler down the road or it's running a machine on an assembly line or it's working in a house or it's in a classroom, when we get in that frame of mind, we get in that position, that is a very dangerous thing. It's dangerous for a person to be driving down the road and they're zoned out. I've heard stories and I've obviously not experienced this firsthand, and I don't know anybody that I know that has told me firsthand this, but I've heard and read stories of folks in the wintertime when they're plowing, the snow plow drivers. And that snow is pouring down, and it's white out conditions. They're driving for hours and hours and hours and hours and hours on end. And somehow they're zoned out and somehow they get in their head that they drove over someone. And I've heard stories where they'll call in and call emergen emergency squads and they'll come out and look and look and look, they can't find anything. But in that zoned-out frame of mind, they don't they lose touch with what's happening around them. Anybody ever hear stories like that or anything like that? Anyone at all? I'm the only one that's ever heard that. Well, I could have made it more extravagant if I don't know that But it's dangerous to be in that situation. A young person comes in Friday, test, you got to take a test today. Test! I didn't know there was no test. Oh yeah, I've been telling you all week. They were zoned out. They missed it. It's a dangerous position when a Christian It's in that frame of mind where I'm just living my life and just going through the motions. I think, and I don't want to get too sidetracked here with this. I was trying to think of people in the Bible who would illustrate this. I think one tragic illustration of this was King David He had been king for a long time. He had been living for God for a long time. And it seems like you get the second Samuel, and he's just kind of going through the motions. And it was time for the kings to go out to war, and David decided, I'm just going to stay back here in Jerusalem. He was zoned out. And boy, he got himself in a dangerous situation with another woman. And before you knew it, adultery had taken place. His testimony was shattered. Lives were taken. Little baby died. It's a dangerous place to get into when I'm just going through the motions in my life. You say, what harm is it? There's tremendous harm. People get hurt. I end up doing things I wouldn't maybe normally do. I end up in situations that if I'd have been paying attention, if there had been some significance to what I was doing, I wouldn't have found myself in that situation. Now, it's a very real possibility. I'm talking to not one or two, but a good number of folks this morning. You are spiritually zoned out. Bible reading is of no significance. Church attendance is just something you do. Prayer is non-existent, or if it does take place, it's just repeating words that mean little or nothing. Zone down. So it's a dangerous frame of mind to be in. Now I think there are several causes Several uh things that several uh uh aspects of life that promote this zoning out And I can't deal with all of them, but I think one of the big ones is when we get to the point where we're absolutely overwhelmed with the issues of life. When I have a lot on my mind, when there's a lot of things coming down, And I feel almost overwhelmed. Sometimes I'll c sometimes people will f will sort of zone out. And they end up just going through the motions. I remember we were in Bible college, I had a roommate, and of course you know, we were all work we had apartment, we were all working full time, we all worked practically full-time in the ministry at the church there And then we're going to classes full time, and um uh I'm trying to get y'all to feel really sorry for me and the difficult time I went through But uh Randy would come in the room, he'd say, good night. He says, I've got so much to do, I think I'm going to go to bed He just wanted to zone out. He didn't want to deal with it. It was overwhelming. Big cause of zoning out is being overwhelmed with the issue of life. It may be A heartache or series of heartaches. Where just gets my mind goes numb and now just going through the motions. I've been shattered. Maybe it's a child has broken my heart. And you just think, oh, what's the use? And you just go through the motions. Maybe a spouse has been unfaithful. So devastating. You just go through the motions. Maybe it's been a setback in life. Maybe a tragedy has taken place, the death of a loved one. And a person just goes into this fog and ends up just going through the motions, maybe just difficulties on the job, uh financial difficulties, any number of things You say, well, preacher, what in the world does that have to do with our passage this morning? You always preach. You pick a verse and you preach from that verse. What does this zoning out have to do with what you read here? Ah, I'm glad you asked. Um Israel was prone to zoning out. The people of Israel And here's a little aside, I'll just throw this out there, but if you read through your Bible, and if you don't zone out, pay attention when you're reading the Bible, you know what you're going to find out You're going to find out that Israel, as a nation and as a people, we're very much like you and I are as individuals. I find the stuff they struggle with, I look around my life, I say, Good night. I'm struggling with the same thing in principle. The failures they had, I look around and say good night. People 2011 are struggling with the same failures Israel dealt with in principle. And so when I look, study the Old Testament, you say, ah, the Old Testament is so out of date, it's old. If you pay attention, it is as relevant as today's newspaper. I mean to tell you it it applies to today. And so I look at Israel and I see Israel is prone to zoning out. They get to the point where their relationship with God and with each other and their responsibilities just become humdrum and they end up going through the motions and before you know it they're wandering 40 years in a wilderness. Not making any headway, not making any progress. If you get a map out, and it's very difficult to do, but if the best you can, if you get a map of Israel and Egypt and that area, and try and plot their tr their travels while they were in the wilderness there leading up to Deuteronomy, where we're at, if you try and plot that, it's just like scribbling. They're over here, then up here, then down, south, east, west, north, south, east, over, up, down, in, out, and they're just crossing each other and just they're going nowhere. They're zoned out And their relationship with God got they zoned out in that various times where they would just go through the motions. And the Lord would say something like this to them: You honor me with your lips! But your what? Hearts far from me. You're zoned out. You're standing there singing a song. Blessed assurance. Jesus is mine. Oh, what a foretaste of glory. I've got the joy, joy, joy, joy down. I can tell Zone down. And Israel was that way. And we get that way. We're just going through a mission. Don't raise your hand on this. I wonder how many times you walked out the back door and somebody says, hey, how was the sermon? What did he preach about? Huh? Uh the Bible. I tell you what's bad is when the preacher forgets Sunday night when he freaks them out Sunday. But that we laugh at that, but it's a very real affliction. You know what that tells me? It's not having an impact. There's no significance there. Boy, my wife's a great cook. What did she make for you yesterday? We zone out. We just go through the motions. And Israel was that way. They were prone to zoning out. And God gave the book of Deuteronomy initially To Israel as a cure for Israel losing focus It was given in one aspect as a as a remedy for this tendency to zone out to just lose significance in what I'm doing. losing focus on what my life is about and losing purpose for the the things I'm doing in life, they lose any importance or significance to me. And they just become mundane And God gave the book of Deuteronomy to Israel for that. He preserved it, He inspired it and preserved it for you and I today so that we can deal with this issue of just going through motions. I challenge you, and I think everybody ought to read their Bible every day. I mean, not the whole thing every day, but read from their Bible every day I highly recommend Christians reading their Bible through. You might not want to do that initially when you first trust Christ and get saved. You may get a little overwhelmed. But at some point in your Christian growth, I think it's a good habit to get into to just start reading that thing through once a year. It's been a blessing to me. Not not blowing my own horn. I'm just saying, I'm just telling you it's possible I'm working on my 30 A third time through the Bible. And what a joy and blessing it is. Now, saying that, to say this, when you get to the book of Deuteronomy, I want to challenge you to pay attention. Don't zone out and look for words that are repeated throughout the book. And one word you're going to find that's repeated throughout the book of Deuteronomy is the word remember. Remember, remember, remember. God says that over and over and over And in the book of Deuteronomy, he tells Israel, I want you to remember the things I have already done for you. And God did some tremendous things for Israel. Good night. You read through the um, you read through the uh Read through the um what? What were you talking about? Read through their story coming out of Egypt. And uh how God had intervened in the nation of Egypt and brought great deliverance. You know, the ten plagues and the water parting the Red Sea and all those things. And God says, I don't want you to forget the things I've done for you. I don't want you to forget the miracles I've done in your life. You're going to zone out. If you forget all that I've done for you, you're going to zone out. And nothing's going to have significance. You're going to find yourself just going through the motions. Hey, I want to suggest to you, how many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. I'm here telling you God's done some wonderful things for you. If you're saved, if your sins are forgiven, and you have the assurance from God's Word that when you die, you have eternal life, you're going to spend forever with God. I know this about you. God's done some incredible things for you. We must never forget how good God has been to me. Somebody says, well, God's never done anything that great for me, then I guess you've never been saved from sin in hell. He suffered hell for us. Good night. You think splitting how many folks here you think if you went back uh this afternoon just pretend we live somewhere besides Garrett County and it's actually warm and sunny and nice out And you go back to Broadford Lake back here this afternoon and you're there kind of walking along skipping uh stones in the water and uh all of a sudden and the water splits wide open And it's dry ground, and a voice says, Go on the other side, I've got something for you. And you walk across there and then all the water crashes back. How many folks think you would remember that for a while? That's what God did for Israel. I'm telling you, God did something greater for you and I than he ever did for Israel when he saved us from going to hell for all eternity. So God says, I want Israel, one one way to give your life meaning, one way to bully just Losing significance and just living a blah, empty, insignificant life is to remember all the good things God has done for you. And that's what Deuteronomy talks about. Then also he talks about through the book of Johnnery the good things God had in store for them He repeatedly mentions to them the fact that he's got a land up ahead for them that is flowing with milk and honey. Now, to you and I, a land flowing with milk and honey doesn't sound very significant. I like what the one Sunday school teacher asked her class, boys and girls, God promised Israel a land flowing with milk and honey What do you think that would be like? One little boy raised his hand. Ooh, ooh, ooh. She goes, Johnny, he said sticky. Oh, that's true. But for the nation of Israel, that meant God was going to bless them with prosperity. They were going to have more than enough food to eat. They were going to have houses that they didn't build. They would have possessions in abundance. There would be peace. There would be not just material and physical blessings, but there would be spiritual blessings. God would dwell with them. There would be peace in their lives. There would be, they would have a relationship with their God. And God says over and over and over, remember what I have in store for you. Remember what I have in store for you. Remember the promises, the blessings. that await you. Now, I'm suggesting to you and I this morning, God has been already very good to us. Just look around us. If anybody on this planet has ought to be ha if anybody on this planet has a responsibility to be grateful and joyful, it is the people who live in the United States of America. God's been very good to us. But he doesn't lead to that. God has promised us some wonderful things One of the preachers the other week in the revival made the statement, we don't live in a land flowing with milk and honey. We live in a land flowing with, what did he say? Chicken and syrup or something like that. But uh God has some great things in store for us. God has promised a home in heaven What's the worst thing that could possibly happen to a person? I mean humanly speaking, physically speaking, you die. That's the end of the line You know what? God says that if we believe in Him, even if we die, we're still going to live. That we can uh that we have life beyond the grave, and that life is far greater than anything we imagine here. God says, I want you to remember what I have. Now for this morning out Anybody that's listening to me that has never trusted Christ as Savior, you don't have that promise. If you've never accepted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, there is no promise in this Bible that you have a home in heaven that you've escaped from In fact, it's the exact opposite. So he says, remember, remember the things I've done for you, remember the promises I have for you. Uh how many folks here, some of you have small children still, others are grown, but have you ever gone on a vacation maybe to an amusement park or somewhere and you took the kids Anybody anybody ever do that somewhere? And uh the whole time though you know what I found out? When my kids when my our boys would understand we're going to Pittsburgh Zoo or we're going down You know what our boys loved? It was the Spy Museum down in Washington, D. C. Actually, I don't know if they loved it or not. I loved it. And um but um you know what I found out when we were going somewhere like that, the kids never zoned out. They never just hooked her. You know what they were? Are we there yet? How much farther is it? How much longer are we there yet? I know my pat answer was every time no matter what they said, I'd say it's one hour An hour later they'd say, Dad, how long now? Uh one hour. Wait a minute. We'd be five minutes away. Dad, are we close? One hour That way when we actually got there, they were excited. They thought we got there earlier than what we thought. But they never zone out. Why? Because they're anticipating something There's something exciting up ahead. For that period of time at least, their life had meaning. There's purpose. They had something to look forward to. Hey, if a person's saved, if we have Jesus Christ as Savior, doesn't matter what we're going through right now, we've got something to look forward to. We have something to anticipate, and it gives us meaning, it gives us hope. And even on a Sunday morning in Sunday school, when it's half-snow and cloudy and cold out, we can still be excited about our lives I said that for our Sunday school plans this morning. They were duds. Remember, he says, remember what God has done for you. Remember what God has in store for you. And then he comes to this passage here and he points out, remember who and what God is to them. Now the book of Deuteronomy is a gold mine of promises. I love the book of Deuteronomy. It is a gold mine of statements about who God is and his love for me and his power. Look at verse 26 here again. With that in mind, all that I've said up to this point, look at verse 26 with me and follow as I read on down through here. There was none like unto the God of Jeshua. Who rideth upon the heaven in thy help, and in his excellency on the sky. The eternal God is thy refuge. And underneath are the everlasting arms. He shall thrust out the enemy from before thee and shall say, destroy them. Israel then shall dwell in safety alone. The fountain of Jacob shall be upon a land of corn and wine. His heaven also his heaven shall drop down dew. Happy art thou, O Israel, who is who is like unto thee, O people saved by the Lord, the shield of thy help, who is the sword of thy excellency, and thine enemies shall be found liars unto thee. And uh and shall and thou shalt tread upon their high places. Man, God's saying, wait a second You've got something to live for. You have purpose and meaning. Don't just go through the motions. Don't allow yourself and your mind just to zone out and go through this external stuff. You've got something here that's real. And so he states his love and care for his people. Verse 26 through 29, I see God's omnipotence. What do we mean by God's omnipotence? Omni means that's a good theological term. Omni means all encompassing. Omnipotence, the word potence has the idea of power. This book, actually the whole Bible, but here particularly, God is pointing out the fact that He is all powerful. His power is all encompassing. There is no problem I face, there is no situation I'm in. There is no need I can have. There is no sin that is so great. There is no difficulty so difficult that God's power cannot help me work through and have victory over God is all powerful. That's what he's telling them here. He says, Israel, think about it. It doesn't matter what your enemies are. I'm here, I can defeat them, and I will if you'll trust me. So we have God's omnipotence here. We have God's omnipresence. Now, what in the world does that word omnipresence mean? Well, again, omni is all encompassing Presence means where the Lord is. His presence. So this tells me that God is everywhere all the time. The teacher was trying to explain that to his kid, to the class, and uh the teacher said, now children, what do we mean by uh God is everywhere all the time? One little boy raised his hand. Notice it's always the boys that have the good answers Uh little boy raises his hand. She goes, okay, uh wasn't Johnny was last time. This time is um um no not Tom, he never gives good answers. Uh Eggbert. And um uh he says, uh that means there ain't nowhere where God ain't It's a good good theological definition. There ain't nowhere where God ain't. And God's telling you, you can't escape my presence. What's kind of sad? We have people nowadays, Christians, unsafe, trying to escape God's presence, trying to run from God, trying to run from God. Trying to run from God. That's the reason sometimes folks don't come to church. God deals with their heart. They're trying to run from God. I'm telling you, uh God can find you at home just as easily as He can find you at church Sometimes you get Christians run from God. Jonah tried running from God. Where'd he end up? You know what? He ended up in the belly of a whale, and guess who he came face to face with in the belly of the whale? God was there. And in chapter 2, you have one of the greatest prayers of the Bible, where Jonah in the belly whale realized he couldn't run from God. I tried running from God. And I first, when I was 18 years old, New Year's Eve, I tried, my life was a mess. I've told you a hundred times I decided I want to straighten things up. And from my perspective back then, I made a terrible mistake. I started asking God to help me. You know what? If you ask God to help you and you mean it, guess what? He's going to start helping you. But here's the thing. When he helps you, sometimes he does things that we don't necessarily want. And God began convicting me. And God began speaking to me. And I would read my Bible. I never read my Bible. I had to dig through George to find an old one of Sunday school teacher game. And I would read that Bible, and God's just dealing with my heart I needed Christ, I needed Christ, I needed Christ. I thought if I if I uh trust Christ, then I'm gonna lose all my friends, I'm not gonna have any fun, my life is gonna be miserable, if I become a Christian, it'll be terrible, and God fought with me, and I tried running and I tried running and I ran until God got me. Finally broke down. You can't run from God. I may be speaking to someone this morning, and the Spirit of God's dealing with your heart. He's saying, you need Christ. You need to be saved. You're going to die and go to hell if you don't trust Christ. And you're trying to put that out of your mind and put that out of your mind. You can't get away from God. He's omnipresent everywhere all the time. Maybe talking to a Christian I don't want to live the Christian life. I don't want to do that. It's so narrow. I want to enjoy the world. I want to go out and other people are doing. Go ahead and try. The prodigal son tried running from his daddy. How'd that work out? Didn't work out so hot So God's telling Israel, listen, I'm all powerful, I'm omnipresent. And he uses some very Poetic words to describe that. I love verse 27. I read that in my devotions the other day, and it just I read it over and over and over. The eternal God is thy refuge. That means your place of safety. And underneath are the everlasting arms. And that phrase underneath are the everlasting arms. I thought it was interesting. God doesn't say around you are the everlasting arms When I was a little kid, I used to like to, I liked it when my mom or dad would hold me tight. Anybody remember those days? They'd hold you tight, you feel what? Feel safe. Feel secure. In fact, they do studies now with little children, the parents that hold them and ones that don't, and how that affects their psyche. And their whole life? Now that's I just thought of this. Now that's not an excuse for you to go out and be a serial murderer. My daddy didn't hold me when I was little. Well get over it. People come to me for counsel, Pastor, I said it. And my counsel is deal with it. I don't get a whole lot of people coming to me for counsel But what I'm saying is this. God doesn't say around you are my everlasting. Now other places He says that that he's all around us and praise the Lord for that. He doesn't say here, above you are my everlasting arms. No, he deals with that for some other places And uh praise God that God is over us and around us. He doesn't say behind you is my everlasting arms. He doesn't say in front of you is my everlasting arms. He says underneath. I thought, what's the significance of that I think there's several significance of the fact he's telling Israel, he wants them to remember who he is and what he is, what he's done for them, what he's got in store for them. He doesn't want them to get to the point where their life is meaningless, mundane, just going through the motions And he says, underneath you I have placed my everlasting arms. I think some of the significance of that is underneath us, we talk sometimes, and the Bible makes reference to the nether world. How many people have ever heard that phrase, the nether world? What are you talking about when somebody's making reference to the netherworld? The spirit world, the fallen spirit world, refers to hell and Satan. And the spirit world, we refer to that as being underneath us. Every time the Bible mentions hell, it is always down. Underneath. And I think the significance of God saying, underneath you are my everlasting arms as God is telling us that he is providing protection against Satan's influence and attempts to influence our lives. You say, surely this church doesn't still believe in the personality of Satan, a literal being. Hey, as long as the Bible believes it, we believe it. The Bible is very clear, yes, uh Virginia, there is a Satan. And he's very real, and he is very active, and he is very dangerous And he is out to seek, to kill, and destroy everyone that he possibly can. The Satan is the enemy of our souls. And he is just as real now as he was when Jesus was walking planet Earth, dealing with him face to face, one-on-one. And God is telling Israel: I, my arms, my power, my strength, my love for you will come between you. And the satanic world and his influence. For persons never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. The Bible boils people down into two categories primarily. You have the saved and the lost. People who are still under their sins, who are under the judgment of God for their sins, they've never had them removed and forgiven and cleansed by the blood of Jesus Christ through trusting Jesus Savior. They're unsaved Then you have the saved believers. Those are folks who have come to the point of life recognizing their sinners, have trusted Jesus Christ the personal Savior. God has forgiven their sins and removed the judgment over them for their sins, and they have eternal life. Now, Satan is out after both of these. Satan is out to get that lost person, and his number one desire for a lost person is to keep that person lost. To make sure they do not trust Jesus Christ as Savior, to snatch the Word of God, when they begin to realize I need Christ, I need to be saved, I'm going to die and go to hell Satan will come along and put other thoughts in the mind. He'll try and steal the word of God. He does everything he can to keep a lost person lost. I may be talking to someone this morning. You're unsaved, you know you're unsaved If you died now, you'd go to hell. You know that. Maybe God's been dealing with your heart, your need for Christ. And Satan's doing everything he can. To keep you from trusting Christ. He'll give you every excuse in your mind. He'll give you every reason in the world. Not now, not now, not now. Someday I'll take care of that. And someday never comes. What will people think? Satan whispers in the ear. What will folks think if you trust Christ as Savior? I'll tell you what folks around here will think. They'll think, praise God! You're a wise person. You trusted Christ. You did the best thing a person could possibly do. We had one of our Sunday school teachers came up between Sunday school and church, tears streaming down her cheek, joy. She goes, Four of my children trusted Jesus as Savior this morning. Satan don't want you to see that part of it. Say what about if Satan you say, preacher, I'm saved. I don't have any problem with uh uh therefore Satan's not a problem to me. You know what he'll try and do? He'll try and mess your life up. Be a terrible testimony. Get you the point where God can't answer your prayers, get sin in your life. And he'll do everything he can to destroy you. The Son of Man is come, seeking to say that was lost. I am come you might have life and have it more abundantly, Jesus said. The thief cometh not But for to steal, to kill, and to destroy. And so God says underneath in my everlasting arms, hey, if I'm talking to you this morning, you're unsaved, you don't know that your sins are given on your way to heaven, I'm here to tell you, God is on your side. God is doing everything He can to keep you from going to hell, even to the extent that He had His own Son suffer hell for you and me and in our place. Buried and rose again Now don't tell me. You say, well, God would never send anybody to hell. You're right. He's done everything he can to keep people out of hell. How many of us would crucify and let our own son suffer hell so someone else could go to heaven? Be hard-pressed to find anybody do that, especially sinners. That's what God did to keep people out of hell. So God's on your side. Underneath are the everlasting arms. God's here to help those of us that know Christ. He has his power, strength is available. There's so many verses I could go to. Underneath are the everlasting arms. I think of John 11, verse 25. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. Satan cannot take a saved person to hell. God keeps a saved. You say, yeah, if I get saved, I've got to really live it, or I'm going to go to hell. Oh no, no. Once you trust Christ, your destiny is in God's hands. He's the one that keeps us. Underneath are the everlasting arms. Christian doesn't have to fear dying and going to hell. Once I've trusted Christ, that matters so you say, Preacher, but I've blown it. Yeah, but Jesus already paid for that. Um uh would you take your Bibles quickly, and I'm going to shut down here in just a minute. Uh turn with me, if you would, to the New Testament book of Second Corinthians. Second Corinthians chapter four I'm sorry, 1 Corinthians chapter 10. I knew that didn't look right. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Maybe it's 3 Corinthians chapter 6. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Now, if you have a Bible, and I trust you do, you ought to underscore or highlight this verse somehow in your Bible You say, oh, I don't think you should write in your Bible. Yeah, you should. It's helpful. Mark verses, underline them, highlight them. Look at verse number 13 of 1 Corinthians 10. I love this verse. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. All right, let's just stop right there and look at this. What does he mean by temptation? Temptation here is any enticement to do wrong. I'm tempted to ask, but I know some of you aren't going to raise your hand no matter what I say, so but I'm tempted to ask, how many folks here have ever been tempted? And the answer to that is according, at least according to this verse, is what? Everybody. It's common to man. So don't think, oh, I'm being tempted. I'm the only one in the whole world. No, you're not. Everybody's tempted. Everybody is enticed to do evil. And this is written to Christian people. So there hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man. You can't come up with a temptation. That everyone and their brother isn't also tempted. At least in principle. Now look what he says. But God is what? To use our text, underneath are the everlasting arms. God is faithful who will not suffer. That word suffer there is an old word for allow or permit. God will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able. So God is not going to let you or me be tempted beyond that which we are able to resist. I'm going to make application here in a moment, but let's finish reading. But will with the temptation also make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it. In other words, all of us are tempted. I mean, you just come up with whatever temptation you think of, it's common to man But God has put underneath you and I, between us and Satan, our temptations, everlasting arms. And He will not allow us to be tempted above Well, we are able. In other words, now everybody awake, everybody with me? Think if I'm being tempted to do something, and this verse is true, Therefore, I'm able to what? To have victory over it. God has not suffered me to be tempted. God will not suffer you to be tempted, above that ye are able. So if I'm tempted in that area, therefore that immediately tells me that I'm able to have victory over it Because if I was being tempted in some area that I could not possibly have victory over, God would not let me be tempted in that area So if I come to someone, a preacher or someone and say, you know, I just can't beat this temptation. This temptation is more than I can have victory over, you're not telling the truth. Because God said He's not going to let you be tempted in a way that you're not able to have victory. If you can't have victory, then He's not going to let you tempt Be tempted in that area. So that tells me several things. If somebody's being tempted, you say, I'm never tempted to do that. You know what that means? That means you would give in to it if you were tempted in that area. So you ought to look up to the God that's being sent in that area and you're not. I don't know if that makes sense or not, but it's the way my mind works So got a pack of marlboro. I can't lick these things I'm always tempted to smoke that cigarette. And I've been there, a bunch of people in our church have been there. Huh? I can't beat that thing, I can't beat that thing. God says, you know You know what? The very fact you're tempted to smoke that cigarette is proof you don't have to. If you if you were unable to say no to it, then I wouldn't let you be tempted in that area But you can't have victory. Now, does he say it's going to be easy? No. There's a lot of temptations easier. And I'm just picking on that. You can fill in the blank 10,000 other temptations Protection against The spirit world and Satan underneath are the everlasting arms. I've got to quit. I put down this protection against the grave. I already touched on it. Christian has no fear of the grave. Underneath us, we walk on top of others' graves. They're underneath. Christian has no reason to fear the grave. As I read, as I mentioned before, 1 John 11, he that believeth in me though he were dead, yet shall he live. Even when the soul body dies, we pointed out last week, this body is not us. We inhabit this body. We're the soul. The body is just something we live inside. This body dies, it's not the end of the believer. We have eternal life. Absent from the body, we're immediately present with the Lord, the Bible says. So underneath us, between us and the us and the grave, not our body, but us, between us and the grave are the everlasting arms of God. He will not allow a saved person To die in the sense that they're separated from God. Bodies will cease functioning, but we're not a body. We go to be with the Lord. Isn't that good? Between us and Satan are everlasting arms. Between us and death are everlasting arms. Now let me say this. You hear my voice and you've never trusted Christ as Savior, death is something to be feared above all else. Death is something to be feared above all else for an unsaved person. Because if a person dies in their sins unforgiven, they are lost forever and ever and ever and ever. No escape. No reprieve. You read and study very carefully what the Bible says about hell. and the ultimate destiny of unsaved people, and it is a horror beyond imagination without any hope of escape. I wish we had more time. We could go and look at Luke chapter 16 and Revelation chapter 20, where God describes the afterlife for an unsaved person But God says underneath of the everlasting owns, you don't have to go to hell. You don't have to even trust Christ and be saved and be forgiven, have eternal life. The last thing I thought of this underneath of the other asking arms is protection against the daily trials of life. Divorce, cancer, failure, finances, debt, all these trials while we're walking on this planet, but underneath us Our everlasting arms. And God helps us through them. God commit our needs. He said, Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. All these things will be added unto you. You say, oh great, that means I can get credit cards and just max them out and God will pay them for me. Let me read it quote that verse again. Seek ye first the king of God his righteous. And all these things, and they have to go into context, the things food, clothing, protection, the needs of life. God will provide. See, in America, we're so spoiled. We think, well, if I put God first, he'll give me everything I want. Wrong. If I put God first, he'll give me everything I need. You know what I found out? The longer I live, Christ is really all I need. I don't need all this other stuff. So underneath us in the trials of life. I like James. Chapter 1 says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Now the word temptation there means trials, difficulties. Count it all joy when you fall into diver temptation, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire wanting of God's saying, yeah, when those trials come in your life, those difficulties in your life, underneath are the everlasting arms, and I can use those trials, I can use those difficulties to Deeper understanding of me, a stronger faith, a greater appreciation for the things in life, and you will not zone out. Driving down the road. Zoned out. And all of a sudden you hear You're wide awake And boy, you appreciate those brakes a whole lot more than what you did a mile back. Right? And you appreciate that steering wheel. And you appreciate, man, we were almost killed. Oh, thank God. You know what God allowed that trial, that difficulty to wake you up, make you appreciate what He's given you and get you from zoning out. But he says underneath the dead laughing arms, I'm not going to fail you. I just want you to wake up. And some of us are going through some difficulties, some of us are going through some trials, and God's trying to get us to wake up. We've zoned out I'm thinking of a lady I did a uh I didn't do the funeral, but in Indianapolis when I was youth pastor, we had a lady in the church, a dear lady, a widowed lady, who's very, very faithful. None of her family attended church, just her And she died. She was elderly, nothing tragic about it. But at the funeral, her daughter, who claimed to be saved, But never attended church, never gave God a thought. She was zoned out. At that funeral, God got a hold of her heart. You know, she got on fire for God, started living for the Lord, and her life took on a whole new meaning. Her life took on a whole new purpose. And she realized that God loved her. And underneath her everlasting arms, she had a home in heaven. God would carry her through, and her life had meaning. How about you? A. W. Tozer said, no man will ever be greatly abused of God until he has been deeply hurt by God. I think there's some truth to that. Now what are you going through? What's trial? Are you zoned out? So, preacher, that restaurant's going to be packed till we get out of here You're zoned out. Oh, that roast is charcoal. You know that may maybe charcoal roast is what you need to wake up. But let's make it real. Let's rejoice in what God's done. Father in heaven, bless.