Point out again, I think I did just recently as we're working down through here, that uh actually verses seven through twelve are kind of like a checklist. that he has given us here in response to a statement that has made in verse number 6. So come back up to verse number 6. Notice what the Lord says He says, but he giveth more grace, of course God, he the Lord, giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud. That word resisteth there, if you remember, means is that enmity against? Man, I don't want to be an enemy of God. I don't want to be in opposition to God. But God resisteth the proud. It's almost the idea of going to war against God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the what? Humble. And we spent a good bit of time looking at that. Now here's what I'm getting at. As a result of that statement, The next list of verses are kind of like a checklist, almost like bullet points down here. What we should do because of the statement in verse 6 Notice here he says, God resisteth proud, but giveth grace humble. Submit yourselves therefore in light of what verse 6 says, because of what verse 6 says, then these next things ought to be done. And he comes down this checklist. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil. This is all because he resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble Draw nigh to God, cleanse your hands, purify your hearts, be afflicted and mourn, let your laughter be turned to heaviness, humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord. Now we get to our text tonight. Speak not evil one of another. And then he goes on and elaborates that. So do you see? He makes a statement in verse 6, God resisteth the proud, but he giveth grace to the humble. With that being true, in that case Then you need to do this, this, this, this, and this. And we're at the the bottom of that checklist here. And this is one of the last in the list. Then he kind of picks up a new subject in verse 13. But he says here, he addresses this matter of speaking evil one of another. Pride, and this is all dealing with pride and humility, pride directly affects how I view myself. Pride is one of those sins that is a root sin. There's a lot of symptoms come out of the sin of pride. And when I'm proud, that will directly affect the way I view myself. It directly affects my view of others. Now, on the other side of that, humility also affects how I view myself and how I view others. If I have a proud heart, I'm going to view people differently than if I have a humble heart. It affects my view of people. It's kind of like putting on glasses, colored glasses. It changes the way I see things. If I have a proud heart, I'm going to see people one way, or individuals one way, I'll see myself one way. If I get rid of that proud heart, I repent from that pride, and I humble myself before the Lord, lo and behold, I'll see people differently. And I'll see myself differently. How I view others. And that's what this verse is about. In fact, most of these are my interaction with other people. And how I view others is a very clear indicator of the level of my spiritual maturity. The way I see others and how I treat other people is an indicator of how mature I am spiritually. How I talk to other people is an indicator of my spiritual maturity. It says a lot. What I think of others, how I treat others, what I say about and to others. is really tells a lot about what kind of Christian I am. You see, and I'm not opposed to this, I'm absolutely for saying amen in church. I think we could use a little more of it myself on You know, I I'm okay I'm not complaining. I'm just saying I'm for that. We gotta work on that, folks. Uh I'm all for that. But the vol the level of volume that my amen is in church is not an indicator of how good a Christian I am. Amen. Now you're scared of the Amen. I what I'm saying is you can be a great Christian and say amen. You can be a terrible Christian and say amen. That doesn't indicate your level of spiritual maturity, my level of spiritual maturity. And actually how talented I am at many different things. We have some tremendous musicians. We have some tremendous Teachers. We have some people that are very, very gifted in our church. We have many people who are very, very gifted in our church. I thank God for that. And those gifts ought to be used for the glory of God. And they are they are, I believe But how gifted I am is not an indicator of what kind of Christian I am or how mature I am as a Christian. A person can be a very gifted teacher and be a terrible Christian. See what I'm saying? A person can be very gifted at singing, have tremendous musical gifts, be a terrible Christian. They might be a great Christian. What I'm saying is that's not the indicator. The indicator of my level of spiritual maturity, the kind of Christian I am, is indicated by my treatment of others. My attitude towards other people, my the how I speak to others and how I treat others. That's what he's telling us here. So how I view others and treat others and speak of others is a maturity thermometer, in a sense. I want to suggest to you And I've seen this to be true. The Bible teaches this, and my experience, it bears that out. It's possible for a person to be a pretty new Christian. And be mature, more mature in their Christian faith than somebody that's been saved a long time A person uh in fact sometimes a person that's newly saved and they and they're fresh into the conviction of the Holy Spirit and they're fresh into this eternal life and this new life that God has given to them. fresh into their experience of the presence of God and the person of the Holy Spirit in life and all that is fresh, and they're humbled by all of that And a lot of times they will actually exhibit more mature spiritual, more mature characteristics of Christianity Then somebody that's been saved a long time and lost the wonder of it all, and their hearts gotten hard, and they've gotten proud in their Christian life, and they're much more immature in their Christian life than the new Christian. Am I making sense? And so my humility and how I view myself and others and my interaction with others and my treatment of others and how I speak to others and my attitude towards others Is how I need to evaluate where I am spiritually, how strong my faith is. There's a strong emphasis all through scriptures on the proper interaction with other people. All the way through the Bible. God deals with that. There's a lot of instructions. God gives us a lot of instructions on how we are to treat one another and what type of attitude we're to have towards one another and even how we're supposed to speak to each other. The Bible teaches us that because it is vitally important to our Christian life. Our Christian life consists mostly on one level of interacting with other people. It's a huge part of the Christian life. And much of Jane's addresses that. And he gives us some very, very clear instructions here. Now let's look at it again with that foundation, with those thoughts fresh in our mind, let's look at again at what he says. He says, speak not evil one of another, brethren. Now we're going to come back to that, but that's important to note that word. He that speaketh evil of his brother and judgeth his brother Speaketh evil of the law and judgeth the law. But if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge. There's one lawgiver who is able to save and to destroy. Who art thou that judges another? I want us to notice first of all that we're given a very clear prohibition here. A very clear prohibition. Now what do we mean? If you're prohibited from doing something, you're what? Don't do it. You're not allowed to do it. And so he gives us a prohibition here. Very, very clear. We are absolutely forbidden To do what he says here. This is a very clear directive straight from God. There are no exceptions given Speak not evil one of another. You can't get any simpler than that. You can't get any clearer than that. There's no confusion here. There's no qualifications put on this instruction. There's no uh exceptions. It's a very clear prohibition. This is one thing God says we are not allowed to do. And so, speak not evil one of another. What does that mean? What does it mean to speak not evil? What does it mean to speak evil of another person? It has this idea, and I found a lot of definitions. There was a quite a bit of informationalness on how the word is used, different places and whatnot And it has this idea to incriminate someone with words. I'm not to speak, and it's not necessarily here speaking to the person, but speaking about the person. Notice the little word in there that tells us that, speak not evil one. What's that little two-letter word there? Of another. In other words, I'm not talking to the person necessarily. Bible addresses that in other area places, but here he's talking about talking about that person. Speaking of that person. And so he says, this clear prohibition is to speak not evil means I am not to incriminate another person with words. I am not to make them use my words to make them sound guilty. And gossip definitely fits in with that. That's not limited to that, though It has this idea to speak evil of another person. It has this idea to charge that other person with a fault or a crime. God says, don't you do that. Don't do that. To slander another person. To use my words to make that person look bad. That's speaking evil of another person. I come to Brother Kenton and I speak evil of Tom, and I use words to make Tom look bad in the eyes of Kenton. Follow what I'm saying? That's speaking evil. Speaking evil. Um this is kind of my take on the definition. I was kind of going through them and writing them out And uh I put this, uh this is kind of my take, to qualify someone for criticism, to use my words in such a way that all of a sudden they're set up and now people are able to criticize them. because of things I said about them. Follow what I'm saying? I'm I I qualify them for Chrisms. God says don't do that Speak not evil one of another. Very clear prohibition here. If you would take your Bible, turn with me to 1 Peter chapter 2. It's just a page back in most Bibles here. 1 Peter chapter 2. And this idea of speaking evil of others is referenced throughout the New Testament quite a bit, somewhat in the Psalms. But in a bunch of places we're not going to be able to go to all of them. Well we're going to look at a few. But second, 1 Peter chapter 2, look at verse number 12. Having your conversation. Now, by conversation, he's talking about our lifestyle, not just what we say, but our whole how we live our lives. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles When he was referencing Gentiles, what is he talking about here? Unsaved. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, the lost, the unsaved. That whereas they, the unsaved, speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. Notice here, who is the one speaking evil? Speaking against you as evildoers. That's evil speaking. Who is the one doing it? The unsaved, the Gentiles, the lost are speaking against the Christians as evildoers. Now his instructions is When the unsaved speak evil against you, you live your life in such a way that those words have no bearing. That they see how you live your life, and it's obviously not true. But my point is this It is the unsaved that are doing the evil speaking here. Come with me, if you would, over, not far away, to chapter 3, just a little bit later in the same book. 1 Peter chapter 3, look at verse 16. I think you'll see where I'm going with this. In verse 16 of 1 Peter chapter 3, having a good conscience Whereas they, now if you read the context, again, this is the unsaved, this is the lost world, whereas they speak evil of you, evil speaking. As of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse, same concept, evil speaking, falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. Here's what I'm trying to get at. When a person speaks evil of another person, and I gave your definition there. When they do that, when I do that about another person, I speak evil of the other person, you know what I'm talking like? I'm talking like the unsaved. I'm talking like the lost world. When I come around and I start telling Kenton about bad things that other people are doing, true or not, I am acting like a lost person acts. I am not acting like a child of God. And so God clearly forbids I mean, there's no exceptions, there's no qualifications. He clearly forbids evil speaking. And he tells us in Peter that that's what the Gentiles do. That's how the lost act. That's the way people without God and without any hope in their life, that's the way they speak about other people. My people are not to talk that way Evil speaking is common among all men. All classes of mankind speak evil one of another. Rich people speak evil of other people. Poor people speak evil of other people. Middle class speak evil of other people. Rich people speak evil of rich people. Rich people speak evil of poor people. Poor people speak evil of rich people. Poor people Speaking more poor people Say that three times fast. My point is this educated people speak evil of other people, uneducated speech people speak evil of other people I've been in a number of countries. Brother Jerry and so many others have been in a number of countries on mission trips or if in the military or whatever. You know what I found out? Every country I went to, I found out there was people there that speak evil of other people Somebody said the most popular sport among mankind is jumping to conclusions Automatically assuming that what that person is doing is wrong, automatically assuming that they're bad, they're doing wrong, they're doing evil, and speaking evil about that person. God says don't do that Under no circumstances for any reason are you to do that. It's a very clear prohibition. The tragedy here is, did you pick this? Did you notice? I was emphasizing it. What's the tragedy in our text? It's not that the Gentiles are speaking evil one of another. What's our text say? It's brethren. The only people in the Bible referred to as brethren are the children of God. Saved people. And James, under the inspiration of God, is making a very, very strong statement. Brethren, Christians, Speak not evil one of another. Don't do that. What a tragedy. What a tragedy. That God's people would talk the way the unsaid talk. You say preacher, I don't say cuss words. Good, I'm glad. If you put cuss words on my Facebook, I delete you. Um I I don't know why I said that, but I'm glad you don't cuss. Say, preacher, I don't cuss, I don't say bad words, I don't sing uh worldly rock and roll songs, country and west songs, I don't sing all that's wonderful. But if I speak evil of another Christian or another person, I'm disobeying God just as much as using cuss words. I didn't think I'd get a lot of amens on that, but it's true. Sin is sin is sin. And so here you have brethren, and apparently it was enough of an issue that God felt that it needed to be addressed in the eternal word of God. And something going on here. I want you to take your Bibles. We're going to do this as quickly as we can. If we got our Bibles here, let's use them. Go to Ephesians chapter 4 with me Now I want you to come and look at these for a reason. Ephesians chapter 4. And uh let me get here. Ephesians 4. Notice with me the last part of the chapter, verse 31. Now we're familiar with these verses, but let's read them in with what we're talking about on our mind. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30 says, grieve not the Holy Spirit, whereby are you sealed until the day of redemption? Verse 31, let all, let all. Bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and what? Evil speaking be put away from you with all malice and be ye kind one to another. Tenderhearted. What's that next word? Forgiving one another. Not speaking evil of the person, forgiving them. Even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. How many people here are glad that God doesn't speak evil of us? How many people are glad that God doesn't go around telling other people all the awful things that He knows about you and I? Praise the Lord for that. And he says, What I do to you, the way I treat you, I expect you to treat one another. Put away all of it. Say, preacher, I'm not bitter, but if I speak evil, I'm just as sinning as much as if I'm bitter. I don't have any malice. If I speak an evil, just as sinful. 1 Timothy chapter 3, come over here. Now we read this last week as we were studying about deacons a little bit. This is referencing the deacon's wife. I'm not gonna say anything evil. Not gonna speak evil. No, I thank God for it because I was trying to be funny. It was dumb. Um Ephesians chapter or 1 Timothy 3, look at verse eleven. Even so must there, beacons' wives, be grave, not slanderers. Guess what the word slanderer means To speak evil. Not someone that speaks evil of other people. Now I'm going to say this and I uh I'm saying I mean this with all my heart. I thank God for our deacon's wives. Uh they they are the they are the epitome of a testimony of what a deacon's wife ought to be, and I thank God for them. But here the point I'm trying to make here is is uh he's he's addressing the fact of not speaking evil of others. Look at 2 Timothy chapter 3. Now the reason I'm going through this, I want to see is how often this is referenced in the Bible. And I'm just touching on the Tip of the iceberg here. 2 Timothy 3, verse number 1. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. How many folks say man I could read the newspaper? That sounds like today. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parent, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection, true spakers. What's that next statement? False accusers, guess what that means? Translated in James as speaking evil It's characteristic of the unsaved in the last days. I'm telling you, it seems like news has simply become a way to trash other people. Most of your shows on TV, most of your talk shows are just speaking evil about the other party. I wish Christians would take as much time and effort, and I'm not against Conservative politics and all that. I'm not against that, but I'm saying I wish we'd take as much time and money and effort we put into uh some of that stuff and put it into getting the gospel to the unsaved, this country might turn around And the gospel out to the unsaved. False accusers, incontinent, fierce despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from such turn away I don't know about you. I don't want to be lumped in that crowd. I don't want to stand before Jesus Christ and find out that I was an evil speaker. And here I've got this crowd of people with me that are listed here. I don't want to be in with that crowd. I want to stand out from that. I want to be different than that. Titus chapter 2, we won't have time. Titus chapter 2, you can write these down, verse 1 through 3. 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 1 through 3 references the same thing over and over and over and over and over again. I tell you what, you can't study this subject in the Bible and not come to the conclusion God very clearly prohibits evil speaking. Under no circumstances, for any reason whatsoever, are we to speak evil one of another I do want you to turn with me, if you would, to Revelation chapter 12. Now we looked at this in a recent message, but I want us to look again. Revelation chapter 12. Now when I'm speaking evil of another person, particularly of a Christian, think with me the company I'm keeping. Revelation chapter 12, verse number 10. Last book of the Bible, chapter 12, verse 10. And I heard a loud voice saying, In heaven, now is come salvation and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ, for the Accuser of the brethren is cast down, which accused them before God day and night. Who is this accuser of the brethren? It's Satan himself. It's the devil, his very self. And I put in the margin of the Bible, I think I referenced mentioned this recently, but I put in the margin of my Bible Satan's ministry. That's what he does. That's what his ministry is, to accuse the brethren. Guess what that word, the accuser of the brethren, guess what that word means? To speak evil of. You know what Satan's ministry is? Stand before God and speak evil of you and I, of God's people. And tell him how awful we are, and tell him all the things we do wrong, and tell him all this terrible stuff about us to try and get to try and incriminate us before God, to try and get God to think badly of us. You know what the sad fact is? At least in my case, it's true. He's not bringing lies to God. He knows my failures. He knows my mess-ups And he relishes that. And he wants to make sure God knows how bad his child, Dennis Leatherman, messed up. Now I'm not too concerned about Satan doing that because you know why? We've got an advocate. That Jesus Christ stands at the right hand of God, and when Satan throws all this evil speaking at God, my Savior Jesus steps up and says, I I'm putting this in my own imagination, but to the effect, he says You know what? Everything old Smutty Face is saying is true, but I've already paid the price for all those crimes. And I rejoice in the continual, eternal, thorough forgiveness of God Through the Lord Jesus Christ. But here's my point. I'm not worried so much about Satan doing that because Jesus can handle him. I'll tell you what bothers me. Is when we do it to each other. And we speak evil. And we do exactly what Satan does, not necessarily to God, but to each other about the brethren. That's not good. That's not good. So God clearly forbids this. Speak not evil one of another And then he goes down, come on back here with me if you would. He comes down and um he touches on another subject that God clearly forbids. Now he doesn't state it as succinctly as he does this first one But he says, verse 11, there he says, He that speaketh evil of his brother and judgeth his brother speaketh evil of the law. So he ties in with his evil speaking of my brother, this subject of judging my brother Judging, my brother. Judging another person and speaking evil of another person are very closely associated in Scripture. Now what does it mean to judge someone in this context? It means that I pronounce my opinion as to whether they're right or wrong. I am the judge. And I am giving my opinion when I am judging Kenton. You're sitting in the wrong seat, brother. You're getting picked on tonight. But when I'm judging Kenton, I am giving my opinion as to whether he is right or wrong. That's what he's talking about here. Let me just throw this out. I'm way ahead of myself, but I want to throw it out here. My opinion doesn't mean a hill of bees. It's God's opinion that matters. It means to give myself authority To determine whether another person is right or wrong. I give myself that authority. I am taking the authority to make judgment as to whether this person is right or wrong. It is to have a judgmental or critical attitude towards another person. It has this idea to view myself as superior to the other person. And I am looking down on them with judgment upon them. It is to exalt myself. It is to uh uh condemn another by lifting myself and condemning that other person. Now again, I wish we had time to go to these references. We don't. Matthew chapter 7, verse 1, I think it's through verse 7. Romans chapter 14, verse 10 and 13, very clearly condemn this matter of judging others. In fact, Matthew says, however you judge others is how you're going to be judged. Man alive, I wonder how many of us would want God to hold us to the same standard we hold others. I tell you, that's a danger. Sometimes parents with their kids hold their pa their kids to a higher standard than they live themselves. And Christians and church members are very bad about this of holding other members to a standard that we don't hold up to ourselves. Oh, we might not sin the same sin they are, but we justify our sin while we speak evil of theirs. And God says, Don't do that. Don't do that. Now there's a world of difference between making judgment and using discernment. We are to be discerning. Sometimes the Bible tells us to judge matters, but in that context there is more the idea of discernment. What is best, what is right or wrong. Listen, I don't make a judgment whether stealing is right or wrong. I don't make that judgment. God makes that judgment. And I use discernment and say, you know, I'm not going to do that. I don't want to do that. I won't be involved in that. I use discernment in my life and who I want to associate with and what influences I want in my life and how I respond to different things. I'll use discernment, but I never lift myself up and say, I am the authority, I decide what is right and wrong for you. God, that's God's role. In fact, he expands on that there, that verse in the next verse. Who are you that judge? There's one lawgiver. That's God. We use discernment in applying it and carrying it out, but we do not judge. And here's the thing: when I make judgment on someone, there's several things to keep in mind. If I'm if I'm tempted to judge someone, there's several factors. One I don't know what their motives are. You may think you know what their motives are, but you don't know for certain. I can't tell a person's motive. I can guess, I can make an educated guess, but I don't know for certain what that person's motives are Hey, there may be some factors involved that you and I don't know about. There's an old Indian saying, and it's kind of hokey, we've probably overused it, but there's a lot of truth in it. Don't judge another person until you've walked a mile in their shoes. Now that's very simple, we've heard that for years, but there's a lot of truth in that statement. There may be things going on. I don't know, I hit something with joy over there. She reacted to that one, I don't know. Moccasins, all bright. That's the NIV version that I You follow what I'm saying? Tom broke his leg. Obviously he was doing something bad. Obviously. God's judging him. He's under chastisement of God. Now the fact is that could be possible, but I have no way of knowing that. I don't know that. He says, don't judge them. Don't speak up. Don't go around and say, oh, you know what, Kenton? He probably is getting judged by God for that. God says, don't you do that. You have no idea what God is doing in that person's life. You have no idea what all the factors are behind it. Just let that thing go. Let God be the judge, and you simply be the Christian God wants you to be. Amen? There's a very clear prohibition here. That's what uh God does chasten people, right? And sometimes his chastisement takes the form of a broken leg. Sometimes it's Losing a job. Sometimes it's a lot of different things. It's cancer, it might be. But I don't know enough about that person. I don't know enough about what's going on to decide whether God is chastening them or not. That's between them and God. So I just think the best. I pray for them. I love them and assume that it's not chastisement. That's what he's saying. That's what he's saying. So number one, there's a clear prohibition. Let me give you the last two real quick. The cause for this prohibition, this is a very serious sin. And there's a reason that God forbids us to speak evil and judge others. One is it inflicts harm on the body of Christ. Three times he uses the term brethren: believers speaking evil of believers. Romans 14, 9 says this. Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and the things wherewith one may edify another. He's saying my relationship with my brothers and sisters in Christ ought to consist of me helping that person, building up that person, strengthening that person, not using my words to tear them down. Edify one another, promotes peace. When the body of Christ is strong, listen It is good for you, and it is good for me, for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to be strong and unified. and focused on Jesus Christ. It's good for us spiritually. It is bad for me spiritually. It makes it difficult for me and you spiritually. When the church is accusing each other and fussing and fighting, it makes it tough. for God's people to grow. So it is in my best interest, it is in your best interest to use our words and our actions and keep an attitude that builds, my brothers and sisters in Christ. That's strengthens my brothers and sisters in Christ. That lifts up my brothers and sisters in Christ, not tearing it down. It hurts the body of Christ when believers speak evil one of another, when believers judge one another. It hurts Say, well, I get what's coming to me. Go ahead and you'll you'll you'll leave a uh scorched earth behind you and hurt people and hurt the cause of Christ. Or I can die to self and say, you know, I'm going to obey God, I'm going to trust Him and do what the Bible says, and actually build up. Build up your family. You know what's in my best interest? I I wish I could live up to this like I'm preaching, but my best interest to build my wife. Lift her up. It's better for me. I can tear her down and trash it and hurt it and you know what? I'm just cutting my I'm just knocking the knees out from underneath myself. Why do we want to do that? Why do we do that to a brother or sister in Christ? You know what I found out? I I can be a I uh it's easier for me to be a good Christian if Mark's a good Christian. If Kenton and Tom and Cindy, if people around me are good Christians and strong and growing and build up, makes it easier for me to be strong and growing and build up. I cut them down all around me and cut down others and speak evil and do all this stuff. Guess what? I'm just I'm just burning my own field So it's it it hurts the cause of Christ. This is why God forbids it, because it hurts the body of Christ No one ever speaks evil another person so that they can correct that person's behavior. They always speak evil another person to change people's opinion about that person. If I'm speaking evil of Mark, going around here talk speaking evil of Mark, I'm not making Mark a better Christian. I'm not strengthening him. All I'm doing is infecting people's opinion about Mark. Not helping anything. I'm not curing anything. I'm not help I'm not solving any problem. That says don't do that. That hurts people. It hurts the cause of Christ. Evil speaking hurts the one doing it, and it also hurts the one being spoken of. No good comes out of it. I was speaking to a national pastor in another country on one of my trips. A national pastor. He wasn't a wasn't a missionary from our country or wasn't a missionary. He was a national pastor. Got saved, trained, was pastoring a church in this country. He pulled me aside. We talked a little bit. He had some questions. He made this statement to me. He said, Pastor Leatherman, the missionaries That are in my country from America, they do not have one good word to say about each other. They fuss and bicker And they cannot say one word positive about each other. I almost, I don't cry easily, I almost came to tears. My heart was shattered. My heart sank. And he made this statement. He says, Pastor, it is hurting us here in this country. It is hurting us. How many people agree with me? Those missionaries ought not to speak evil of each other. How many people agree with me with that? Absolutely. And they ought to be rebuked for it. I want to suggest to you, as much as we reject the idea of them speaking evil, we ought to reject the idea of you and I speaking evil one of another. Just as harmful, maybe not as a maybe not the same scale, but the same damage is done The same damage is done. It hurts the body of Christ. It also, I put this down, infringes on God's authority. I don't have the authority to speak evil another person I don't have the authority to judge another person. God's the only one that has that authority. When I speak evil of Kenton or somebody and I judge them, what I'm saying is I'm better than you. I have the authority to bring condemnation on you. I don't have that authority. God's the only one that has that authority. God is the one, verse 12 tells us, God is the one that has established the law, God is the only one qualified to judge according to the law. God is the only one that knows the motives. God is the only one that knows all factors behind their actions. God is the only one omniscient. You and I have to keep in mind, we may not know everything about it. We may not have all the facts But I'm here to tell you, as a preacher of the Word of God, the old King James Bible, as a preacher of the King James Bible, I'm here to tell you, God knows all the facts. So let's let him. Let's let him take care of it. If there's some evil speaking that needs to be done, let God do that. There's some judgment that needs to be made, let God do that. I don't have that authority. I don't have the resources God has to do that. What's the cure? First of all, don't listen to it. Somebody comes up and starts speaking evil with someone else, don't listen to it. Say, I'm sorry, listen, I really don't want to be a part of that. Excuse me. I had this I've had to say that recently to somebody. I say, listen, I don't want nothing to do with this. I want nothing to do with this. That's one way to stop it. Amen? Just stop it. I don't want to hear this. No, thank you. I'm sorry. So how do I, what's the cure for evil speaking? One, don't listen to it. Number two, focus on my own need to grow. Matthew chapter 7, verse 1 through 7 is the key there. Get that beam out of my own eye, and quit worrying about the mote in other people's eyes. I'm afraid some of us are going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ and we're so worked up here and now by what Micah did wrong, we're going to stand before the Jesus Christ and we're going to find out our problems were ten times bigger than what we were worried about theirs. We're going to find out God was much more concerned about some of the garbage going on in our own lives. That we were so worried about what's going on in that person's life, and we're gonna be standing there with this huge beam sticking out of our eye. Let's just take all our effort and all our worries and all the energy we put into trying to find out how to make this person right. And take all that turnaround and start focusing on how I can get thoroughly right with God. Revival isn't going to come to America. Revival's not going to come to my world when Kenton gets right with God. Revival's going to come to my world when I get right with God. I'm not going to get any more blessings because Kenton gets right with God. The blessings come when I get right with God. So zero our effort, number one, don't listen to it. Number two, focus on my own need to grow. You know what I found out, and this has happened just recently Every now and then, God lets me see how sinful I really am Every now and then, God lets me fall on my face, and I think he does it just to remind Dennis Sleatherman that without me, you are a vile, wicked, wretched sinner. And every now and then it's good for us to be reminded of what we are without Christ. And how deceitful and desperately wicked this old heart and nature in this body here is. And maybe if I start seeing that a little more, and maybe if I'm a little more aware of how what a wretch I am I'll quit worrying about what a wretch Mark is. These guys are never gonna sit here again. You you see what I'm saying? Number one, don't listen to it. Number two, focus on my own need to grow. And number three, learn to love others. Learn to love people. I think as I studied this and I kinda came down the end, I came to this conclusion, this whole problem is we just don't love people. We just don't love him. If I loved Brother Jerry, I wouldn't say it. I wouldn't speak evil of him. You know what 1 Corinthians 13 says? And I don't have the verse in front of me, it's up there. I'm running on radar right now. 1 Corinthians 13 says this. It uses the word charity, it's referring to love. It says this: charity, love, thinketh no evil. If I love someone, I'm not going to allow myself to think evil. You know what I found out? If I don't think evil of someone, I don't speak evil of that person. And so if I'm speaking evil of a brother or sister in Christ, that is irrefutable evidence that I don't love them. And if I don't love them, that's the second greatest command, like unto the first. I'm supposed to love God with all my heart, soul, mind. And the second's like unto it, love my neighbor as myself. And if I love my neighbor, I don't think evil of my neighbor. And if I don't think evil of my neighbor, I don't speak evil of my neighbor. So what's the cure? One, somebody else is speaking evil, don't listen to them. I'm not getting involved in that. Sorry. Not doing it Number two, you know, I need to work on my own spiritual growth because without Christ, I am an absolute wretch deserving of hell. And three, God, I need you to give me love in my heart for people. Let the love of God be shed abroad in my own heart by the Holy Spirit of God. So I don't think evil of people, and that'll sure when I quit thinking evil of people, I'll sure enough quit speaking evil. Of people. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Lord, I'm as convicted by this as anybody else. And Lord, we want to end the Lord's day humbling ourselves before you because you resist the proud. You give grace to the humble. And Lord, we need your grace to love one another. Speak positive and praise and uplift and edify my brothers and sisters in Christ. Not a select few, but my brothers and sisters in Christ, the body of Christ. How many would say, preacher, tonight, I need God to help me focus on my spiritual growth? I need God to help me to love My brothers and sisters and others, maybe family members, I need God to give me love in my heart for others. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God, preacher, God's Holy Spirit spoke to my heart tonight. God bless you. Let's finish out the Lord's day like we often do in an old-fashioned altar and say, God, give me grace. Humble myself before you. Help me grow in my faith to be strong and mature. Give me love for the unlovely and for all God's people. Father, bless our invitation. I ask now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together