I want to kind of take a big section within the message this evening, and I want to start out in chapter twelve of 2 Samuel And verse number 11. Just a little statement there. And then we're going to read about one, two, three, four other verses In the following chapters. Just a verse here, a verse there. So 2 Samuel chapter 12, and I want to begin with verse number 11. Notice it says there. This is Nathan. Get context here. Is Nathan speaking to David. He's confronted him. We've Study that. David is about to confess. He's applying his little parable that he told about the fellow with the little lamb. He's applying this to David. And he makes a statement here in the middle of verse. 11. Thus saith the Lord, behold, now look at this next statement. I will raise up evil against thee out of where? Thine own house. God says through Nathan, he's saying to David, because of the decision he made, the actions he took, he said, I'm going to raise up evil unto thee out of thine own house. Now, if you would, keep your place there. We're going to look at that a little bit again, but come over to chapter 13. And look with me, if you would, at verse number 21. And we'll talk about the context here of chapter 13. And verse 21, it says, But when King David heard all of these things, what happened in the first part of chapter 13, Amnon and Tamar and all that. When King David heard all these things, he was very wroth. Okay, so now he's angry. If you would, come over to verse 37. Of chapter number 13. But Absalom fled, went to Talmai, the son of Amahud, king of Gesher. Now look at this. And David what? Mourned for his son every day. Nathan told David, because of what you did, there's going to be evil in your house. In verse number 21 of chapter 13, David is very angry because of something that happened in his house. In verse 37, David's weeping and he's mourning. And notice it says, he mourned for his son. How often? every day. Uh if you would, come over to chapter 18. Back aways, a lot happens. A lot of painful things take place in chapter 13, 14, 15, all the way up to chapter 18. And look with me, if you would, at verse 33 of chapter 18. Absalom has rebelled against David. They're out pursuing him. And Joab killed David. We're going to look at this a little bit later on. And the king, verse 33, and the king was much moved when he found out his son was killed, his dead, Absalom. And he went up to the chamber over the gate, and what did he do? He wept. And as he went, thus he said, now you can hear you can just kind of feel the grief. And the overwhelming sorrow that has flooded David's heart. Oh, my son Absalom. My son, my son, Absalom. Would to God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son. Can you sense the grief? That has absolutely overwhelmed David. And then one more, verse, chapter 19 and verse number four. But the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, Oh my son Absalom, oh Absalom, my son, my son. You can't read chapters 13 through 19 and actually on beyond that. You can't read them and not see the evil. That has settled in in the house of David, the sorrow and the heartache, the weeping, the anger That is uh has taken over his home. Let's pray. And I want to talk about evil in the house of David. Let's pray together. Father, we ask now you bless our study tonight. We continue this dark Period of David's life and consequences, a lingering on. I pray now that you would speak to our hearts, help us to take serious heed. To what is taught here. I pray you would help us, Lord, to grasp the importance of these principles and apply them to our lives and help us to help others So I yield my will to you. I pray with all my heart, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And God, that you would speak the hearts and speak the lives. And change us, transform our minds, Lord, that we can be like Christ and guard against harmful decisions and actions. So again, work through me, Lord. Fill me with your spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Did you ever hear these statements? A couple statements. Did you ever hear someone say this? If you want to dance, You have to pay the fiddler. Anybody ever hear that? You want to dance, you've got to pay the fiddler. Here's another one. You made the bed, now you have to what? Sleep in it. You made the bed, you gotta sleep in it. Here's another one. I like this one. When you sleep with dogs, don't be surprised you wake up with fleas. One more, and we hear this one sometimes. The chickens are coming home to roost. Did ever hear any of those? What are they? What these are are clever sayings. Uh uh these are clever sayings that if we're going to indulge in sin, we're going to have to Deal with the consequences of that. If we're going to disregard God's instructions, then we're going to have to deal with the fallout from disregarding God's instructions. If we're going to demand our own will as opposed to God's will, and it's exactly what David did, he got what he wanted, regardless of what God said or who it affected And if we're going to demand our own will, then we have to deal with the consequences that come with demanding our own will. And now David is the chickens are coming home to roost for David. He's paying the fiddler He's sleeping in the bed that he made, so to speak. If you would, keep your place here in 2 Samuel, and we're going to jump around some of these. But I want to go to a New Testament passage real quickly, and we looked at this a couple weeks ago in one of our messages, and this is all just lingering, this whole event that David got himself into, this mess he's got himself into is these lingering consequences Galatians chapter number six, if you would come back there with me. Galatians chapter six. And I want to begin reading in verse number seven. Now, this is no doubt a familiar passage for many of us if you've been around. Uh Bible preaching very long, you've certainly come across these, especially if you've been in uh independent fundamental Baptist Church, hellfire and brimstone preaching, you're going to run across these passages sooner or later. But notice Galatians chapter 6 verse number 7. He says, be not deceived. Now Paul is writing to these churches in Galatia. And he starts off his statement here very strong. He wants them to listen to what he's about to say. He wants them to pay very, very careful attention. Be not deceived. God is not mocked, for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also what? Reap. Then he goes on. He says, For he that soweth to his flesh shall the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the spirit Shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. Let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. What he's saying here is, is going to have to pay the fiddler. There's consequences to our actions. Whatsoever we show, we're going to read. I got thinking about I was getting ready tonight. I was just thinking over my notes as I was cleaning up and getting dressed. I thought, you know, suppose a daddy tells his son to go out in the garden and he says, son, I want you to plant green beans. And uh plant a whole row of green beans. Well, let's imagine this boy doesn't like to eat green beans. And he certainly doesn't like to snap green beans. Anybody here ever snap green beans? I used to when I was little, I hated it The other thing I hated was shelling peas. And so the little boy gets stinky and he says, I don't really like green beans. I'd rather eat watermelon. And so instead of planting the green beans, he puts watermelon seeds in. So a little bit later on, uh uh the little sprout starts coming up, and daddy comes out and he says, That doesn't look like green bean sprouts to me. And the son gets convicted, and he confesses to daddy and says, Daddy, uh, I sinned. I did what I wanted to do, not what you told me to do, and I planted watermelon seeds instead of green bean seeds. And daddy deals with it, and maybe he gets a paddle or whatever, and then daddy says, Alright, it's over. I forgive you now. Question: If he's forgiven by his daddy for planting watermelon seeds Do those watermelon seeds somehow magically turn back into green bean seeds? No. Even though daddy's dealt with it, even though it's been confessed, And dealt with, you still got watermelon seeds growing, you're going to get watermelons. And that's a little bit the way it is with David. God's forgiven him God says you're not going to die. God's dealt with it. David has dealt with it as biblically and as thoroughly as you can. But the seeds that were planted. are still going to sprout the fruit that those seeds consist of. And that's what we see now. This is what Nathan told David is going to happen. Because of the actions you've taken, because of the decisions you've made. There are going to be fruit from that. There's going to be a harvest. Even though he's forgiven, there's still going to be consequences and results. So Galatians 6 says, be not deceived, God's not mocked. Whatsoever a man showeth that shall you also reap. Now we always, almost always, look at this. In the negative context. Well, you do wrong, you're going to reap for the wrong you do. Is that true? Yes or no? Yes, that's true, and we're going to see that. That's the context of our passage tonight. But there's a before we get overwhelmed with the negative side of that, I want to remind us there's a positive side of that also If we reap that which is good and we reap obedience and we reap faith and we reap commun, I'm sorry, if we sow obedience and we sow faith and we sow uh uh and we sow submission to God's will if we s and we sow dying to self if we sow that in our lives And we act that way and behave that way according to the will of God, there's also a harvest for a positive reaping. So this is more than just one way. If we do right, we reap the harvest of doing right. Now David didn't do right in this case. And he's going to reap the consequences. In other words, what I'm saying is when we confess our sin, God forgives us. How many people are glad for that? And by the way, when we confess our sin, we noted this in last week's message, and I think the week before, we noted that not only does God forgive us our sins, but he helps us get back up. He gives us brothers and sisters in Christ who can come and help us. He gives us opportunities to Get back in the game and serve the Lord again. He doesn't write us off. We still can get back up. And God helps us. So he forgives us and he helps us get back up. But we still got to deal with the consequences. And they're still there. And I want to add quickly, God helps us deal with the consequences. God helped David in much of the Psalms, if you would Come back to 2 Samuel chapter 12 again, if you would. But many of the psalms that were written penned by David after his sin with Bathsheba, after his rebuke by Nathan, after his humility and confession And during this period of reaping in the life of David, David wrote some of the most heart-touching and encouraging and blessed Psalms you're going to read in all the book of Psalms. So he wasn't, God wasn't done with them. And even in the consequences, even in the reaping, David still was used and blessed of God. in the midst of his heartache and pain. Look at verse eleven here in 2 Samuel chapter 12. We started off with this. It says, Thus saith the Lord. Behold, I will raise up evil out of thine own house. Chapter 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, and even beyond, David has experienced that statement. Now I want to look at that statement just briefly. He says, thou hast I will raise up evil against thy house. I did a little study on that word, evil. And it simply means this: it has the idea of unpleasantness, sorrow, sadness. Distress. There were some lengthy definitions, and I kind of summarized them with this statement: Emotional pain. In other words, Nathan's telling David, because you've done this, you're going to have some real sorrow. There's going to be real grief. And then he says, Because uh he says, uh I will raise up evil against thee, sadness and sorrow and distress, emotional pain against thee, out of thine own house. It's not going to come from the Philistines. It's not going to come from the Moabites and the Ammonites. It's going to come within your own house, David. If you would read and study, chapter 13, 14, all the way through 19, that's exactly what David is dealing with. Heartache, distress. Emotional pain from his own house, his own family. That's what the word own house. It means household. It means family. It means descendants And I think he's referring to your children. Your children. Somebody said, no man is an island unto himself. And even our most personal and private sins have an effect upon those closest to us. Here's our problem. We sin, and by the way, Christians can sin, you know that, right? If you ever meet a Christian tells you they don't sin anymore, I told this before, ask their spouse about that. We can sin and we do sin. We'd pray, we work, we walk with God, we'd resist as much as we can, but it's a part of life. We have to deal with it. Here's the problem with that is so often we will minimize our own sin in our minds. And we'll will uh we'll minimize it and we'll uh uh uh not realize, we'll not see it for what it really is Sometimes we'll justify it, we'll excuse it. Well it's not that big. Well, it was just personal, it was private. Now if we would learn to do that with other people's sins, we'd be a whole lot better off. We minimize ours and maximize everyone else's. And we want everybody to know what everybody else did, but then we minimize ours. It's the exact opposite. But here's our problem. We get this in our heads, and we're probably all guilty of this. Well, it's it won't affect anybody but me Just personal, it's just private. And it doesn't affect anybody else. And I'll tell you, that's a lie of the devil. Because no man's an island. And we affect other people And we often, the sins that we consider personal and private and doesn't affect anybody else, I'll tell you who they affect many times the most are those who are closest to us. He said, well, they don't even know about it. The fact of the matter is, you and I live in a spiritual world. And there is spiritual warfare all around us. And righteousness is part of the shield and the defense, doing right, trusting God, following God's instruction. Doing right is part of the spiritual defense of my household. And when I do wrong and when I allow sin in my own heart and life personally, I am also giving Satan an open door to those who are under me. I am giving Satan an opportunity to influence those who depend on me and look to me And David's actions with Bathsheba and his murder of Uriah and his covering up and his lies and his deceit and his hypocrisy affected more than just him and Bathsheba. It affected his children. You say, well, they weren't even a part of it, but they are part of David's household. And it affects others. Evil shall not depart out of thy house. For the rest of his life, David is haunted by the consequences of his foolish, sinful actions Now, I have no intention of going through verse by verse through chapter 13 and Amnon and Tamar and that whole Turid situation. We'll touch on it. We will look into Absalom's uprising against David because I want to study why that came about and how it came about and how David responded to it. But I want us to notice a few areas that David's sin, this evil that is going to rise up in his own household, what that consisted of. I want to give you a few thoughts on that and kind of look through here. The first one I notice. Is selfish manipulation. Selfish manipulation. How many people know what I mean? Talk about manipulation. Trying to pull strings and get things and get my way. Any y you know follow what I'm saying? Manipulating people so I can get into my position and I can I can uh uh get my what I want and I'll pull this and I'll influence them and I'll shuffle this around. I'm gonna get in where I want to be. Get my will accomplished. Selfish manipulation. Isn't that what David did with Bathsheba? Now guess what? We see his son doing that same thing. Look with me if you would at chapter thirteen and look at verse one And it came to pass after this. Now David's back up and running. He's leading the armies again. Bathsheba's expecting a second child now. And things seem to have settled down. And now this comes up And it came to pass after this that Absalom, the son of David, had a fair sister whose name was Tamar. And Amnon, the son of David, loved her. Now the Bible uses the term love there. And I think what he means by that, I think what the Lord means by that, he lusted for her, because if you look at his actions, it's anything but 1 Corinthians 13 love. And Amnon, and David, uh Amnon, the son of David, loved her. Look at this. And Amnon was so vexed that he fell sick for his sister Tamar. For she was a virgin, and Amnon thought it hard for him to do anything to her. So he's struggling. He wants her bad, just like David wanted Bathsheba. He wants her bad. But it vexed him and I can't do this I think Amnon had some convictions of his own. I think he had a conscience. I don't think he was just some raging pervert I think he was, by all appearances, a decent guy that, for the most part, wanted to do right. But here he had something he wanted. He thought it hard for him to do anything to her, verse three. But Amnon had a friend. Boy, here's a good message on associations. Whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeh, David's brother, so it was Amnon's cousin And Jonatab was a very what? Subtle man. He knew how to get his way. Rather, he could talk people into doing things that he wanted them to do, and he could manipulate people. And he said unto him, Why art thou being the king's son? Lean from day to day, wilt thou not tell me? Amnon said unto him, I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister. And Jonathan, Jonadab said unto him, Well, lay thee down on thy bed. Make thyself sick. And when thy father cometh to see thee, say unto him, I pray thee, let my sister Tamar come, and give me meat, and dress the meat in my sight, that I may see it, and eat it at her hand. The whole idea is to get her into the room with you, and once she's in there, then hey, you can have your way with her. Do you agree with me? That's manipulation. It's tricking her and working things out and pulling strings so that Amnon can get what he wants. Where did he learn that from? I think he learned it from his dad. David got what he wanted. He saw Bathsheba. Man, he desired her. He used his position and he used his influence and he used his servants and he got what he wanted. And now he looks at his son, he sees his son doing the same thing. Doing the same thing. We won't read on there, but Amnon rapes his sister, Tamar. It's interesting, if you would, notice verse 15, that Amnon hated her exceedingly, so that the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than the love with wherewith he had loved her And Amnon said unto her, Arise, be gone, get out of here. Selfish manipulation. David wanted what he wanted. He disregarded God's will. He disregarded Bathsheba's well-being. He disregarded the future consequences. He manipulated things to get what he wants. Didn't matter what it cost. Didn't matter who it hurt. Didn't matter what God said. He's going to get what he wanted. And Amnon follows in his footsteps. If you would, come to chapter 15. Here we have Absalom. Now Absalom wants the throne. Absalom wants to be king. And so he starts selfish manipulation. He starts calling people, and he starts saying, oh yeah, don't you think David's not this? And boy, if I was that, and he ought to be doing this. Look at chapter 15 and verse number 10. But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, As soon as you hear the sound of the trumpet, then shall you say, Absalom reigneth in Hebrew, and that's what he wanted. But back up, if you would. And uh what I want to see here is um verse number one, it said it came to pass after this that Absalom prepared him chariots and horses fifty men ran before him, Absalom rose up early and stood beside the way of the gate where folks came in to the king. And it was so that when any man had a controversy uh had a contrary came to the king for judgment. Absalom called out to him, What city art thou? He say thy servants, one of the tribes of Israel. Absalom said unto him, See, your matters are good And right, there's no man deputy to the king to hear that he's not doing this right. Absalom said more, oh, if I were made judge in the land, and every man which had any suit or cause might come to me, I would do him justice. You see the manipulation? Oh, I think this is let me tell you how this ought to go. Let me tell you how this ought to be run. Let me tell you what that preacher ain't doing right Let me tell you what the king listen, you ought to be doing it my way. On this matter, uh at verse five, and it's so that when any man came nigh to him to do obedience and poured forth his hand and kissed them. On this matter did Absalom to all of Israel that came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. Manipulation, exactly what David did with Bathsheba, Absalom is doing to get the king. Not one of these are concerned for the well being of others. They just want what they want. Question. Was David concerned about the well-being of Bathsheba? Somebody talk to me. Was he, oh man, I want to do what's best for her. No. Question, was Amnon concerned about the well-being of Tamar? No. He wanted what he wanted. Had nothing to do with whether it was good for her Had nothing to do with whether it would help her spiritually and mentally and physically, emotionally This is what he wanted. Question, was Absalom concerned at all about the well-being of Israel? No. He just wanted that position. He wanted to sit on that throne, not because It would be better off for Israel. It was just supposed, I want it. I want the throne. And exactly what David did. Exactly what David did. Selfishness destroys relationships. Selfishness grieves the Holy Spirit. Selfishness disqualifies one from discipleship. Jesus said in Luke chapter 9 that to be a disciple we are to deny ourselves. It's part of being a disciple. He says, you cannot be my disciple. If you don't take up your cross and follow me, you cannot be my disciple. Now let me ask you a question. What does it mean to take up our cross? Now talk to me tonight. We're not a small crowd here tonight. What does it mean to take up my cross? Any ideas? What? Bear your burdens? Okay? Is a cross something I can choose to accept or reject? Oh, I I I think it is. I think I can make the option. He says, You've got to take up your cross, or you can't be my disciple. That implies to me I have the option of not taking up the cross and not being a disciple. What do they do on crosses? What happens on crosses? People die. I don't think burying my cross is have having to deal with cancer I don't think bearing my cross has to do with arthritis in my knees. I don't have a choice on that. I've got to carry that. There's only one thing they do on crosses, is they kill people. That's all the cross is for. That's all it's about And so when the Lord says, if I want to be his disciples, I've got to take up my cross. What is he telling me needs to happen to me? I need to die to self. And as long as I'm trying to manipulate things, as long as I'm trying to what I want in my way, when I want it, how I want it Man, I'll twist things around and say and do what I got to do to get what I want. I am not a disciple of Jesus Christ. I can call myself whatever I want, no matter what position I hold. Selfishness eliminates any, it disqualifies discipleship. Bearing a cross is dying to self. Jesus was on that cross. You know why Jesus is on that cross? Because in the garden he said, not my will, but what? Thy will. He said, Lord, if it's possible, let this cup pass from me. But nevertheless, not my will. But thy will be done. You know what he's doing? He's taking up his cross. The Lord says, you and I need to do that. And David, because of his actions and because of his sin with Bathsheba, he manipulated things and he didn't take up a cross. He got what he wanted. And that influenced his son Amnon, and it influenced his son Absalom. And in a New Testament context, if you and I follow in that path, we're disqualifying ourselves from discipleship. We're hurting people. I put this down. Selfishness harms the church body. David hurt Israel bad. In Corinthians, Paul describes the, he uses, illustrates the cohesiveness of the body of Christ as if it's a physical body. And he says, some are the eye and some are the uh uh ear and some are did he use any other I forget what always said there, the eye, if a one was the eye, and uh, you know. And so the body's made up of a lot of different parts. What if one of the limbs or one of the organs in the body decided it's going to do its own thing and I wanna I I wanna be what I wanna be? Uh would you agree with me? There'd be a problem with that body. When I was down in Tennessee, the church there at Highland Park, they had a pastor after Dr. Um Roberts resigned and then Dr. Faulkner resigned. I had a fellow come in, Jadon Jennings was his name. And he had, I forget what the disease was he had, but his arms and his legs, his muscles would convulse. involuntarily. I mean violently, they would convulse And he was fine other than that, but he would walk down the sidewalk and he would be like this. I mean literally like I'm doing. I'm not trying to make fun. This is literally he'd sit on the pew and he'd sit there in just violent convulsions. Amazingly, when he got up to preach, it didn't do it. But as soon as he stopped preaching, come back down, they'd come back. What that was is different muscles in his body were acting independently of the rest of the body. And it was very harmful and very painful. And you can imagine made it difficult to drive. And when a member of the church says, you know, I want what I want, and I'm going to do my thing, and I want what I want, and they don't think about what's best for the church and what's best for the body. They're exactly what was happening to that preacher. And that's what David and Amnon and Absalom are doing to the nation of Israel. And David started this whole thing by demanding his way, selfish manipulation. I put this down. Any parent that disregards God's word or God's will must not be surprised. When their children disregard their word and their will. If I'm not willing to pay attention and submit and trust and obey my Heavenly Father. Then don't you and I have no right to expect our children to obey their earthly parents. Right or wrong? Right or wrong? David's, Nathan said, there's going to be evil come up in your own house. Lo and behold, there it is. There it is. Number two, I'll go through these next a little quicker. There's callous ingratitude Number one, there's selfish manipulation. Number two, I put this down, callous ingratitude. Compare chapter 12 and verse number eight God says to David, this is when he's confronting David about his sin, and he says, I gave thee thy master's house. And thy master's wives into thy bosom, and gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah. And if that had been too little, I would moreover have given unto thee such and such things What was God saying? If you remember, we looked at this, but God was saying, Man, I've done so much for you. I've given you so many privileges and so many resources and so many blessings But it wasn't good enough. And you wanted more. And you weren't content with what God gave you. And you demanded To have another man's wife. Now look what Absalom, look what Amnon does. Come over, if you would, to chapter 13. And look with me at verse 4. Now this is Jonadab, this subtle fellow, talking to Amnon about his desire for his sister. And he looks, and he says, He said unto him Why art thou, then he injects this little description in here, why art thou, being the king's son, lean from day to day? What was Jonadab saying to him? I think Jonadab was saying, hey, Amnon, you're the king's son. You can get whatever you want. But Abnon wasn't satisfied with that position. He wanted something outside and more than what he was already given. And so the whole problem here that David started was God had been so good to him, but it wasn't good enough. And God had been so good to Amnon to be the child of the king, the son of the king. But he wanted what he wanted. And Absalom was a son of the king and perhaps could have held high positions in the kingdom. But Amnon wanted the kingdom for himself. The primary problem of most of our promary cause of most of our problems is simply this: ingratitude for what we already have. And we won more. David had did it. Absalom or Amnon and Absalom. Let me give you another one here real quickly. Shameful unconcern. Shameful unconcern. I mentioned, I got a little ahead of myself a bit ago, but uh David wasn't concerned for the well-being of Bathsheba. That was the last thing in his mind. It was what he wanted. Look with me at chapter 13 and verse 15. We looked at this. Then Amnon hated her exceedingly. So that the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than the love wherewith he had loved her. You know what I uh that's what makes me suspect the sincerity of Annan's love. I study what the Bible says about love, and that does not look like love to me. That looks like someone who viewed her as an object to fulfill his pleasure. And you know, a lot of times we want our way and we want what we want and we insist and we'll manipulate and do everything, not because of the well-being or because it's best for that. But it's simply that's an object to use to satisfy some selfish desire of mine. And that's a person I can just use to satisfy something that I want. And they learned it from David. Evil in thine own house. Self-centered parents often produce self-centered children. Do you ever notice that? No concern for others. A fourth observation I make here is a tragic separation. Nathan told David, There's going to be evil rise up within your household. And lo and behold, his kids use selfish manipulation to get their way. They have calloused ingratitude. They already have blessed their children of the king. That's not good enough. They don't care about others. They just want to use them for their own desires. And then tragic separation. If you read these chapters here, 13 on through 19, you find brothers raping sisters. You find brothers hating their brothers. You find brothers killing their brothers. You find sons rebelling against their father and a son trying to kill his father. David's dealing with this for years. Nathan said, there's going to evil rise up in your household. And let me give you my last one real quick: sadness and sorrow. I've read through chapter 13 through 19. I read it and read it and looked at it. And it's just sadness It's weeping. It's anger. David's angry. Absalom's angry. Amnon gets killed We must take our sin very seriously. We must weigh our words and our actions very carefully because it has a profound effect not just on ourselves. but on those dear to us. It has a profound effect not just on me But on those around me. And can I put it this way? I believe it has a profound effect on the coming generation. Anybody here ever complain about kids these days? Oh kids easy. Oh bunch of rebel, bunch of sport. If that was my kid, he'd be getting a paddle. Anybody know what I'm talking about? We go to Walmart, that kid, boy if I got old Kids are the same. For all the generations they've born with the same sinful nature. The kids today aren't born any more or less sinful than the kids 500 years ago. You know what the difference is? People raising them. We're disregarding the Word of God and we're demanding things for ourselves and we're manipulating, we're unhappy with what we have and the Opportunities were given and I want this and I'm going to get that. So David did, and the next generation suffered deeply for it. We must take our sin very seriously. It has a profound effect upon our youth. It has a profound effect upon those around us, not just us. One of my favorite preachers, he's been with the Lord a number of years ago. He would preach every Thanksgiving morning. Highland Park Baptist Church had a big Thanksgiving day service at 11 o'clock Thursday morning. And I mean people came out. And every year Dr. Bob Kelly preached that meeting. And then sometimes he preached for I love Bob Kelly. Man, that guy was a preacher, old school, leather lung, hellfire, and brimstone Bible boom. Powerful. One year he was preaching revival meeting and he told an event that happened to him, an incident that happened to him when he was preaching revival in Texas, and I've mentioned it here a couple of times over the years. But he was preaching in Texas, and this was years ago, and back in long anybody here remember back when you'd have a special speaker and a lot of times he stayed in the homes. They would stay in the homes of people of the church. Now I think that was kind of a neat thing, but it's nice for him to have a, you know, take care of in a motel. But regardless, he was staying in the home of this family in Texas while he was preaching revival meeting at their church that week And he said the power of God was on the services and people were getting right and people humbling themselves and souls getting saved. He said the first morning that he after Sunday started, the first morning, Monday morning, he came out for breakfast at the time arranged, and there was a little child sitting there, and he said he could tell right away something wasn't right. He said the child's face was deformed. He said the child's body was obviously severely handicapped. And the boy was there, a young child, he was there kind of feeding himself, and Bob Kelly, if I remember correctly, said he tried to engage the little boy in conversation. He couldn't hardly talk, and he said there was serious problems. Finally the father came out and sat down and they had breakfast together. The wife came out and took the child back and cleaned them up and getting them ready, and the husband, the father of the child was sitting there and he His head was down. He says, Brother Kelly, you've met my son. He goes, yeah. He said, um, you saw his condition. He said, yeah. And Dr. Kelly said tears began to roll down the man's cheeks. He said, before I met my wife, he said I lived in Sith. I wanted what I wanted. And I got my way. And I used people and I manipulated people to get what I wanted. He says I didn't know it, but by the time I met and married my wife, I'd gotten saved. And I contracted a disease. When I was out getting my way, we didn't know it. Our child was born. My child's condition is the result of my sins in my youth. And he said, by this time the man's sobbing And he said, every day I have to look and see what my disobedience to God did to my child. I don't know about you, but that's heart-wrenching. That's what David for the rest of his life is a daughter that's been raped. Son that's a rapist and is murdered. Another son that's in a rebellion against them and hates them, wants to kill him. Nathan said, evil will rise up in your house because of Was David forgiven? Yes. Was David able to get back up and go and serve God? Yes, and God used him in tremendous ways. But there's consequences. And we have to be very and I say what I said a bit ago, we have to weigh our actions and our words and our behavior very, very carefully because it affects others. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. I know this is pretty heavy. This is pretty sobery stuff. But Lord, life is real. And actions do have consequences. And I pray you'd help us to be very careful and help us to help others by our example. To trust you and humbly obey you and allow you to lead us and direct us so that you can use us to help others. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need to stop and weigh my actions and my words and my attitudes a little more carefully. I find myself sometimes getting careless and getting selfish. And I need God to help me to take up my cross and let the Lord have his way in my life. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I need that. I need that. We as long I think as long as we have a sinful nature, we're gonna have to deal with this. We have to die daily We have to trust the Lord and let Him lead us. Father, I pray you bless now invitation. Help us, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen.