Take your Bibles and go to Proverbs chapter 14. Proverbs chapter 14. Just one uh verse of Scripture, Proverbs chapter 14. We're gonna read verse 34. Pastor, thank you for asking me to to to preach tonight. Um I every time I every time I get behind this this podium, this pulpit, um, it's kind of a little overwhelming to be honest with you, 'cause it's I mean Pastor Leatherman, he's the greatest pastor in the world, I think. And um to come and preach behind his pulpit, it's um it's humbling, it's an honor, and and Pastor, I thank you uh for trusting me. To do that. It means the world to me. Just one verse, verse 34, Proverbs 14, verse 34. Righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is a reproach to any people. Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach. Any people. Let's pray in the message this evening. Heavenly Father, Lord, we love you. Lord, we thank you for loving us. You've been so good to us. Um, Lord, you've given us this great country we're in. You've given us this great church to be a part of. You've given us families, Lord. You've provided for our needs. Lord, more importantly than anything else, you provide a way of salvation for us. Through Jesus Christ, Lord, we're grateful for that. I ask now, Lord, that as I preach, that you would fill me with your Spirit Lord, I ask that if there's anything that I'm about to say that is uh contrary to your word, I ask that you would stop me, Lord, keep me from saying it. Lord, and I ask that you would just what I'm asking, Lord, is that you would take over tonight. And that you would preach to us, Lord. And it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. Just that first phrase, I was just meditating on that first phrase the past couple days, and it is very simple, just a few words here. But the meaning behind it is so great. Just think about this. Righteousness exalteth a nation. Righteousness exalteth a nation. Obviously today is Veterans Day. Our nation is is 244 and a few months old. Today we recognize all of the veterans that have signed up um to serve our country. Over the past two and a half centuries. They've signed up, they've enlisted. To protect our our republic, our nation. They fought for freedom and liberty, but but not just for freedom and liberty in and of themselves, but to preserve a God-centered nation That God has given us. And they've put their lives on the line for that. And today we stop and recognize them and and say thank you to those that put their lives on the line. to preserve this this God given republic that we call the United States of America. Now if you if you know me very well, if you know me very long or and I think I can speak for for pastor as well, we love our country. We love it very, very much. Um we consider ourselves patriots, and I think I'm speaking for my family as well. We consider ourselves patriots. And um I'm first and foremost, let me clarify, first and foremost a citizen of heaven. I'm a Christian first. But second to that, I am an American and I love everything that America represents. And um and I'm extremely thankful to those that signed up and have enlisted to preserve this uh this republic, this country that I love so very, very much. Now throughout the in s the entire length of our nation we've seen some, but not much, but over the past decade especially so there has been um this ramping up, I guess you would say, of an anti-American philosophy, which has gone across the country, and this just absolutely blows my mind. A country that has done more for the world than any other country. A country that is known as a land of opportunity, a land of freedom that people try very hard to get into Um and there is there is this uh movement that is against uh everything that America stands for and has always stood for. We see a movement against capitalism. We see a movement against constitutionalism. And I was talking with Pastor earlier today, and all of that really is just a side effect of the real problem. See the reason people are against American capitalism and the American Constitution and really American history and everything that it represents. Is because of the bigger problem they have, is that that's there against God. Now understand this: that our country was built and founded on a godly heritage. And to hate an American heritage is nothing more than a symptom of hating God. Like I said, I love our country. I love everything that our country has always stood for. And I think um Thomas Jefferson summed it up very, very well in the Declaration of Independence when he wrote We hold these truths to be self evident that all men are created equal, and that are endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, among these life, liberty, pursuit of happiness. You see, he recognized, along with our other forefathers. That we don't just get here by accident, but we have a creator. We have a God. And that is where that is the source of our freedoms. That is the source of our liberties. Second Corinthians three seventeen says, Where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. Now, I lo I love everything about our country and its history and all this. I love our founding fathers recognize God as the one who gives us our freedom and there's something they recognize even more so than that is um the the freedom we have in Christ. And it was Ben Franklin that said that our biblical constitution wouldn't be any good unless we believed in the Bible. And if you remove the Bible from the country, then the country will fall apart. The Bible is the cornerstone. of our nation and always was and always has been. And there has been a systematic of movement to get rid of the Bible. Obviously they've tried to remove it from schools and things like that. And it's talked uh the the Bible just seems to it seems to have disappeared from our education system. But I like the way Pastor uh me mentioned it a few weeks ago. We talk about getting the the the Bible back in our schools and we should, but we really need it back in our home. Because that's what makes up the nation as many homes. And that's what makes up the country as many homes. And the Bible was the foundation. And our country is built on biblical principles, and if you remove the Bible, it will fall apart. And we need the Bible. We need to get back to the Bible again in our homes. And one thing I like about America is over the past two and a half centuries it has been a beacon of light for shedding the gospel around the world, spreading the gospel around the world. We've sent missionaries to other countries, to dark continents, and to uh areas of the world that were unreached. And I I I I wonder sometimes how many Untold no- what's the number of people that are saved as a result of missionaries that the United States has sent out? And I wonder this sometimes, but There are many people that are s where have been saved in foreign nations as a result. And America has been good for the world. I love the hi the history of America from from Chris Christopher Columbus and all that going forward to the colonies as they came here learning about the the uh scrooby congregation, the pilgrims we call them. Why they came here. Some came for bad reasons, I'm sure. But if anyone tells you that no one came here for religious freedom and freedom to worship God, they're wrong. That's why people came here. That's why the pilgrims came here. I love the history of the war of independence, the fight for our country to be free from the tyranny and from government oppression and things like that. But again, more importantly, they fought for freedom to worship God the way they saw fit. I love the whole idea of America and why it's here, where it came from, and I think you get the picture here I love the fact that you fast forward a little bit in our history, the beginning of the 1900s, war was all over the world. Um and then again it happened in World War II. There was war throughout the in you know the whole world pretty much was at war. And both times the United States saved the world. And I believe that God used this nation. I'm convinced of that. I love our godly heritage. We go to uh Capitol Connection every year in March, and when you take that tour of the Capitol, you cannot help but see scripture references all over the Capitol. The biblical principles are all over the place there in Washington. That's what started this country. That's what founded this country was biblical principles founded by godly men. That love the Lord. And again, it was Ben Franklin. I mentioned this earlier. He said he was the uh he said the only way that a nation will prosper, that this nation will prosper is if it continues to live by the Bible. I love my country. I love everything about it. I'm proud to be an American. Again, first and foremost, I'm a Christian. I like what Pastor said earlier about referencing the song that Mark sang. We really need some people to just sign up in the Lord's army and fight for him. We do. Now the thing is, I love I love my country. Our nation here is at a turning point and we can see it. Our nation Is not this this there's no way to sugarcoat this or anything. Our nation is not as godly as it once was. It is not. From our entertainment to our media, our politicians, I mean even some of our pulpits, it's not it's not what it was. It is not as godly as it once was, and because of this our nation is on the brink of destruction. And you you can see it It's clear. You can see it, whether you look on your phone, whether you look on the TV, whether you listen to the radio, whether you talk to people at work, you can see the state of the country. There is fear. People are scared. There is a fear that has gripped the nation. From from from fear of of a virus that hit at the beginning of the year. to to just stuff that's happened over the past few weeks. People are scared. What's going to happen to the country? What direction are we going to go? There's a fear. There's unrest. People are rioting. People are burning cities down. Again, this just blows my mind that we're in a spot where we would hate law enforcement. And you and you see police cars on fire? You see you see businesses, the peop people's lives they spent building these businesses, just ransacked, destroyed, burnt down, looted. There's chaos in the country and you can see it. There's hatred from every aspect. People there are so much hatred. You could pick either political side. You could pick any um any gender, any race, any location, state, city, however you want to split it up. There are people filled with hate everywhere And you can see it. There's a move to get rid of law and order. Now I say all I say this. I believe God is not done with our nation yet. Why do I say that? Because we are still here. We are still here. I still believe in the United States of America. I believe that God can still use it if we meet this criteria in verse 34. Righteousness exalteth a nation. Do we want to see our nation exalted again like it once was? Then we have got to be the righteous nation that we once were. I believe God is not done with our nation yet, and I say that because we're still here, and I want to see our nation great again like it once was. And don't get me wrong, I still believe our nation is great. I still believe it's a wonderful place. I'd rather live here than anywhere else. But we have gotten away from the biblical principles that we were founded on. And we are not as righteous of a nation as we once were. And this worries me because verse 34 says: righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. A reproach to any people. Now, we look here, it says the righteousness exalteth a nation. The word exalt means to raise high, to elevate, to elevate in power. Wealth, rank, or dignity. Delivating power, wealth, rank, and dignity And that's what I want to see for our nation. I want to see our nation elevated in power, wealth, rank, and most importantly dignity. I want to see dignity return to our nation the way we once had it. Now again, please don't get me wrong. I love my country. I love this nation. I think it's better than any place in the world, and I don't mean to sound like I'm talking bad about my country, because I love it very much. But we have gotten away from the righteousness that we were built on. So I want to see all these things come back. I want to see the our our our military continue to be the strongest. I want to see our national debt gone, our currency solid, but there is so much more than just this stuff we look at. There's so much more than a strong military. A military is not what makes our nation great. Today's Veterans Day. We thank the Lord for our veterans. But if it was just simply up to a military of a nation, that is not what makes the nation great. And it was simply up to a currency, we see our national debt has just gone through the roof. Getting rid of the national debt is not what's going to save the nation. I want to see our nation's families prosper and live well. But I want to see it continue to grow. But again, that's not what makes the nation great. What makes our what will make our nation great and what will exalt it even further Is for our nation to turn back to the Christian heritage and biblical principles which it was founded on, and that is the righteousness Righteousness. Now, a couple points here, real quick. Most of you know I don't talk for very long, but just a couple points here I want to really point out. Now we see this word righteousness, and there's a couple different uh ways the word righteousness is used in the Bible. One is when we talk about the righteousness of Christ, right? We're sinners, we are unrighteous, there's none that doeth good, but when we trust Christ as our Savior His righteousness is then applied to our account, and we have obtained the righteousness of Christ. Amen. And again, you can't have a great nation. You can't have a nation that's going to be exalted if people don't accept Christ. But then there's also this other aspect of it. And I'll talk about that here again in a second. But there's also this aspect of righteousness we see in the Bible, and that is of living right, living righteously. We need to live right. We need to live righteously. Making right choices, doing right because it's right. Now, if we are not going to live righteously and live right according to God's principles, not what we think is right, not what someone else thinks is right, but what the Bible says is right. What God says is right. Then God will bless and exalt a nation who lives by the Bible. Who lives by the right principles we see in the Bible. We just need to live right again. We just need to live right again. Again, we were talking about this and a and there is so much unrighteousness that just overlooks. From adultery that just seems like it's a normal thing now, to other other forms of promiscuity and things like that. And then just lying and deceit and the sneakiness of individuals And we could just keep going on. There's things that are wicked and wrong that we just kind of accept. It's like the new normal or something. Um few years ago, um when the when the Supreme Court made its ruling on sodomy, on on gay marriage I mean we were all up in arms about it and and and it's we it's almost like it's normal now. It's like we've forgotten about preaching against things like this. We've forgotten about preaching And I'm not saying our our pastor, please don't get me wrong, I'm saying the our country in general. We've forgotten about the s the horribleness of sin. And it was almost like we just accepted it and moved on in our country. We we can't do that. Sin is a reproach whether We pay attention to it or not, sin is a reproach to any people. Doesn't matter the size of the country, doesn't matter the prosperity of the country. Sin is a reproach to any people I kind of got off on a on a side note there, but we have got to live right God will bless this country if we live right. If we make right decisions. By right decisions, I mean making decisions based off of biblical principles, based off of the Word of God. We need to have a culture that promotes righteousness. Right now we have a culture that does not promote righteousness. The entertainment industry is, I don't even want to call it entertainment. The entertainment industry is just it is not promoting righteousness. We have political commentators that aren't promoting righteousness. We have music that's not promoting righteousness. We have school systems that aren't promoting righteousness We have w w what it is the the worst out of all of these things is we have homes, we have families, we have moms and dads that don't promote righteousness in their own homes Righteousness is what's going to exalt the nation living right, living by biblical principles If we have a society that promotes sin, then we have a society that is going to promote the thing that brings the reproach on the nation to any people. We need to well I I guess the point I want to make is in this is we need to be the culture. Don't accept the fact that the the the wicked entertainment industry and the it and the wicked media and all this stuff. Don't accept oh well that's just our culture. Why must we be so silent in our culture? Why can't we be more bold in our witness? Why can't we be more bold in sharing the gospel? Why does it have to be the filth that takes over? Why can't we take over the conversation at work talking about the Lord? If we let the sin be exalted in the workplace, in the home, in the school, wherever, then that sin is going to be what takes over the culture. You be the culture. Don't be scared to bring the Lord up at your work. Don't be scared to bring your Bible and pull it out at lunch. Don't be scared to pray at lunch. Don't be scared or timid or fearful to promote righteousness. Because righteousness is what's going to exalt the nation. We look to this political party or what or the other political party, we look to a candidate, we look to a person, that's not what's going to exalt the nation Righteousness exalteth the nation. You become the culture. You, as a Christian person, someone that has been saved by Jesus Christ. You be bold. I'm tired of the bold people being the wicked people. I'm tired of the bold media being the filth. We need to speak up. We need to take our culture back. Our Christian culture, our Christian heritage. We need to be the ones that bring it back. Again, I mentioned this earlier, but this is the most important part. Righteousness exalteth a nation. If you have not obtained the righteousness of Christ, if a people is not a saved people If a nation as a whole is a nation that has rejected Christ and has not accepted them, and they're not saved, that needs to be step number one. We need people to get saved. We talk about this. I am all for campaigning. I am all for getting involved as in politics as a Christian. I think that's that's great, but it is not going to replace soul winning. We have got to get involved in our soul winning. Yes, get involved in politics. Yes, vote, all this stuff. Absolutely. But first and foremost, we have got to be that that salt in the earth that spreads the word of God. We have got to be that. And i if we just sit back and say, Oh, I wonder what direction this country is going to go and do nothing about it, it's not going to go the right direction. We have got to put the Bible back in the home, back in the school, back on the streets, and bring back this Christian culture that we inherited from our forefathers. Righteousness exalteth a nation. Righteousness exalteth a nation. If you want to see the nation exalted, you've got to First of all, tell people about Christ so they can obtain the righteousness of Christ and then live right ourselves. And we will see the nation exalted. We will. So the first half, righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is a reproach to any people I want to see my nation exalted. But I see so much sin. And I know what this verse says. I know what God's Word says here. It says, sin is a reproach to any people. The word reproach means shame, infamy, or disgrace. There is a disgrace that comes with sin. There is a shame that comes with sin. On the individual level, it's the same. If we find out that someone has committed a sin, we say, oh, that is a shame. Or we say, oh, that is so disgraceful. It's true on the individual and it's true as a whole, as a nation, I should say. A nation that promotes a sin. That's a disgrace. And that's a shame. And that breaks my heart because there are sins Wicked sins that our nation has accepted and promoted and passed its law. I cannot understand Why so many millions of children have been murdered. That is a shame, and that is a disgrace. And this sin has brought a reproach on our nation. The good news is our nation can be exalted. If we get back to righteousness, say, no, murder is not right. To destroy a little baby made in God's image is not right. We have got to get back to that. Our nation will be exalted. And we could go on down the list of different sins there. I don't want to dwell on any one sin, but the point is, it is a reproach, both publicly and privately. This is where it gets difficult. You can look at a group of people, you can look at a nation, you might look at a party, a political party, you might look at a certain group of people or a certain whatever And you say, oh, that is horrible because they promote this sin. And then we don't take care of our own sin. I think we were talking about this today. We say, oh man, people preach again against the sin of sodomy, and we should. But then we we don't look at the own sins that we have. We we we we we act like one sin is so bad, but we don't clean up those sin in our own life. Oh yeah, righteousness exalteth the nation, but I'm not gonna take care of my sin and live right. That is a double standard. We need righteousness as a whole, as a nation, but on the individual level as well. If Christians would live right, then the nation would act right. Sin is a reproach. It's disgraceful. It's shameful We say, oh, the the the sin has destroyed the country. Well it's definitely hurt, and it has brought a reproach. But but I think it's more than just the country. I think it's also the home. Again, the the the country is made up of families. A nation is made up of families. A county's made up of families, a state's made up of many, many homes, and sin has destroyed our home It's brought a reproach on our home, approach on our own individual lives. And you could look at any any entity, any group. Sin is a reproach. And we need to treat sin as something shameful, as something disgraceful Now this is interesting. It says sin is your approach to any people. I mentioned this briefly earlier, so I won't spend too much time on it, but no matter how big the country is, how big the nation is, how wealthy it is, how big the military is, how long it's been around. Sin is still going to be your reproach. Sin does not just damage you. A lot of times we think, well, I'll you know this will only affect me. We need to understand that sin does not only affect us as an individual, it affects our families, it affects our nation. Sin has reproached any people. So what should we do about it? We need to stand against sin. You wanna s you you care about your your country, you're gonna stand against sin. We must oppose sin. Again, publicly and privately. Righteousness exalteth the nation. And America has been the most exalted nation. It has done so much for the world, so much for its own citizens. It has been uh it has sent out the gospel throughout the whole globe. I thank God for our country. I love everything about it. I love the country's history. I love our founding fathers. I love our biblical constitution. I love it. I love the thought that there can be freedom, there can be liberty, but they understood, 2 Corinthians 3:17, where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. I love the nation. I love everything about it. I really do. I love being an American. Again, first off, I'm a Christian. I'm a citizen of heaven first, but I'm glad that the Lord allowed me to live here, to be born here. I love that song Brother Mark sang earlier. Man, that was awesome. I love the song we sang, uh the congregational we we sang. My country tis of thee. And that's it. Our country is of Him. It was founded on biblical principles by God-fearing individuals. And righteousness exalted this nation tremendously. And I want to see our country to continue to be exalted. So to kind of sum everything up, we must make up our minds that we as Christians are going to live right. We're going to live righteously. We're going to make right decisions. We're going to make decisions based off the Word of God. Why? Because righteousness exalteth a nation. We must make up our minds that we are going to do our best to spread the gospel, to dominate our own culture within our circles. We gotta must make up our mind that we're gonna take our tracks to work, take our Bibles to work, talk about the Lord, talk about things He's done, praise His name, rather than letting someone else praise something else, something sinful. We must make up our minds that we are going to spread the gospel. That is the key. Then we must make up our minds that we will resist temptation that comes in our own lives because sin is a reproach to any people. Our nation is just one generation away, and it always has been, by the way. You know you'll say, well people you'll hear people say, or this might be the last generation our nation's here, our generation is just one Generation from extinction. Well, it's always been one generation from extinction because you don't know what's going to come next. But I will tell you this: righteousness will exalt this nation. And if we have a nonchalant, I don't care kind of attitude of oh well let's see what kinda happens from here. I'm gonna stay in the back seat And let wickedness take over my country, and we don't turn from our own personal wicked ways and humble ourselves, then I don't know how much longer our nation will be exalted. We are the ones here as Christians standing in the gap we have been called to save our country. Not by going to Facebook, not by going to Twitter and spouting off, but by going back to righteousness. Righteousness exalteth a nation. We know this verse. When I uh read the reference, you probably recognized it. Can we apply it? Can we apply it to not just our country, but to our own individual lives? Righteousness exalteth a nation. I I love this country, I love everything about it. But we have got to live right. And we have got to share the gospel so that others can obtain the righteousness of Christ. And if we continue As a nation to go down a path of sin, it will be a reproach. Sin is a reproach to any people. So, what can I do as an individual? You say, well the the the country we don't even know what direction it's going. We don't know what's gonna happen. What can I do to get involved to help my country? Well you can get your own life right. And then you can start sharing the gospel. Because as people get saved, their way of thinking changes. I've said pretty much everything I need to say. Just one more time. Righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is reproach. to any people. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for the country. We thank you for our nation. Lord, we love we love this republic republic we live in called the United States of America. We love it We're grateful for it. Well, I uh again I'm I'm I consider myself a child of you first, a citizen of heaven first, but at the same time, Lord, second to that. I am glad to be called an American. I thank you for that, Lord. This world's a big place, and there's many different places you could have had me be, Lord, and you let me be born here, and I thank you for it. Lord, I care very much about the nation. I care very much about the country. And Lord, I ask that in my own personal life, that I I I would live right? Lord I ask that I'd be a little bit better about sharing the gospel with with others, Lord. And Lord, I ask that your people that have people that have trusted in you would would quit sitting on the back, Lord. And get back here on the front lines sharing the gospel, being bold in their witness, being bold in their conversation of you. Lord, I pray our homes would get the Bible back in it. I pray our schools would be filled with the Bible again. I pray, Lord, that righteousness would return to our nation so that you would exalt it again. Lord, we sang the song, My country tis of thee, Lord, and we recognize that our country does come from you, and we thank you for it. And Lord, more than anything, we thank you for sending Jesus to die for our sins. Lord, as much as I love this country, I'm only here for a little while. And Lord, I'm thankful, not just for my home here, but for my home in heaven that you provided through Jesus Christ. And if there's anyone listening, Lord, that does not have that home in heaven, I pray that they would that they'd get that settled. And they trust you, Lord, as their Savior. And it's in Jesus' name, men.