Neighborhood Bible time. And he turned my oldest adopted son's life around spiritually. He's a deacon today at West Side Baptist Church in Des Moines, Iowa. and in charge of their bus ministry. So, neighborhood Bible time. Then I met Larry Coontz. Is that true? Could you stand up? You were getting pregnant about taking neighborhood Bible time over last time I saw you. Have you not supported me almost 20 years ago personally in my ministry? Look at this connection. Now you stand up Turn around. His pastor I taught twenty-five years ago, wherever he's from. Jimmy Shelton, is that true? Okay. In fact, I think I chaperone him and his wife on their first date. Thank you. So there's a neighborhood Bible time connection that all comes back to you. Isn't that great? So, amen. We're not here by accident. I'm glad to be here. I'm glad you mentioned something about Brother Debocotus. He is thankful that he's deaf. And I'll tell you what, it's hard to beat that, isn't it? And then Brother Weber knows this. God called him to Mongolia, right? Dr. Charlie King. And uh man I was trying to talk you out of it, wasn't I? I mean I'm I'm pretty tough, aren't I? Yeah, that whuse I when I have to send people off the mission I'll make their and after about thirty minutes talking to them, good night I got out of their way Because you can't you can't manipulate that. I know God's on 'em and his wife's after it. That's a good thing. And uh and not all wives are into this, but I'm telling ya I'm glad God's called them to Mongolia. We've got another couple coming in June. That'll be four couples. And boy, I'm glad God called them to Mongolia and not me. Well I think the average temperature there is about 18 degrees hadn't I'm just decent. You know God called me the tropics, but praise the Lord. And then for the neighborhood Bible time, you'll meet the Grinsteads tomorrow night When you beat Brother Grinstead, he speaks in slow motion. You thought Brother Weber slow This guy's gotta learn his language almost backwards. You'll know what I mean when you hear him. Turn into Bibles tonight with me. Uh uh we're gonna go to two places and we'll talk More about me later. And uh preacher, I appreciate the water they have here for you and me. But which one's mine? Okay. See he could understand me. Does he read lips? Now they're arguing. You don't read lips, okay. Tommy did a good job for me. Amen. But I can understand A man. That's the same thing. That's it, okay, good. All right. So you translate for him fast as you can, because you if you wear out, just take a rest there. It's hard to translate when we teach it by our candidate schools. We have three deaf couples now going with us. We have to have eight translators, interpreters, I gotta say it right, interpreters come in. Because they only last about 30 minutes. I didn't realize the work involved. And so uh you pray for us because in about 30 days we're going to have uh about 86 missionaries with us preparing to go to the mission field. We're the largest independent Baptist mission board in America, and we have grown from my first summer we had 60, last summer 74. This summer eighty-six preparing to go. So my goal is to get it up to a thousand. When the world and Christianity is trending down and out, I want to be trending up and on for God. Amen. And uh there'll be no confusion that we're after missionaries and after souls. So now you're in Second Corinthians chapter eight. And I'm going to be done, I hope, preacher, by ten thirty. All right. And uh just teasing, okay? Uh brother uh brother uh Coach took off at four this morning. I took off at four thirty. And uh we got food afterward tonight, so I better get with it here. Macedonian giving, this is the example. That's the title. The man asked me tonight. I just said example of Macedonian giving. You know what m a giving is. I was here ten years ago, it's the last time I've been here. Dr. Pat Creed. can teach on missions and he does the greatest job, him and brother John Halsey on faith promise. What I want to do tonight is just give you an example of encouragement. That God will use anybody, anywhere, at any time. to get his missionary or pastor where he wants them to get to get the job done. Okay? And and and I and I call the thought tonight when Brother Weber was speaking, he said he was listening to God. You know, I think about Philip. He's right in the middle of revival, and the Holy Spirit said, go down there and stand in the desert and witness to one guy. And he did. And you know, he was listening. And I hope this week, when I speak to you tonight, the next few nights, that you listen to this one thought, let it ring, over and over in your heart. God is after your heart. not your pocketbook. God is after your heart, not your wealth. God is after your heart, and there's a bigger thing going on And I just want to let you know, I I'm honored that you as a church, that that we are part of your ministry, outreach ministry around the world. I am honored and privileged to be fact speaking here tonight. But I want to give you an example tonight that'd really encourage you. Look at chapter 8, verse 1. Moreover, brethren, Paul's writing about the faith promise giving or grace giving do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. That's where I get my title, an example of Macedonia giving. How that in a great trial of affliction, the abundance of their joy, and their deep poverty, abounded unto the riches of their liberality. For to their power, I bear record, yea, and beyond their power, they were willing of themselves. Now, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift And take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. And this they did. Now look at this close. Not as we hoped Not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord. Now watch this. And unto us, look at it close, by the will of God. This is God's will. Macedonian giving. Let me show you what I mean by that. Look at the preciousness of this example. Look at verse 2. It says, How that in a great trial of affliction And in their deep poverty abounded. You know, great affliction, deep poverty. And they just kept on doing what God put on their heart to do, because it was God's will. Look at number two here. The pattern of their example. Look at verse 3. They gave to their power to start with, and they gave beyond their power to finish. They just kept giving. They couldn't explain it. You couldn't put it in English. You can't put it in Greek. You can't put it in Mongolian. You can't put it in Apache. But God takes care of this. Amen? Been there and done it, and watched him do it time and time again. Now look at the purpose of their example, verse 4 The Bible says, praying us with much entreaty that we would receive the gift and take upon us the fellowship of the ministry of the saints. They wanted to minister to Paul and his church planning ministry. And they they did this. The purpose of it was to expand and take care of Paul's ministry. Number four, the power of their example. The Bible says in verse 5, and this they did. What did they do? They gave their own selves unto the Lord. Okay, Lord, I'm going to trust you with this Whatever you want me to do, whatever you want me to give, I'll just trust you with it. I'm here. Now watch this. And unto us by the will of God. Now think about this for a moment. This is what Jesus wanted Paul to write as an example of Macedonian giving Now, let's take our hand and let's go to our left side. Take your Bible. I listened to a sermon today. Guy said, turn use your right hand, go to your right hand, and let's go to our left to Second Kings with me tonight or 1 Kings My Bible's Mark chapter 17. And I want to give you a quick thought tonight about what is an example of Macedonian giving. And I want you to understand and keep it in mind that God is after a heart. And every message this week will be dealing with that. And tonight we're looking at this widow lady. And I want you to pick up the story with me. Elijah, you know, the Tishbite, verse 1 You know, who was one of the habit habitants of Gilead said unto Ahab, as the Lord the God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain on these years, uh these years, but according to my word And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Get thee the hence and turn thee eastward and hide thyself by the brook chariot that is before Jordan. Elijah said, God's going to judge you, Ahab, and your country For turning against God. The rain shut off. Elijah is God's missionary. He's his prophet, his preacher And he said, now you go down to the Brook Cherideth and you stay there, because I'm going to feed you. Now, this last week I was in California preaching. And they got dumpster ducks out there. Y'all know what dumpster ducks are? Those are ravens. They're a little big bigger than crows. And I was sitting there across from the McDonald's and I've seen them do it in Alaska too. They dive right into the dumpsters and bring out whole bags of trash. Not the big bags, but you know, a bag of McDonald's rubbish and tear it up and start eating it. But this bird, this this raven or ravuns, would feed him every morning And feed him in the evening. And he was right in the center of God's will. And he pronounced God's judgment. Well, Jezebel and Ahab are looking for the uh ransoms on him to get him Now the Bible says in verse 5, he went and did according to the word of the Lord, and he went and dwelt by the brook of Cherith, this is before Jordan, very obedient. He's doing God's will. Well, there's no rain. And the birds stop coming Look at verse 8. And the word of the Lord came unto him again, saying, Arise, get thee the Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidane, and dwell there. Behold, I've commanded a widowed woman there to sustain thee. There was Zarephath There was the widow woman. I got a circle in my Bible. You've got to have a sense of humor. God does. Guess who was the king? The head man of Zarephath. Does anybody know their biblical history? The city of Furnaces. Give me some information. Jezebel's daddy was. Wow. So God is sending Elijah right in to the place and they got wanted posters everywhere. And God's, and he's going to obey. I like Elijah at this point in his life No discouragement, no depression. He's doing what God's will is. And he said, now you don't go anywhere else because right there I prepared a widow woman to sustain thee. And you like me is What's a Jew woman doing in Zarephath? Surely now the heathen, the Gentile, would take care of Elijah, or would they? And so he walks into town. Look with me in verse 10. So he arose and he went to Zarephath, and when he came unto the gate of the city, behold the widow woman was there, gathering up the sticks, and he called to her and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in the vessel that I may drink. Now a widow woman dressed a certain way. He knew that she was out of the husband. The child she had on her skirt or around her hip, wherever she had him, wasn't very big, okay? And she was going to fetch it, verse 11. He called to her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thy hand. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, hello. She knew who he was. I knew who you are, as the Lord your God liveth. And she believed in God. Somewhere in the story she'd gotten saved. I don't know how, but you understand the language might be a different term, but she trusted the God of heaven. Now watch this. I'll prove that to you later. And see, said as the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal and a barrel, and a little oil in a cruise And behold, I'm gathering two sticks that I may go in and dress it for me and for my son, that we may eat it and die. And Elijah said unto her, Fear not, go and do as thou hast said But make me thereof a little cake first, and bring unto me, and after make for thee and for thy son, for thus saith the Lord God of heaven Or the Lord God of Israel, the barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruise of oil fail until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah, and she in her house did eat many days, and the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruise of oil fail according to the word of the Lord which he spake by Elijah. Now listen very carefully. I'm going to give you four thoughts about an example of Macedonian giving. Now, back in 2 Corinthians 8, verse 1 through 5, we found out that these people Did not have a whole lot going on. Amen. And they were in deep poverty, great affliction But God had worked on their hearts, and they gave not only a glass of water, but they gave everything they had. I want you to stop right there. I want you to listen very carefully. In my preaching this week, and in my teaching this week, and in God's word, you'll never find anywhere in Scripture that God ever asked anybody to give anything at any time unless they already had it. Nowhere in Scripture. He's already given it to you. Sometimes we just can't see it or don't know it. Keep that in the back of your mind. Secondly, I said have this hangover. God is after our hearts. And the Bible says in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 4 and 5 that they first gave themselves unto the Lord. Amen? And then to us. By what? This is the what? The will of God. So here's the first thing I want you to see tonight in this lady. Number one, let's take a look at her plight. Look with me in verse 9. The Bible says, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zion, and dwell there. Behold, I've commanded Citibank. I've commanded our social service system. Yeah, yeah, right. There's a lot going on there, isn't there? I've commanded the Maryland Lotto. I've commanded your 40K, 4K one. I don't even have them. What do you call those things? 401K? That could be a 104. I don't know. I don't have my thing is uh uh I've commanded your life insurance Uh, it doesn't say that, does it? I've commanded a widow woman there to what? Sustain thee I want you to listen, her plight, she's in a bad way. No husband, no credit card, no bank account, no insurance policy. Her family had left her, which was approved later for when they come back. She was in a bad way. You say, well, you know, Brother DeLong, Pastor Leatherman, you know, you see, I just I'm in a bad way. I don't have any money. I don't have any finances. It doesn't matter. God's after your heart. Amen. He'll never ask you to give anything unless you already have it. And the thing is, God wants to bless in this process. No matter what bad a position we are in. God will use anybody, anywhere, and all every time. And notice he never gives us her name. Because God wants to get the credit. I want you to see this. So she's in a bad way. So, well, Brother Long, I can't take part in the faith promise giving here, and whom shall I send? Here we're going to help send some people, but because I just really don't have it. Well let's just take that off the list. That doesn't matter to God. Amen? Remember Moses stuttered a little bit. I can't talk right, but take that off the list. Here comes Aaron How are they gonna know me? Check that off the list, just tell them I am essentially. How's that gonna work? Just tell them I am essentially and they'll all accept you. If it worked for Moses, I think it's gonna work for uh alives. Amen. How many see this thought here? Number two, I want you to look at her with me tonight. Not only her plight, I want you to see her preparation. Look at verse 9. It says, I have commanded a widow woman. There. Nowhere else on earth to sustain you. Say one live Elijah? Yep. You're in the middle of my will? Yes, sir. Second time I've talked to you? Uh-huh. Now what do you want me to do, Lord? Go to Zarephath. He didn't say, say what? He knew where Zarephath was. As he walked into the gate She saw him, and she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I'll get you a drink of water. Now, how does she know these things? Jesus in his preaching, keep your hand there. Turn to your right hand. Would you please go with me to Luke chapter four? Let me show you something that I think will will help you a little bit on this In her preparation. God in verse nine had commanded her. God had spoken to her. She didn't know when he was coming, but she knew he was coming Or that when he would show up, she was going to help him. Somewhere along the line, she knew that Ahab was a bad dude, and Jezebel was even worse. And she knew they were against God. And she knew that God was doing something spatial in her heart. So when he showed up, she didn't have a problem as a Gentile, pagan heathen to help this Jewish prophet of God that was being chased by Jezebel and Ahab because they wanted to catch him and execute him. Look what it says in Luke chapter 4 with me. Look at verse, let's just start at verse 24. Jesus speaking, verily I say unto thee, no prophet is accepted in his own country. But I tell you of a truth. That's just Jesus speaking. I want you to know I'm telling you the truth. Many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, when the heavens were shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land, but unto none of them was Elias Elijah sent, save to Zarephath of city of Zion, unto the widow unto that. was a widow woman and to a woman that was a widow. Wow. Jesus brings it up again. I had prepared her heart. And he said, I could not find one person, one widow in all of Israel to take care of my preacher. So I had somebody's heart over here. And I I spoke to their heart. And I I commanded her to take care of him. And she did. Isn't that a great thought? Hey, when's the last time the Holy Spirit spoke to you? And you said, yes, sir. I'll do it. When's the last time he spoke to you and you said, ooh, I think I'll back out of this? Amen? How many has ever seen somebody try to manipulate every situation that they're involved in Or let me reword it. How many always blame somebody for your problems or mistakes? Two of us? Okay. How many have got a speeding ticket in here? And it was the speed gun's fault. Or the guy that was pushing in the car behind you. Or your wife was talking too much and got your blood pressure up and the pedal went right down. Last summer I was doing a camp and I had my granddaughters in the back seat with my daughter, my wife sitting here, and I just got done preaching a youth camp and I'm going along, you know, and and my wife said, You better be careful and be get speed limits fifty five, an old country road like I was on today. Ah, there's no cops out here, you know. And she said and my granddaughter said, D Oh boo boo boo's what they call us in uh New Guinea. program. Oh boo boo. Is speeding a sin? Well it depends what's going on. Oh you'd never say that would you? Huh? God you want me to give more faith promise? Well now it depends what's going on. I hadn't won went two miles. My wife said bear slow down. Oh, I'd be okay, there's nobody out here. He pointed at me, pull over. And I did I was going 72 in the fifty-five zone on Route 78 in southeastern Ohio. In my home country. I just preached at a church the day before I preached at the camp that night and and the guy got out and he he You guys are your driver's license. Yes, yes. And he looked at my driver. Oh, I'm Dan Delong. Was your mom named Margaret? Yes. Well, my grandma and your mom were friends. And uh my you you and my mom went to school together. Oh I'm gonna get out of this ticket, right? And and I said, Yeah, it was good. And you realize you were speeding? Uh uh uh uh and then my granddaughter, he did. He gave me the ticket. I think it was $163. 50. You can pay it over to courthouse, write a check, or come back in two months and fight the court. Uh slow down, Mr. DeLong or Reverend DeLong. So how do you know that? I was at the church service yesterday. I went to the county clerk's office, Calwell, Ohio, into the courthouse to pay my thing. My wife said pay it. And all the way there, Boo Boo's a sinner No, listen, it was we had to we was on schedule or no, you know, and no, that was the road was crooked. I didn't realize no speech signs. I was making every excuse. And I walked up to the door preacher And the woman behind the door's name's Alice Carpenter. And she's my cousin. She just retired as the county auditor for 22 years. I had no idea she was there and she had been to the church service Sunday morning where I preached. She's also charged the finances of Whigville Baptist Church. She wrote my love offering check. And she looked at me across the door. Hey Danny, that's what the family calls me. What are you doing here? Paying a ticket. It looks like somebody didn't read their Bible today. Hey folks. Have you ever done something wrong? That's what Eve tried. That's what Cain tried. That's what David tried. But God's already ahead of us on this. Is that true? I'm going to tell you this lady's heart was prepared. And so she's going to give him a drink of water. But he said, I want just a little bit beyond what you think you got. Okay, so far? Now watch this. Let's look at number three, the performance. Bible says in verse 15 that she went and did according to the saying. She said, Well I I I just got all I got is a little bit of meal, a little bit of flour, a little bit of oil, and I'm gonna mix that and my son I'm not gonna eat that and cut it in half. I'm gonna eat it, he's gonna eat it, and we're gonna lay over there and die, because we don't have any more food. Famine's d took everything. My family's gone. We're all gonna die. Elijah said, Listen, let's follow the Lord on this. The Lord told me to come. The Lord said you would be here. God says worked on your heart. If you go fix me that little cake first, and you bring it back, and we split it three ways. My God has told me that your flour will never waste, and your oil will always stay. And every morning when you get up, we'll have enough to eat the next day. Now you gotta believe that. Look at verse 15. She went and did. She believed. I hope you believe this week, when you see these thoughts, that woman's heart was given to God. So she went and did according, the Bible says in verse 15. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah. And she now look at verse fifteen. This is the key tonight. She and her house did eat many days. Number four The last thought is her prophet. What did she get out of this? She and her house Did eat many days. Verse 16. And the barrel of meal did not waste it not, neither did the cruise of oil according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah. Let me illustrate, preacher, can I take a couple of minutes Okay? I'm gonna be the widow. Okay? And uh preacher's gonna be Elijah. And uh would you come over here? You're gonna be the little boy. You sit down there by Elijah's feet, sit on the floor. Can he do that? Is that okay? Okay. Now, the next morning. I get up out of bed, the big preacher sitting there, my starving to death son. I go back in the kitchen. Yesterday I took the last bit of oil, used all the flour, he ate a third, he ate a third, I ate a third, it's the next morning, stomachs are growling. Container of flowers over there empty. This will be the oil. It should be empty. I go back in the kitchen. There's enough there to feed us again. How many believe that? How many live that? She comes back in. Oh preacher, preacher, preacher, here's your biscuit. I can see his smile. Whether it's a woman or it's a raven, God's going to take care of you. And feeds the boy and they eat. They go back to sleep. Same things happen the next day About three or four days in, look at verse 15. She and her house study it. The clan showed up. The next day, come on, Brother Koontz, her brother knocks on the door. And her brother's got a hungry son with him. Come with him. Now you watch this. I'm not making it up. Knock on my door. And I open it up. Oh, my brother Larry. Good to see you. Your ugly son George. Now watch this. Now watch this. Stand over here. Why have you come? Why are you here? Here's what they say. Well we heard there's some food and somebody's talking that says it that the preacher's here and you've been feeding, they've been smelling biscuits and oil book cooking every day and We thought you downed your last uh uh you know biscuit and you're gonna die. And and somebody said you got some food here. Yeah, I do. You wanna come eat? Say yes. Come on in. Go right over here. They come in and that night. She takes that bit of flour and that bit of oil. Instead of splitting it three ways, she splits it five ways. Are you with me? Look at verse 15. 16. She and her house did meet many days. Most scholars said it was over a year, up to 24 months. Okay, so far so good? And so I feed one, two, three, four, five. And I go over to the kitchen the next morning. Is there enough there to feed two, three, four, or five? How much Five. So that's good, great. Okay. So can you come? Can you come? I get a knock at the door. I'm the widow. Knock at the door. It's Uncle Bob. Uncle Bob, what do you want? Oh, niece. I I heard that you're cooking here and the preacher's here and and and and your brother's here and some of his family, and I hear that there's food here. Yes, there is. And you you got your son with you? Uh what's your name? Bob, this is Robert III. And and they've come. Are you hungry? Yes. Come on in and eat. Well, you stand over there behind him. I'm not going to get you all up here. One, two, three, the first day. Five. Now up one, two, three, four, five, six, seven. They get these kids up here, eight, nine, ten, eleven, twelve. There's dying to come. But just wait a minute. In the morning when I get up to cook for that bunch, is God going to have enough in there to take care of them or not? Now you listen to me. Not only did she give to her power. But beyond her power. She could not explain it, and you can't either. If you do what God tells you to do and trust Him with your heart, Not only will she be fed many days, but God's bl you don't give to get, but you give because God put it on your heart and you watch Him give the increase. And all God's people said Wow, I never saw that before. Thank you. You can have a seat. You made a good little boy there. All right. Now as you do that, let me give you one last thing. One last thought. And I want to challenge you this week, as we look at the heart of this thing, she profited it because She believed the promises of God because God had prepared her heart and it did not care how tough a situation or what plight she was in As you close your Bibles tonight, I want you to keep in mind, one of my heroes, I got to hear him speak once live Maybe twice was Bill Rice. And Bill Rice, the the old man Bill Rice, wrote the book, Dark and D what was it, Cowboy Boots in Africa. When he was a young lad He uh dad was a banker in Texas. And there was a farmer in Texas that had a hundred hundred-acre or so patch of ground back during the depression And the land was bad. And he was going to lose his farm because the crops didn't come in. There was a drought. And Before I get into that, keep in mind that Elijah stayed at that woman's house until God said go to Mount Carmel, called the fire out of heaven. And uh I could here see that old lady, that widowed lady down there in Zarefath, watching that ball of fire come down, hit that altar. I can watch her watching the skies darkened. I can watch her watching the rain coming. And that was the day that the oil started going in the stopped going into the container. And the flour stopped going into the other container and uh God just took care of them through that thing. And Bill Rice, when he was a boy, his dad was assistant bank manager at a bank. And this farmer and his wife come in, the head banker called him in and said, You're going to default on your loan. If you don't make a payment in the next 30 days, we're going to come back and take the farm. The farmer and his wife were Christian folks. Bill Rice's dad knew him. He said, I'll come out tomorrow and talk to you and see what we can do. He walked him out of the bank. The next day he drove his car out there, spoke with them, and he gave them a personal loan that he had because he knew they were a good Christian family, to get them by for three months. And said, I'll pray with you that you'll get this thing put together and that God will help you. And about a month later. Right in the middle of this, Bill Rice's father died of a heart attack. I believe it was at work. I'm not sure. And that couple Paid that loan off. Of course, Bill Rice, the the boy, was now an orphan almost. And about twelve years later, maybe nine to twelve years later, Bill Rice is going off to Bible college. He's saved. Got a good horse, a good saddle, couple sets of clothes on his And he's riding off the baylor on the back of the horse and and he didn't have any money but he was going to sell his horse to pay for the first semester of Bible College and And then if he couldn't get a job he was going to sell the saddle for the second. He had enough to get one year in. That was cheap that back in the cheap days, man. As he's going to university, riding across the prairie on that horse, a storm came up. He saw a driveway leading up to a little ranch. And he jogged that horse up there, knocked on the door, the rain's coming across the prairie. The older lady came out and answered and said, Hello, my name was Bill Rice. He's a big tall guy like his dad and said, I'm going to Baylor University, but I need a place to stay. Rain's gonna ruin my good saddle, my stuff. Can I uh I pay a couple dollars to stay here tonight She said, go put your horse in the barn and unsaddle him, and there's some grain there, and come back and I'll feed you supper. You just sleep in the house tonight. But she he went, the old lady got the dad and said, listen I think this is the man's son that gave us this loan. They didn't say anything, and he came in the house and they fed him a big meal and they talked. He explained who he was, and sure enough, the older couple didn't say anything, but that was the son They said, what happened to your dad? And he explained, how's your life? Well, it's pretty tight, but that's what God called me to do. I'm going to go train to be a preacher And as he went, the next morning he saddled his horse, got ready to leave, and the old lady said, Listen, I'm fixing you sack lunch, gonna put it in a poke. If you don't know what that is, folks, that's like a you know, cloth hanging on the saddle. You younger kids, you may know what a smartphone is, but a poke is a is like a you know what I'm saying, a cloth sack that hangs on the saddle. And and and so uh and he uh Uh uh got on that horse and thanked them and they prayed and he went down to the prairie. About three hours later he got a drink of water and out of his canteen and got in there to get a sandwich and there was a letter. That letter told this story, how your dad took care of us by faith all those years ago, and God put on our heart to take care of your first year of Bible college. And there was a check there for that. Now you listen very carefully. What goes around does come around. Not like we want it. But like God wants it to happen. And I believe God honors people who will use, watch this, the example of Mastodonian giving. This little widow lady had it in the Old Testament. Paul writes about it in 2 Corinthians to encourage us today to grasp that thing. Doesn't matter how hard your plight is, but God has prepared your heart. God has given you a promise. He has prepared it. And he has promised us. I'll go to Philippians chapter 4. You got it out there on your wall, chapter 4, verse 15, 16, 17. God, He's going to supply all your needs, amen. Not your wants. If we just follow His promises. So I want to encourage you tonight, as I will every night. God is after our hearts. And when you watch this, when you do that, and I know you're a missions church, you'll see things take place in Nepal Mongolia, Argentina, Australia, Papua New Guinea, that you may never go to those places, but God will use your faith That you gave not only what you could, but beyond your power. Because that's God's will. And it just is just a great thing to see time and time again. Heads are bound, eyes are closed. Father, we thank you tonight for the opportunity to give us to meet as a church as we deal with faith promise this week. Some pastors say this is like a five-day business meeting. But tonight I want to give on the thought, stay on the thought that you're after our hearts, and you'll never ask us to give anything unless we already have it. I know it wasn't a salvation message, but if you're here tonight without Christ, you need to trust Him as your personal Savior. But if you are here as a Christian at Wednesday night service missions conference, God is speaking to your heart About the over 7 billion people in this world. God is speaking to your heart about missions. We want to reach the world with the gospel. And this is dependent upon God, but folks, it's also dependent on us doing God's will. in our lives. Lord, I pray that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, this pastor put on the website, makes it a paramount, a very important thought. That we're dealing in a very serious business, reaching the world for Christ, but it takes your example of Macedonian giving, you using your Holy Spirit telling Paul what to write. Do I encourage the Church of Corneth, the Church of Macedonia, but us tonight? Lord, as it also encourages, we read about this widow woman, the Zarephath. How you spoke to her, you prepared her, she followed your promise. And at the end of the story, you can see how you blessed her in a wonderful way. Who can say, Brother the Long, Pastor Leatherman, God spoke to my heart tonight about this thought, this story that I may be a little bit discouraged. I may be a little tight financially, but God spoke to my heart tonight to have the faith of this widow woman of Zarephath, to have the faith of those Christians from Macedonia To have the faith to do what God puts what's on our heart to do, knowing that God will supply all our needs. And this will not be added to the missionary's account, but it will be added to our account. Those that give, those that send. Who can say the Lord spoke to my heart tonight concerning this? Would you pray for me? Could you raise your hand? Many, many, many hands. Pastor Levin?