16, Proverbs 16. We praise the Lord for a couple young children this morning. Uh made profession of faith. down in children's church, so uh that's always a good thing and sometimes little children, especially the smaller ones, as they get older, they uh often work it out, but sometimes they'll make several professions of faith little children will until they finally get a hold and and grasp uh you know what it's all about. Uh don't disparage that. That's okay. Let them work through Uh my advice is, and I know our children's workers understand this, my advice is if a child comes, if they made a profession of faith and they respond again, you don't ever want to turn them away. You want to m work with them and make sure, help them make sure that uh uh they get that thing down. And uh even sometimes older folks it takes several times to really clicks what happened. And uh so we praise the Lord for our faithful children's workers. Proverbs 16 Verse number twenty, I left the cordless mic back there, and so we'll just leave it, Dave. I'll just I'll just stay behind the pulpit here tonight And notice verse number twenty, Proverbs sixteen, twenty. Let me find it here. Bible says, He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good. Whoso trusteth in the Lord, happy is he. Last week uh we talked about how to find wisdom And how to go about getting wisdom. Tonight I want to talk about exercising wisdom, or another title you could give tonight the thought is carrying out the will of God. Determining the will of God. Because that's what wisdom is, isn't it? Fulfilling the word of God. The will of God, I should say. That's what wisdom's all about. So let's have a word of prayer. I really believe the thoughts tonight will be helpful. So I hope you'll take this. Ask the Lord to open your heart and mind to this. And this coming year, I believe these principles, as I said could be very very helpful to all of us. Father, bless now as we study your word. Pray you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and uh speak through me. I pray that these truths would be ingrained in our hearts and We would be able to exercise wisdom as the different issues and situations of life come to us. We would know what your will is and be able to carry it out as you intend for us to. So bless, I ask, in Jesus' name. Amen. If I'm going to handle a matter wisely, as the verse here tells us to, he that handleth a matter wisely shall find good. If I'm going to handle a matter wisely, would you agree with me that that means I'm handling it according to the will of God? I'm doing I'm handling it the way God wants it to be handled. Whatever the situation may be in the home, in the workplace, in the ministry, in the church, uh in my personal life Whatever situation I face, if I'm going to handle it wisely, last week we learned how to get wisdom. This week we want to exercise it. How do I handle that thing wisely? I need to determine the will of God and then carry it out. There are many situations in life. I'm tempted to say most situations in life, God's will is very clear. Um if you know anything about the Bible, for instance, is it God's will that we tell a lie? No. Under no circumstances anywhere ever is it God's will. In fact, the Bible says, thou shalt not bear false witness. So if I'm in a situation and I lie I'm not handling that situation wisely. It's not according to the will of God. That's not the way it should be handled. So that's very clear. You go to work tomorrow, you go home tonight, you go throughout the week, issues come up in the home, in the family, on the job, uh different things at the marketplace. uh situation comes up, oh man, what do I do in this situation? Well, I know one thing, I'm supposed to tell the truth. That would be wise in handling that. There's other things. For instance, we know it's not God's will that we steal anything. Right? So if I'm in a situation, whatever it may be, you can come up with the scenarios, and I'm thinking that one of my options is to steal something. Then I am not handling that situation wisely. I'm handling it foolishly because it's contrary to the will of God. You follow my train of thought here. We could go down the list. Thou shalt not steal. Thou shalt not uh commit adultery. Thou shalt not uh thou shalt honor thy father and mother. If I'm in a situation And I have the option of dishonoring my parents, and I do that, then I'm not handling that wisely Uh you could go through that. Uh to love my wife for me as a husband. Uh to share the gospel is God's will, to obey my parents, to Submit separate from the world. Submit to the Lord. All these things are clearly God's will. Now here's where the trouble comes in. I know, for instance, that God's will is for me to love my wife. That's God's will. Whatever the situation is, whatever our circumstances are, God's will, if I'm going to handle this wisely, I need to express I need to love my wife. I need to love her. Now here's where the problem comes in. How do I exercise that? How do I carry it out? I've been married twenty-five years. Some of you have been married much longer. And uh I'm still figuring that out. Uh, you know, I s I was such a knucklehead, I was. Uh such a knucklehead in so many ways. You know, I was thinking it's her birthday, I I want her to know I love her, I want to express my love to her, I'll take her squirrel hunting You know, October seventeenth the squirrels and so we're in the atta and uh I'd take our squirrel hunting Uh I my I had the general concept right. I was loving her, but I wasn't exercising it in the wisest of ways. You follow what I'm saying Uh we uh one time we had a few days to get away and we were so excited in Indiana Indiana and um uh somebody s offered to watch the watch the kids and I said I know what we should do Let's go catfishing. I know where there's a really good lake, has a cabin beside it, and she so kindly went along and had a great time. And uh, you know, I understood the will of God was to me to love my wife, but how to exercise wisdom and to handle it wisely is where I needed some help. And so now we don't go squirrel hunting, we don't go catfishing, we go trout fishing. And um Uh works much better. So um but these things work out. Uh the God's will for a wife is to submit to her husband. That's not popular today, but nevertheless, it's scriptural And so in a situation, she wants to handle the matter wisely, she wants to exercise wisdom, so she's going to submit. What if he asks her to do something that's wrong? What if he asks her to go out drinking and dancing with him on a Saturday night? Then what do you do? How do you handle that situation wisely? How do you ex some, this is what I'm trying to say, some situations are very clear. And in a general sense, we usually, it's very clear what God's will is. But then how do you implement that? And that is where we need God's wisdom and how to handle situations like that. There are many areas of life. where uh God is not real clist crystal clear on. Um there's a lot of situations like we're not given any real specific instructions on what to do and how to handle that. The Bible is uh written for all ages and customs changed through the ages. Can you imagine If God would have put in the Bible, thou shalt not smoke camel's cigarettes. You know, anybody ever camel cigarette? Anybody remember that? One guy has heard of them. Uh can you imagine what those old Hebrew shepherds would have thought if the Bible said, Thou shalt not smoke camels? You know, it'll be like what? Uh and so the Bible is written for all ages, so God many times instead of giving us specific, detailed instructions, he will give us a principle And he also gives us the Holy Spirit, and he gives us the Word of God. And then we take that and we process that and we handle things wisely. Now, it's important to understand, before I give you some thoughts here on how to determine the will of God, how to exercise wisdom in some of these areas that aren't clear, let me say a few things about the will of God. The will of God is not necessarily doing something the easiest way. Sometimes God's will is very difficult. When Israel came out of Egypt and uh they came out, the quickest way to ease Israel, uh to uh the promised land would have been a straight line up, but God didn't do that. He led them a very roundabout way. They need to learn some lessons. There's some things that need to be accomplished. Would you agree with me that Joseph, as far as recorded in Scripture, behaved himself wisely? Yeah, every step. Would you say he had an easy ride? No. Man, you think about difficulties, but Joseph was a very wise young man. He made decisions. Daniel. Purpose in his heart he'd not defile himself with the king's meat. And brother, he had a little rough road there, lion's dens and and those types of things. Uh the Bible says about King David before he was king, while he was under King Saul, while King Saul was jealous and throwing javelins at him and scheming to kill David. The Bible says repeatedly, David behaved himself wisely. Listen, just because it's the easiest thing to do doesn't mean it's the wisest thing to do. Sometimes God's will is not the easiest route. Many times it's not. Let me tell you else what God's will is not. God's will, now this goes counter to our thinking. But I think this just tells you how worldly our thinking is. But God's will isn't necessarily always the most productive Anybody ever hear the anybody here ever read the book of Jeremiah? How productive was Jeremiah's ministry? God told them right from the get-go, they're not going to pay attention to words you say. They're not going to respond, they're going to harden their hearts against you, they're going to harden their faces against you. You will see no results, but nevertheless You preach what I've commanded you to preach. So just because it isn't the most productive thing doesn't necessarily mean it's not God's will. Read the stories of some of these great missionaries, John Payton, Adonairam Judson. Adniram Judson spent seven years on the mission field before he saw one convert. You know what people back home were writing to him said you failed, you've made a mistake, you're out of the will of God, you need to come back. He goes, No, I know I'm in the will of God. And so you just gotta stay at it. We've been here working on our twentieth year. You know there have been some times, there have been some dry periods here at Mountain Lake we went through and didn't see a whole lot of results and a lot of those things. I could have said, Oh, I must be out of the will of God, uh we're not seeing great results and uh but I knew I was in the will of God And so the will of God may not necessarily be the easiest way. The most productive route might not necessarily be the wisest. It may not be the most popular. The wisest thing to do might not always be the most popular thing to do. Moses. How did the people respond to Moses? Man, they murmured against him and criticized him and challenged him and found fault with him over and over and over and over. In fact, you got to the point several times, God, just peel them off There's that phrase again keeps coming back. But um uh God just uh uh take care of them and um but frustrating Jesus everybody abandoned Noah for 120 years preached All he saw was his family wasn't the most popular. The will of God may not be the most prosperous thing Uh you say, Well, uh I want to exercise wisdom, I want to know the right thing to do. If I do this, I can get very, very rich But if I do this, it uh it may uh end up some other way. Listen, God's will isn't necessarily the most prosperous of the two. A lot of people have gotten out of the will of God for the sake of money A lot of people have made foolish decisions and destroyed their life so that they could get more stuff So the prosperous route isn't always necessarily the wisest route, the most popular, most productive, the easiest. Sometimes God's will Sometimes doing the wisest thing, exercising wisdom, may involve great difficulty. It may mean delaying things. Do not assume that because you're not getting the results you think you should get, that you're necessarily out of the will of God. Are you with me? Well James is getting married here in a few weeks. And uh he's excited. That got his attention right there. Now he's with me. Uh, you know, you get married, and uh boy, everything is great. Honeymoon, everything's going great, everything's wonderful. And then after a while, some bills start showing up. And then there's some disagreement on how to handle this. Then there's disagreement there. And after a while, you step back and you and sometimes people will think something like this: hey, this is not the result that I was anticipating. This is not the way I expected things to turn out. It must not be God's will for me to be with him. Must not be God's will to be with her because things haven't turned out the way I think they should be Never determine the will of God by what you think the results should be. Um you could think of so many, oh I took this bus route and I'm working it hard, I'm going this and boy it mustn't mean God's will, because I'm just not I anticipated us Bringing in 175 kids on the bus, and all I'm bringing in is a 20. Therefore, it mustn't be God's will. Hey, don't go by your anticipated results. I have a friend of mine. I went to school with him. John is his name. He pastors in Pennsylvania. He's been there longer than I've been here. John goes out soul winning, I'm told by other preacher friends that know him that are in the area there, that I'm told he goes out soul winning every single day, knocking on doors. Sharing the gospel, inviting people to be saved, inviting folks to come out to his church. The last I heard from a preacher friend of mine, he's running about 15 or 20 in church. He's been there longer than I've been here, goes soul winning every day. I talk to John periodically, we'll email, or maybe once a year we'll talk to each other on the phone, and he is as happy as a bug in a rug. In the center of God's will, just plugging away. You know a lot of guys would have said, man, all these years, all that soul winning, and uh not the not this great huge church And uh but you know what? God's will isn't necessarily the biggest thing in town. And so we need to be real careful, just because we don't get the results we think. So You say, Preacher, how do I determine God's will? It's not clearly laid out in Scripture. I know generally the way it is, but how do I work out the details Let me give you some real quick, and I know we only got a few minutes, so I'll give these to you real quick. Number one, and I encourage you to jot these down. Number one, to exercise wisdom I must, number one, be willing to do God's will no matter what it is. If I'm not willing to do whatever God wants me to do, chances are he's not going to give me the wisdom to know what to do. We are the servants, he is the master. And so I start off, right? Here's the situation. I don't know the best way to go about this. I need to start out with the mental uh with the the mind that I am God, whatever it is you want me to do, I am willing to do it And when I get to that point, God, I will do whatever you tell me to do, whatever your instruction is, whatever you say is the best thing, I will do that. Then your chances of discovering what God wants you to do in that situation are uh are increased. You follow what I'm saying? This is not this is what I'm trying to say. This is not how it works. You don't have God lay out the instructions, then I make the decision. Am I going to do this or not? It's not doesn't work that way. God doesn't tell us his will so we can vote on it whether we're going to do it or not. God says, all right, are you willing to do whatever I say? Yes, all right, here's what I want you to do And so I must be willing. Um uh when I was in in August 25th of nineteen eighty-five I've been serving the Lord. I was in Bible college. I was starting my last year of college. I've been preaching. I traveled in Bible time. I I'd been serving the Lord faithfully in a bus ministry for years And uh I finally came to the point where I said, God, I'm just going to surrender my whole life to you. I have no idea what it involved. I thought I was going to be an elementary school teacher. That was my intention all through Bible college. Uh when get in a Christian school and teach little kids. And God just kept dealing with my heart, and I was coming to the end of my time in school, and I knew it was gonna have to go one way or another, and I was just unsettled. in what I was doing. And finally I came to an altar. I knelt down uh on August 25th, 19th, I said, God, whatever my future is, whatever my life is, I just take myself and I fully yield it to you. I don't know what your will is for my future in my life. And God brought great peace to my heart. And it was just a settleness that everything's going to be okay. God will lead me and direct me. In August, in October of that year, October 5th. God impressed clearly in my heart that He was calling me to preach. And so that Sunday night, October 5th, I knelt the order and said, God, I surrender myself to preach. I believe that's what your purpose for my life is I've studied this other area, but I'm giving myself to you. You've called me to preach. And there's been no doubt in my mind since that day that that's exactly what God's will for me is to do. And so I'm convinced in my mind, had I not yielded myself several months before, I would never have discovered God's will for me to preach several months later. You follow what I'm saying? So there must be a surrender. God, I am willing to do. I got a new job, Lord, I'm not sure. How do I carry out my witness on this job? How do I Lord what should I do? How do I approach people by the gospel? Well first of all, Lord, I'm willing to do whatever you leave me, direct me, I'm willing to do it. And that's the beginning point. We can know God's will in any given situation, but we must be willing to do God's will no matter what it is. And so let me ask you this. In the year 2013, are you willing in your heart to do, go, not do, not go, whatever God instructs you to do? And until I get to that point, I'm really not going to be able to exercise wisdom until I'm fully surrendered to the Lord. Until it's no longer my will, but Lord your will. And then God can work. Number two, jot this one down. If I don't know the specific will of God, act on the general will of God. Now I'll explain what I mean here for a minute. Let me repeat that. If I don't know the specific will of God in a situation, act on the general will of God. If you read through the book of Acts, you find that Paul is on various missionary journeys. He goes on three. While he's traveling on these missionary journeys, going city to city, planting churches, preaching the gospel Sometimes God directs him very specifically to what cities he should go to. God makes it very clear. The Macedonian cult, come over and help us. We determined it was God's will. And zing, they went over there. But most of the cities he went to, as far as scriptures goes, we have no record that God told him specifically what cities to go to. Apparently he just Made a decision. We're going to go to this city. We're going to go to Thessalonica. We're going to go to Damascus. We're going to go here. Philippi. And he just simply, God's general will was to take the gospel into all the world. And if he didn't have any specific instructions, Well then he operated under the general well unless God tells me s specifically where to go, I'm just gonna go where I can and preach the gospel. Now how does that play out for you and I? What about someone taking a job? What if a job offer comes to move to another city? And you're praying about it. Should I go to that job? Should I take that job or not? The Bible doesn't say thou shalt not take that job in Cincinnati And so I don't have any clear, specific expression of the will of God, so how do I determine? Then I factor in the general will of God and I start asking questions, alright Is there a good church nearby that I can be involved in? Because the general will of God, the very clear will of God, is that we not forsake the assembling of ourselves together So I know it's God's will for me as a child of God, a Christian, to go to church. I don't know if I should take this job or not. If I take this job and I cannot be active and involved in a local church, then the general will of God, the known will of God directs me in the specific will of God. Am I making any sense? Do you follow what I'm saying? Is uh if I take this job, am I going to have to compromise any of my Christian convictions? Uh I don't know if it's will God. I know it's God's will that I'm not lying, that I'm not stealing, that I not deceive people. If I take this job and it's going to involve deception or dishonesty Then the the reveal will of God helps me make a specific decision. Is this making sense? Everybody okay? So uh that helps, number one, be willing to do God's will no matter what it is. Number two, if I don't know the specific will of God, act on the general known will of God. Number three, write this down. Can I do this in the name of the Lord Jesus? Colossians 3. 17 says, What shall you do? Do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. Can I do this in the name of the Lord Jesus? Ah, we want you to go to a rock concert this Saturday night. Oh, the kids are gone. It's going to be great. Alright, can I go there in the name of the Lord Jesus? Can I go there and say, boy, I am here in in this environment in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm afraid if we would apply that to a lot, can I watch this movie in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ? Can I listen to this music in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ? Can I really honestly do it? That's a good question. Everything we're doing, we're to do as if we are acting in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ, a representative of Jesus Christ. So number one, I must be willing to do whatever God says. I just start with that attitude. Number two, if I don't know the specific, will God operate under the Reveal will God, what I do know God wants me to do. Number three, ask myself, can I do this in the name of the will of the Lord Jesus? Can I do this in the name of the Lord Jesus? Number three, write this one down. Can I thank God for it? Can I thank God for it? Colossians 3:17 says, uh, what should we do in word and deed? Do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, giving thanks unto God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The whole idea is whatever I do, I ought to be able to thank God for it. We were in Indianapolis and we had a bus route through the inner city there, and I loved it. And uh we were going up we're walking this one street that we were trying to round some kids up to ride our bus and we're going up it was a summertime, there was a bunch of guys out in their front yard, with a little bit of a yard. The yard was about the size of this platform here. And they had cables set up. There's about eight or ten of 'em. Boy they had whiskey out and the music's up on the on the church on the house uh porch there blasting These guys are sitting out here playing cards and smoking and drinking whiskey and everything. And uh we come up and say, hey guys, what's going on? We want to give you gospel tracts. We're looking for kids to ride our Sunday school bus And it became a big commotion and everything going on. And um finally I started witnessing the guy and the guy says uh something about drinking And I s I I don't remember what I said, but he brought this up. He said, Well Jesus drank wine. I said, Well what Jesus drank, what you're drinking isn't even close. And we got going, going, going a little bit, and he just had an answer for everything I said. And I was trying to work the gospel in. And uh he claimed to be saved. And finally I said to him, I was just kind of getting exasperated. And finally I said, I said, Well tell you what, if this is so good And if what you're doing is so fine and God's okay with it, can we just stop and thank God for that whiskey and what it's done for your life? And how it's helped your marriage and helped your children and how what it's done for you. And you know, the conviction of God set in on that fella. And he says, you know, I can't do that. I said, why don't we just stop bowing our heads here and thank God for it? He goes, nah, I can't I can't do that. I can't do that. If we don't know what to do, if we have a situation, stop and ask yourself, can I thank God? If I do this, if I get involved in this, is it something I can thank God for? How many people recognize the name Peter Cartwright Anybody recognize that name? Looks to me like an old Methodist preacher would know about Peter Cartwright, Brother Brian. Peter Cartwright was an old Methodist circuit riding preacher back in the early days of our country. Aha! He actually preached to Abraham Lincoln years ago. Peter Cartwright was I mean he was rough and tumble kind of guy. He'd get in he got in more than one fist fight with congregation members. He'd be preaching and somebody uh heckle him or whatever, he'd go down, take him out back, beat them up, come back in, and start preaching again. It's the kind of guy he was. And um He was passing through the Cumberland Mountains. Listen to this. And he came to a point where he had to spend the night uh you know, back then they they didn't have really motels and stuff, they just kind of had like pubs or whatever that would have rooms upstairs and and things like that. So he had a place he had to stop at this one place. And um that night that he was there, they were serving liquor and they were going to have a dance. Many of the folks, according to Cartwright, had never heard a sermon in their life. This was a rough crowd He sat in one corner of the room watching the dance. There was no other place for him to go. So he sat back in a corner watching the dance And he decided the next day was Sunday that he was going to round everyone up on Sunday he was going to preach a sermon to them. And he was just kind of watching and looking at the people and thinking this through He said, I had hardly settled this point in my mind when a beautiful young lady walked very gracefully up to me. dropped a handsome curtsy and pleasantly, with winning smiles, invited me to dance with her I can hardly describe my thoughts or feelings on that occasion. I rose as gracefully as I could I will not say with some emotion, but with many emotions. The young lady moved to my right side. I grasped her right hand with my right hand while she leaned her left arm on mine In this position we walked on to the floor. The whole company seemed to be pleased at this act of politeness in the young lady she had shown to me this stranger. The black man, who was the fiddler, began to put his fiddle in the best order. I spoke to the fiddler to hold on for a moment. and added that for several years I had not undertaken any matter of importance without first asking the blessing of God upon it. And a desire now to thank God and ask his blessing upon this beautiful young lady and the whole company there that had shown such an act of politeness. Here, I grasped the young lady's hand tightly and said, Let us all kneel down and pray. Then instantly I dropped to my knees and commenced praying with all the power of soul and body I could command. The young lady tried to get loose from me, but I held her tight. Presently she fell to her knees. Some of the company kneeled, some stood, some fled, some sat still, some just looked on curiously. The fiddler ran off into the kitchen saying, Lord have mercy, what does this mean? So you got the picture. This girl asked him to dance. He walks down on the dance floor with her. He takes her by the hand. He says, Alright, before we do anything, we're going to pray and thank God for this whole setting. And he kneels down, pulls her down. While I prayed, some wept aloud, some cried for mercy. I rose from my knees and commenced an exhortation, after which I sang a hymn. The young lady who invited me onto the floor to dance lay prostrate crying out to God for mercy. I preached again, and I sang and prayed nearly all night About 15 of that company trusted Christ as Savior. And our meeting lasted the next day and the next night, and many more were powerfully converted. I organized a church, took 30 into the church, sent them a preacher, and uh the church has gone on for many, many years. Isn't that an amazing thing? You know he did. He says, I'm not going to do something that I can't thank God for. And he stopped there in the middle of the dance floor. And thank God for it, a revival broke out. He never danced a step with her. And revival broke out. You know what would help us a lot? If we would stop first and say, all right, can I thank God for what I'm about to get involved in? Can I thank God for this? Is this something that's given to me of Jesus Christ, or is it of the world and the flesh? Number five, write this down. Will it help or hinder others walk with the Lord? Just because I don't see anything wrong with it doesn't mean it's the wisest thing to do. Sometimes there are things that are alright to do that hurt others. Here's a reference. 1 Corinthians 8. 13. Our actions should not be stumbling blocks to others. Well, I don't see anything wrong with this. Well, it might not be wrong for you, and it might not be anything wrong in and of itself, but it if it hurts someone else, I ought not to do it. I read years ago a fellow that was so caught up in the baseball, it was his God And he got saved and he realized he could have nothing to do with baseball. And people would ask him to go to baseball games and he'd say, I can't do that. Because it would just bring me back into that, get suck me back into that, and it would ruin my testimony. You know what Christians around that fellow should have done? Not ask them to go to the baseball game Be a stumbling block for him. Is there anything wrong with going to the baseball game? No, there's nothing wrong with that. But for him, it was a hindrance. Let me give you this one quickly. Is there any doubt about it? Romans 14, verse 5 and verse 23. If I have doubts about something, you say, well, I don't know if I should do this. Do you have some doubts about it? If I have doubts about it, it's best if I don't get involved. That which is not of faith is sin. Sometimes I get a shirt and I can't remember if I wore that shirt before, and I'll get it out and I'll say something to Kathy. Is this shirt clean? You know the best policy? Smell it. Somebody gonna say that. Just because it doesn't stink doesn't necessarily mean it's clean. But uh the best policy is assume that it's dirty and get one you know is clean. Uh the best policy, if I have some doubts about well, I'm not sure if we ought to go to that thing, boy then it's best thing not to. I don't know if we ought to invest in that. It's the best thing not to. If I have doubts about it, uh stay away. So what do we say? Be willing to do with God's will. If I don't know the specific will of God, act on the general will of God. Can I do it in the name of the Lord Jesus? Can I thank God for it? Will it hinder others walk with God? Is there any doubt about it? Here's the last one. Pray earnestly. Pray earnestly about it. How many foolish decisions could have been avoided if the Christian would have just prayed about it first? Amen. My Bible says, ask and it shall be given unto you. If any of you lack wisdom, Ellen, ask of God. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. God, I don't know what to do. I know what your general will is. But I don't know the wisest thing in this specific situation. Best thing to do is get alone with God, pray, and say, God, show me, make it clear, help me. How many serious mistakes could have been avoided If Christians would have just prayed first. Pray. The thing I appreciate about Brother James and Jessica is I really believe they sought the Lord diligently from day one. The Bible doesn't say, James, thou shalt marry Jessica. But there are biblical principles, and seek the Lord. And pray. God, is this your will? God, make this clear. Give me wisdom. Give me direction. Thank God we have the Holy Spirit within us. Amen. And if we're yielded to God and we're sticking to the Word of God and operate on the revealed will of God, the Holy Spirit of God will lead us and direct us if we will pray and seek Him and seek His will. But it all starts with this. Am I willing to do whatever God tells me to do? If that's not in place, none of these others work. Does anybody remember back in the 80s a gal by the name of Jessica Hahn? Remember that name? Jessica Hahn. How about James Baker, the TV preacher? PTL Club. Jessica Hahn was his secretary. She became his adulterous mistress. And it blew up, and the ministry went to funk. He ended up in prison, and the whole thing was a fiasco. Listen to what Jessica Hahn said later on in an interview. Uh she was a former church secretary who committed im uh adultery with Jim Baker, former host of PTL, later brought down the whole empire. On September of 1987, in an interview, she told the person interviewing her that God had given her real peace. About granting an interview to Playboy magazine and posing naked in the magazine. God had given her peace about that The news reports on on September 1987, the news reports that she still considers herself a Christian, but goes to God one-on-one, not through any church or organization. She does not consider herself a bimbo, but her mother says that she does. She has peace with God to do something that is complete contradiction to the revealed will of God. What a shame. What a shame. We have got to be wise. We have got to be wise. Is this God's will? Seek the Lord. Let Him direct it. I'm telling you, I hate to say this, but it's very possible in 2013, some of us are going to make stupid decisions. Outside of the will of God, and we're going to regret it the rest of our lives. Now I hope that's not true Let's not let that happen. Let's determine the beginning year, God, whatever your will is for me, no matter how hard it is, unpopular, whether it requires losing finance, God, I'm going to do your will. Whatever it is, God, I'm going to operate what I know is right. I'm going to let you lead me and direct me. I'm going to only do that which I can thank you for, that which I can do in your name. And God will help us. I hope this helps. Father in heaven, please bless us. Help us to exercise wisdom in our homes, in our lives, in our finances. God, in our witnessing. In our ministries. Help us, I pray, Lord. I wonder with our heads bound and eyes closed. I wonder how we would say, Preacher, I have situation. The Bible's not real specific on what the wisest thing to do is in this situation, but you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me. That God will give me wisdom, that I'll meet these qualifications, and that I'll be able to do the right thing. I really want to with all my heart. Is there any like that, preacher? I'm facing a very specific situation I really need God's wisdom. God bless you. A bunch of hands around. Some maybe you know what God's will is in a specific thing, and you're fighting it. It's not what you want. And you say, Preacher, I've got to yield myself. I need to die to self and surrender Lord and let Him have His way. Is there any like that? Preacher, I know what God's will is. uh uh uh God's and I'm fighting it, I don't want to do it. You say, Preacher, pray that God will help me yield to it and surrender to it. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you. How about is there any, say preacher Well I already covered it. Father, bless our imitation now, I ask. Give us wisdom in Jesus' name.