And your Bibles and I've lost my marker already, so let's see. In the T section, tight titus. Oh you I alright. I'll get there. Alright. Book of Titus. And uh I do want to say that uh uh it's painfully obvious to me, and I'm sure it is to you guys too, how much um how much pastor means to this church. So uh so I'm gonna muddle through this and I'm my prayer is that uh God's Holy Spirit will guide me and uh I will not get in the way So apparently he's doing all right with the microphone. So um and uh again we we want to look at uh the book of Titus chapter three And by way of introduction to the book of Titus, I'd like to just uh I don't even have a title for this message, but I would like to uh introduce this. This is what we call a Pauline epistle. This is uh a letter written to um a man named Titus on the island of Crete by Paul. Hence Pauline. And so he wrote to Titus, who was living on Crete. We find that out in verse 5 of chapter 1. And uh in uh verse four we find out that actually Titus, uh Paul calls Titus, Titus, mine own son. He Paul was actually the one that led Titus to the Lord. And so Titus is active after he's been saved. He's down in Crete. And we find out that in verse 5 that he's down there, he's actually a sort of a church administrator. He's a church planner of sorts We understand that this is the church, that the church is the body of believers, and this is the church of Christ. Christ's blood paid for it, and uh there are all sorts of different uh uh positions, active positions that are open in the church, and one of those would be somebody that acts in the way of an administrator. And so here's Titus down here in Crete. And uh Paul, under an inspiration of God, is giving Titus some some direction. And uh so we we see in verse 6 He begins to tell Titus about how to look for a pastor. And so he's identifying some characteristics, if any be blameless, a husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly. And etc. He goes down through the list of how to identify pastors that would help in churches. He identifies deceivers. He goes on to say in verses 10 through 16 Particularly Jews, those of the circumcision, they have the circumcision, that these folks uh there are folks who are perhaps converts, but they're they are um uh They're deceiving, they're misled in how the church is to go forward. And in fact, in verse 16, they profess they know God, but in works they deny him, being abominable And disobedient. And under every good work reprobate. So again, Paul is laying out some of the, not only how to find good people, but how to find bad people in the church. And then he goes on in chapter two and he begins to talk about the appropriate behavior of church members. And he says he goes and talks about men, women, different servants in the church. And um but uh I find it interesting that uh uh in the in chapters uh verses eleven through fifteen, he actually lets us know how we need to respond. Us members, us church members who are who are active and doing things, how are we supposed to respond? Look what he says in verse 11. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men. And teaching us that denying ungodliness, worldly lust, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world, looking for that blessed hope. How are we to behave? Looking for that blessed hope in everything that we do, what is that blessed hope? In the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior Jesus Christ. We know Christ is coming again. If we really, really lived every day of our lives like we expected, it's coming any moment, we would be about our work. We would be about our work. And so this is what Paul says. If you're a member of the church, these are some duties that you should be doing. But what how should we be doing it? We should always be looking to Christ's return. And that brings us to our text. And uh uh and so we just want to begin. I I would like to pick these apart. That's kind of my that's how I that's how I operate. So I'm gonna start looking at these different verses one by one. Look in verse one with me. Of chapter 3, put them in mind, them, the folks in your church, put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work. Well, what's he saying? He's saying, look. You guys, you gotta be obeying the local laws, right? Uh every each and every one of us ought to know what the local laws of the land are and we ought to obey them. That's what we're supposed to do. And this is only right. Why is it right? Why would we be doing this? Why would we be focusing on obeying the laws of the land? Well, it boils down to testimony. More than uh more than most any other thing. It boils down to maintaining a right testimony. In fact, um look if you will, we're gonna do a lot of uh uh flipping around in your Bible. I hope you're bust your Yeah, I hope you brought your Bibles with you. Go with me to uh the Gospel of John and uh in verse or in uh chapter eighteen Towards the end, uh Jesus already prayed in Gethsemane in verse 17 and in uh chapter 18 Christ is before Pilate, getting ready to be crucified And look, it's interesting what Jesus says in verse 36 to Pilate. Well actually, let me go back and I'll say, but Pilate answered, this is verse 35, Am I Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and chief priests have delivered thee unto me. What hast thou done? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. If my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight that I should not be delivered to the Jews, but now is my kingdom not from him. What is Jesus saying? He's actually saying there's a distinction between the kingdom of God and this present, the laws of this land. And he's saying, look. If I were to just lay aside the laws of this land, question, who is the guy in charge here? Pilate or Jesus? Pilate is the local law. And Jesus is saying, I'm going to defer to this law. I could, if it were, if I were to not obey the local law, I could have my servants fight, but now's not the time. This is not my kingdom. And so we're the same way. We ought to be the same way. We ought to obey the local laws of the land, which is all Paul is saying to Titus. Now, look, if you will, go to 1 Peter. First Peter and uh chapter two And Peter says in verse 13, inspired again by the Spirit of God, Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. Whether it be to the king, is supreme, or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers and for the praise of them that do well, for so is the will of God. It's God's will that way we obey the laws of the land. So Paul is reminding Titus, he's saying, look, part of what you're to do, part of what you're to be looking for in your members, is that they're all obeying the laws of the land. Now And I've lost my place in Titus already. Go back to the book of Titus and look at verse 2. Paul says, To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, showing all meekness unto all men. What's Paul saying He's saying, don't quarrel amongst yourselves. Make sure that you refrain from quarreling. Showing all meekness. That word meekness, it's just humility. Showing all humility, all meekness unto all men. Folks in your church, every one of us ought to show meekness and humility towards our Christian brothers and sisters, our brothers and sisters in Christ. We ought to be humble to one another When we put on, what is the opposite of humility? Pride. We put on pride, and what's the Bible say about that? With pride cometh contention. Quarreling. We're not to be that way. Paul's reminding Titus, hey, the folks in your church, make sure they're not quarreling What did Christ teach about, you know, when the when the Pharisees said to Jesus, you know, this guy is doing power through Satan. He's got power, he's doing things through Satan. And Jesus brought up a very simple truth. If a kingdom is divided against itself, even if it's Satan's kingdom or anybody's kingdom, if it's divided against itself, it can't stand. When we quarrel with each other, when we put pride in the way of what we should be doing, when we contend with one another, Then we are we are in we're putting in division in this kingdom. And then what happens? It can't stand. The church can't stand when there's division. So what Paul is saying to Titus is, look, keep all your folks from fighting with one another. Proverbs 25, verses 6 and 7 talks about uh uh of pride. And and and uh and basically what it's saying is that Jesus referred to this too. Uh he said that uh it uh Proverbs is saying, look, when you come to a feast, don't go and sit at the top seat Don't go sit there. Because when the prince comes in he says, uh, you know what, that seat's actually reserved for somebody else. Then you've got to get up and go on down to the lower seat. Boy, that'd be embarrassing. Rather, sit in that low seat. And then when the prince comes in, he says, no, no, no, that seat's not for you. Come on up here to a higher seat. Boy, then what? Boy, then you've got then you've got uh not embarrassment at all. You've got praise and honor from that. And uh so what happened there? Pride got in the way And Jesus says in John 13, let's go if you're if you've got your finger in the book of John. John chapter 13. We understand that Jesus came as a servant, but this really, really underlines that fact. And I'm gonna read in verse 4, he that's speaking of Jesus, riseth from supper and laid aside his garments, and took a towel and girded himself. John chapter 13, verse 5. After that he poureth water into a basin and began to wash the disciples' feet and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded. Then cometh he to Simon Peter, and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet? Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now But thou shalt know hereafter. Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me. I love this. Simon Peter Saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head. Jesus saith unto him, He that is washed needeth not to save uh he He that is washed needeth not to save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit, and ye are clean, but not all. And then look what he says in verse 14. If I then your Lord Well in verse thirteen he says, Ye call me Master and Lord, and ye say well, for so I am. The truth is, Jesus is our Lord and Master. If we're saved, Jesus is our Lord and Master. Look what he says, though Verse 14, if I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet, ye also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that ye should do as I have done to you. What does that mean? We are to approach our Christian brothers and sisters, our brothers and sisters in Christ as servants to them. As servants. Why? Because Christ did it. He says, you do as I do. I came to be the ultimate perfect servant. When Jesus went to that cross, He wasn't looking forward to it. He wasn't happy and excited about it, but he did it. He served. His Father in heaven, and he served us through love. We ought also to do the same. We're to be conformed to the image of Christ. Therefore We ought we shouldn't we shouldn't quarrel with one another. Matter of fact, we ought to treat each other as I'm your servant. Oh you need help with that? I'm gonna be here for you. I'm gonna be a servant for you. That's how we all ought to be. And Paul's reminding Titus of that. Look for that. Now look, let me just say it's always better to start with humility humility The verse in there talking about sitting in the high seat or the low seat clearly gives a perfect picture of where you should where you ought to start. Start with humility, with one another, just as Jesus did washing our feet. Look with me again in Titus, in chapter 3, verse 3. And this is uh this really underscores a lot, for we ourselves, he says, also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived. Serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy hateful and hating one another. Wow. So here we are. We ought to not quarrel with one another, we ought to be humble. We ought to obey the laws, we ought to be humble, and we ought to refrain from what all of us seem to have slip into every once in a while. Hypocrisy. Hypocrisy, for we ourselves also were sometimes foolish. You know, you know the old saying, people live in glass houses. And uh uh it's so easy for us to be blind to the own facts of our own life and just to look out and see other people and say, well look what he's doing. Look what she's doing. You know, it might be true. They might be doing those things. She might be doing it. He might be doing that. But you know what? What did Jesus say? Remove the moat that is in your own eye. Then maybe you'll see the splinter in somebody else's. I mean we're talking a beam, a giant stick in somebody's eye. You can't see anything because of your own problems. And that's what happens when we become hypocrites. Matter of fact, what was Jesus' major complaint with the Pharisees? Hypocrites. Hypocrites. They they would go around and uh and uh uh you know act as if they were the best and it turns out they were rotten on the inside. What do you say? They're like white at the sepulchres Rotten on the inside. Nothing good on the inside. It's all clean on the outside, but there's nothing good on the inside. Paul's reminding Titus, don't let your folks be hypocrites. Don't let them be that way. You know, I think of uh if if you got your I should have just told you to keep your finger in the book of John. Um if you were to go to to uh to John chapter 8 Perfect example of hypocrisy. And when people finally are illuminated to their own hypocrisy, what happens? Look in chapter 8. I'll just begin reading verse 1. Jesus went unto the Mount of Olives, and early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him, and he sat down and taught them. And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman. Taken in adultery. And when they had set her in the midst, they say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery in the very act. Now Moses in the law commanded us that such should be stoned, but what sayest thou? This they said, and this of course illuminates what they're after, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. They're looking for a flaw in Jesus. But Jesus stooped down and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he had heard them not. So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him cast the first stone at her. Let him first cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. And look at this. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience. Went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last, and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst. Now look None of those people that came there, and they had a dead solid argument against this woman. Moses said, ought to not do this. We caught her in the very act. Here she is, Lord. By the way, they call him master there. You know, that's a bit of a double tongue. They're not looking at him as a master at all. What are we supposed to do with this lady? Moses tells us what we're supposed to do. What do you say? He says, alright, let the one of you that doesn't have any sin in your lives, go ahead. You do it first. You throw the first thing. Well what happens? They all vanish. They all go away. And let me say this, by the way, every one of us has a conscience. Every one of us. Okay? That's a knowledge of good and evil. We all have that built in. Okay? We all know. Now we can sear our conscience. You do something long enough, you can sear it. But uh we all have a conscience. And uh if you're open to your conscience, your conscience will tell you when you're being a hypocrite, just like it told these people that. And so Paul is saying Titus, first of all, your members, they need to be following the letter of the law, the local law. They need to not quarrel with one another. They need to uh be humble, but they also need to not be hypocrites. Uh you know I cannot argue with the Bible, and the Bible tells me in Romans, in chapter 3, verses 10 and 23, tells me that I'm a sinner. When we go out knocking on doors this afternoon, when we go out looking to take the gospel of Christ to people who perhaps don't know him. Those are two favorite verses we use. Look what the Bible says about us. All of us. We're all sinners. We've all come short of the glory of God. So none of us should cast any stone. And that's what Paul's reminding Titus. Now look in and go back to Titus, verse 4. Paul says to Titus, he says, but after that, after we had done all of our foolishness, after all of that The kindness and love of God, our Savior, toward man appeared. After all of that. What's Paul saying? Remember God's manifest love. Manifest. Shown. Displayed to us. The love of God appeared to us. You know, around Christmas time every year, we talk about Emmanuel, we talk about uh we look in the Gospels and the early parts of the Gospels and we talk about the coming of the babe in the manger. That's the love of God. But that's not where it stopped. It stopped with Christ living a perfect and sinful life, fully obedient to the Father, to the point of going to the cross, to die on the cross. Not because he did anything wrong. He was sinless. But to follow every to fulfill the law, to pay our sin debt. God says, because we're sinners, we all deserve to die and be separated from him for all eternity in a place called hell, eventually in a place called the lake of fire. But God was able to fulfill that by allowing Christ to do it for us in our stead on the cross. If we accept that, accept that free gift. Did I do anything for it? No. Can anybody do anything for it? Can we earn it? No. By God's grace, he's shown us his manifest love. Emmanuel, the Word, God with us. God showed His love. I don't know how people can argue with history. Jesus on earth. So many people saw him after. 500 plus people saw him after he died on the cross. It's history. How can you argue with it? John three sixteen. Now to what end? Look if you go to the book of First John Why would God love us so much? The book of First John says Chapter 4, verse 19 says, we love him because he first loved us. God gave his son to die on the cross for us to show that love, to manifest his love, his ultimate love to us, and what we should do in return: love him back. When they ask Jesus, what's the greatest sin, or what's the greatest law? To love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. You know, and then the second is like unto it, right? Love thy neighbor as thyself So, and you know the thing is, love is actually you ever do work for anybody, um you you know love is a prerequisite for service of any kind. We're to be servants, we're to be servants for God, we're bought and paid for by the blood of Christ And we're servants for him. But you know, to be a servant, to be an effective servant, we have to show our love back. We have to love. It has to start with the heart. I was this was uh this morning, talking about the uh Some verses that the teens and I are learning. Faith starts in the heart. It starts with love. You have to genuinely love the Lord back. Can we perfectly do it? Not now. But we can when we get to heaven. Now go back to Titus. Look at verse 5. I can tell you from my own background that this uh what this verse touches on was the most difficult thing for me in my life. But Paul reminds Titus: not by works of righteousness, which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us by the washing of regeneration and newing of the Holy Ghost. Nothing I'm going to be able to do. There's nothing anybody can do. There's nothing that I can do to earn a place in heaven. Absolutely nothing. The only thing I can do is take God at His Word. And God says that if I call upon the name of the Lord, I shall be saved. God says that the Son of God came and suffered on the death to pay for my sins. If I accept that, I can be saved. Why? Because of anything. Is there anything I can do then? No, and that's what Paul's saying. Not by works of righteousness which we have done. There's nothing I can do to earn this. God showed his love to us, and all we have to do is take it. It's grace. We're all saved by grace, not by works. Ephesians 2, 8, and 9, we all know this, for by grace are ye saved through faith, and that not of yourselves is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Not of works. Not of works. When I let me explain. When I grew up, where I where the the the the uh the Church that I grew up in was it was uh nominally Christian. Nominally Christian. In name, Christian. And uh, and I've said this before up here, when I left, when I would leave my church Sundays, Sunday mornings. I would think to myself, and I was an altar boy, an acolyte, they called us Uh I was always the head acolyte. No matter where we lived, I always end up with be the head acolyte and I could carry the cross in and the procession and put out the candles and light candles and all those things. And uh uh Boy, I thought after my Sunday morning service, I'm good to go. And the only thing that always bugged me was I kept thinking in my mind, I've got to be hit by a bus on my way out of the church Sunday morning. Otherwise, I don't know if I'm going to end up in heaven or not. Now that's no way to live. Again, Christ came to fulfill the law, fulfill it all My sins that I've already done, my sins that I'm doing right now, and the sins that I'll do in the future. He paid all of that, every last part. His blood is the perfect sacrifice. The shed blood of the lamb is the perfect sacrifice. And if I accept that, which I did. And I just recently learned the date. I gotta commit that date to memory. Um but uh I had written it down somewhere forgotten for many years, and I just found it written But you know something that day that I accepted Christ to be my personal Savior. This was not a head knowledge, this was not saying, oh yeah, I know Christ died for everybody, because you know what, I already knew that. I knew that since I was a little kid. Christ died for everybody's sins. Christ died for my sins. The day that I realized that, and I realized the simplicity, my father-in-law-in-law and I would we would chip talk, and this was before I was saved, and he'd say, Look, you You need to accept this gift. You need to just you want to pray this prayer with me? God, I know I'm a sinner. I know what your word says that because I'm a sinner, I deserve to be separated from you. eternally in a place called hell, eventually like fire. I know what your butt your word says about that, but I also know that you sent your son Jesus And if I simply believe that, call on him to be my Savior, that my account will be made clean. That when you see me, you will see your Son. And I would say to him, that's too simple. That's too simple. You know that's funny though, it was so simple I couldn't do it for the longest time. And uh through a period of of uh God work in my life, he made me see it. And thank God he did And uh so we understand then Paul is just reiterating to Titus, he's saying, look, don't be confused about this. There's nothing any of your church members are going to do. There are folks, I have no doubt there are folks that have come through these doors and perhaps even been members and maybe did not know, didn't know Christ as their personal Savior. It's possible. It's possible And they'd run around and do things. Just like when I was a kid, I'd run around and put out the candles and do everything and ring the bells whenever the priest would uh uh bless the uh the communion and everything like that, do all those things, and yet Bible says I'm headed somewhere where I don't think I'm gonna like it there. Jesus says there's weeping and gnashing of teeth. Man, you don't want to go to that place. So Paul's saying, listen, make sure everybody in your church understands. Make sure in these church plant uh these churches that you're planting, everybody understands God showed his love. And that there's no amount of work that we can do that's going to get us there. It's by grace that we're saved. I've never done anything, I'm not ever going to do anything, it's going to deserve earning me eternal life and a place in heaven. I'm not I mean I can tell you right now for a fact I am not ever going to do anything that will deserve that. Sorry to let you down. It's not going to happen. And none of us can. But we can accept God at His Word Now, look in verse 6. Paul says, which he, Christ, shed on us abundantly. Through Jesus which he, God, God shed his love abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. Abundantly. I got to thinking about that. Are there any people that are familiar with any kind of math and here, mathematicians of any sort? You ever heard of the word infinity? How many people have heard of the word infinity? Okay. Right. Infinity is a long, long, big, big number. It never you never get to the end. Well, how far is it from here to the the gas station? Ah, it's just infinity down the road. That means you're going to drive there for you're going to run out of gas before you get there. Okay? One sin, the Bible says. One sin. You live your life perfect, except you mess up one time. You're guilty of all. You're not going to heaven because of that. On its own. Just one of those will do it. Now, don't raise your hands, but I wonder how many people just send just today that you're aware of. Okay? Now think about this. If each sin makes me e puts on my account that I have to suffer in eternity in a place called hell. But Jesus paid for each and every one of my sins, and not each and every just not just each and every one of mine, but each and every one of yours. And each and every one of everybody in Kazakhstan. The world. The sin of the world paid for. Each sin is infinity time in hell. Abundantly? I don't even think we even grasp the even the the even the tip of the iceberg we want to talk about abundantly. Abundantly Christ paid. For three hours, and I believe that, you know, it got dark for three hours while Christ was on that cross. We think about all the the trauma and there was that movie out that uh that uh you know the the passion and people talk about how bloody that was. I haven't seen uh talk about how brutal and bloody that was. Look, that's bodily. I mean, all of us have gone through some bodily pain, but Christ paid the spiritual price even for us. Now think about that. Christ paid the price that we don't even really get, we don't really even understand that so much. He paid it all and suffered it all. And for those three hours, For those three hours where everything was dark, and God the Father turned his son his face on his own son and just shed to fulfill the law. To fulfill the law, blasted all that judgment in our stead All you gotta do is take it? All we gotta do is take it? We take that so much for granted. Abundantly doesn't even touch it. Abundantly is just the tip of the iceberg. Abundantly. God shed his love on us through Jesus Christ our Savior. And now look in verse 7. Okay, so what is Paul saying? He's saying, Titus, uh The f the the the uh you your guys have to obey the local law. Everybody that's a member of the church, they should be doing that. I don't want them to fight with one another. I don't want them to be hypocrites. They ought to always keep in mind God's manifest love. They always should understand that it's through grace that we're saved, not of works, and that salvation comes through Jesus Christ alone. Okay? Look actually, if you will, in uh in in uh Acts uh well let me just uh I'll just read it to you. Acts chapter uh four Verse 12, many of you probably already know this verse. It says, Neither is there salvation in any other, for there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must Jesus said he's the way, the truth, and the light. That's uh in and uh uh uh there was uh a guy here l uh talking about the uh parts of speech and he said that uh the way, the truth, the life, that's all using the in a definite sense. Not saying a way, a truth, a life. He's saying the way. Jesus is the way. There's none other name. And so God gave his love to us through Jesus Christ, and that's the only way. That's the only way. So Paul reminds Titus: we're all saved by grace, and it's only through Jesus Christ. Now look at verse 7. That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. Heirs. We can have assurance of an inheritance We have, if you've called on Christ to be your Savior, you have an inheritance. The Bible says it very clearly. We have an inheritance. What inheritance? Heaven. We can be with him. We're his children. We are adopted into his family. We can become the sons of God. In fact, it goes on later and it talks about, and I've and I and I brought a message on this a long time ago about Abba. Abba. That's an Aramaic word and it brings together the idea of Papa. This kind of familiar, my middle daughter calls me Papa, and it's a very familiar term. It's a very close term. But Abba combines Papa with father, a more formal term. So there's this Aramaic term called this Abba Abba. which which brings in the formal and and the informal together into one word. And do you know that that's the way it is with us and our Father in Heaven Abba, when we can call him Papa, we can call him Father, we call him his formality, his authority, his sovereignty. Well, we can also call on him to be our close father. What a wonderful thing that is. In fact, Jesus in his time in the Garden of Gethsemane, he called on God and he called him Abba. So it's this intimacy, but also this formality. We're recognizing the authority God has, but at the same time, we're recognizing the closeness we have. That we can inherit through calling on the name of the of Jesus. Okay? So uh we can approach him as our children. What a wonderful thing. What a wonderful thing. You know, there there have been times in my life when I've had to uh when I've had to go to my dad uh for for one thing or another. And I could go and fully expect that because he's my father, he's going to do things for me because of the closeness, because I'm his son. But you know, we have that same relationship with our Heavenly Father. We can go and we can take our petitions to Him. What a wonderful thing prayer is Justified by the blood of Christ, and we can go and pray to our Father, to our Papa, and ask him, tell him your burdens Look, this is what's going on, and I just need you to help with this. Will he do it? Yes. The Bible says he will. Now, look with me at verse 8. We're almost done. And this is where Paul closes all this up with Titus, and he says, This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly. What things? The things he was just talking about. Be a good citizen. Don't be quarreling. Don't be hypocrites Accept that what God did was through his grace. Accept that it is only Jesus that can do it. Take your position as an inheritance seriously. Understand it. What are all these things? That they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain what? Verse 8. That they which have been believed in God might be careful to maintain Good works. These things are good and profitable unto men. So what's the point of all this? What's the point of all of it? Good works. Somebody said one time, and this I think is true, 90% of the work in the church is done by 10% of the folks who attend the church. Now, am I saying that everybody needs to do every single position, that every single member ought to be a bus driver? No. Am I saying, you know, I would like to see a ton of people show up this afternoon to go outdoor knocking? Am I saying that everybody should? I understand there are situations where you can't You're not going to be able to. Should you personally evangelize? Oh yeah. At work? With your family? You should be. What is that? That's good works. Paul's reminding Titus that look in all this stuff in your church that you're setting up, that you're planning. All these things I'm telling you, all these things that are going on, they all need to come back to this thing to make you to that you might be careful to maintain good works Can you do good works if you're in trouble with the law? I don't know. I mean if you're in jail, I don't I I guess you could have a ministry in there, but uh your testimony might hurt a little bit. Um you know These things affirm constantly. And let me read to you what I wrote down here, and this must have been years ago. I'm glad I write in my Bible. I don't know if anybody has that habit, but I do, and I'm glad I wrote it down because I never would have been able to come up with this. It says we must constantly reaffirm our hope in the inheritance we have been given by the grace of God with the fullness of the residence of the Holy Spirit, whose entrance we allowed at birth. by accepting the truth and gift of our Savior Jesus Christ. The reaffirming is not to deaden our mind. It's rather to restore our hearts to good works and pleasure of service to our mighty, our our mighty Creator in whom and for whom we are made. You know, the Bible talks about how we're made for God's pleasure. If anybody ever says, you know, well what's what's the meaning of it all? And I've said this before too, what's the meaning of it all? Yeah, man What's the meaning of it all? You know what the meaning of it all is? We're supposed to please God. We're supposed to please our Creator. That's it. So how do we do that? Well, we first get saved. We first accept His gift Then we go on. We reaffirm constantly in our mind all the wonderful things that God has done for us. Why? So that we can go out and do good works with a happy heart. When we go out and we go soul winning, we better be doing it with a happy heart. If we're not, then just don't do it. Don't bother. You're just out there, you're telling people, look, look, this is what happened to me And be excited about it. You say, you know, I'm afraid what people might say. Does that mean if the ship is sinking and you found a whole st uh uh a storeroom of uh of uh flotation devices That you're just gonna be in Well I would I would take some flotation devices to them, but I'm I'm not sure I'm afraid what they would say if I did. Everybody's drowning in the water, you know? No No. You ought to be happy. Look, I got this flotation device. Now I'm going to swim over here and give one to him. I'll give some more to him, and he can take them and give them to somebody else. Right? Now uh if we look if we look in verse fourteen, and I'm I'm wrapping this up, I see the time. Um Verse 14 says, And let ours also learn, ours, the members of a church, also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful. The whole idea is to be fruitful. And God's fruit is the saved soul. That fruit out there There ought to be fruit in each and every one of our lives. There ought to be, well, there should be our own saved soul. But there ought to be others that we've led to Christ or built by our testimony. You might not know One day in heaven, we'll be able to get a chance to see how many people were looking at us, saying, you know, there's something too Pat or, you know, whoever. There's something to him. I've got to find out what that is. And then they end up getting saved. You know, part of that part of that person getting saved was through your testimony. You just never know But we need to always reaffirm in our minds. Reaffirm how abundantly God has loved us. Every single sin we ever had, and He's paid for. Jesus didn't Jesus didn't have fun up there on that cross, but he did it because the Father asked him to do it. And because he loved us and because he loved his father. And now if we can accept that gift as our as our as our I just accept that gift, I can look to God as my Father. I can go and I can ask him things. Our purpose is just to please him. And we need to do it with joy in our hearts. And when we do it, when we do God's will with humility, and we do it with his full power, we can see fruit. We can see souls saved. Amen. Let's let's pray. Father, I thank you for this passage in in your word, God that's uh helped us to see the uh the necessary uh uh things that should be in our own lives as members of this church, as saved folks, as body of believers here And uh God, I pray that uh you would use this um this opportunity that uh that you've shown to Paul, and you've inspired Paul right to this This man Titus and uh Father, I pray that you'd use the opportunity to move in our hearts to see where we maybe have areas of weakness, where we need to be uh better children for you. And Father, help us to always reaffirm in our hearts all the wonderful blessings you've bestowed upon us that we might be able to go out and see souls saved as a result of just doing what you just ask us to do. And uh just give us that joy, Father. I pray. And uh God, we thank you for everything you do. Uh with with uh heads bowed and uh and eyes closed, I wonder if there'd be anybody in here today. uh that uh can say, you know, I'm sure glad this section of the of of uh of God's word is is written and I see where there's an area in my life where maybe I need to work on Uh uh perhaps uh perhaps it's soul winning, perhaps it's maybe I'm maybe I'm a little bit quarrelsome. Maybe I've been a hypocrite Maybe I need to get this idea, really hang this idea of how much, how abundantly God has shown me things, and I need to return that to Him. I need to love Him because He first loved me. How many would say, just with raised hands, how many would say that uh the Spirit of God has has moved in my heart and indicated an area of my life, just by a show of hands, real quick? Amen. Amen. Amen. Hands around. Father, I thank you for that. In a moment we're gonna let's all stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed. In a moment we're going to have an invitation as the as the piano is played. I ask that everybody would search their hearts, have the Holy Spirit search your heart, find out areas in your life. Say God, please indicate to me in my own life where I've where I need to serve you better, where I need to