Excellent, I appreciate that. And I believe she does have a goodly heritage, what she's saying about. Ezekiel chapter number twenty-four, if you would turn there. We've been uh looking at different folks whom God allowed for various reasons to go through what I'm calling the school of hard knocks. We noted Job and uh Abraham and some of these folks. Today we're going to look at someone I've never actually preached on this passage before I hate to say it, but I've preached very little from the book of Ezekiel. I have a a number of times over the years, but not like some of the other books of the Bible, Psalms and John and different ones like that. And so we're going to look at Ezekiel today. And he goes through a course in the school of hard knocks for a very unique reason. And I believe the Lord will be able to use this and help us this morning. Follow along again. I'm going to read the same passage James did. I know it's a little redundant. But you know what I found out? It's a good thing to read the Bible over and over and over. So I just want to read it's just a few verses. Would you follow along with me once again? In verse number fifteen of Ezekiel chapter twenty-four And the word of the Lord, also the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, behold, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes with a stroke. Yet neither shalt thou mourn nor weep, neither shalt thy tears run down. Forbear to cry. Make no mourning for the dead. Now if you would come down to verse 18 So I spake unto the people in the morning, and at even my wife died, and I did in the morning as I was commanded Let's pray. Father, I ask you bless now this portion of Scripture to our hearts and lives. We prayed that you would use the truths presented here To enable us to deal with the issues of life that you bring in, the trials, the heartaches. And Lord, help us to see that, see purpose behind what you allow in our lives. Help us to see your presence and sense your presence in the trials in our life. God, that we can come through with shining testimonies. And we can have an influence in this world. We can bring glory to our Savior. So I ask with all my heart this morning, I pray you'd fill me with your Spirit. That you would speak through me. Open our hearts and minds and have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Well, we read here twice now. Was some news given to Ezekiel that is absolutely heart-wrenching? God told Ezekiel that his wife was going to die that evening. He didn't have a lot of time to prepare for it. Had one day. In the morning, he was given that information. That evening, his wife dies. That is heart-wrenching. That just in and of itself would be very, very difficult. I think especially in Ezekiel's case, which we'll notice here in a few minutes. As hard as that is, to be given that information, a little time to process it, deal with it, prepare for it. On top of that, God gives him, at least, I think, by our standards, some unreasonable instructions. God says, not only am I going to take your wife away this evening. Now it says there uh that uh Says that his uh I will look at verse 16. I will take away from uh thee the desire of thine eyes with a stroke. Now, be honest with you, I'm not real sure whether God means by that that it was a stroke. That was going to take her life, or if it if God by that simply meant it was going to be sudden. Just boom, he's going to take her. Either case. God, on top of that, says this, Ezekiel, you're not going to shed a tear? You're not going to display any sorrow. You're not going to mourn. You are not going to weep. That is my instructions. Taking your wife, and you will show no public, no visible evidence of sorrow on your part. I don't know about you, but my thinking is that's over the top. God, that that's a little much. Alright, you're taking my wife, you have reasons that I trust you, but now you tell me not to sorrow. I want us to consider first of all in my outline of this passage here. I want us to consider first of all the man Ezekiel. Ezekiel was, I'm gonna say Ezekiel was in my mind a strange man. At the very least, maybe I ought to correct that, he had a very strange ministry given by God. He saw all kinds, God gave him all kinds of very weird visions. If you ever read the first several chapters of the book of Ezekiel, he's seeing wheels inside of wheels, and uh they're going back and forth, and these wheels got eyes all over them. And it sounds to me, it sounds to me like he ate too much pizza before he went to bed. You know, it's just these odd things. And they all have significance, and God was communicating a message. But it's just it it reminds me of some dreams I've had over the years. God instructed Ezekiel to do some uh very unusual behavior. He's to lay on his side, nearly naked, staring at a little model of the city of Jerusalem for several months at a time. I'm glad God never told me to do stuff like that. So Ezekiel was given, he was a very interesting man with a very interesting, strange in many ways, ministry to the nation of Israel and the city of Jerusalem in particular. Ezekiel was a prophet. If you will study the Bible much and get commentaries and various books on the Bible. You will find the book of Ezekiel referred to as a major prophet. Some of the books in the end of the New Test uh at the end of the Old Testament, I should say, are called major prophets. Others are called minor prophets It is not that the major prophets are more important than the minor prophets, it's simply they're larger books than the minor are much smaller books, all equal importance, all varying messages. But Ezekiel is called a major prophet. And I want to suggest to you he was a major prophet in many ways. As a man, he stands out among others. His message, as I said, was very unique. I'm just going to give a little background here, a little Bible information for you to lay the groundwork here. But this guy, Ezekiel, he was a contemporary of Jeremiah. Just the previous uh book in the Bible. Uh Jeremiah was a prophet to the nation of Israel, the city of Jerusalem in particular. It was the time both Ezekiel and Jeremiah were prophets at the time of Israel's fall. Israel is at the end of their time. God is about to send them into captivity. And uh they will never be a nation again, as far as a self-governing nation again, until nineteen forty-eight They are at the end of their time as an individual angel. They're still God's people, but they are scattered. They're in captivity. Their living conditions deteriorate Because of their rejection against God. So Ezekiel and Jeremiah are these prophets, and they're preaching to Jerusalem, they're preaching to Israel at this time, saying, you know, judgment is coming. You've been ignoring God long enough. You've been living in sin long enough. You've neglected the worship and the principles of Scripture long enough. Listen, judgment is coming. You're going to be taken away. You're going to lose everything. And that's their message. Ezekiel is taken to Babylon as a captive along with the other Israelites. Jeremiah doesn't. Jeremiah doesn't, he gets out and gets away and has various other things, but Ezekiel ends up in Babylon with the people of Israel, and he does some of his prophesying there in Babylon. His name means God strengthens. Interesting mess name for a man that has an interesting message. God what what his message is in some sense, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here, but his message to Israel in some sense was listen, you've really blown it You have really, really messed up. And there's a consequence for that. But God will be with you through that. And God will strengthen you, and it's going to be okay if you will trust him. But listen, you've really messed up. It's kind of his message. Now here's the thing, and this is what I wanted to get to. Ezekiel as a prophet, it wasn't just the words coming off of his lips that was the message to God's people. It was his entire life. Every aspect of his life. God would have him, as I said, do some very strange things. And every one of those things was conveying a message to Israel. How Ezekiel conducted himself. Ezekiel's appearance. How he God would tell him to dress certain ways. All of that was a message being communicated by God through Ezekiel to the people of God So his his ministry was more than that just of a mess, his words coming off his lips. It was his entire life. Everything about him. was communicating a message to the nation of Israel. Now, you and I are not prophets in the Old Testament sense of the word But those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, those of us who have accepted Jesus Christ and been born again into the family of God, Though we are not prophets in the Old Testament sense of the word, we very much are the spokesmen of God for this generation. And I want to suggest to you, it is not just the message coming off our lips to this world, but it is every aspect of our lifestyle that is communicating a message to this old sinful world. I have found I got saved on May 7, 1979. I'm coming up on my 32nd year as a child of God. God has been good. I'd rather live one year for the Lord than 50 years for the devil. And God's been good. And I've learned something. I've learned this: that the unsaved world pay attention to the things that God's people say and do. They watch us. They form opinions about God based on our lifestyle And it is not just the words we say on the workplace, it is not just the message we preach from behind the pulpit, as important as those things are, it is also how we conduct ourselves in the workplace and in the community and in the marketplace that has a powerful that can that communicates a powerful message to this world. Ezekiel's ministry is not just delivering a verbal message. This is whole lifestyle How he responded to the issues of life. We're all part of God communicating to Israel God's message. And likewise with you and I. As God's people, every aspect of our life communicate something about God to this sinful world. Now, what are we communicating? Is my lifestyle accurately communicating to this world what our God is like. Now without getting into details, let me offer some suggestions, let me offer some observations as to ways Areas of our life that have a powerful communication. First of all, I put this down, our attitudes. Do you ever notice you cannot hide your attitude? How many folks here ever had a bad attitude? You knew you had a bad attitude, and you were trying really hard not to let anyone know you had a bad attitude. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You know what I found every time I do that, my wife comes up and says, You got a bad attitude, don't you? I can't hide it. And this world pays attention to our attitudes The way we see things, how we respond to things. It's communicating. We're communicating what God means to us. By our attitudes. I put this down. Uh of course by our words. The words we say. Hey, I I mean to me We shouldn't even have to mention this among God's people. But you know, there are some words that ought not to come off the lips of the child of God. There are some words that absolutely have no business in the vocabulary of God's people. And as this world deteriorates. And as the language becomes so filthy in our society, in our world It looks to me like among the people of God our words should be pure and clean and clear and honest. And the language we use communicates very much as a child of God to this world my relationship with the Lord Our attitudes, the words we use, our language, our associations, the people, and the entertainment type things that we associate with. Communicate powerfully to this world what kind of Christian I am and what kind of God I serve. What am I communicating? Is it accurate? Is it true? When we think about peer pressure, what group of what what age group do you think of when you think about peer pressure? Teenagers I'm here to tell you, every one of us as adults face just as much peer pressure as these young people do. The pastor of an independent, fundamental, right-wing, hellfire and brimstone, shingle pulling, rattle or shingle rattle and window pulling. Uh, devil hating King James Bible preaching church faces just as much peer pressure as the young person sitting down the front row here. We all face it. This world trying to mold us into its image, being conformed to this world's values and its priorities. Spear pressure. And who I associate with and who I identify with communicates very much to this world where I stand with God. I've often said this. I am now, or I am becoming, like the people I willingly associate with. You say, what kind of I wonder what kind of person I really am. You want to know? Look around the people you choose to hang out with. That's the kind of person you are. That's the kind of person I am. Say yikes. Yeah. Um our attitudes, our words, our associations. Hey, here's a touchy one. Our appearance. How we look, how we dress, how we wear our hair. Job says, Amen, preacher. I feel like a hippie, to be honest with you. Um You know what I got studying by this was years ago. I got sent by you know what I found out? God is concerned about every detail of my life. Now why is that? Because every detail of my life communicates something. How I conduct myself, how I dress, my appearance, all of that is communicating to this world Uh can I throw this out? This is this is leathermanism here, right? So you can take it and leave it. But how I dress Um, when I approach someone or go to someone, says very much about my respect for that person. You follow what I'm saying? You say, Well, I just dress for me to be comfortable. That's not the way you ought to dress. You ought to redress out of respect for the people you're going to be around Suppose you were getting married. Now for some of you guys it's a stretch, but suppose imagine you're getting married, some uh a person's getting married, and they invite you to the wedding and you're gonna be uh right there prominent in the wedding and you show up in ripped up blue jeans, sandals, and a stinky t-shirt. What's that wedding party gonna say? They say, get out of here, you're not part of this. You're not gonna be on the part of the wedding. What? We expect you to show more respect than that. You follow what I'm saying? No more respect than that. So it communicates. Alright, I spent enough time on that. So here we have this man, Ezekiel. He's a prophet, but every aspect of his lifestyle is part of his ministry. Is and you read the book and all his behavior and how he responds to the things that Come in that God brings into his life. All of that is part of his ministry, his message to the nation of Israel. And That's the way it is with us, also. This world watches, they learn, they come to conclusions about God based on our behavior, not just our words. Second thing I want us to notice, and this may seem at first unrelated, but I think you'll see where I'm going with this, I want us to consider his marriage. Is marriage. Look with me if you would. 16. Interesting words used here. And this is what caught my attention. In fact, I actually changed the outline of the message the more I study this Because of this. Look at verse 16. Son of man, speaking that's God speaking to Ezekiel. Son of man, behold, I take away from thee. Look how he describes his wife. Look at the terms he uses. To describe Ezekiel's wife, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes. Isn't that interesting? That is how God understood that Ezekiel viewed his wife. Ezekiel's wife to him was the desire of his eyes. Now, that says a lot about his marriage. If Ezekiel had the choice of looking at anything in the world, you know what his desire to look at was? His wife. It's the desire of his eyes. Well, Ezekiel, what what do you want to look at all day today, my wife? She's the desire of my eyes. That phrase desire of my eyes means this. Means something pleasant to look at, something highly desirable, something greatly beloved. That one phrase tells me this about Ezekiel. He loved his wife dearly. She was precious to him. She was highly desirable to him. If you would keep your place here, I want you to go to another book we don't go to very often, the Song of Solomon. You would keep your place here, as I said, and turn with me to the Song of Solomon. It's right after you have Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon. And I'd like for you to go to uh chapter five, verse sixteen. Song of Solomon, chapter five, verse sixteen. Now, you really should, if you've been saved any length of time, you really need to start working on reading your Bible through Genesis or Revelation. Just read through it. And in doing that, of course, you'll read through the book of Psalm of Solomon Song of Solomon is a it is a sensual book Bunch of people just said, whoa, I'm reading that thing. It is I know where people have I know where some folks are having devotions this week. It is a love story between Solomon and uh one of his wives. And it's very intimate. Uh I get reading through there. I used to start reading through Song of Solomon, and I read a passage, and I'd say, is that saying what I think it's saying? I get looking up and sure enough, that's saying what I think it's saying. And notice in chapter 5 and verse number 16, this is the wife speaking about Solomon. Notice what he says. His mouth is most sweet. I gotta be careful. How does she know that? Anyway, that has nothing to do with the message. Look what it is. His mouth is most sweet. Yea, look at this. He is all together lovely. Exact same words translated in Ezekiel, the desire of my eyes. Exact same meaning. This love that this young woman in the book of Song of Solomon had for Solomon The young man Solomon, that passion, that love, that desirable, desirability for him. Was the exact same thing that Ezekiel had for his wife. Now that makes his test all the more significant. He loved his wife dearly. Jeremy Taylor was a theologian in the 1600s. That's 400 years ago in England. He was a pastor, uh well known, wrote a lot. He was very poetic. And speaking of Ezekiel's wife, Listen to what Jeremy Taylor, this ancient theologian, said, wrote about Ezekiel's wife. I like this. I read this to my wife last night and she liked it. Her voice was his sweet music. Her smile was his brightest day. Her kiss was the guardian of his innocence. Her arms, the pail of his safety and the balm of his health Her lips his faithful counselors, her bosom his softest pillow of the softest pillow of his cares And her prayers, the ageless advocate of heaven's blessings on his life. Isn't that beautiful? Ezekiel loved his wife dearly. She was the desire of his eyes. We know nothing of his marriage or his wife other than what we are given here. And we come to this conclusion. She was very, very precious. And he loved her dearly. Now, what's the challenge? We're told in Ephesians chapter 5 and verse 25: husbands, love your wives. That is a command given. That is something I either obey or disobey. That is something I either do it or I don't. And he doesn't stop there. He says, husbands, love your wives, even as Christ loves the church Now that is intense. You know what we are as a church to the Lord Jesus Christ? We are the desire of his eyes We are precious, most beloved. And God says I'm to love my wife that way. So we have the man Ezekiel, kind of an unusual guy. Very sick very influential. Every aspect of his life was used of God to communicate message to Israel We look at his marriage, and though we're not told much about it, he loved his wife dearly. He loved his wife dearly. The next thing I want us to notice is Ezekiel's submission. Verse number 18. Notice what the Bible says back here in Ezekiel 24. God told him, I'm going to take your the desire of your eyes, I'm going to take your wife in a stroke in a moment this evening. She's going to be gone. Look what he says in verse 18. So I spake unto the people in the morning. He went out and fulfilled his duties that day, just like he always did. And at evening, my wife died. And in the morning, the next morning, I did as I was commanded. As unreasonable as it seems to you and I, Ezekiel did exactly what God told him to do. I'm going to take your wife. You're not going to shed a tear. You're not going to show any sorrow. You're not going to mourn in any way. Now let me ask you a question. Do you believe Ezekiel was sad? Without a doubt. Do you believe he sorrowed? I believe he sorrowed intensely. This was the most precious thing in the world to him. It's taken like that. But God said it's all going to have to be internal. It's all going to have to be private. If you're going to cry, Ezekiel, you'll cry to me. You're going to sorrow, Ezekiel, you'll sorrow before me. Not publicly. That's not the message that Israel needs at this time. And Ezekiel, I need a powerful, powerful means To get the attention of my people. They are sinning grievously. They are about to go through a horrific trial as captives in the land of Babylon, and for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years they will have no nation. They will serve others. They will be under persecution and tyranny for thousands of years. And I must prepare them for that. I have a message that must be communicated. And Ezekiel, this is how I want to communicate this message. And Ezekiel says, I'll do exactly what you say, Lord. What submission? No tears, no weeping, no sorrow, just got up the next morning and went about his duties. As another day. Now you read down on through here, get down to verse 19 and lower, and the people are baffled. People of Israel say, What does this mean? What in the world, Ezekiel? Your wife died last night and you loved her. And I think their response in verse 19 is a testimony of the fact that they knew Ezekiel loved her. That was obvious to everyone, we gleaned from verse 19. And they're like, what's the deal? What's going on here? He's here. You're just acting like nothing happened. How could he do that? How could a man do what Ezekiel did here in obedience to God? I think there's several answers to that. One is, and the overriding answer I believe is, his love for the Lord was supreme in his life. As much as he loved his wife, as precious as she was to him, his love for the Lord overrode all of that. His love for the Lord far exceeded his love for himself and his love for his wife. I'd like you to turn one other passage. Now keep your place here. But I want you to come with me, if you would, to the New Testament book of Luke. And I really want you to see this for yourself. Luke chapter 14 I'll be honest with you, Luke chapter 14, verse 26 is a very difficult passage. Luke fourteen, Matthew, Mark, Luke, New Testament, verse number twenty-six. And I'm going to read down through verse 26 and 27. Now again, this this is a hard passage. Look what Jesus says here. He's talking to his disciples. Let's begin in verse 25. And there went great multitudes unto him. And he turned and said unto them, Now, in my mind, the tone of his voice here is very sombre, very firm. If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife And children and brethren and sisters, yea, and his own life also. Look at this next phrase. He cannot be my disciple. Verse 27, and whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Now that that's hard. What does he mean? Well, to be a disciple of the Lord means somebody that incorporates into their life the teachings and instructions of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's more than just being a learner. A disciple is somebody that takes it the next phase and says, all right, what I'm learning, I'm incorporating into my life. And he's saying, listen, if you want to have influence in this world, if you want to be used of God, To communicate and influence this world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, some things have to be in place. And one of the things that must be in place is this. You must love Jesus Christ supremely. Now, it sounds like, and if this was the only verse we had on this subject in the Bible, we would come to the conclusion that I'm supposed to hate my father. I'm supposed to hate my mother. I'm supposed to hate my brother. I'm supposed to hate my sister. Well, I can kind of see that a little bit. But uh, no, I'm kidding. I hate my sister, I'm supposed to hate my wife. But we go to other portions of Scripture and we understand God doesn't want us to hate our family members and those close to us. What is he saying here? Very simple. The the the the verse is difficult, but the principle is very simple. And that's this. My love for the Lord is to be so intense and so supreme that it can be misunderstood as a hatred for those around me. You know, people looking at Ezekiel and his response to his wife's death could have come to this conclusion. He didn't love her at all. Look how he responded to her death. Man, he acts like he hated her, like his dog died. No, Ezekiel loved her intensely, passionately, but his love for the Lord was so supreme. That it would have been easy to come to the wrong conclusion. We illustrate this often with missionaries taking their family, their wife and kids to some to Kazakhstan. And dragging them all around Central Asia and spending thousands and thousands and tens of thousands of dollars trying to get visas. And giving years and years of their lives just to get into the country. And you say, you know, if someone loved their wife and kids, they wouldn't do that to them. Hey, I know the guys. They love their wives dearly. They love their families intensely. But they love God and God has called them to a hard work. And they're submissive. They're submissive. So, how does Ezekiel respond this way? First of all, I think his love for the Lord was supreme. And that tells me our love for the Lord should be superior to all other loves. Well, Love them and I'll never love anybody more than I love my wife. Hey, until you love Christ supremely, you'll never be able to love your wife the way you're supposed to. Sometimes I've had over the years, not often, but occasionally I've had guys come in my office and say, Preacher, I just don't I just don't love my wife no more. I said, That's not your problem. You just don't love God. If you love God, you would do what God tells you to do, and God commands you to love your wife. Um So our love for the Lord is to be superior to all other loves. Our allegiance to the Lord is to be superior to all other allegiances. See, I've got the best friends in the whole world. If those friends are influencing you to violate God's word, then your allegiance should be to the Lord, not to those friends. We have preachers we bring through there. They're dear friends of mine personally and of our church as a whole. But I'm here to tell you if any of those preachers start preaching truth or living contrary to the word of God, our allegiance is to the Lord, not to those individuals. Our allegiance to the Lord is to be superior to all other allegiances. Our obedience to the Lord is to be superior to all other obedience. Peter said, You tell us: should we obey God or man? The obvious answer was we're obeyed God. Ezekiel loved his wife dearly, but he loved the Lord supremely. I think there's another. Aspect here in Ezekiel's response. I think it's extreme, but he's examp he's illustrating The principle for Christians where the well-being of others is more important than my own comfort. What do you think Ezekiel would prefer to have done, naturally would have preferred to have done the night his wife died the next morning? Do you think he would have wanted to get up and go out and preach and act like nothing happened? Or do you think he'd rather bury his face in his bed and just cry all day long? The answer is obvious. The normal response would just be: I want to do what I want to do. What's going to help me deal with this? It's my wife that died. I need to deal with my sorrow and my grief. But there was something more important than Ezekiel's own comfort. And that was the well-being of the nation of Israel, others. I've learned something. In the Christian life, it is not all about you, and it's not all about me. It's about others. It's about God's glory. It's about the cause of Christ. Um The good of others superseded Ezekiel's own comfort. Sometimes, I put this down, sometimes we just have to swallow hard. Put our shoulders back, die to self, and do what God has called us to do. Say, well, I just don't feel it. It's just I'm sad and I just it's hard and that's inconvenient and I would just rather do this. Listen, Satan's strongholds are not going to be brought down by convenience, comfortable Christianity. Nations are not going to be reached with the gospel by Christians who put their own comfort and their own well-being ahead of the need of others. And every person that's been used of God throughout history has been somebody who dies the self who says, It's not my will, but thine will be done. Not my comfort, but the salvation of others, not my well-being, but the good of others, that must have a priority in my life. That is how people are influenced and nations are reached with the gospel. Satan's strongholds have never been conquered by comfortable Christianity. Now granted, Ezekiel's situation is extreme. But if I whine and complain and gripe and I want to withdraw and just have a pity party for myself, I will never influence others for Christ. I'll do no one else any good. Let me ask you a question. Just imagine with me now. Suppose this morning you came in here. I think the song service was beautiful this morning. I think it was great. Uh Sun uh Sunday school was great. As the buses were filled, just everything about the service this morning has been wonderful. Suppose I got up here and said, folks, I don't have a message prepared. It's been rough this week. Oh, I'll tell you, it is so tough being a pastor. Oh, people make fun of me and you know they don't do what I say. And suppose I took a half hour and whined and complained to you about how tough it is to be me. You know what? And then I go, alright, we'll pray and be dismissed. Same chorus, I go back and handshake. You know what folks would have done going by? I can tell you what folks would have they would have gone back, man, we're sorry, preacher. We'll really pray for you this week. Wow, I feel bad for you. People go out, you know, she do you agree with me? And a lot of people would say, Preacher, sorry, we didn't realize it was that tough. You got such a tough job. You know, we just thought one day a week's all you work, you know. Yeah, but that one day is really rough, okay. Everybody goes home. I feel better. All this pity and sympathy I got. Oh, wow, that's great. So the next week, I get up here, song service, music, choir, special, great handshake, everything's donuts, everything's great. I get up and say, folks, it's been another rough one. I don't have I don't have a sermon prepared. It is just And I whine and cry and complain the whole time about how tough it is. You know what happened when people go out? They go out saying, Man, he's messed up. Right? They say, Good grief. I can un what's his problem? I didn't come to church for this. The third week, no one shows up. Right? Want to hear that? That's the way our testimony ought to be. Say, man, I'm going through a tough time. I just, wait a minute. God's called us to something. You don't have to pour out all your problems on everything on everyone else. You don't have to tell everybody how horrible it is to be you and how difficult it is to face what you're facing. Now listen, don't misunderstand what saying this is an extreme case. Thank God for friends that we can lean on. Amen. And to be honest with you, I do have some people that I can call up, some dear friends that understand I can call up. If I'm going through a tough time, I can get with them and say, hey, listen, I need you to pray with me, this, that, and the other. It's just tough. And uh sometimes just good to have somebody let you unload. You know what I'm saying? But if that becomes the most if my comfort and my well-being becomes the most important thing in my life, I am very limited in my influence and blessing and help to others. And God has called us to be a blessing to others. God has called us to influence others, to draw them to Christ. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, Ezekiel would have far rather locked that door and spent the next month. Weeping and sorrowing and mourning the loss of the desire of his eyes. There was a lot of people out there that really, really needed to hear from God. And their need was more important than comfort. Now, again, I grant this is an extreme case, but there's a principle here. And that is dying to self, putting my well-being aside for the good of my family, for the good of my church, for the good of the cause of Christ Follow what I'm saying? Now the last thought here on this is consider the message for you and I. I'm glad to tell you God does not instruct us to not mourn the death of loved ones It's not them that's not our responsibility. That is not God's command to us. We don't have to do what Ezekiel was told to do. Aren't you glad? In fact, he's the only guy in all of history that was told to do that by God. So that's what he went through is not what you and I have to mimic. But there are some lessons for you and I here. And the first lesson I put down is this: God's people are not immune to heartache and trouble. Ezekiel was a great man. He was a major prophet. And the dearest thing in his life was taken away from him. His heart was shattered. The dreams of having grandkids sit on the lap of his wife and he and uh enjoying old age together with the desire of his eyes is gone. And the rest of his days lived alone. Listen, Christians do not live in some Holy Ghost bubble. We live in a very real world that is very hard and very harsh, and God does not shield us from the realities of life. Christians have to deal with the death of loved ones. Christians have to deal with the loss of jobs. Christians have to deal with cancer and heart disease Christians have to deal with the unfaithfulness of a spouse. Christians have to deal with the rebellion of a child. Christians have to deal with the abuse of a parent We live in a real world. We are not bubblized from the trials of life. We face that God allowed this to happen. God had a purpose in shattering his world. And you and I are no better than Ezekiel. And we have to deal with these things. So, God's people are not immune to heartache and trouble. I put the second thing down. God sometimes allows us to go through trials for the good of others. Ezekiel was not being chastised for being backslidden. He wasn't backslidden. This was not chastisement. God didn't put him through this trial to strengthen his faith. Ezekiel had tremendous faith. In fact, this trial had nothing to do with Ezekiel. It had everything to do with the people of God and the nation of Israel and the cause of Christ. And here's my point. Sometimes allows our hearts to be broken. Sometimes God puts us through intense trials, not for what I get out of it, but for the impact it has on others. Ezekiel suffered intense heartache. Not to strengthen his faith, not to correct his living, but to show the nation of Israel that there are severe consequences on their sin, and God would see them through it. Now we don't have time to go into all the details of that. But I would like for you to turn with me to the last book of Ezekiel. Look how this turns out. The last book, the last chapter of Ezekiel. Ezekiel forty eight And look with me if you would at verse 35, the last chapter, the last verse, I want us to notice the last phrase. Of the book of Ezekiel, all the way at the end, right before Daniel. You see it? Look at those last four words. The Lord is there. You know what the message was? The message was, Israel, you're gonna go through some horrific times. Unlike Ezekiel, Israel brought it on themselves. They tried to live independent of God's word, they rebelled, they did their own thing, they disregarded the instructions. And they paid a heavy price. And the message was: God will be with you through it. It's going to be an intense trial. But God will see you through it. And in 1948, get this. Nation of Israel came back to be a nation again. All those thousands of years God was there. The Lord was there. The Lord was there. No other nation in the history of the world has been brought back to life as the nation of Israel has. You know why? The Lord was there. The presence of God. Ezek was communicating that. You know what? Sometimes God will put a father through an intense trial. So that the children learn from it. Sometimes God will put a Christian through an intense heartache Not to correct them or strengthen their faith, they're doing fine. But so that others can learn, so that others can see that God is there. So that others can learn that God doesn't abandon his people even in the most difficult of circumstances. And maybe a child needs to learn something from your trial. It may be a friend. That needs to learn from your trial that God is still in control. It may be a church that sees what you're going through and is praying with you about it. That needs to see that God is very present, even in the deepest heartaches. It may be for the good of others. I cannot say that I never saw my father cry. Most of you know the sit my situation, my family. I cannot say I never saw my father cry. I cannot say that. But I can say this: I never saw my father quit. Drove a Sunday school bus. Through some of the darkest, darkest storms a man can go through. And every Sunday morning he'd get up and do as the Lord commanded him. And he would drive that bus, and kids pile it on, and his art heart was absolutely shattered. But he did as God commanded. You know why? Because in some of those kids' lives, it didn't matter if the bus driver's heart was broken or not, they needed Jesus. They needed somebody to love them and teach them of Christ. I can't say I never saw him cry, I did many times. But I never, never saw him quit. In fact, when church my church back home, and this grieves my heart, when they dropped the bus ministry for no reason other than they didn't care. When they dropped the bus ministry, my dad kept going in, getting the bus, and he would drive it in the parking lot to bring people from their car to church. In a big parking lot. His heart was in bringing people to church. I saw him cry, but I never, never saw him quit. Well my dad's I don't know if it's still there. He's moved and I haven't been back for a while, but I know in the apartment that I lived with him before I went off to Bible college and he lived there for 20 years more. He had in the kitchen, he had this on the wall. I'll read it to you and I'll quit. Very prominent in the kitchen. When things go wrong as they sometimes will, and the road you're trudging seems all uphill, when the funds are low and the debts are high, and you want to smile, but you have to sigh. When care is pressing you down a bit, you rest if you must, but don't you quit. Life is strange with its twists and turns, as every one of us sometimes learn. And many a fellow turns about when he might have won had he stuck it out. Don't give up, though the pace seems slow. You may succeed with just one another blow. With another blow When the goal is often the goal is nearer than it seems to a faint and faltering man. Often the struggler has given up when he might have captured the victor's cup And he learned too late when the night came down how close he was to the golden crown. Success is failure turned inside out. The silver tent in the clouds of doubt. And you never can tell how close you are. It might be near when it seems so far. This is what I like. So stick to the fight when you're hardest hit It's when things seem worse that you must not quit. Ezekiel got up and did exactly what God told him to do. In spite of a heartache. Well, you talk about the school of hard knocks. What a lesson for you and I. Father, help us, I pray now. We don't understand a lot of times why you allow things to develop the way they do. God, sometimes we just make dumb decisions and We have consequences for that, but you have promised, Lord, that you would be with us through the most intense trials. You have promised that you can use our heartaches and accomplish a great, great purpose if we will just trust you and obey you and stay at it and do what we're told. Help us, Lord. Some of us are going through an incredibly difficult trial even at this very day. Others of us can see it on the horizon coming. Nevertheless, Lord, we ask you would help us to be strong, to be faithful, not to quit, and to consider. How I can serve others and have an influence, even through the trials. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder if there's some here this morning say, preacher. It's hard. Lord's putting me through a trial, no doubt. And Ezekiel has challenged my heart. God has challenged my heart through the testimony of Ezekiel. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll stay faithful, that I'll just stay right in my place, doing what God has called me to do, and let him Accomplish whatever it is he's trying to accomplish. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. There is a trial, heartache, tough, tears are shed, heart is broken. God bless you, hands all around, many, many hands. I'm just curious, and I I'm uh I trust it's the Lord leading on this, but maybe there's some this morning you say, Preacher, it's not that bad right now, but you know I see something off on the horizon, and it has me concerned. Maybe you can't exactly put your finger on it. But there's just something that seems like up ahead that you say, preacher, I'm very anxious about that. And you say, preacher, I want to trust God. I want to get in my place, stay there, and be faithful to the Lord through it. I don't know what God has coming. But it seems like I'm going to need his special grace in the coming weeks and months, maybe years. Is there any like that? I don't know. God bless you, a number of hands. Sometimes we sense that. We see it coming. God's preparing us. So someone here this morning say, preacher, you know, my life as a Christian is not communicating very clearly the message of God's Word. You say there's some areas in my life I really need to get in line. I touched on a little bit at the beginning of the message. Associations and various things like that. You say, preacher, yeah, there are some areas in my life that really need to be changed so that my testimony is crystal clear and in line with who and what God is. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. There's definitely some changes in my life life that I really need to work on. God bless you. Buncha hands. Now we know what they are. That's between you and God. I can pray with you. But you need to bring that to the Lord. Trust Him. Obey Him. Do what He's directing you. One last question. Is there someone here this morning to say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven? You don't want to go to hell, trust me. You say, preacher, I need to have this settled. I don't want to doubt about it. I want to know for sure. That when I die my sins are forgiven, I go to heaven and not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I'm really concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell when I die I want to know I'm going to heaven, you say, preacher, when you pray for these others, you pray for me also. That God helps me settle that. How about it? Any at all? Any at all