Sir Lotherman, thank you so much and what a blessing it is to be here. When I was a young boy, I was fascinated by four things. rockets, airplanes, dinosaurs, and volcanoes. And when my family as a five-year-old moved me to Western Washington, known as the Ring of Fire, I was overjoyed that maybe I would get to see a volcano erupt. And then shortly after I got there I found out that there was indeed an active volcano that was on the verge of an eruption, Mount St. Helens, and I was there in May of 1980, and everyone knew that that mountain was almost ready to explode In fact, every day on the nightly news, there was a countdown based on the size of the lava dome that was starting to build on the inside crater of that mountain. And it got to the point where they recognized this was an impending eruption and they made an evacuation order to make sure everyone was out of the way if this mountain ultimately erupted. And as far as I know, everyone abided by that evacuation order but one person. His name was Harry R. Truman. Not Harry S. Truman, the president, but Harry R. Truman, this old timer that owned Spirit Lake Lodge and ran it right at the base of the mountain. And he refused to leave. In fact, famously a few days before the eruption, he said this that mountain ain't gonna hurt me. And then sure enough, on the morning of May 18, 1980, before the sound of that eruption even reached my seven-year-old ears, that mountain hurt him. And in almost an instant, he was buried under 150 feet of volcanic debris, and no one has ever heard from or seen Harry R. Truman or Spirit Lake Lodge since then. His life, his effectiveness. was immediately snuffed out because of his defiance and because of his complacency. One of the greatest tricks of the devil is to convince you and convince me that we've got plenty of time. That life isn't all that precious and that there's no rush. But in the book of John, chapter 9, verse 4, Jesus reminds us just the opposite of that. I must work the works of him that sent me. While it is day, the night cometh when no man can work. And it's this constant wrestling match. We live in our lives between defiance and complacency and a realization that life is so short. And that if we're going to make the difference that God has called us to make, then we need to be vigilant and sensitive to what He is calling us to do. Ephesians 6, 12, for we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, powers against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. The adversary would love to bury us in mud and to choke us out with ash and to drown out God's still small voice with the explosions of the distractions of this world. But God has called us to make a difference now. Make a difference today. Ephesians 5 Fix fifteen through sixteen, seeing then that you walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise, redeeming the time, because the days are evil. Philippians three fourteen, I press Towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus, all of us face mountains in our lives. All of us. Sometimes those are mountains of challenge, sometimes those are mountains of opportunity, but all of them are daunting, and if we're going to successfully achieve what God wants us to achieve In spite of the mountains in our lives, then he is calling us to face those mountains with focus and with faith And with follow-through. And that's what I will talk to you guys about tonight. Let's pray, Lord God, I do thank you so much for the opportunity to be here. What a blessing it is. The drive from downstate was absolutely beautiful I thank you for the spirit of this church. I thank you for the leadership of Pastor Leatherman. And I just ask and pray that as I share tonight what you have laid on my heart That you would go before me, that the Spirit would touch this amazing congregation, and that you would help us to understand more clearly how to face the mountains in our lives that are daunting. But give us an opportunity ultimately to serve you. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Point number one: be focused on Christ as you face the mountain in your life Whether that's that mountain of challenge or mountain of opportunity or mountain of heartbreak, focus on Christ as you face the mountain. I am indeed a fighter pilot by background. And at one point during my career, fairly early on, I decided I also wanted to learn how to scuba dive. And so I went to scuba diving class there in North Carolina where I was assigned at the time. And I went to do the academics, and then we did a dive in a pool, and then we did a dive in a lake, and then our checkout dive was out off the outer banks of North Carolina. And it was going to be about an hour ship ride out to this shipwreck underneath the water where we were going to dive, and that was going to be the ultimate checkout. And the day before we made that trip, the instructor mentioned to me and to all of us, maybe you want to take some dramamine before you go out, some anti-motion sickness medication. Because it's going to be rough, and maybe you would get sick if you don't. And here's what I thought to myself, look, I'm a fighter pilot. I don't need any anti-motion sickness medication, so I scoffed at his recommendation And sure enough, we got on the boat to go out to the dive site, and for the first 45 minutes, it was wonderful. And I was keeping my eyes on the horizon as the boat Rocked up and down and I had spent some time on the water growing up in western Washington where I saw that glorious eruption of Mount St. Helens. But then it was time to put on your gear. And the dive instructor said, now start putting on your wetsuit. It was cold water at the time. And the moment I took my eyes off of the horizon My world started tumbling. And sure enough, I knew what to do. I looked back at the horizon, but to some extent the damage was already done. And I want you to know that I got my gear on and I did that dive. And I didn't get actively sick, but I've never been back scuba diving again because it was that miserable. And here's the point. Turn to Hebrews chapter 12, if you would. Hebrews chapter 12. There's a lot of things that will cause us in life, as you go through life, as you face your mountain, to be thrown aside and rocking up and down in the turbulence of life. But there is one solution to it, and that is to keep your eyes on Jesus, regardless of what happens in your life. Keep your eyes on Jesus because as I learned from being a fighter pilot, the way that you don't get sick is to keep your eyes on the horizon. The thing that is stable, the thing that is steady, the thing that is unmoving. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and today and forever, he is our horizon and the firmly fixed, unchanging course of our life that provides a foundation that can get you through whatever you are going through. Hebrews twelve, starting at verse one. Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which does so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Pastor Leatherman mentioned that I am indeed running for United States Senate. Before you walk out the door, there's one of these flyers in the back for everybody. And I have made my campaign verses, Hebrews 12, 1 through 2. That I am running this race with patience while looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of my faith. But in life, regardless of what you are doing, regardless of what God has called you to do, in order to do it right You need to have focus as you face your mountain, and that focus should be looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Turn to Matthew chapter 7, if you would. Matthew chapter 7 and As you do so, I'm reminded of the foolishness of Harry R. Truman. He probably knew what was going to happen. Everybody knew what was going to happen But he made a decision not to listen and not pay attention, and his defiance and his complacency ultimately caused him to perish. Well, the Lord in Matthew seven gives us a stark contrast between being wise and being foolish. Starting in verse 24, therefore Whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, this is the Lord Jesus speaking, and doeth them, I will like him unto a wise man. which built his house upon a rock. And when the rains descended and the floods came and the winds blew and beat upon that house, it fell not, for it was founded upon a rock. And every one that heareth these sayings of mine and doeth them not shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand. And the rains descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house, and it fell, and great was the fall of it. The contrast is this So we either hear his sayings and doeth them and we are wise, or we heareth his sayings and don't do with them and we are foolish. Harry R. Fool uh Harry R. Truman, he was foolish. But in our life as we face our own mountains We will be foolish if we don't keep our eyes on Jesus and then listen and do what he tells us to do, because otherwise great will be the fall of the house that you are trying to build for yourself. Also, please turn to Jeremiah 29, verse 11. Hopefully you don't mind me jumping around in the Word of God. Certainly that should be the anchor by which we learn Jesus' commands for us. Jeremiah twenty nine verse eleven. And this starts to really powerfully speak to me For I know the thoughts that I think towards you, saith the Lord, thoughts of peace and not of evil, to give you an expected end. What a powerful thought that our Lord, that our Creator, that our Savior thinks about us as individuals. He thinks about us. How much are we thinking about him? As we focus on the things of life that are challenging us, as we consider the mountain, let us remember that not only is he thinking about us But we must be thinking about him. Matthew 6. 33, that seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. First Corinthians 2. 9 But as it is written, I have not seen nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man the things which God has prepared for them that love him. I think it's so amazing that God thinks about us. But we must keep our gaze focused on him, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, being wise and not foolish, and as he thinks about us Think about him in the decisions you have to make every single day. And then finally, under focus. Lift up your gaze from the junk of this world. We're so easily distracted by what goes on all around us. It's easy to be captured by the neon signs of life. that would distract us from where we should ultimately be looking. Turn to John chapter 4, if you would. John chapter 4. And as you do so Let me quote you Psalm 121, verse 1. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from which cometh my help. I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills from which whence cometh my help. John 4, verse 31. In the meanwhile, his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that you know not of. Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him aught to eat Jesus saith unto him, sorry, unto them, my meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work. Say not ye that are yet four months, and then cometh the harvest, behold, I say unto you, lift up your eyes and look unto the fields, for they are white already unto harvest. It's pretty amazing when you consider Jesus' apostles, the disciples, that these are extremely ordinary, simple, normal men. But yet, because of advice An admonition from the Lord, like you see here, to get their eyes off of the world and get them focused up on Him, that these very simple ordinary men turn the world upside down. Think about the power of focus. That when you're distracted, then the mountain will overcome you. But when you are not distracted, when you are focused not down, but up then ultimately you can do the amazing things with that mountain that God has called you to do. Face the mountain with focus. Point number two. Be faith-filled as you face that mountain. Be faith-filled as you face that mountain. Faith in God's plan for you and his creation of you is so critical to all of that. I wish that I could have been here this morning for your Sanctity of Life Sunday, to have a focus on a culture of life that is so desperately needed in this country, in this state today. But I am so powerfully reminded when I read God's Word of the truths about His culture of life and His plan for us as a result. Jeremiah 1, 5 Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. And before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. God had a plan for you and a plan for me before He even formed us in the belly. Before we came out of the womb. He had a plan individually targeted for us. Psalm one thirty-nine, verse fourteen, I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvellous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. That we weren't just an accident. We're not happenstance. We're not a part or a product of evolution. We are fearfully and wonderfully made. And God had a plan for you, and he had a plan for me before we even were formed in the womb. That is such a powerful thought. But it's not surprising that in today's day and age we have leaders that look to kill babies. Throughout history, we have had leaders that seek to kill babies. Pharaoh, Exodus 122. And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive. Or Herod, Matthew 2, 16. Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth. And sent forth and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had diligently inquired of the wise men Think about the depravity of killing babies, of killing children. It's gone on throughout history, it's gone on throughout time, and it's going on today in spite of the fact that you and I know that God formed us and we are fearfully and wonderfully made. If you look back on the founding documents of this great country You realize that our founders understood the important truth that we are fearfully and wonderfully made. That we are not an accident. When you think about The line in the Declaration of Independence that says we hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal. The basis of equality starts on the basis that we were actually created equal. Not just created equal, but created equal. And there is no hope for equality in this world, if we don't go back to the truth that it was God who created us, and on that merit alone, we should look at each other equally. And what a powerful tragedy when we do not. And then consider those inalienable rights to life and liberty and the pursuit of happiness It is an inalienable right. One must not be taken away that we have a right to life And that stems from the idea in the minds of our founders that we were created by a loving, all-knowing, powerful God. Yes, indeed, God had a plan for you and me before he formed us in the belly of our mothers. But it's more amazing than that. 2 Timothy. Verse 1, starting in verse 7, for God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind. Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner, but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God, who has saved us. And called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. God gave us each a purpose before the world began. It didn't just start with a plan before we were born or before we were formed in our mother's womb, but before the world began God had a plan for you, and he had a plan for me. And that should unlock in us a level of faithfulness about his calling in our life And our ability to face the mountains in our lives because He has a plan for us that was so gloriously produced Before the world began. We also must have a faith in an all-powerful God. I have three kids, two girls in college, and a son who's a junior in high school there in Crofton, Maryland, just outside of Annapolis. My wife teaches at the Naval Academy. And before Noah, our youngest was born, we had two, of course, and those two girls about 19 months apart, even when they were young, bought a little bit Maybe you have kids that fight a little bit. Maybe not. Your kids might be perfect. Mine aren't. I'm not the perfect dad. I hate to admit as well. But as we were driving when it was just summer in Tiffany We were driving on a road trip somewhere. We were listening to Patch the Pirate. Maybe you know Patch the Pirate, and we were listening to those glorious songs, and the girls were in the back, and my wife Melanie and I were in the front. And all of a sudden, my oldest summer started to be somewhat agitated. And I didn't quite know why, but I could sense it from the front seat that back in the back seat, Little Summer was agitated. And at one point in the middle of the song, Little Summer said no And we didn't really know what was going on back there. But then again, a few seconds later, Summer yelled no. And then a few seconds later, Summer yelled no, and then finally I just assumed that it was Tiffany and Summer fighting. And I turned around at the girls, Summer, what is going on? And she said, Dad, the song is making me mad I'm like, wow, perhaps the pirate is making someone mad. I don't know if that ever happened before, but okay. Summer explain. And she said, the song is saying the wrong thing. And I said, alright, explained. And the question in the song, if you remember this song, is, is anything too hard for God? And the actual answer is no. And it was a rhetorical question in the song, but it made Summer mad. She thought the song was questioning whether something was too hard for God. And she was defiantly or accurately saying, no, there is nothing too hard for God. As you face your mountain, The answer to that question is anything too hard for God is no. Little Summer at three years old was absolutely right. Genesis 18, 13. And the Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of assurity bear a child which am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? And the answer is no Jeremiah 32, 26 through 27. Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah, saying, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is there anything too hard for me? And the answer is no. Job 42, 2: I know that thou canst do everything, and that no thought can be withholden from thee. As you face your mountains. Of challenge or of opportunity, is there anything too hard for God? The answer is absolutely not Thus, as we face those mountains, not only do we need to be cognizant of his creative ability and his plan for us, but also that our all-powerful God can do everything and can do anything. And then we need faith that is equal to these difficult times we live in. No doubt we do live in difficult times. That we see the world out there, the reason I jumped out of the military, the reason I jumped into this political world is to wrestle our nation back to where we belong because I'm so concerned about the direction that is headed. But there have been bad times in the past, and we must realize that the solution is for Christians not to give up on the world But to infuse our influence into the world by trusting in God through faith that is equal to the times. Jeremiah 33, 3. Call unto me and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. I started a ministry coming up on 11 years ago called PLUS, Prayer at Lunchtime for the United States. There's these tracks in the back as well. Please grab one when you go out. And I was burdened that I had a daily prayer life and that I loved my country, but I hadn't been praying daily for our country and our leaders And I realized that I needed to start personally. And then in March of 2013, the Lord laid on my heart that I needed to start encouraging other people to pray for our nation, our leaders at lunchtime plus prayer at lunchtime for the United States. And it was modeled off of a revival that took place in our country in 1857. You may or may not know the name Jeremiah Lampier. He was a businessman in Lower Manhattan that became a lay preacher, and he posted a little flyer on the door of his church that said, Hey, come at lunchtime to pray for our nation. At that first meeting, there weren't many people there. And then a week later, the second meeting, there were more people there. And then the next meeting there were so many people that they started to recognize they couldn't just meet weekly. They needed to meet daily. And then that church was overflowing and they needed to meet in other churches. And then that revival spread. down the east coast and into the interior of our country and then across the water. And that is what the Plus Ministry to some extent in a modern way is based upon. Just encouraging people to come either by themselves or together and pray for our leaders. and our country at lunchtime. About a year after that revival was sparked by this lay preacher, Jeremiah Jeremiah Lampir, he received this note I came from India and I landed but yesterday. I have come all the way from that far distant land to see for myself what the Lord is doing in America. I am an Englishman by birth, but my home is in India. We have heard of the glorious outpouring of the Holy Spirit upon your churches, and we have rejoiced at it with exceeding joy We believe, as you believe, that we stand in the first breaking light of a most eventful day, an era of greater displays of divine grace and the salvation of sinners than the world has ever seen. We need faith that is equal to the times. We need confidence to ask great things of God, and we shall get great things. Ask little things, and we shall get little things But ask mighty showers of grace, and they will be poured out like a flood upon us. In today's day and age, we need faith that is equal to the times. And we can't just have puny prayers. We need big, grandiose prayers with a faith that the God of the universe can act according to his will, activated by our prayers, that can do things that we could not. even imagined. 2 Chronicles 7. 14, if my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray. and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and will heal their land. We need healing in our land. We need faith that is equal to the times. And regardless of the mountain you have in your life or the mountain you see we're facing as a state or a nation, we need to face that mountain with faith. We need to face it with focus. We need to face it with faith. And number three, we need to face it with follow-through. First, we're not alone in this. We're not alone as individuals. We're not alone as a church. God didn't just send us here alone and hope that we would do okay. He is giving us the power that we need if we stay connected to him. Acts 1. 8. You shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and you should be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem. And in all Judea, and in Samaria, and under the uttermost part of the earth, God has said, You shall receive power as you serve me, as you witness for me, as you represent me, God says. He is giving you, he is giving me power. And the Great Commission, Matthew 28, 18 through 20. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things. Whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. I love the bracketing of the Great Commission. Jesus says He has all power in heaven and in earth. And then he directs us to go and do the three things that he describes in the Great Commission. And then he bookends it on the back end with He is with us always. So he has all power. We're to go and do these things, but don't worry, he's with us always. What a powerful reminder. that the follow-through we need is to stay connected to the ultimate source of our power. Turn to John 15, if you would, John 15. And I love another stark contrast that we see from the mouth of our Lord and Savior about the power of impact that we can have if we stay connected to Him. John 15, verse 5, Jesus speaking, I am the vine, ye are the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me, you can do nothing. Think about that. We are offered the power to stay connected to the one that created everything. That He has all power. And He's telling us that if we stay connected to Him, we can bear a lot of fruit. We can have a lot of impact. We can do things that have meaning and last and have power and influence in the world in which we live. That's if we stay connected to the source of our power. But if we don't Then we can't just do a few things, but we can do nothing. Nothing that will last. Nothing that matters. Nothing that is relevant. We can either bear much fruit by staying connected to the source of our power or we can do nothing We must remember that the follow-through we need to move the mountains in our lives comes from staying connected to the source of our power. We also must passionately yield to his sufficiency. No matter who you are, what you've done or what your background is, you and I can't do anything on our own. 2 Corinthians 3. 5. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God. And all of that, the connection to him, comes by those basics of the Christian life through prayer. And through fasting, through service, and through worship, and through Bible reading. I had an opportunity a couple of years ago as my daily devotions for the year to read a book that was published in 1942. I happened to be deployed for about 14 months to Iraq from May of 2020 to July of 2021, and even there within the compound in which I lived as a senior defense official, we had a small chapel. And that chapel was a wonderful place to represent the Lord and to serve with other believers there. And a individual there as I left gave me this little devotional that meant so much to me because it was a devotional that was published during World War II. And that devotional called Strength for Service was a compilation of 365 devotions written by pastors around the country intentionally to help equip servicemen who were deployed around the world during World War II. And it was so touching to me just to think about how a lot of the admonition of those devotionals applied in 1942 and equally applied to us today. One of them came from a pastor, Hugh Elmer Brown, and this is what he said. For cleansing, for comfort, and for command, the Bible has no equal It is the moral radium of the world. It is everybody's book. Put your ear to it, and you hear universal man as he sobs and sings, as he sighs, swears, and supplicates. Coffins and cradles, glories and glooms, comedies and tragedies, all the ups and downs of human experience are in the Bible. The Bible is the most hopeful book in the world. It is full of the spirit of the morning. It has splendid eyes for the dawn. No literature matches it for its pure sunniness. It snatches the crepe from the door of death. It looks for the latent good in bad men. It has a gospel for the gutter. It peoples eternity with singing men and women. The Bible is the most helpful book in the world. It teaches how to think about life. feeds the heart with vision and ideal, and reveals the superb pattern of manhood in Jesus. It is a lantern for our feet in any situation in life It gives valor to our dreams of good and maps the road to civilization of brotherly men. Its religious truths are essential to man's health and character, man's hope in service, and man's triumph in death. It is a telescope Through which we can see the living God. We must stay connected to the source of our power, and we must stay connected to this amazing book that is the radium of the world. Also, on a day like today, I ask you to turn to March sorry, Matthew chapter twenty-five On a day where we recognize the importance of valuing and protecting life as a part of our follow-through. Matthew 25, verse 40. And the king shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these, my brethren. You have done it unto me. And then verse forty-five, Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me We are viewed by God in how we treat the weakest and the least among us. There is none among us that is more vulnerable. and more weak than the unborn. And we as individuals and we as a society will be judged by how we treat the weakest among us. Another reason why, in addition to the fact that we were created, that we must do everything we can to protect those unborn babies, the weakest among us. And then a few chapters prior in Matthew 17, starting in verse 18, and Jesus rebuked the devil. And he departed out of him, and the child was cured that very hour, or from that very hour. Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said Why could not we cast him out? And Jesus said unto them, because of your unbelief, for verily I say unto you If you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove, and nothing shall be impossible unto you. Howbeit this kind goeth not out But by prayer and fasting. We think about the mountains in our lives. We think about how do we ultimately allow God to work through us? We remember that we're not acting alone. We remember that we must stay connected to the source of our power. We yield to his sufficiency. We value and protect life. And then ultimately, in order to truly move mountains, We cling to the truths of faith and connect to them through prayer and fasting. And that allows us not just to face mountains, but allows us to move mountains. And there are probably some mountains in your lives that you are thinking about right now. There's certainly mountains in our society that you're reflecting on as I speak. Those are looming and daunting challenges in our lives and our society, but they are not impossible. We could either ultimately do what Harry R. Truman did and stare at the mountain with defiance and complacency, or we can embrace focus And faith and follow through, and turn the world upside down, and have mighty showers of grace poured out like a flood upon us And truly move the mountains that are so daunting in our lives and our society. We must not be defiant. We must not be complacent. We must face those mountains with focus and faith. and follow through. Let's pray. Lord God, I do thank you so much for this amazing group of Christians. that are considering the mountains in their lives. I think you up on this beautiful snowy mountain, far different from downstate. that there are physical mountains, but we also must remember that there are figurative mountains in our society and in our lives. And they are daunting And they come with challenges, but they also come with opportunities. And I ask and pray that as we consider those mountains, help us to realize that they are not unmovable, just the opposite. But if we're going to move those mountains, if we're going to make the impact that you would call from us, then we must face those mountains with focus. And with faith and with follow-through. And it is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Pastor Loveman.