Good to see you tonight. Good night. You know, you can tell a little bit about the church by the folks who come back on Sunday night. A lot of a lot of folks, you know, they they take that old uh brill cream commercial. A little dabble do me, you know They come running in on Sunday morning and uh man that's enough and uh but uh you guys you guys are gluttons for good stuff. Amen. And I'm glad for that, I'll tell you. You uh You know, if if you grow in the Lord, i if you grow and you ought to. If you gr you ought to keep growing Amen. Just because you little get a little gray hair, your hair turns loose or whatever, doesn't mean you ought to stop growing. Just because you've been a Christian a long time, it doesn't mean you should stop growing. But but if you grow, your appetite ought to increase. You know when our babies were little, I mean you know they ate, but it was minimal amounts. Whew, that son of mine, he's two, three inches taller than me. He's big broad shoulders And uh boy does he eat. I mean I take him out to eat a couple times a week. What happened there? Did it come on finally? All right, I thought I was doing good till then Okay, you can tinker with it. I'm I think I'm too loud now. But um but you know your appetite ought to increase as as you go along. And uh and I and I hope brother can you trump can you pull me down a little bit? I'm I'm I'm ringing. Yeah, thank you. Uh and so that this week we got a buffet. I mean we got a buffet all lined up here. You know, uh we we're gonna get a little dab of it today, this morning, tonight And then tomorrow night and Tuesday morning and Tuesday night, we're just, I mean, we're just going to keep coming back and eating a little more and eating a little more. And uh when we get done, we all ought to be stronger. We ought to be. And uh so I appreciate uh the privilege to be here again. And uh you know I sing about uh Brother Fox, you writing all the music that you write. Uh man, there's a lot of crazy stuff going on in the music world. Yes, sir. Crazy stuff. Um when I got to the hotel this afternoon after lunch Uh after lunch. Yes. After lunch I I turned the television on. I was looking for something spiritual like the Orioles. Were were they on were they on TV this afternoon? I never could find 'em. I don't know. Somebody somebody got out of the will of God and they didn't get on TV or something, but but um I I passed by one of those channels they call a worship deal. And some of that hillsong mess was on. Now it's the same stuff, few few Christian words here and there, but it's the same stuff that you'd get in a rock concert. And I I had somebody tell me this week, he said I finally figured it out. He said people got an appetite for that rock music and they figured out how to get it without paying the big price to get it. You know, buying a ticket. They just take it to church. And I said, well that's that's probably right. But I appreciate the fact you're writing great music. Great stuff. That uh piece we just did. I mean that's that's right in the line with the great uh tradition of hymns. And uh and I like it. Alright. Uh wanna I want to do something with you tonight. In fact, this morning when you quoted the verse, For by grace are you saved through faith, and that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. My wheels started spinning because of something I I just did a couple of weeks ago with our staff in our morning devotions. And um and I in fact I did what I'm about to give you. I did this over in Elgin, Illinois uh earlier this week. And and I and I hope it'll be a help to you. Um the book of Galatians. The book of Galatians in the Bible. Got six chapters. Now, we're not going to read all of it, but there's a theme here that I want to pick up. Um and uh several several things come to mind out of this. Um People ask me just every once in a while things that basically amount to, can I work my way to heaven? Or they will follow up sometimes by saying, well, but in the Old Testament, didn't they get saved by works? And uh back over in Elgin, Illinois, there was a guy who came to me after the service and he said he said, I knocked on the door this week And he said there was a lady, he said she was kind of headed out, but she he said, I asked her, well, uh what what what's what's going to heaven about it? She said, Oh, she said you gotta she said you gotta believe in Jesus, and then she said, it's all the good things we do. Now what would probably surprise some of you is there are people all over Garrett County who are built just like that. They are thinking just like that. Did my monitors go away? Okay, bring 'em up just a just a hair. Just a hair. Uh now uh Chapter 1. Chapter 1 of Galatians says that if you mess with the gospel, that's my words, if you mess with the gospel. You're a pervert. Now we use the use that pervert word in another context. But right here in Galatians chapter 1, it talks about, verse 7 talks about, some coming to trouble you who would pervert the gospel of Christ. And you'll see in looking at the book of Galatians that the perversion that they were trying to inject, oh yeah, it's okay if you have found the Messiah, but You still got to be a good Jew and you still got to do all this stuff and you still got to be keeping the law according to this crowd that was coming into Galatia and trying to stir everybody up. And so what did they do? They created a scenario much like what we have today. By the way, you know, our state here, when we say it, you know, if if you've been around very long, you know that it's Baltimore. It's not Baltimore. Like they said out across the country, but here it's Baltimore. And not only that, but it's Maryland. But stop and look at the word. It's Mary land. Mary? Well, which Mary is that? Well, it's the one in the Bible. You say, well, how did that happen? Maryland was a Catholic colony. That's how it came about. A Catholic colony Now, let me just be point blank here. Catholicism, there's lots of works injected into the scheme of things if you want to go to heaven. Lutheranism, which is a friend of mine said, Lutheranism is kind of like Catholicism, but they don't have a Pope. And so he, but but if you look at Lutheranism carefully, it too is heavily in g this works heavily in the process. Same thing could be said about Methodism. And we have lots of met at least little Methodist churches. I don't have any Methodists but a lot of little Methodist churches in Maryland. But it is heavy on works and what we do. Same thing can be said about any number of denominational groups. Now, and in every such case I use the Bible term. That is a perversion of the truth. Now This passage goes on to say: if he said verse 8, if we are an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you, let him be accursed. And that's repeated in verse number nine. So it's it's not it's not like he just said it and dropped it. He said it and reset it. Be accursed. It's the anathema word. Let him be anathema. Now, uh what what I what I'm going to give you next, and I want you to go to chapter 2 and verse 16. Let's suppose that you are witnessing to someone who has bought into the faith and works scenario. And let me clarify. Well, should not a Christian be engaged in works? Yes, but not in order to be saved. Right. We we we do things like sing in the choir or, you know, take a meal to somebody who's sick. or whatever. I mean we we do things like that not in order to get points for going to heaven, but we do things like that because we are saved. And because we do it out of Christian kindness and consideration and so on and so forth. Now If if you're witnessing to someone who is into this, they kind of have way salute Jesus, but really it's it's a lot about what I do, what I do, what I do, what I'm doing Now I always like to remind him, it's not what I do, but it's what he did. And what he did, he said, it is finished, it is done. And so the price has been paid, and it's up to me and you to receive the gift that he offers, not to try to pay it out on the installment plan. And that's what's going on with a lot of these folks. You know, they they uh they get christened or they get baptized. And by the way, in in these in these areas that I'm talking about, uh you would find almost no emphasis on conversion or on regeneration. There's another denomination that uh we have a lot of in the South. And uh They they practice, as do some of the others, what I call baptismal regeneration. That is, you've got to be baptized in order to be saved according to them. And I was pressing one of their ministers about it. Oh, no, no, he said, we don't believe in that. Well, come to find out, what he doesn't believe in, he doesn't believe in regeneration at all. According to him, you just come, sign a card, go get dumped in the pool, and if you get dumped in the pool, according to him, man, you've been obedient and that's all there is to it. Now, you're dealing with somebody like this. Here's my suggestion. Now I've already marked I've already marked my little my little Bible. I already marked it so I can walk my way through this. And I hope you'll mark what I'm about to give you. Maybe put a little star by it and highlight it And when sometime when you're dealing with somebody like this, the way to do it is to lay your Bible out and say, read chapter 2 and verse 16. Read it out loud for me. And when they read it out loud, as soon as they finish say, now, tell me what it is you just read. And let them tell you what the Bible says. Now, in some cases, you need to preface that by saying you do believe the Bible, don't you? The Bible is the Word of God. And in fact, what I've discovered here in Maryland is even with many Catholics They will acknowledge that the Bible, if you ask them point blank, they say, Well, yeah, yeah, yeah, the Bible's the Bible's the Bible. It's God's Word. And if they'll acknowledge that, we're headed down the trail in a good way. Now, chapter 2 and verse 16. Here's what it says. Knowing that a man is not, now wait a minute. Yeah, let me get it right. Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law. And look at the negative statements, the not and the no. Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we believed in Jesus Christ that we might be justified. by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law, for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. No flesh That's your little newborn baby, no flesh. That's your grandpa who's about to die. No flesh. No flesh shall be justified by the doing of the law. And of course they're going to say, they're going to say, oh, if I believe like you do, man, I'd sign up, and then I'd just go out and do whatever I wanted to do. Look at verse 17. But if while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves also are found sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin? And the answer to that is given in the Bible, God forbid. So no, that's not the way it plays out at all. See, some of these folks, they're they're working with their little fingers to do whatever it is they think ought to be done, and they haven't been converted, they haven't been regenerated, they don't have that want to in their heart And so it's like, oh man, yeah, man, I like to drink and carrels and do all this kind of stuff. And they then they don't realize that at the point where you come to Christ, you get a new one to. So, you say, well, how does that come about? Well, look at verse 20. It says, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. Here's what happens. Up to the point of your conversion, you only have one nature. There's only one voice inside of you talking. It's whatever the flesh wants to do. And the moment you get converted, Christ comes to live in you. The Holy Spirit is there to nudge you. And so now then you don't just have one voice, but you got two voices. Now let me illustrate like this. For a long time in my life, after I was grown out on my own. Every time I thought about eating, you know, I just I did whatever I wanted to. If I wanted a hamburger, I wouldn't got a hamburger. But then I got married. Now then there's another voice talking. About the time our children started school, I said to her one day, I said, Why don't you come go to lunch with me? She did. We liked it. So the next day I said, Why don't you come again? Now you know our kids are long since grown. I mean they started school over 40 years ago. And now then all these years, I mean every day that I'm in town, every day that I'm in town, that girl comes and we go to lunch together. You say, why on earth do you do that? We like it. We we like doing that. She pulls up out front of the sword, the officers. I go down the stairs through the reception area. I often look at whoever's on the switchboard and I say, you know, I wouldn't do this every day, but that girl has to eat and I hate for her to go by herself. I get in the car. I get in the car. Brother Fox, every day. What do you want to do? Well, I don't care. What do you want? Oh, I don't care. And the very minute I suggest something, she said, no, not that. Yeah. You say, what's going on? We got two voices talking. Now, you can tell by looking at me, we do come to agreement each day. And we go eat. But there's a little there's a little bit of jockeying back and forth. Until we come to agreement. I mean some days she just says, Oh, okay. Other days I say, oh, okay. But some days, I mean, we're starting to pull out o onto the street and we still haven't decided. Sometimes I just say to her, put it in gear and turn right. We'll find something. Those voices in there. Talking, trying to decide. Christ, when you get converted, Christ now lives in you. It's not just your old flesh talking, but now then the Lord is in there talking back to your flesh. That's going to make a difference. Yes, sir. It's going to make a difference. Now, some of these folks are saying, well, I just feel like I have to help. I don't think it's all the Lord. It's got to be some of me. Verse 21. I do not frustrate the grace of God. For if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. Very simple. If I can get to heaven on my works, then there's absolutely no reason why Christ should have come to earth and died on the cross. And so if I go around saying, hey, I can do it, I can make it happen, uh sure I believe in God, but hey, I I'm working on it and I'm working on it and I'm doing the best I can, if I do that, the Bible says in this verse that I am frustrating Frustrating the grace of God. You say, well, what's that got to do with the grace of God? For by grace, you quoted it, are you saved? Now You look into the next chapter, and he says there in the first two or three verses that those Galatian churches, some of the folks had bought into what these Judaizers had been bringing and and trying to get them to do, and he says, You've been bewitched. Right. Simply means whenever you whether you head back off into this doing, doing, doing, doing, he said, You've been deceived. These perverts have come in. What'd they do? They bewitched you. They horn swoggled you. I'm trying to think of some nice theological term. They horn swoggled you. Amen. Now, and then he says in verse 3, are you so foolish having begun in the spirit you're now made perfect by the flesh? And so somebody will say, Oh, but you know, the Old Testament man, the Old Testament man, they worked it out then. Now wait a minute. Look at verse six. Even as Abraham, Abraham, Abraham Book of Galatians says Abraham, you say, well, wasn't he a lawkeeper? Abraham lived 430 years before there was law. So, how did Abraham get saved? He believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness. That accounting term, it simply means that God appropriates what we need to our account. So we can be justified, verse sixteen says, means we have been declared just even if we're not actually just. So, how did Old Testament Abraham get saved? He believed God. You say, what did he believe? He believed things like Genesis 3. 15, the first promise of the Messiah. God began to promise, I'm going to send a Messiah. What happened? Abraham signed on to that. He said, and he's looking for, looking for, looking for the coming of the Messiah. Because he believed that he was looking to his coming, looking to the cross, and God declared him to be Have his right to the right to be saved, in other words. So, uh, verse 7 says, Know ye therefore that they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham. And the scripture foreseeing that God would justify the heathen, that's all the non-Jews, through faith preached before the gospel. Look at this. The gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed. So then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful with the faithful Abraham. Now, folks, that ought to settle that Old Testament question once and for all. Verse 11 repeats the fact that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God. It is evident the just shall live by faith, and the law is not. So that means you can't mix them up. You've got to get this in the right order. You say, well, how does this work? Verse 13. Verse 13 says. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. That redeemed word there simply means that he bought us, paid the price for us. It's like we were out on the market. How many of you go to like auctions? Do you like auctions? I I I'm an auction guy. I like auctions. I I sometimes go and never bid on anything, don't buy anything, but I just like stay. I just like auctions. And you know what happens? The uh the oxygener, he may hold up something, or some one of his buddies will hold it up And now Doctor Neil said, all right, what do I have here now? What do I want to give for? Somebody give five dollars be able to give five, seven and a half. What about seven and a half? All right, thank you, sir. Now ten now, twelve and a half. You get to a point where he'll say, Hey, sold to the guy in the red shirt, pay the cashier and take it on. Now what happened? Somebody paid the price for the item. The Bible says here, Christ has redeemed us. It's it's it's it's a word that simply means he bought us in the market. We were out there on the market. I mean I mean the devil's standing over here and saying, hey, hey, I I I kinda like you. Why don't you come go with me? But the Lord said, I'm going to buy you, take you off the market. You're on that slave block. I'm going to take you off of that so that. And by the way, there's another word for redeem in the New Testament. Agarazo is the one used here. The ex agarazo word means he buys us in the market and takes us off the market. Off the market. So never again. Will we be on that auction block when you've been redeemed? Never again can the devil bid for your soul. Amen. So say, okay, I came to church, I got uh saved, I got baptized, I joined the church, I got in the choir, I became an usher, I was running a bus route, uh whatever else And then oh my I I mean uh on a Tuesday afternoon, I mean, I mean somebody asked me something and I told one of those little white lies with a black rim around it. And because you are saved and because you're trying to do right and you messed up and you told a lie or you did something else that you know is of the flesh and is of the world and it's not right And you you start saying, Oh Maya, what have I done? What have I done? And the devil, he'll look at you and he'll say, Aha, aha. And you know, if we're not careful You know, we'll buy into what some of these rascals are saying and we'll say, Well, I messed up, I guess I lost it. No, you didn't lose it if you got it. What the Lord gives you on Sunday, you're not going to lose come Tuesday. If you lose it Tuesday, what you got on Sunday wasn't what God gives out. Because when he redeems you, he takes you off the market, so never, ever again does that devil Get a bid on your soul. Why? Because you've been bought with a price. Bought and paid for. Bought and paid for, sir. Now, so what does this mean? Look at the last part of verse 14. That we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith. Look at verse 18. For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise, but God gave it to Abraham by promise. So here again. You know, uh what was the promise? God promised the Messiah. Abraham believed God. And he was accounted for righteousness, and God gave it to him through the promise. So You look down through there, verse 26 states very clearly, you're all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus. And on and on it goes. So what what's what's the deal? Look in chapter 4. When the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law, to redeem them. There it is again, that buy in the market To redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons. Sons. And verse 6 says, and because you are sons. See, these folks are still trying to work it out. You'll find most of them will say, Well, well, I hope maybe I'm saved. If you say them, are you a child of God? They'll say, Well, I'm not sure, but I hope so. I hope to go to heaven. But the Bible says when you get what God offers, you are sons. You are his children. Not something you wait for later. You are his child. Verse 7 says, Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son. And if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. Now, I I don't know whether this air business excites you or not. By the way, when you read the Bible, don't don't mix up the word air and the word inheritance. We got some guys who they read some passages and they mix those two things up. The heir is the who, the inheritance is the what. You gotta be the heir if you're gonna be the inheritance. My mom died in June. My dad died seven years ago. We are in the process. of dealing with the estate issues, getting all that getting all that settled. Now my mom and dad were not wealthy people. They they had a few things, but they were not wealthy people. But you know, on a lot of counts, on a lot of counts, you you won't mess you won't be around me very long until you hear me talk about my mom. I'm kind of excited that I am their son. But because I am their son And I have three brothers and a sister, the five of us, the five of us will inherit every single thing that they left behind. Because we're the heirs. And when it all comes down to it, uh uh you say, what's it gonna be? Probably not a whole lot. But I mean I mean I I mean you notice I mean I'm I'm I'm growing I'm I'm I'm a little taller tonight because I'm I'm saying I'm an heir I'm an heir I'm an Why are you there? Because I'm a son. And you and I have that same status with the Lord. Praise God, yes. Now Again, we got these folks. If you're trying to win a Catholic, you're trying to win one of these works people, you're letting them walk right through this and read every one of these passages. Let them read it out loud. And right about here somewhere, they're going to start balking and they're going to say, well, but that but button but look at verse 16, chapter 4. Have them read this. Am I therefore your enemy because I tell you the truth? Sometimes the answer is yes. Am I therefore your enemy? Because I tell you the truth. Now, some of these folks they like to say, but the Bible says you can fall from grace. And you know that term is in the Bible one time? It's in chapter 5. Look at verse 4. You're going to like this because it says exactly the opposite of what they claim it says. Verse 4 says, Christ has become of no effect unto you. Whosoever of you are justified by the law, ye are fallen from grace. Right. So what's that falling grace term mean? It doesn't mean saved one day, lost the next, saved another day, and lost another day. Fallen from grace in this passage just simply means you're not even in the neighborhood where grace is. You may have passed by it, but you you fell back away from it, and you're you're not signed on to it If you're trying to be justified by the law, clearly the verse says, Christ is become of no effect unto you. How much more plain could that be? And uh and don't forget verse five. See in verse four he said, some of you are trying to be saved by the law. That's what you are doing. But what do we do? Verse 5 he said, but we Through the Spirit, wait for the hope of righteousness by faith. And see, the whole concept of faith is not just believing that there's a God. That's included, that's where you start. But it's believing that so much that you're willing to trust him with this whole matter. Um I was up uh a week and a half ago. Yeah, yeah, well yeah, a little over a week almost two weeks ago, I was up in the upper peninsula of Michigan. Any of you been to Mackinac Island? Well, if you haven't been, you ought to go. It's absolutely a fabulously beautiful area. And the bridge that goes across the Mackinac Straits is one of the most beautiful bridges in North America. I mean, it rivals the Golden Gate Bridge and Uh that's probably well on the Sunshine Skyway in Florida. I mean it it rivals I suppose. That that Mackinaw Bridge, when you get up on top of that thing It's a ways down to the water. I don't know how far I didn't check that, but it's a ways. In fact the last time I was up there I got on a boat and went out under it and we're looking up. I've got videotaped me under the bridge. on a boat, you know. Now when you get on that bridge, you're not just believing in engineers, you're not just believing in the construction crew, you're not just saying, well yeah there was construction crew and yeah there were engineers and yeah There were bricklayers and there were steel workers. You're not just saying I yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. When you get up on that bridge, you're trusting that bridge so much so that you're risking everything on the bridge. When you're up on the bridge, well the fact coming and going, I stopped in Mackinac City, which is a little small town, but a lot of beautiful shops. There's an ice cream store there. When you're up on the bridge, you're not trusting the ice cream store. There's a knife store there. A knife store, you know, pocket knives and stuff. I went in there. You're not trusting the knife store when you're up on the bridge. You're trusting the bridge and the bridge alone. The only reason that I'm here tonight, the only reason that I didn't fall into the Mackinac Straits, the only reason that I didn't drown in the In the waters down below is because the bridge kept me safe. And so it is. This passage tells us that it is by faith, faith that is so much that we trust him with it. Now, uh verse 13 addresses another matter. 513. You hear folks say Well, you know, man, I I'm I I have liberty in Christ, and I'm free to do whatever I want to do. Wrong again. The liberty that we have in Christ frees us up from the bondage of the world so that we can follow the Savior and do His bidding. Verse 13 says, Brethren, you have been called unto liberty, only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh. The fact that you're saved and secure does not mean that, hey, listen, you can go out and drink and crowds and smoke and chew and cuss and do whatever you old flesh wants to do. Man, I I can just I can just do my thing. That's not what that's about. Not at all. Verse 17 reminds us the flesh and the spirit do have a war. They are at war. No doubt there's some of you sitting here tonight. You've been saved 25, 30 years, and you're sitting here listening to me tonight and you're saying, yeah, and I'm still fighting that battle man, my old flesh. Yeah, yes, yes. And it's going to be that way until you croak. Because your flesh is still alive. And you say, well, what do I need to do about that? Feed the spirit. Feed the spirit. Feed the spirit. Starve the flesh. Don't don't sit at home and watch Hell's Box Office. HBO. Don't sit at home and watch that garbage. You're feeding the flesh when you do that. Come to church tonight, come to church tomorrow night, come to church Tuesday night, come to church three or four times a week. That'll feed the spirit. Read your Bible every day, that'll feed the spirit and make you strong. And your spirit Well, I mean it will outgrow the strength of the strength of the flesh. But sure, you're going to have that battle. You're going to have that war because you're a human being. You still live in the flesh. Uh there's a list there of the works of the flesh. There's a list there of the fruit of the spirit And uh some other things. But uh let me let me finish over at the end of chapter six Verse 13, he reminds them, right at the bottom of the verse, he reminds them that these characters who are trying to pull them away from the grace of God, trying to pull them away from their faith in Christ. And trying to get them to do and do and do and do in order to be safe. He said what they're after is to get you to do something so that you will glory in your flesh. Now, folks, The memory verse, what did it say? Not of works, lest any man should boast. Right. And let me be clear. We will boast, Amen. You say, you don't know me that well. Please give me a break here. What do we do? I mean we're good. Lapel's uh uh thumbs under eye lapels, we're we're good at that And if you and I could work our way to heaven, we would be strutting our stuff and bragging on ourselves all of the time. And again, forgive me, I'm not trying to fuss at you. But I think I think I'm right on track here to say there's not a one of us that have got You say, well what what what can we be excited about? Well look at verse 14. God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world. Listen, there's only one thing, only one reason why you and I can run up the flag and start bragging and boasting. The only reason that we can do that is when we get excited about our Lord And we remind ourselves what what we are, what we were, what he built us out of. We remember the muck and the mire from which we came. We I mean we are rejoicing that our feet are on solid ground. And we remember that he brought us there. And so when we stand up to testify, it's not what a look what a good boy am I The thing we testify about is what a great Savior we have. Yes, Lord, that's right. God forbid that I should glory, with one exception. I can glory in what the Savior did. He died on the cross for me and for you. Now, there's a lot there's a lot more in the six chapters of Galatians other than what I've just given you. I think if you'll make the markings in your Bible, the things I've given you, you've got Catholic friends that can be one to Christ. And some of these other Protestant folks as well who are trying to work their way. All you gotta do is sit down with them. And let them read it out loud in every every verse. Say now, tell me what you just read. Yes. It's har it's har I mean what I've just given you is it's it's hard to mess it up. If you just look at it for what it says. And some of them can be led to Christ if you and I don't give up on that. It'd take you 30 minutes. But it could be worth it. Some of these folks you've tried to lead to Christ, you went through the Roman road with them, they didn't buy it. Well, maybe this ought to go first. Then you can run them through the Roman road. Folks, I'm telling you, when I get to thinking about the fact that the salvation that we have, it's not because we're so capable or so because we're so able. It's not because of who we are, who we know, where we've been, what we've accomplished. It's not that. What we have is because is a great God who sent his son. Die on the cross, rise from the grave on our behalf. And you know, whenever we talk to people, we need to be sure that we tell them about the death, burial, and the resurrection of Christ. A gospel tract that doesn't have that in it is not a gospel track. Maybe a good track, but it's not a gospel track. Because the gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. That's what paid it all for us. That's what enables us to be justified. That's what enabled us to be born again. That's what enables us to be saved. That's what enables us to be regenerated, that's what enables us to be redeemed It is the atonement for our sin. Won't tell you. We got something good, and the devil can't take it away from you. No man can pluck it out of the Father's hand. Tuck us out. I'm pretty excited about that. Saved, secure. And I'm gonna tell you what, it's real satisfying too. Amen? All right, stand up with me. Stand up with me. We'll do some more tomorrow night. Our heads are bowed, please. We'll have a song here in just a moment. I've been very open, very plain tonight, and if I if if you're if you're maybe in one of those groups that I mentioned, I I did not do that to embarrass you at all. I did that to help you I did that to let you know that some of these groups are not telling you what the Bible says. So I hope you'll not count me as an enemy. Because I give you the Bible truth. Could be that somebody tonight needs to come to the Savior. If you do, I'm telling you, the Lord is in the salvation business And he wants to save us, redeem us, justify us. Maybe, maybe some of you have struggled. I mean you you know that you're saved But that old battle between the flesh and the spirit is so real, so powerful in you, and you're sometimes you think you're losing the battle. I hope these next two or three days, I hope you'll determine that you're going to do whatever it takes to feed the spirit and starve the flesh. And maybe some resolve, some commitment on your part, kneeling this altar, if you're able to kneel and just tell God you mean business and you're going to stop doing whatever has fed the flesh. And you're going to start doing more and more of what will feed the Spirit so that it'll be strengthening to you Father, I pray that you'll help these my brethren and sisters, help these our friends. And dear Lord, may in a very special way tonight we all grow just a little bit stronger. Because we've been together this night. Hear our prayer tonight, I pray in Jesus' precious, holy, wonderful, mighty name. Amen. Amen.