So I've never done this in all these years we've been doing faith promise. I believe for the most part our folks understand what faith promise is. Uh we've touched on it, we've had different fellows through and have um uh spoke about it, taught about it. We put articles in the bulletin, little outlines and whatnot. But I don't know that I I don't remember ever just taking thoroughly going through step by step trying to cover all the angles of what it means to support missions through faith promise. And I started that in Sunday school this morning, my attention My intention was to, if I didn't finish it in Sunday school, then pick it up after the conference and carry on. And all during the morning service. It's just on my heart, and I think I have the mind of Christ on this. I trust I do. But um I felt like I ought to take it maybe this evening, present it to the whole evening crowd and uh try and get the whole lesson, the whole aspect covered before we go into our missions conference. So one thing I like to use when I'm teaching, I like to use years ago it used to be an overhead projector. Um and before that I'd use a chalkboard. Then we went to overhead projector. Now we have the video screen. And so I like to use that when I'm teaching. Several reasons. One is if you hear it, that's one thing. If you hear it and see it That helps us retain it, understand grass. If I hear it, write it down, and see it simultaneously, then sometimes that's able to uh sink in a little more. So I'm going to use that. There's no way I can see that screen when I'm standing here to know where I'm at in the process. So I'm going to move over there for tonight. And um I hope you'll bear with me All right. Further grant, can you get those couple like there? Does everybody have one of the handouts? Everybody could there anybody need one? How many folks already have yours from this morning and Sunday You already have that. So you have um uh a good bit the first uh leave that one there on if you would. That's good, right like that. Yeah, that's good right there. Alright, I'm going to try and go through quickly. If the folks that were in Sunday school will bear with me a little bit as I kind of repeat some of what we taught, and then I'm going to try and get up to where we ended and pick up some more. If you could turn me down just a little bit, Dave. Alright, if you would turn to Romans. Let me get set up here. Chapter number nine. Paul makes a powerful statement here. And um let me get to my spot here. Romans chapter 9. Notice he says, beginning in verse 1, he says, I say the truth in Christ, I lie not. My conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost, that I have a great heaviness and a continual sorrow in my heart He's unhappy. There's a burden on his heart that is there continually all the time. I wonder what that burden is. Is it a financial burden? Is it a something, emotional thing getting along? Well he tells us. He says, I have a great heaviness and kindle burn in my heart. For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ For my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. Do you get what Paul is saying here? He has a tremendous burden. How many folks here ever had just a heavy burden on your heart? It just swayed down. This is the way I describe it. It's like having a bowling ball inside your chest. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Just this heaviness there, this burden, this sorrow almost. Um Paul says that he had that. That's what he dealt with. But it wasn't for the things that bother us a lot of times. His heaviness, his burden, was that folks would be saved. And that's something I think it'd be a good thing for all of us as Christians to ask God To give us a heavy burden to see people saved, that it would bother us that there are people unsaved. And then he makes an astounding statement. He goes, I wish that I could be accursed from Christ for my brethren's sake. In other words, this is what he's saying He's saying, I wish that I could be cut off, I could lose my salvation, I could go to hell in place of those who need to be saved. That I would go to hell if they would be saved. Who does that sound like? Sounds like Jesus. He suffered the judgment of our sins. Paul has the same burden for the loss that Jesus had. And that's an amazing thing for lost man. Now come over to chapter 10 and verse number one. He says, brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. Paul wanted people to be saved. Israel and the context right there. And as you read his other ways, the whole world. He had the heart of God in this matter of missions. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now. Lord, I um I felt pretty confident that this was the direction you were going. A little hesitant now, so I just pray you'd use this and teach us and stir our hearts concerning this matter of faith promise missions. In Jesus' name I pray Amen. Now I'm going to buzz through for those that were in Sunday school again. I'm going to ask you to bear with me a little bit. I might elaborate a little bit. What is the faith promise offering for missions? We're going to talk about that. We've been talking about it Keep it try to keep it in front of us all the time. But what exactly is it? Faith Promise Offering for Missions is simply this. It's the amount of money I promise to give by faith and here above my tithes Uh tithe is our ten percent of our income. It's above that during the coming year to the missions program of our church. This week when we next Sunday we take up our faith promise cards And we'll be talking about it all week long. We take that up. It is for a one-year period, 12 months. It's from the first Sunday of May all the way through the last Sunday of April of 2016 It's not we're not asking you, are you listening, young people? We're not asking you to commit endlessly. It's for a one year Commitment, trusting God, asking His leadership. And uh again, it's above our tithes. Uh I mentioned in Sunday school this morning, Dr. Pat Creed always says, you can't give your missions, paid promise, until you're giving your tithes And uh because I'm just taking away from what is the Lord's tithe. And so um that's what faith promise is. Now let's come down through here and look at some of these. Number one, faith promise offering is a biblical plan or a method of giving. There's various ways we could support missions. We could simply take a certain percentage out of our general budget, not separate the two, just take everything that comes in. dump it into one big bucket, take a certain percentage out of that and send it off to the missionaries. Um there's other ways. We could do yard sales and have car washes and bazaars and raise up money and uh use all that and send it to missionaries or we could follow the faith promise plan. And I'm convinced, and and every year that goes by, as I go back and go over this again and as I study my Bible, I'm convinced the faith promise plan of supporting missionaries is the scriptural plan for supporting missionaries. And the Bible is our final authority. We want to follow the Bible's instructions. And so it is a biblical method or plan for giving to missions. Think about the name. Faith promise. Would you agree with me? Exercising faith in God is biblical grief. You can't get more biblical than that. Simply trusting God. We're saved by faith. We live by faith. We walk by faith. The Bible says in Hebrews, without faith it's impossible to please Him. And so when I exercise faith, looking to God, trusting Him to lead me and direct me as to what amount I should give specifically to missions And then I trust him to provide that. I look to it. I anticipate God making sure that things are in place, that that can happen Uh I'm living by faith, I'm doing that. Uh faith promise, the word promise. Now sometimes people balk at that But the Bible talks about making promises, about making commitments. Somebody says, well, I ain't making no promises. Yes, you do. You do it all the time Can you imagine if you came to the altar and you're getting married and the f and the preacher says, um, oh repeat after me these vows Uh that uh you s pr and you and you promise that uh uh richer poor, uh ri in sickness and in health, uh And um better for worse, till death doest part, I promise forsake all others, holding only to thee. What if you get there and you'd say, listen, I ain't promising nothing How would that go over? You can get a left to the um get up some uh knuckle sandwich pretty quick Now what if you showed up, they hired you on the job and said, all right, we have 40 hours a week, we work 8 to 5 or whatever, and we'll give you so many dollars a week, but you've got to be here at this time, we work to this time, and a one-hour break. You say, listen, I ain't promising I'm going to be there. I'm promising that. Uh how many folks folks think you'd get a job if you told that? No. We make promises all the time. And uh surely God's been good enough to me. We could make some promises to him. So uh making a promise has biblical support. And uh you could put this reference down. We're not gonna be able to turn to all these, Psalm 76, 11, if you want to jot that down under this point. Uh offerings are biblical. Faith promise offering. I was mentioning in Sunday school, and this is good, I'd really like to develop this maybe a little bit more, but if you'll study in the Old Testament God instructed Israel to bring their tithes to the temple. The tithe was used to meet the needs of the priests and the Levites and operate the temple and just the function of the temple. But any time they had a special need, for instance, if they had to remodel, are you listening, young people? If they had to remodel the temple or if they had to um uh uh add on to it or whatever, they never used the tithe for the building project. They always took a special offering And you read that, and they had peace offerings and they had thank offerings. Sometimes God would do something for one of the Israelites, and they would say, You know, God's been so good to me. I'm just going to give a special offering It was over and above their tithes. It's something they loved the Lord. They were especially grateful. And they wanted to give a special offering to the Lord. And so when we take a faith promise offering for missions, we are following a biblical pattern We're certainly biblical. So I come back to my first point. Faith promise offering is a biblical plan or method for supporting missions. Number two, missions is at the very heart. of our faith promise offering. I don't think there's anything closer to God's heart than getting the gospel to every person around the whole world. Whether it's England or Cuba or Eunice name, any country, wherever their people are, God wants the gospel to be there. Uh wherever there are people, I believe this, wherever people are, God wants a Bible preaching church to be there within reach that can reach them. And so, uh mission is the very heart of our faith promise offering. Uh I put a list of things down here under it. It's not in your outline, but Christ died for the whole world. It's his will that nobody should perish. He wants everyone to be told of Christ dying for them. Look at Hebrews chapter uh 10 if you're still there. Look at verse 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How many people believe that verse? Say amen. Sure we do. That was about five out of us. Believe that. Let's try that again. How many of us believe that verse? Whosoever called the name of the Lord shall be saved. You believe that? Say amen. Amen. Now look what he goes on and says How shall they call on him? If they call on him, they'll be saved. But how shall they call on him of whom they have not believed? You've got to believe that he's who he claims to be if I'm going to call on him to be my Savior And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And the answer obviously is they can't. And how shall they hear without a preacher? And how shall they preach except they be what? That's missions. Sending that pe that preacher out, sending that missionary out. And that's what faith promises, enabling those who God calls to get out to the mission field. And so it's a uh certainly biblical. And uh and and sending missionaries means more than just praying for them. That is vital, and we'll talk about that, but it means financially making it enabling them to get out of the field. Faith promise is over and above our tithe. We've talked about that at length in Sunday school. Malachi 310 tells us that you know bring all the tithe into the storehouse, 10% of our income uh we ought to bring and give to the Lord. And that the tithe is for the function of the church. It buys gas for the buses, uh it pays the electric bill, it uh provides salary for staff and different things like it, buys gospel tracts. Um the gospel tracts we gave out this past month, um uh $1,200 worth of gospel tracts. You know, it costs money to buy these in the inks. About twelve hundred dollars cost us to purchase these tracks and get them out and distribute them. Where does that come from? That comes from God's people tithing to the church. And so faith promise is not part of the tithe. This is for the missions work going out of our church, the missionaries that are out on the field and the agencies that work with the missionaries out on the field. So it's above our tithe. And we won't take time to turn there. Faith promise offering is based upon faith. Turn with me at the 2 Corinthians there if you have that 2 Corinthians chapter 8. And those in Sunday school, I know you've you you we already went over this, chapter 9 actually, and verse number 8, 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 8, chapter 8 and 9 are the faith promise chapters of the Bible. And Luke chapter 9 and verse number 8. It says, And God is able to make all grace abound toward you. that ye always, having all sufficiency in all things, may abound unto every good work. As it is written, he hath per he is he hath dispersed abroad And he hath given to the poor, his righteousness remaineth forever. Now he that now look at this. Now you gotta understand, when he mentions seed here, he's talking about that money uh that we are sending to missionaries to get them out on the field. Now here I want to give a word of caution There's some quote-unquote preachers on TV that take some of these concepts, these biblical concepts, and they twist them and they use them to their own benefit. And they will use this verse. Now, I want to, one of my responsibilities as pastor is to warn the church of wolves that are out there that want to prey on God's people. And what they will do is they will take this passage and talk about sowing seed, and they will say, Hey, if you will send your money to us, send your thousand dollar quote unquote seed to us, then God will make you rich. That is a lie of the devil. This is not talking about enriching some preacher Did you see that in the news there just in the last month that one fellow preacher he's uh he's asking God's people to give him sixty-five million dollars so he can buy his own private jet? Did anybody see that See that in the news? And they're using passages like this to justify that? That is ridiculous. And my own personal opinion is they're going to answer to God for using and fleecing God's people like that. And so, when he says sheet here, he's talking about the money that is sent to Paul as he was using it on his missionary journeys And now, with that in mind, pay close attention to what he says here. As it's written, now verse 10, now he that ministereth seed to the sower Both minister bread for your food and multiply your seed sown and increase the fruits of your righteousness In other words, he is saying, as you give this, as you trust God, you look to God, and God lays upon your heart very clearly the mount we should give to missions over and above our tithe God will administer seed to the sower. You and I are the ones sowing that financial support. And he says, if you'll trust me, I'll provide that for you so you have the seed to give it out. Does that make sense? And that's faith. I'm trusting God that He will do that. And so faith promises based upon faith. Now, why do we do this? I'm going to try and step it up here pretty quick. Everybody still doing okay All right. If you have supplies for the mission house, I just thought of it. If you have supplies for the mission house, we need to drop them off back in the fellowship, Paul. Right, Deb? Right, thank you. We're mixing announcements into the messages now. Paid advertisements. It's based upon faith. We just elaborated that there. 2 Corinthians 5:7, for we walk by faith, not by sight. It exalts the Lord Jesus. Um in 2 Corinthians 9. 13 he says that they will glorify God for your professed subjection to the gospel. In other words, the people in the mission field. I like this thought The people in the mission field that we support a missionary, uh, let's say Brother Grinstead's going to go to Argentina. You'll meet him, you're going to like him, his family, beautiful family. They go down to Argentina, they start preaching the gospel, they get out in the community, they're sharing the gospel, people, people start getting saved. At some point in time, maybe in glory, those folks that get saved as a result of Brother Grinstead being there Are going to give glory to God for the Christians back here that made it possible for him to get there so they can get saved I had a neat article I got at a fellow Senate. He is a a Russian pastor over in Russia. He's actually born in Kazakhstan. I communicate with him a little bit. He's trying, he's burdened for Kazakhstan. We're praying for missionaries to come out of Russia to come down there. And he wrote a fairly lengthy uh little mini article thanking God For the American Christians that sent the missionary to Russia so that he would hear the gospel as a young man, be saved, and be privileged enough to serve God now as a preacher in Russia. Isn't that something? You know what that is? That's God being exalted because of American Christians burdened permissions and sending that out. And he's giving glory to God. He's thanking God for that. That's what he's talking about here. Because the potential is greater. Well, who knows what Philippians 4. 19 says? Anybody? Philippians 4. 19. Anybody have that memorized? But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in Christ Jesus. And my God shall supply our need. When we do that, and in 2 Corinthians 9. 8, he says, their giving shall abound. And I believe when we trust God and we do what God says, the potential for our church's outreach is greater than it ever was before. I'll be very honest with you. When I came here as pastor. I never dreamed, and God gets the glory in the church, we thank God for the uh church that has a heart for missions. I never dreamed we'd be involved in world missions to the degree that this church is now Do you know every week of the world we have folks listening to the Word of God from this church through our website, through FBN? and different things. I'm telling you, when we get behind this and we get the vision for missions that God has and we let Him lead us and direct us, Our potential for being used of God increases tremendously. If we just if emissions was just an aside, And we just dump a little bit of money out of a budget, a certain percentage, dump it over into missions. I'm telling you, we would not be, there's no way we'd be doing what God. I should put it this way, there's no way we would see God doing what he is through us. And so the potential is greater. Let's move on here. It brings more people into the giving picture Suppose we just passed the offering plates, took up the offering, take a certain percentage, push it over here, send that out to missionaries. Suppose we did that. How many people in the church would be directly involved in world missions? Directly involved. Nobody. All we would be doing is just dumping money in a bucket. But when we say, all right, here's my tithe, that's to the church, understand that. God show me Direct me what I should do as an individual in missions. God lays that figure in your heart. You trust him and say, all right God, put that in there. I put that in. That money gets directed to the missions and to missionaries Then you have er then you have people throughout the church doing that And now you have more and more people directly involved in the giving picture. And let me suggest this. I don't think dad should be the only one in the family given to missions. I think go spread it out throughout the family. Now mom and dad, maybe husband and wife, maybe work together and say, you know, this is what we do, this is what Kathy and I do. We kind of work together, come up with a figure, we look to the Lord And we kind of do that together. But we tried to teach our kids, and I would suggest teach your kids, get them involved in faith promise giving. Ask them to pray. Maybe what they would they get a little allowance or whatever. I love to tell the story about Amy and Bobby in Indianapolis. And many of you have heard me tell this story before. Two little twins came in on the bus route They got saved like our first week there at Indianapolis, 1987. They were the cutest little kids. They can be naughty, but um they were more cute than they were naughty most of the time. And uh they're about 11, 12, 13 years old, just coming into the youth group. We had our missions conference. We were talking about in men's prayer meeting. We had missions conference, Faith Promise. And um I didn't know it, but those two girls, bus kids, and we pick them up and bring them in the evening and Wednesday night service. We tried to get them there all we could. Those two girls, God touched their hearts. And um it was a month a couple months later we were bringing her in Sunday night, uh Bobby and Amy, and uh one of them, I forget which, Bobby I think it was, said, um Pastor Dennis, she can call me Pastor Dennis. Pastor Dennis, I got my dime permissions. I said, what are you talking about, Bobby She goes, uh, in the missions conference, I prayed and I promised God I would give him one ten cent, I would give him ten cents every week to missions. She puts it in her little envelope and marks it for missions These kids were inner city, they were poor as could be, they didn't have nothing. For them, a dime would be like five hundred dollars for you and I. And um I said, where do you get a dime every week? This is her words. God always gives it to me. She says, this week I didn't have it this morning and I was worried and uh this afternoon I was out and they were in the city, it was just rough there, and she goes, I was out and uh there was a dime laying along the gutter there, and I found it, and God gave me my dime for missions. She goes, sometimes I gather up cans and I take them down to the uh the seven eleven or whatever there. They have a little machine you can put those cans in. And uh she goes, I'll mash the cans and I'll get my dime permissions. She goes, every week God gives me my dime permissions. How cool is that? Now what if we what if we didn't have faith promise here? What if it was just took a certain percentage out of the thing and just dumped it in? That little girl would not have been directly involved in missions And it gives everybody an opportunity. And I think it's a good thing to teach our kids how many people agree with me, it's a good thing to teach our kids to trust God. To live by faith. What a what a more practical way can you come up with than supporting missionaries and that And so it brings more people into the giving picture. It spreads it out across the whole church. Number five, there's invariably more money with which to carry on God's work And um my one of my concerns now I didn't worry about it too much when I wasn't pastor and I was just the giving and all that, but when I was pastor and we started introducing faith promise One of my concerns was is that the giving in other areas would drop. And I expressed that to Dr. Creed when he was here and he was helping me implement faith promise in the church here. And uh and I expressed to him, I said, Dr. Kreeda, I'm uh I want to be sure we presented in such a way people understand. I'm afraid our our tithing and the general giving will drop and people just take it from there and put it to faith promise. He says, don't worry. I hate it when he says this. Trust God. I know I'm supposed to trust God. We'll do it. I said, all right. He says it's Bible. God blesses us. It'll be all right. You know what my experience has been? You know what our experience as a church has been? When our faith promise goes up, our general giving goes up It's the way it's been. And um uh inar inevitably God's people here's what I think happens. I think Christians find out, hey, you know what? I can trust God with my giving. I can do this and God provides and God meets my needs And I was saying this in Sunday school this morning, when I learn to give, it's easier to give. And when I learn to give, I'm more capable of giving. And I've found that, uh, and it's been proven uh inevitably that God blesses across the board and we see other areas. Let me ask you this question. Does God want the gospel to go around the world or not? Sure he does. And he's going to provide that so it does. Does God want the church to succeed? Sure he does. He wants Mountain Lake and all churches to be good, strong, healthy churches, needs met. I'm telling you, if we will do it God's way, if we will trust Him and live by faith, God will bless the church God will meet the needs. And we found that to be true. Because it brings more blessings to the giver. I like um uh in I like uh um 2 Corinthians 9, verse 6, look there. This is a great verse. But this I say: he which soweth sparingly shall reap also sparingly. And he which soweth bountifully shall reap also what? Bountifully. Here's a profound truth. If you put just a little bit of corn in the ground, only a little bit of corn grows. If you put a lot of corn in the ground, a lot of corn grows. How many people are amazed at that principle of life? Isn't that amazing? Steyler learned something tonight. Praise the Lord. Truth of the matter is, God blesses this. Now, I took extended time this morning in Sunday school. I want to do it again tonight to point out the blessings of God are not necessarily financial prosperity. When we talk about God blessing the giver, we're not it nowhere in the Bible does it say God will make you rich if you give, but it does say God will bless us. I know a lot of folks that don't have a whole lot materially, but they are blessed of God. And I know a lot of folks that have a ton materially, and they don't have the blessings of God on their life at all. Don't swallow the world's definition of blessing. The world's definition of blessing is having a beautiful house, an expensive car, expensive clothes. and fancy lifestyle. That's not God's definition of blessing. God's definition of blessing is the joy of the Lord and filled with the Spirit and fulfillment in life. Now that's not to say God might not bless you and give you good things. It can, but that's not what he's talking about. Why should I make a faith promise offering personally? Why should I do it personally? Well we preached on it in the service this morning to demonstrate my love for God. I love the Lord. Uh let me move on here a little quicker to help carrying out the Great Commission Get that gospel out into all the world. Romans 10:15. How shall they preach unless they be sent? Somebody's got to send them. To put faith into practice. And we looked at those, walk by faith. To follow the many biblical examples of faith giving. You go through the Bible and you find occasionally God will confront somebody and ask them to give or do something by faith When God told Abraham to offer up his son, his only son Isaac, whom he loved, that was an act of faith on Abraham's part that God was somehow going to work this out. Said that Abraham believed that God would even raise him from the dead if necessary. And Abraham trusted God and gave his son. And of course, God stopped him before and that made the point. We talked about the widow of Zarephath, that she's got a little handful of meal and a little cruise of oil. And Elijah says, Make me a cake. She goes, Preacher, putting my own words here, preacher, all this is all I got. We're gonna build a little fire. I'm gonna pick cake bake a little cake. My son and I are gonna eat it and we're gonna die. That's all we have left. We're on the verge of death. Elijah says, bake a cake for me first. You know, humanly speaking, I want to slug them. What are you talking? Who do you think you are? But Abraham, uh but uh Elijah was operating under the instructions of God, and God was teaching a lesson. And God bless that widow. Wouldn't you like to meet her in heaven? Ask what was going through her mind. And she trusted God. She understood this was a spokesman for God. She trusted God, acted on faith, made the cake, gave it to him, and God blessed her, and that cruise of oil never ran out. She had plenty of meal, and God took care of her just fine. Isn't that neat? Now, when you and I do this, not on the same scale and not to that degree, but when you and I do this, we're following that pattern We're following that example. To follow the example of the Lord Jesus Christ, we pointed this out this morning. I love this verse, that for our sakes he became poor so that we could be rich. And um and so when we give to get the gospel to other people, uh and maybe we're making ourselves poor, but man, people are getting saved. To follow the inspired advice of Paul. He says in verse 10 of chapter 8, I give this advice. And he's instructing them in this matter. To experience the blessings of the Lord. Luke 6, 38, given it shall be given unto you. Good measure. How many folks here ever prayed for something and God answered the prayer? Anybody here ever How many folks, let me ask this. You ever pray for something? God answered the prayer and you were amazed. Preacher, guess what? I prayed and God answered. I'm the same way. It's like, wow, this thing really works. I like what Lester Oloff said. He says, I haven't had all my prayers answered, but I've had enough prayers answered to keep me praying. It's pretty good. And I'm telling you, when we trust God and let Him lead us and direct us, we give, we see God do what He says he will do. And that's exciting. And so we experience the blessings of the Lord. Encourage others in the grace of giving. Look at chapter 9 and verse 2. He says, For I know that the forwardness of your mind For which I boast of you to them of Macedonia, that a Chai was ready a year ago. Look at this. And your zeal hath provoked very many. When you and I trust God and we follow His directions and we and we uh and uh we follow His leadership in this matter, it stirs up other people. I like Sunday night testimony time You know what? We get up and testify, God answered prayer, you know what that does? That provokes other people to pray. When we put up on the wall what our faith promise was and we're able to support these missionaries, you know what that does? That stirs up other people. Hey, we can do this. This does work. God does bless this. And uh ours deal here, uh I hope I'm not Coming across wrong, I don't mean to come across wrong, but I'll be very honest with you, the zeal of this church for winning souls and getting the gospel around the world has provoked other churches To do that same thing. I got an email just Friday from a fella in Tennessee, and he follows our little emails I send out and follows different things going on on Facebook. He follows what we're doing. And he says, he sent a little email, and he says, um, he says, uh, you guys stir my heart what God is doing up there in Oakland. And we trust God and we do what he says, it provokes others, it helps others get involved. To reap up let me ask this, how many folks have ever complained about churches being dead and not doing anything? How many people ever complained about that? I do Not about us, but I mean churches out there. When we get on fire for God, maybe we provoke them and help them get there. To reap a bountiful spiritual harvest in my own life. Add this verse never mind, I'm gonna head. To reap a spiritual bountiful harvest in my own life. When I exercise faith, my faith grows. Just like exercising muscles To experience the love of God in all its fullness. Look at verse 7 there. Every man according as he purposed in his heart, so let him give, not grudgingly or of necessity. Look at that last phrase. For God what? Loveeth, a cheerful giver. You say, if I don't give cheerfully, God won't love me. No, that's not what he's saying But he is saying this. He's saying when we give cheerfully, we experience God's love. That's always there. But we experience it in a very special way. And so God loveth a cheerful giver. God loves it when we give cheerfully. To prove God and thus build my faith. Now Malachi 3. 10 is talking about the tithe, but he says, bring you all the tithe and the storyhouse. And he says this, prove me therewith. Whether I'll open the windows of heaven or not. He's saying this. Go ahead and test me. Go ahead and try this. You bring the tithe and uh in the tithe. And you don't see if I don't meet your needs and take care of you. Go ahead and try me. Very few places did God tell us to test him or try him or prove him. He does tell us to trust him over and over. But this is one instance where God says, go ahead and prove me. Go ahead and give it a try, see if it don't work. We had a lady attended for years. I think she's passed away. I know she moved away. I think she's passed away. She used to always sit down here And one night I was preaching and I don't even think I was preaching on tithe, but she she was older and she couldn't walk around well and and while we were shaking hands afterwards she was sitting up there, she kind of stayed behind, and she says, Preacher, come over here. I sat down beside her She goes, Preacher, I want to tithe, but I don't think I can afford it. I said, and I said her name, and I said, well You know, I said that's really between you and the Lord. I can show you and tell you what the Bible says, but you've got to decide. I don't want you to do it because I tell you to. I want you to trust God and follow the Lord's leadership. And uh and I went over this verse when I said, Look, the Bible says there, prove me, trust trust me and t try it. And she goes, Oh, I said, Well, let me pray with you. And I prayed with her. I said, Lord, just help her and make it clear and give her grace. I said, you know, God bless you. We love you and and um Lord will lead you. About a month later or so, um I think I was visiting at her house. She lived in one of the apartments here And I believe it was in her house, or maybe it was here at church. But anyway, she goes, Pastor Lemon, remember when I talked to you about I didn't think I could afford a tithe? I said, yeah, I said, I've been praying for you. She goes, you won't believe it. I went ahead and did it anyway, whether I could afford it or not She said, I got a whole new bedroom set or a living room set. God provided for me. And she goes, all my bills are paid. My rent is paid. She goes, God is right. He takes care of us. I said, I believe that's true. And that's dealing with tithes here, but the principle is the same. Go ahead and test trust it. Anyone here remember old Don Williams, Dr. Don Williams' daddy? You remember? We first introduced faith promise, and I can talk about him now because he's in heaven. He can't do anything about it But uh he was concerned about it. And he said, Preacher, I don't think this is biblical. And he misunderstood. We talked at length, and he told me what he thought it was. He thought it was the individual sending the money directly out to the missionary. I said, No, it's through the church. So anyway, we cleared that up and he he said, um, he goes, Preacher, we ain't never done it this way before. And I said this to him. I said, Brother Williams, if you'll just give it a try. Let's just try it for one year. If it doesn't work and it's not right, we can always go back. But let's try it. He says, all right. And I don't know if he I didn't ever ask them. I assume he got involved. I believe he did. A year later we had taken on a number of missionaries. Our our missions giving was up, our giving was up across the board And we got talking about a year later, and I said, by the way, what about that fake promise? What do you think? He goes, you know, we never did it that way before, and he says, we never had these results before either. I said, well, I believe we're doing it biblically. And what he was saying was we gave it a try, and God proved Himself true And so we've got a good chance to build our faith. Brings glory to God. 2 Corinthians 9 13. Build up our account in heaven. Matthew, it talks about Laying up treasures in heaven. I looked up that word layup. Laying up treasures in heaven. That word layup means has this idea, accumulating riches. And the idea is this: we give commissions, we give as the Lord leads us and directs us. Brother, we are accumulating riches in heaven. Wouldn't this be amazing? I don't know it's going to play out this way, but we walk through, we we pass away here, the rapture takes place, and we get to heaven, we walk into the into heaven. And here is a mob of people come running up and say, hey, you helped Brother Pittman get to Uganda, and we all got saved because you helped him. We're in heaven now and not in hell. Thank you so much. Tell me that isn't rich. In Philippians it talks about fruit to our account. And Paul, the Philippian church was supporting Paul, and he says, you know, the people that I win to the Lord That is actually put to your account. God gives you credit for the people getting saved because you enabled me, made it physically possible for me to be there. Isn't that something? Alright, let me keep on. It pleases God. Now, how does faith promise differ from a pledge system? We always emphasize this is not a pledge, this is an act of faith. Promising to God. Well, it differs from a pledge in that the faith promise offering, um the faith promise offering In that it is between the believer and the Lord. You're not promising the church anything. You're not pledging any money to the church It's between you and God. God lays this amount on my heart and says, Lord, yes. I like the way Dr. Creed puts it. He says, you simply agree with God. That this is what I should do. This is the amount I should give. And that's true in the call of God to go to the mission field. God says, I want you to go to this mission field. And then I agree with God. God, you're right. That is your will. I agree, I will go, as you uh direct me. And so it is Different than a pledge that I'm pledging the church X number of dollars. I'm trusting God. I'm looking to the Lord. And it's a direct personal interaction between God and I We will never ever, and you folks that have been here, you know this, we never ever send a letter or an envelope saying time to send in your faith promise. Do we do that or not? No. We take it up, your name is not on there. That is between the individual and God. And so we don't take uh we don't ask for members, we don't keep record This is all between God. A pledge is between the member of the church. A pledge is a legal binding agreement to pay something. This is an act of faith. I'm trusting God. I'm going to give as the Lord directs me. Faith promise is totally voluntary. I cannot, I can tell you this. I believe the Bible teaches that God's people should give the faith promise, but I can't tell you to do it. That's between you and God. I can't tell you how much That's between you and God. It's based upon what the believer purposes his heart to give as God directs him. A pledge is more of a coercion, whereas a faith promise is that. Is that the end of your thing? Let me give you a few other things here. How old should a person be How old should a person be before they get involved in faith promise giving? Well, I think it can be a lot younger than we give credit for. I think a six, seven, eight year old kid uh can learn the importance and value of money and understand that uh God is really the owner of everything. How many people here understand it's God that gives wealth? God's the one that enables us to earn money. God is the one that enables us. And a little child they can understand, listen, this is God making this possible for you to have this little allowance or whatever it is, this little job you have And pray and ask God to direct you if He would have you do something. Now, I think a parent ought to coach them. I think a parent ought to pray with them and give them guidelines and help them to think spiritually and maturely, but I think it could be awfully young. Maybe seven, eight years old. I don't know. Depends on the individual. Now here's the last thing, and I'll end with this. And we're going to give an invitation. I'll explain the invitation here in a minute. Why do we use the cards? Why don't we just have everybody put it in? And um are you listening, kids? Why don't we just have everybody just dump it in? Why do we take a card and put it put an amount on there? Well, several reasons. One is We need to know what we can commit to the missionaries. They have to know what they have, they've got to buy tickets, they've got to pay rent when they get there, they have all these needs. And so we have to have a figure that we can operate on to know what we can do for the missionary. You know, I hear these horror stories from missionaries. And they'll say stuff, well they promised to send something, but they didn't know how much and we don't know if it's coming in or not How would you like to have a job and the boss tell you, well, I don't know if I'm going to pay or not? We get something, I'll give it to you. Some of y'all own a business, you say, yeah, that's the way I live. But we don't want the missionaries to be that way Um and so we take the cards up and what we want you to do now many of you already know this, but what we want folks to do is when On the weekly basis, as we take our offerings, and I had a couple people ask me, and this is why I'm taking time here. Once you determine what God's will is for you to give the missions First, you should determine whether God wants you to go to Mission Field or not. And once you determine whether, yes, He wants me to go or He wants me to stay here, then determine what He wants you to give. And as you determine that, you trust God, say, all right, I'm going to trust God, I'm going to do this. On the envelopes, we have a little place that says missions. It's very important that you indicate on your giving what goes to missions so that when the fellas count, they can take that money, put it into the missions account and get it out there. And so we don't ask your name or anything what you promised, but we do ask you to indicate the some way on there on that. I know for a lot of you it's like, preacher, we already know all this stuff I know that, but I think it's good as we go into the conference, just stop and say, all right, let's think this through again. Make sure we know what's happening and what God is doing. Now here's my invitation tonight. It's a little different I hope I had the mind of Christ on doing this. I hope this was helpful. But I would like to, as the Sunday night before we go into our conference, and I every year I take these conferences more and more seriously. They're bigger in my mind as every year goes by they get bigger in my mind. I'd like for us to take the invitation tonight, and just as a church Really pray that God leads us and directs us and uses us in this world missions And maybe there be husbands, wives, families, individuals who want to kneel at an altar and say, God, let your will be done in my life in this matter of missions. Let your will be done in our church. Lead and direct us. and use us to our full potential for your glory and for the advancement of the gospel. And that's what the invitation is. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer, if you would come up. I know I did a lot, and I know it might have been a little long, but I just pray that God will stir our hearts. If you're involved in missions already, I want to encourage you to continue on. You know what God can do. Maybe trust them to step out a little farther, step out farther in faith, launch out a little deeper into that river of faith. Maybe you're not involved. And maybe God would stir your heart and say, you know, I want to be a part of this. I want to see what God is doing. But whatever the case, let's really be, let's really begin our missions week with a time of God's people before the Lord, bowing our hearts our knees before the Lord, praying for his blessing. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. As the piano plays, maybe God's people around want to kneel to an oil and say, Lord, we really want your will to be done. God, we want your blessing with us. How about it? I think it'd be a wonderful thing. As we go into this week at conference, just the church before the Lord on our knees praying, direct us and lead us, challenge us, stretch our faith. Pray for the missionaries that they come in, that God would stir them. Pray that God would call out missionaries. And we could just see the Lord do a great thing. How about him? Is there any others would be willing to come and pray for God's blessings on our missions conference? God stirring us Maybe you'd want to come and say, I I did this every year at missions conference when I was in Bible college, Lord here am I. I put myself on the altar. Take me, use me, direct me wherever you want me to go And for whatever reason, God always kept me here. I wanted to go to the Philippines. That's where I wanted to go as a missionary. And God, for whatever reason, just kept me here. And so I said, Lord, if I can't go, it's not your will for me to go, I'll do everything I can to get those that you do call out there. And I'll support them, encourage them, and pray for them And maybe that's what we can start tonight. Just really praying, Lord, do a great work. God, do a great work. Father in heaven, I pray you'd use this lesson and stir our hearts that um that uh we would grow in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Ushers, if you would come on down right away. We're gonna take our