Okay, we're going to be in uh Hebrews chapter eleven tonight. Hebrews chapter eleven. And of course, I do not have to announce the subject, do I? We know what Hebrews chapter 11 is all about. Faith. What um what uh do you think about faith when you uh when somebody talks about faith in God What goes through your mind? Does your everyday activity do you consider the process of faith? In your own life? The Bible says that the just shall live by faith. And uh if we're going to live by faith, we ought to understand something about it, shouldn't we? We ought to be able to recognize faith in our life. Now, James, James simply says that faith is works. Faith is action. And in chapter 2 of James, verse 14, he says, What doth it profit, my brethren? Though a man may say he hath faith and hath not works, can faith save him? Can faith benefit him? Can faith? Do anything in that man's life without works. He goes on in verse 17 says, even So faith, if it hath not works, is dead being alone. In other words, if there's no action, then don't talk about the faith you have. I'll show you my faith, he says, by my works. Verse 18, yea, a man may say Thou hast faith, and I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works And I will show you, show thee my faith by my works. So he just simply says, faith is action. If there's, in other words, if there's faith, then something's going to take place. If there's faith, then you're going to be doing something. Now, God gives us in Hebrews chapter 11 A lot of different thoughts about faith, and he uses characters to explain faith to us. And what I want to do is just take a look tonight at one of these here. And if we have time, we'll go to maybe another place. But I want us just to see, and what I want you to think about, I want you to think about the process. And I don't I want you to think about faith in your own life. How can I recognize my faith? How can I know that I have the faith that God wants me to have? How can I see it? How can I recognize it? Well, let's begin in verse 8. In chapter 11, verse 8, we find him talking about Abraham's faith. And it says, by faith. Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed. Abraham was called, and when he was called, he obeyed. He did what God asked him to do. He did what God called him to do. Have you ever experienced the call of God? You say, well, I'm not a preacher. I'm not a missionary. I haven't been called to do anything like that. I can remember when God called me to be a Sunday school teacher. I can remember when God called me into the bus ministry. I could remember when he called me to take a bus route in a specific area. So it's not uh God does not just call preachers, and God does not just call missionaries. The call of God is Available in all of our lives. God is constantly speaking to us, saying to us Here's where I want you. Here's what I want you to do. Here's what I do not want you to do. God is constantly calling. The question is, are we obeying? Well, I'm afraid a lot of us are not obeying the way we should be obeying because we do not even listen. And we do not hear the goal of God. We do not hear when God is trying to place us in a specific place. When Abraham was called. He obeyed. And the amazing thing is what God wanted him to do, wasn't it? The Bible says, and he went out not knowing whithersoever he went. Abraham, now think about this. Abraham was called. Now, he knew he was called. He just didn't know where he was called to. He didn't know where he was to go. He didn't know. And uh, you know, aren't you aren't you anxious to see Abraham and ask him what in the world was going on? How did you go when you didn't know where you were going? But Abraham did what God called him to do. Now here's the thing I want us to think about. What caused him to do that? What caused Abraham to obey when God just said, I want you to go, and then tell him where? Just said go and he just picked his family up, left his fa uh uh home, and just lit out. Well, look at verse 9. It says, by faith he sojourned in the land of promise as in a strange country. Dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise. For he looked for a city which hath foundations whose builder and maker is God. Through faith also Sarah herself received strength, to conceive seed and was delivered of a child. When she was past age, because she judged him faithful who had promised Therefore spring there even of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as the sand which is by the seashore Innumerable. Now look verse thirteen. These all died in faith Not having received the promises. Have you seen? Notice that all the way through this: promise, promise, promises, promises. Abraham did what he did because of the promise of God. Simple as that. God said now you go back to uh we don't have well I don't have time tonight, but you go back to uh Genesis chapter 12 and those first four verses, and you find the promise that God gave him, the call God placed on him, and the promise God gave him. And because of the promise of God. Abraham did what he did. Now you and I, we would love to have the faith of Abraham. Right? Wouldn't you like to have Abraham's faith? Yes. Big problem is we're scared to death. What would happen if we had as much faith as Abraham had? But Abraham and all of these did what they did. Now, think about this. They did all of this because of the promises of God. But when it all came to an end for them, they still had not seen the fulfillment, the complete fulfillment. Of the promise. God called, God promised And Abraham obeyed God's call, having never seen the promise fulfilled The way God told him he was going to fulfill it. But there was a process that took place in Abraham's life. That caused him to do what he did. And explains to us this matter of faith and helps us to examine our own hearts and our own lives. And answer the question, uh, do I have the faith that I need to have? Notice what happened. Verse thirteen. These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but, number one, having seen them afar off Now think about that. They never saw it physically fulfilled, completed the way God told him he was going to use him and fulfill. But they saw it in the mind's eye afar off. You see, that's where faith begins Faith begins when God reaches down and touches one of his children's hearts and says to them I want to use you to do this, and I promise this is my promise for your life, and that individual gets a hold. Of what God wants to do in their lives. You see, faith begins By seeing what God wants to do because of His word, because of His promise And you see, when when you and I get a hold of what God wants to do in our lives And we get a glimpse of what he wants to do because he called us and he's placed this on our hearts, then this puts in us A courage, an assurance, a desire to do what God has called us to do. It will put us where God wants to put us. It will keep us where God wants us to be. I think a good example is Joseph. You remember what happened to Joseph? God came to Joseph and gave him those dreams. You remember that? He's just the young boy in the family. And uh he has this dream of these sheaves and and uh how his sheep stands and the rest of the sheep bow down to him. Then he gave him a dream about the sun, the moon, the stars, and how the and he goes And shares that with the family. Now, what was God telling him? God, in those dreams, gave Joseph a promise of how he was going to use him. He showed Joseph what he was going to do in his life. Now what happens? Man, the jealousy starts. They're ready to kill him. They sell him into slavery and send him off into Egypt. And uh here he is in Potiphar's house. Away from his family. Now think about it. Away from his family. I mean being now just used and never a negative word from Joseph Then he's falsely accused by Potiphar's wife, and they throw him in prison. What's he say to Potiphar's wife? How can I do this thing and sin against my God? Huh? No anger? Why? Because God had put in him what he wanted to do in his life, and Joseph saw that. Joseph saw it. And because he saw it, it did not matter what he had to go through, it was God. It was always God. In prison. Now, the butler and the baker come to him and They're getting out of there and he tells them, Hey, remember me the king and they don't remember him but but then he goes all through that and comes to the end and hear his brothers come down into Egypt to get grain and And uh you remember what uh they uh when they realized it was him, and uh he said, No, don't worry, he said, You guys meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. What kept Joseph? What kept him all through that from losing his faith in God? What kept him from getting angry? What kept him From wanting to get his brothers instead of having the right attitude toward them. What kept him? The promise of God. God put something in his heart And he had faith in God. He saw what God wanted to do. That's where it all begins. Have you ever had God reach down and show you something he wanted to do in your life? That's an exciting time. Have you ever read a promise of God in the Bible or sat here on a Sunday morning, Sunday night, or Wednesday night, and and heard Pastor Leatherman preach a message and God brought something out to you in a personal way and all of a sudden you realize I can do that I believe God can work in my heart like that. And God began to deal with you. And you just saw A way God could use you. That's how it begins. And then notice the second thing he says here in verse 13. He says, having seen them afar off and were persuaded of them, persuaded of them. In other words, to rely on them. I have seen it, and now I am convinced. That that's what's going to take place. I am convinced that God is going to do that. That's the thing that Caused Abraham to do what he did. He saw what God wanted to do, and he was persuaded that God was going to do it. That'll make a difference in a person's life. We do what we're persuaded to do You shop in the stores that you shop in because you are persuaded that's the best place for you to shop You go to the doctors that you go to because you're persuaded they are the best doctors for you. We do what we do because we're persuaded. God wants to put something in our hearts. He wants to put something on our minds and in our hearts. He wants to show us something. That will cause us to be convinced, persuaded. God will do that in my life. God wants to use me in that way. And that causes us to act on what we've seen. Right? I went to Japan years ago. And uh I went over, I was invited by Baptist International Missions, this is when I was pastoring, to go to Japan and uh and the Philippines and preach in their field conferences. And I went to Japan and uh this one missionary in Japan, Bill Craig, he's been there for boogles of years now, but he's still faithful. And uh he asked me to come to his church and preach on Sunday. And so I went down to his church on Sunday and and uh he told me on Saturday, he said, now it's gonna be different tomorrow. He said, you're gonna preach Sunday morning. And as soon as you finish preaching and we finished the invitation, he said there's going to be a man sitting right out in front of the church in a van. You and I are going to go out and get that van. He's going to take us to the uh train station and we're going to take the bullet train to Fukuyama. And sure enough, I finished preaching. We went out of the front of the church in the van, over to the train station, got on that bullet train and started hitting about a two-hour, I think an hour and a half, two-hour trip to Fukuyama. We went down to Fukiama and met with a couple, if I remember correctly, man, wife, two children, in their apartment. And spent Sunday afternoon sitting on the floor as Bill Craig taught this family the Word of God. Fellowship with them, spent time with them, and then we got back on the bullet train late in the evening, back to Bill Craig's home late Sunday night. Bill Craig did that every Sunday. Every Sunday Preach in his church, out the front door, in the van, over to the bullet train, down to Fukuyama, spend time all afternoon with this one family, one family teaching them the Word of God Fellowshipping, discipling them, back on the train, back home late that night. Why did he do that? Because he saw a church. In Fugiyama. He saw God building a church in that city. And today there's a church there. Because Bill Craig went down every Sunday afternoon. That's what God wants to do with you and me. He wants to put something on our hearts that we will see and come to a place that we're so convinced, we're persuaded That God wants to do it and He wants to use us to make it happen. That we just do what it takes To fulfill it. And then thirdly, look what happens here And were persuaded of them and embraced them. Embraced what The promises of God. That's what he's talking about. Embrace them. Now he's talking about Abraham's attitude toward them. You see people, you meet people all the time. Some people that you pass, you just nod your head at them. Some people you pass and you say hello, and some people you meet and you always handshake. But there's some people when you see them you just have to hug them. Huh? Relationship. Abraham, the promises of God became so precious to Abraham And he just embraced them. He just had to hold on to them. He had that relationship. Why did Abraham just pick up family and light out to someplace he didn't even know where he was going? You gotta hold the promise of God. Listen, if you and I believe the promises of God, if you and I listen to the promises of God The way we say we do, our lives would be a lot different than they are. Huh? Now, I think this is for us just to take and say, where's my faith? Because this is what faith is all about. This is what God says faith is about. About seeing it till you become convinced of it. And then just latching onto it. And then notice what it says at the end of verse 13. And confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth. They just they just brought him to the place that this old world meant nothing to them. Just strangers and pilgrims. Now let me show you something real quick. Let me ask you to turn quickly. Because I want to finish here in just a couple minutes. Turn with me back to Exodus. Exodus chapter two. I wanna show you I want to show you the same thing now. Well you're turning there. Let me uh I'm trying to get a hold of two places here. In um let me read a verse to you back in Hebrews eleven, verse twenty-three. It says, By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents. Because they saw he was a proper child, and they were not afraid of the king's commandment. Now you remember the setting? In Exodus chapter two, the king had made a decree that all male babies are to be killed because the the Israelites were growing and getting bigger than they want them to get and more powerful than they want them to be, and so he wanted to uh trim them down. And while this was going on There was a couple there, Amram and Jacobed, Moses' parents. Now in Egypt there were hundreds and hundreds of gods at that time, and many of the Israelites that were in bondage had turned to those gods. But some did not, and evidently Amram and Jacobed did not. They believed in the God of creation. They believed in the God of of Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. Listen to what it says. In Exodus chapter two, verse one And there went a man of the house of Levi and took to wives a daughter of Levi. Now that's Amram and Jacobed. Then in verse 2. And the woman conceived and bare a son. And when she saw him, that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months. Now you see it there? Here's their faith. Look at it verse again. And when the woman conceived and bare a son, when she what? When she saw him She had this child in the midst of a time when all male babies were to be killed. But when she saw Moses because of her faith in God She realized that this baby did not belong to the king. This baby belonged to God. She realized that God had given them this baby, not the king. And God was the one that they were to look to. For this baby's life, not the king. She saw in this child what God wanted And when she saw it, she did something about it. She hid him three months. Now think about this. She had the baby, she she conceives, and she has nine months of pregnancy that she's going through this. And these people, a lot of people living around her surely were worshipers of the idols, and uh surely they there was jealousy and envy going on, but she went through this nine months of pregnancy. Evidently with nobody knowing, and then she ha had the baby and for three months hid that baby Why? Because of her faith in God. And then she made a decision. Her and her husband made a decision. What'd they do? They made a decision to take this baby and put him in a little basket and push him out into the water. Can you imagine? Huh? Can you imagine taking your three-month-old baby and putting him in a little basket and just pushing him out in the water? But they did that because of their faith in God. And then we know the story. Now Pharaoh's daughter came down and saw the baby and took the baby. And Moses' sister said, that must belong to Uh y or the Shah's daughter said uh it must belong to one of the Hebrew women and so the Moses' sister said, How about if I get somebody to take care of the baby for you? So she went and got Moses' mother God protected them. Why? Because faith sees and faith acts. And faith brings us to a place that God becomes active in proving Himself. By doing what He has shown us that He wants to do. Where is our faith tonight? Do I have the faith that I need to have Is my faith really active the way God wants it to be active Is God able to do something? Is God able to do what He wants to do in my life? Because my faith's in him. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. Where are you tonight? How many folks here say preacher? That's the faith I would love to have. Would you would you just pray with me or pray for me that God Would make this evident in my life to help me to see what he wants to do. Help me to help me to see how he can use me in a greater way. And then that my faith would be alive in God. If that's you, would you slip your hand up all over the building? That's what I want. I want my faith to be producing. Father, bless tonight as we do business with you. Bless these that evidently you have spoken to tonight. God help us to leave here thinking about this. Thinking about what how you want to show us. What you want to do. Thinking about seeing what your promises can mean to us. God help us not just to talk about faith. Help us not to just make faith some routine subject. God help us to experience faith. I pray for these who raise their hands. God, I pray tonight as we do business with you that you would put in our hearts something that would Change some things in our lives. Bless the invitation. Let's stand together. So P in this place. Why don't you slip out of your place and come?