Second Corinthians chapter eight is chapters eight and nine, really, is the place in the Bible where We get clear instruction. Now there are other places that talk about it, but this is the place that we get clear instructions about this matter of faith promise giving. Faith promise is a tremendous way to support missions because it is personal. It's a personal thing, as pastors already mentioned, between us as individuals and God. And so it's a great way for us to uh fulfill the command that God has given us to support missionaries. Now this uh The setting here is that the church at Corath, a church just like this church, had made a commitment to give an offering. Paul had shared with churches throughout Galate and And and uh and then the the churches here and they had made a commitment to give to the needs of the saints at Jerusalem And so as Paul writes this letter to them, he uses this portion to remind them of the promise they made and instructs them as to how they are to fulfill that promise. As he does that We have clear instructions about how we ought to be involved and how we ought to give and how we can do that. And if you're uh you're excited about missions If you'll get in this portion of Scripture, read it, study it, your heart will be stirred in the matter of fulfilling the command. That he's given us. And that's the way we partner with missionaries. Philippians chapter 4, we find that we partner with missionaries by supporting them financially. The Bible tells us that And so what I want to do is just sort of work our way through this, and we'll cover as much as we can as time permits this morning, and just look at some things that might Be uh a reminder I know to most people here. We've talked about this over the years, but it may be new to some And I would encourage you to listen and realize what the Bible is telling us to do. So let's pray. And we'll ask God just to open it up to us the morning. Father, we're so thankful to have been in a place over the years where our hearts have been challenged to be involved in missions. Because we've had the privilege of experiencing your work in just a different way, a special way. And blessing our lives because of that. We think about the years here at Mountain Lake and And just uh the way you've worked in this church and the people that have been able to Have you involved in their lives in such a personal and wonderful way because of their involvement in getting the gospel to the world as you instruct? We ask today that you would open this up to us in a fresh way. Holy Spirit, you know what we need to say. You know what we need to hear. You know the decisions that need to be made in our lives here today. And so we want to ask you to give us understanding. Clear understanding, challenging understanding, and that you would draw us to a piece about what you want each of us to do. Make it just a great day, a profitable day in our lives spiritually. Because of what we see in your word. And may your will be done. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now, as Paul writes this letter and mention that they had made a promise, we see that recorded back in 1 Corinthians chapter 16. And uh Romans chapter 15, it talks about the commitment that they made and how they were instructed when to do it, how to do it, where to do it, and it's very clear there And now he comes to this, and as he begins to remind them, he uses the churches of Macedonia as an example. You're familiar with that. But I want us to see something here that uh I want to emphasize this morning in the beginning of this. In chapter 8 verse 1 He says, moreover, brethren, we do you to wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. And he begins to talk about those churches in Macedonia. You remember those churches. Acts chapter 16. Paul heard that Macedonian call. And he went over into Macedonia, churches were started in Philippi, Thessalonica, Maria, and he's talking about those churches. And he makes a statement here that we need to grasp if we're going to get a full understanding of what faith promise giving is. We use those words faith promise giving Because it is an act of faith and it is a commitment and it is giving. But this is the foundation of it, what he says right here Notice what he says. He said that that little word wit there has the thought of to make known or to give understanding. And he's saying, I want you folks at Corinth To realize what has taken place in the churches of Macedonia. And then he says this. Look what he says. The wit of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia If you do not realize that faith promise giving is by the grace of God You will never enjoy it to the fullest. It is a work of God's grace You say, why is that so important? It's important because it explains the personal part of this. When you talk about the grace of God, you're talking about God's activity in the life of an individual. The grace of God is simply the time that God reaches down and touches the heart of one of his children about what he wants done. That's how he informs us of what he wants to do in our lives. You remember when you got saved? You say, well, I was saved by the grace of God. For by grace are ye saved. What does that mean? It means it's completely of God. God reached down. God informs us. God opens up our understanding to salvation. You remember when you came to a place that you realized it's Christ. It's what he's done. It's nothing I can do. It's all in what Christ has done. I cannot earn it because that was the act of Christ. All I have to do, he says, for by grace are you saved. How? Through faith. Through faith. That means we have to come to a place that we agree with God about it. That's what faith is Faith is not making something happen. Faith is agreeing about something God wants to make happen and wants us to be a part of it He wants to prepare us for it. And when God reached down and enlightened you about your need for Christ And you're w and to how to fulfill your desire for heaven and escape hell, then you were drawn to a place of simply agreeing with God This is what salvation is all about. Now that same grace continues to work in the Christian life. You can see it throughout the scriptures. That's the way God changes us. That's the way God calls us. That's the way God deals with us about growing in the Christian life. There are times when God reaches down and says, this change needs to be made in your life. You need to stop this. You need to start this. You need to quit this. This is what I want to do in your life. And the way that that works is you and I agree with God about it, and when we do, God becomes active. God works it. We don't change ourselves to become better Christians. We agree with God about what He wants to do. To make us more of what we need to be. We don't work in our own lives about ministry. God tells us where He wants us in ministry. And when we agree with him, then he puts us there, he equips us for it, and he performs what he wants to do. Anybody with any spiritual understanding at all, as you look back over your Christian life, you realize And I didn't make that change. I didn't do that. I didn't provide that. I didn't do this, that, or the other. God did that. Right? God did that in my life. But when did he do it? He did it when you agreed to let him do it. Because we have a free will. We can choose to agree with God, or we can choose to refuse what He wants us to do. And that's what grace is. That same grace that saves us, that same grace that changes us, that same grace that works in our lives, is the grace that He's talking about right here. It works in this matter of giving by faith promise. Now that means it's different than any other giving. Because you see, other giving, tithing, for instance, we don't have to pray about tithing. That's already settled in the word tithe. It we know how much it is. It starts with 10%. We know where we're to give it. We know when to when we're to give it and how we're to give it. That's all settled. And a lot of our giving is spontaneous. We give to things that we desire to help, that we desire to be a part of. And but grace giving is totally different than anything else. Why? How? Because it is a time that God wants to reach down and tell us personally, this is what I want to do in your life at this time. That makes a difference anything else. Amen? Because it becomes personal between us and God. That's why Brother Leatherman said, I can't tell you what to give And Paul tells the Corinthians here that he didn't want to tell them what to give, but it is a personal thing. And it is and and it it is it it is a time When God wants to draw us to an agreement with Him, a commitment to Him. It's a time because those times of agreement, those times of commitment, those are the times that God is able to become active in doing something in our lives that makes us more of what He wants us to be and needs us to be. To use us where he's put us. And so it's a time. It's also a time that God's able to prove himself to us You think about you you have many promises in the Word of God, but the promises always have a condition with them. If you do this, I'll do this. If you'll do this, I'll do this. If you'll do that, I'll do this. What he's saying there is I am activated when you agree with me. When I reach down and inform you about what I want you to do, then You give me an opportunity to prove myself to you. You give me an opportunity to make it more personal. And when God instructs us about something He wants to do in our lives, it's not something He wants from us. It's something He wants to give to us It's something that He wants to do in our lives that will make our life more fulfilling, more satisfying in our relationship with Him. And you've experienced that But it's a continual thing. And so this grace is something that really needs to be understood. And he continues to emphasize that. Let me work our way down through here. And uh just uh remind you with what he says here. We're not gonna have time to dwell on a lot of this, but uh he goes on about the The church, as Macedonian says in verse 2, how that in the great trial of affliction the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty abounded under the riches of their liberality. He talks about they didn't have much. They were having all kinds of problems. Yet they made a commitment. They committed themselves to do what God wanted them to do. Verse 3, for to their power I bear record, yea, and beyond their power they were willing of themselves, praying us with much entreaty. that we would receive the gift, that word gift is the same word as grace in this portion of Scripture. And take upon us the fellowship of the ministering to the saints. And this they did, not as we hoped, but first gave their own selves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. Now he finishes talking about the churches of Macedonia right there Notice what he says. Now he starts to speak directly to the church of Corinth about their responsibility. Verse 6 he says, Insomuch that we desired Titus, Titus and some others are coming to receive their commitment, that as they had begun, so they would also finish in you. The same grace also. You folks need to experience what those folks over in Macedonia experienced. That personal touch Down verse 70 says, Therefore, as ye abound in everything, and faith, and utterance, and knowledge, and all diligence, and in your love for us, see that ye abound in This grace also. He keeps pounding the thing that it is a work of God's grace It is something God does in and through you. Verse 8 gives an example. I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others. And to prove the sincerity of your love, that's what grace does. It proves the sincerity of our love. For we know the grace, there it is again, for we know the grace Of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. Think about the grace of Christ. What does that mean? It simply means that Christ did what the Father told him to do. The Father gave Christ a responsibility, and that's hard for us to grasp knowing Christ is God, and Christ was God. But it just simply uh the fact that that the Father uh and time and Christ said it many times, he said, I'm I'm here to do the will of my father, I'm here to do my father's business And it's just showing here that what the Father wanted, Christ did. And that's what grace is. And when Christ agreed, then the Father was active in the life of Christ. Think about it It's talking about Christ coming. Christ left everything to come to nothing, so you and I, who had nothing, could have everything. See? And that's grace. Now we come to verse 10. Here's what I want to get into for a few minutes. In these next three verses. He brings out to the church at Corinth how they are to fulfill their commitment And I want you to see how he tells of this. Look at verse 10. And herein I give my advice, for this is expedient for you who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. Now, therefore, perform the doing of it. That as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. Now he brings out three things here that are important for us and our responsibility. First, he says, there has to be a willing mind. There has to be a willing mind. And he brings it out a couple of ways. First of all, look in verse 12. He says in verse 12 Or if there be first a willing mind, first a willing mind, a ready mind. You see, our attitude about it will determine everything. What do you think about this matter of missions? What do you think about this matter of supporting missionaries? What do you think about this matter of what the Bible has to say about our responsibility? We read in Matthew 19 and 20. How we're to teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, taking the gospel to the world. That's the command. What do you think about that? Do you think that's for you personally? Do you think that's for your church here at Mountain Lake? Then you go over into Acts And you go to Acts chapter 11, where the church of Antioch was started. You remember that. The people scattered from Jerusalem because of the persecution. And some went to Antioch, and the Antioch church was used to become an example for us in this matter of sending missionaries and church planting. And that's where Paul and Barnabas were sent from, they're in chapter 13. What do you think about that? Do you think that's for us today? Then you go to Philippians chapter 4 where it talks about supporting missionaries, and Paul talked about how that church at Philippi supported them, one of those Macedonian churches. That's God's plan. God's plan is for us to go and He tells us how to go. We go out of a church like this church We're sent out and and we're to reproduce ourselves and it's and it all happens when a church and a missionary partners together by financial support. That's God's plan. What do we think about it? See what we think about it will determine what we do. Do we have our own Thoughts about it? Or are we going to say, I agree with you, God? I agree with your word. See, that's what grace does Grace, grace changes our attitude. Because we are basically, it's mine, I'm going to keep it, I'm going to save it, I'm going to build it, I'm going to do what I want with it. And then we get in the Bible and God said, no, wait a minute. That's not my plan for you. I want to tell you how to use what I've given you. And then he said, so it's a ready mind. And then there's a uh a readiness to will. Notice verse eleven. Now therefore performed the doing of it that as there was a readiness to will. A desire, a choice. He's saying to them, there was a time when you chose to agree with me. Now I need you to continue in that. So it all begins with attitude. It's going to continue with us having the right attitude What's the attitude we're to have? God's right, doesn't matter what I think. God's plan is the right way. God's plan is the best way God's plan is for me, and I don't need God to change to satisfy me. I need to change to satisfy God. I need to change to be what God wants me to be. And then secondly, he talks about them performing Performing the doing of it. You had the right attitude about it in the beginning. Now perform what you promised. That's what he's saying here. Look at how he brings this out. The word performance has the thought of to fulfill, to fulfill completely, to finish. Notice what he says here in uh in verse eleven. Now therefore, perform the doing of it. Perform the doing of it. If it's going to be performed, if we're going to perform what God Tells us to do, uh, there's gonna be a couple of things. Number one, there has to be a beginning. There has to be a starting place. And boy, sometimes that's the difficulty of it, just getting started, just letting God change our minds about it so we make that Decision to begin. And many of you, you forget how difficult it was for you to start because you have enjoyed the doing of it so long. It's a part of your life now. June and I went to Bible school in uh nineteen sixty-seven. How many of you were born after 1967? Don't be bragging. We went to Bible school with four children. I was 28 years old. I'm 80 now, so you don't have to start figuring in. I uh worked in management and manufacturing and quit uh the job and sold our house and went to Chattanooga, Tennessee and And took four children. I went to work for $1. 65 an hour. Minimum wage at that time. And it was a struggle. We had bills, four kids, rent uh school bill, utilities, the kids wanted to eat every day. We uh I mean it was a struggle And we got down there trying to get through school, trying to study, learn to study again. And uh we got in the first missions conference. And Dr. Robertson started on supporting missionaries. Bless God if you're not supporting missionaries, you're this, you're that. And I said, he he surely he cannot be talking to us. If I don't get enough money to pay my school bill, I'm not going to be able to take my midterms. By the end of the week, I knew he wasn't talking to me. God was talking to me. And June and I made our first commitment to submissions fifty-two years ago. 52 years ago. And it has been a wonderful journey. Hard sometimes, struggle sometimes, question sometimes. But God has always been faithful. He has proven himself faithful for fifty-two years. And that's what he's talking to them about. He's not talking about them doing something that he wants to take advantage of. Hey, listen, God doesn't need anything you and I have. Except our life, our heart. That's what he wants. He controls everything else. And he said, listen, make that beginning and then take that journey I'm going to give you an enjoyment of life that you'll never regret if you'll just take that journey with me. And he's talking to them about giving. He's talking about this special offering, this grace offering. And then he says an interesting thing. He says thirdly, do it out of what you have. Now this is not an emotional thing only. There's emotion to it. But this is something that's based on God and His presence. His word, his instruction. Notice what he says in verse 11. Now therefore perform the doing of it that as there was a readiness to will, So there may be a performance also out of, here it is now, out of that which ye have. Verse 12, for if there be a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. God just simply says, I'm not asking you for something you don't have. I'm asking you to take a look at what you have and let me tell you how to use it. Because you see, we know God has given us what we have. Huh? And it all belongs to Him And all he's saying here is, I have given you something for what I'm asking you to use it for. I have given you. I'm not going to ask you to do anything that I haven't supplied The way for you to do it. God's not going to try to use us in a way that we can't be used. He says, I want you to give out of what you have. And he wants us to just take a look at what we have and say today, what part of what I have? Has God given me for the commitment He wants me to make today? And take a look at it. Hey, we make commitments You have things that you need for just everyday living, and you're constantly making commitments to purchase that. You need a car, you need Appliances, house, clothes. There are things you need. And we commit to somebody every time we get something we need. You need that car, you commit yourself to the dealer. This is what it costs, this is what you'll pay for. Whether you pay cash or payments, and if you're going to pay payments, then for the next number of months, you're going to have to pay me this much money. And we make a commitment And we have to fulfill that commitment. God says, I want you to do this And how many times do you hear people say, well, I just can't afford to do that. I can afford the car, the appliances, the house, the utilities, all that. I can afford to commit for that And usually when we feel that we cannot commit to what God wants, it's because we've committed to what we want instead of what we need. And we've used what God has given us for the wrong thing. He wants us to give out of what we have. It all goes back to what is our attitude. I've probably shared this with you before, but I just thought of this. I was preaching a missions conference in Fishersville, Virginia. Um Fishersville, Virginia is over near Staten, Virginia, that area And uh this young man had taken this church. I had preached conferences for his father in North Carolina before. He called me and he said, Brother Creedy said, I've just uh been called the pastor of this church and and they had missions and but they haven't had a conference in a while and the missions have sort of gone down And we really need to revive the things that would come. So I went and we had a tremendous conference. Sort of a revival atmosphere. And uh the faith promise was good and people responded and so I left. A couple of months later, June and I went by there. We're going through that area and I called him and said, Hey, why don't you and your wife have lunch with uh us and we're passing through. So we met and we just talked about things that went on at the conference and finally he said he said, Let me tell you a story. He said there was one fella that shared this with me later. He said he was sitting there on Sunday And God was dealing with him about his faith-promise commitment. And he uh uh he the next day he was committed to the dentist And they had been doing some work on his mouth, and they were going to complete it the next day, and he was going to have to pay what he owed, and it was a significant sum. And he was battling because If he made the commitment he knew God was dealing with him about, he was not going to be able to pay what the dentist was going to want the next day. But he said, by Sunday, he and his wife made the decision, we're going to do what God wants. And they made the commitment. Next day he said the guy went to the dentist, got in the chair, and the dentist started uh to do the work on him, and he said, uh, wait a second, he said, I've got a friend visiting me and uh uh and a dentist friend and I d I want him to take a look at what we're doing with you and and just give me some suggestions. And so we brought him in. The guy looked at it and said, uh We have been doing some of this type of work back in my office, and he said, this is what we're doing, and it's been very successful. And so the dentist changed his whole strategy and did that. And he said, when they completed that work and I went the cashier to pay, He said uh he said the uh the amount they charged me was totally different. And he said the difference between what they originally said and what they charged me was exactly what we committed to faith promise the day before. That's the way God wants to prove Himself. God wants to reach down and say, Hey, you need to trust me. I want to bless your life. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Well the privilege we have to be partners with you, used by you Thank you for all that we're able to enjoy simply because of your presence in our lives. Now I pray that you would make these moments very precious as decisions are made. According to your presence, your instructions. Blessed now we pray in Christ's name. Heads are bowed or eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved, and I want God to use me. I want to trust Him and know that God is working and using me to advance the cause of Christ. It's bring people to Christ around the world. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. That's my desire. My hands raised. I believe every Christian wants God to use us. And to influence others and be a part. A lot of ways God uses us, teaching, working a bus route, whatever. But one key way is what was taught here is by supporting missionaries as God leads us and God directs us. us. And we're going to give the invitation. Maybe you need to come to an altar and bring that car and just say, Lord, show me, lead me, direct me. What is your will for me in supporting these missions? Of course, we need to support them with our prayers every day. But let the Lord have his way. Let God lead and direct us so he can get the glory. It's his grace. Maybe there's some here this morning, uh there's some struggles going on in your Christian life. Maybe you need to bring that by faith and trust the Lord, let Him give you victory. Maybe there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure, my sins are forgiven. We invite you to come. We want to show you from the Bible how to get that settled. Know for sure you're on your way to heaven. But whatever your need is, you come on. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the