Number two, James two, and we're gonna look at verse number nineteen. I wasn't at the conference and I I didn't hear the messages. But the young people, n several of them mentioned uh having a story. If you trust God and live for God, he'll give you a story. I I don't exactly like I said, I didn't hear the message, but I think I know what they're talking about. And I've often told um uh young preachers and whatnot, the best way to get illustrations in your life is to go out and live for God. And God will do things and you'll see God do things. Go out soul winning. Go trust him. Live for Him. Obey Him and you'll see God do things in your life. And um uh you'll have illustrations for your sermons. I don't know for sure, but I have an idea that's probably what they're talking about, seeing God doing things and and giving you things stories you can tell other people. God did this for me and this happened. And uh what a neat thing. We do have a first-time visitor in the service this morning. I fail or this evening I failed to recognize. Cohen Gerdham is in the service, and praise the Lord And uh we've been praying for him. He's doing good. And um if you don't know who mother is, she's beaming back there ear to ear. So we're glad you're uh glad we're glad to have Cohen here. We need to get a visitor's packet coffee mug for him. James chapter two verse number nineteen. Um this is on this is almost A shocking verse, really. Look at look at verse James 2, verse 19. Thou believest there is one God, thou doest well. You agree with that statement? Sure, you believe in one God, there's not many gods, you believe in the one true and living God, and I'll do us well. Look what he says then. The devils also believe and tremble. So I want to talk this evening, just try it, Lord willing briefly, on the faith of a devil. The faith of the devil. I'm not trying to be funny, but I do think this is just a little strong here, Dane. Old Ethan ruined that for me forever. Let's pray. Father in heaven, bless our time in your word. I thank you for the testimonies of these young people. And um Lord, I may be a little selfish, but I just think back. To what I was their age, God, where I was at, and Lord, what you've done for these young people, and uh what you're doing in their lives and these testimonies, Lord, my heart is stirred. And we thank God for our teams, for the youth of our church. I pray that you would just bless them real good, and God continue to lead in their life and work in their life. I pray, Lord, when they're our age, they would have many stories to tell about what you've done and what they've seen you do and how you've used them. So bless them. Now Lord, as we look into your word, a very sober passage here again tonight I pray that you would open our hearts and help us, Lord, to be willing to trust you and obey you as you direct us from your word. I yield myself to you. I present my body anew and ask that you'd fill me and speak through me. And help us, Lord, I pray. In Jesus' name, Amen. This whole passage here we've been looking at, and it's kind of getting a little redundant, but it's a It's a rather significant portion of Scripture he addresses here to folks who claim to be saved, but they have no living testimony behind it. You know, he's talking about he uses that word say. You say you have faith. You say you have faith. You say this But there's no works, there's no lifestyle, there's no behavior behind what you're saying is true. There's no behavior to verify that, to to back it up. And he's addressing this I get the impression, the more I'm studying this and we're preaching our way through it, I get the impression he's addressing some folks who say they're saved, but they live like they're lost. They say they're saved, but they treat their Bible the way lost people treat a Bible. They say they're saved, but their relationship with the church is no different than an unsaved person's relationship to the church. They say they're saved, but they have the same attitude towards sin that a lost person would have towards sin. And so He's addressing this at length here, and he keeps kind of coming back and repeating himself in a lot of ways. Now, I want to give a word of caution here. We say, well, a person says they're saved, but their life doesn't match up to what they're claiming to be true. We have to, we have to, there's a little word of caution here. We need to give newly saved people time to grow You follow what I'm saying? Sometimes a person will first get saved, and their life isn't all that it ought to be, and maybe isn't all that our life is. But we need to give them time to grow. The Bible says that a newly saved person is like a newborn babe. And you and I don't expect little Cohen back there to get up and walk around and walk down to the aisle and kneel here and pray and do all that. He's just a little baby. He's growing. We have to give him time. And that's the way it is for new believers. I think it's possible, and I maybe get in trouble for this, but I think it's possible for a person who's newly saved to still be have some things in their life, yet be closer to God that someone's been saved a long time and they're just cold and hard and dead and have no care for God. They're just stuck in a rut. You follow what I'm saying? That person's growing. And so we have to be very, very careful when we go to a passage like this that we don't look at a person that's newly saved and say, oh, they've got this, their life doesn't fully match up to uh what a Christian life ought to be. We need to give them a little time to grow. You understand what I'm saying? There's another caution here. That it's possible for a person to be genuinely saved and yet be backslidden and their lifestyle not reflect the fact that they are a child of God Now we have a classic example of that in the person Lot. And we mentioned him before. As I read through the Bible of Lot, if I didn't know my Bible, if I was just reading it through the first time and I was reading about Lot I would assume this was an unsaved fellow. This guy was under the judgment of God in sin. He was going to die and go to hell. And I get to Peter and I find out, lo and behold, the guy's saved. And he lived like the unsaved, and he had terrible values and all of that. But nevertheless, he was uh the Bible talks about his righteous soul. So it is possible For a person to have a lifestyle that doesn't match what a Christian's lifestyle would be, yet still genuinely saint, they can be backslidden. Now, in that case, I believe Hebrews chapter 12 kicks in. Where if I claim to be a child of God and I'm living in sin and I'm not living like I know I should be, as I understand scripture teach I should be The Bible says God will chasten me, God will correct me. Just like a good father doesn't let his child just run wild and live in sin. He steps in, he disciplines, he corrects, he chastens. God does that to his children. And Hebrews says if there is no chastisement, then their claim to be one of his children is an illegitimate claim. And so I just wanted to put a word of caution there because we've been hitting this pretty hard and he he he keeps coming over and over again. But uh the fact of the matter is there apparently was an element in the body of believers here who claimed one thing and yet It was a profession only. It was words only. Now, he uses this phrase, and I think I get the idea he's trying to shock the believers here. He says, You believe in God? You believe there's one God? God do us well. Hey. The devils believe also. And they tremble. It's like, what? He uses the devil or devils as an illustration of someone who has an empty profession or just have an intellectual acknowledgement of who Jesus is and the truth of the gospel. Yet they don't possess that in their hearts and lives. Now here's something interesting, and I hear people say this all the time. I try to be careful anymore not to use this term, not because it's wrong in and of itself. It's just not found in the Bible Nowhere in the Bible does it talk about demons. You don't find the term demon or demons in the Bible. The only term used is devils. The devil and devils. The word demon, I don't know where folks come up with it, but it's not in the Bible. It's only devil. Devils. And so he uses that here. He says, Thou believest there's one God, thou doest well. The devils. Plural also believe and tremble. And so when he refers to the devil, singular, we're talking about Satan, Beelzebub, Lucifer. The Prince of Darkness. And then he talked about devils that would be his little imps, fallen angels, who do his bidding. And so just a little trivia there maybe. The devil the word demon is nowhere found in the Bible. It's always devil or devils. Now he says the devil the devils also believe in tremble. I got three thoughts. I want to give them to you as uh just quickly be trying try and be concise tonight. Number one I want us to consider the reality of the devil and devils. The reality of the devil and devils. Now when we're talking about the devil, We're talking about devils. There's again, there's a danger here. There's two dangers. Number one, one danger is denying the existence of the devil Some people say, I don't believe in the devil. It's just uh middle-aged uh hooky-stooky stuff the church came up with, the Catholic Church came up with the devil, it's just myth, it's not true Uh if you think that's the case, if you don't think there's a real devil, you're a sitting duck for the devil. So that's a danger to deny the existence of a devil. The other danger is this is to become obsessed with the devil. I have a book in my library. I meant to bring it up here with me, but I have a book in my library where a guy did a very thorough study. He's from Germany, uh German fellow, he did a very thorough study on the occult And I got it in Bible college and we had used it for different uh classes I had and some reports I had. He goes through from a biblical perspective. He wrote a pretty lengthy book, pretty s good size volume book on uh the occult and occultic type things. And the guy, as I understand the story, the author of this, became as a uh professing Christian became so obsessed with the devil and the things of the devil and the darkness of sin and all that became so obsessed with that that he literally it destroyed his life and that devil was able to get in and repress him and uh really mess him up seriously. So there's two dangers One is completely denying the devil, the other is becoming obsessed with the devil. Personally, I don't like to give the devil any more attention than what the Bible does. I don't want to try and give him any more credit. I think sometimes we give the devil too much credit. It's our own decision that messed us up, and we're trying to say the devil maybe do it, right? So what about the reality of the devil? The existence of the devil is assumed all through scripture. Take your Bible if you would, and I'll show you some interesting passages. You may be familiar with these. Go to Ezekiel chapter 28. Ezekiel chapter 28, Old Testament, second half of the Old Testament. And I want to show you here, we have the record of the devil's creation. How he began. You can mark this down. The devil is a created being. He did not always exist. God is the only one that always exists. Somebody asked this morning, when did God begin? God never began. From everlasting to everlasting, God has existed. God transcends time. But the devil is not that way. The devil is a creative being. Ezekiel chapter 28. Are you there? Did you find it? Look at verse number 11 Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Son of man, take up a lamentation upon the king of Tyrus. And say unto him, now he's referring to the king of Tyrus, and the Bible does this several times, the Old Testament, God will use an existing personality to teach and reveal to us truth about a spiritual being. And that's what's taking place here. He's referring to the king of Tyrus, but as we look at the context here, we see that he is actually showing through Ezekiel to us The origins of Satan. He says, and say unto him, verse 12, Thus saith the Lord God, Thou sealest up the Son. Full of wisdom and perfect in beauty. Now he's referencing Satan here. He seals up the sum. He's full of wisdom, perfect in beauty. This is before Satan fell. A beautiful being, perfect in beauty. I don't think any of us have ever seen perfect beauty. But that's what Satan was. Thou hast been in Eden, the garden of God. Look at how he describes them. Every precious stone was thy covering. The Sardis, Topaz, the diamond, the barrel, onyx, jasper, sapphire, emerald, the carbuncle, and gold. I mean this guy is decked out. The workmanship of thy tabres as a musical instrument and thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast what? created. Now let me stop and just put a make a mention here. Notice it says the workmanship of thy tabres and of thy pipes. Those are musical instruments. Let me just throw this out there. You need to be aware of this. Satan is a master musician. He knows music. Satan knows the power of music. Satan knows how to take music And destroy and devour a person's life, a ministry, a church, a testimony Let me just say this. We must be very, very careful about the music we allow to influence our lives. Because it does influence our life. You say, oh, I just like it. I don't let it bug me. Listen, there is a spiritual dynamic to music that you and I very little we realize in. And we must be very, very careful for that. Satan knows what he's doing. And he is a master counterfeiter. He is a master deceiver. And he can take music and make it seem so right and seem so good when it is so destructive. And we must be very, very careful. So, here he was. In the day that thou wast what? Created. Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth, and I have set thee so. Thou wast upon the holy mountain of God Thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire. Look at verse 15. Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created Until what iniquity was found in thee. Here we have the record that Satan is a created being. God created him. God is his creator. He created them perfect in wisdom and in beauty. He created him holy. He created him good. He had a very sacred role to play in the presence of God. But iniquity was found in him So the devil is a very real being. The Bible tells us that he was created by God. If you would, come with me over to Isaiah chapter 14. And here we have a record not of the creation of Satan, but here we have a record of the fall of Satan Jesus said in the Gospels, he said, I saw Lucifer fall as a star from heaven. I'm not quoting that exactly correctly, but I saw Satan fall from heaven. Satan, though he was created beautiful, is created holy, is created just, nevertheless, he is a fallen being And Isaiah chapter 14, and beginning in verse 12, we have a record of his fall. Notice here, how art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning? How art thou cut down to the ground which didst weaken the nations? For thou hast said in thy heart, here is Satan's attitude, thou hast said in thy heart, I will ascend unto heaven. I will exalt my throne above the stars of God. I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation in the sides of the north. I will ascend above the heights of the clouds. I will be like the Most High God. There's a little phrase that's repeated five times. Did you catch that? I will, I will, I will, I will. What was Satan's problem? What was his fall? Pride. Brought him down. I appreciate it hearing the young people testify. God must be first. Jesus Christ must be number one. God must be high priority. Brother, that's the truth. Anytime we exalt ourselves, we are heading for a crash. He that exalted himself shall be a base But he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Satan fell for the pride trap. He got thinking too highly of himself. And he says, notice he says there at the last phrase I will be like the Most High God. Here it says, I want to dispose of God. I want to destroy God. I want to end God. He's saying, No, I just want to have equal say as God does I want to be able to say what my life is just as much as God has a say. And he fell. Look at verse number 15. Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell. To the sides of the pit. Jesus told us that hell was created for the devil and his angels. And here we have his fall, and he's brought down into hell. So the devil is a very real being. He's a created being. He's a fallen being. Jesus believed in the reality of the devil in Matthew chapter 4. He went head to head with Satan. In the wilderness, he was tempted forty days and 40 nights. All through the Gospels, you find Jesus casting out devils. You find Jesus giving his disciples power over devils. Many, many other passages all through the Gospels, Jesus addressing Satan as a very real being. The devil is a very real being. In Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 10 and 11, Paul tells us to Stand against the wiles of the devil. And he tells us to put on the spiritual armor of God so that the devil can't get at us. Peter warns us that the devil, like a roaring lion, walketh about Seeking who may be devour. Brother Norris Felcher last night had a great message on Satan, the ultimate hunter for men's souls. He's a very real being. James chapter 4 and verse number 7, if you come back to James with me quick to our text, just a few chapters later. The Bible says, and and we're going to look at this verse here in a minute, it says, Submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Listen, you cannot believe the Bible and not understand the reality of the devil. And so, number one, my first point is the reality of the devil. Now, if you come back to James chapter 2 and verse number 19, I want us to consider the religion of the devil. You say, well, that's a strange statement. Satan's got religion? Oh yeah. The religion of Satan. Look again at chapter 2 and verse 19. Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well, the devil's also believe. Believe they got religion. The devil is not an atheist. Charles Spurgeon said, not even the devil is so foolish to be an atheist. The Bible says in Psalms, the fool has said in his heart, There is no God. You never find the devil saying, There is no God. You never find the devil teaching or trying to uh come across that there is no God. He knows there is a God. So an atheist is even more foolish than the devil in a real way. Devil doesn't necessarily want us to be atheists. He just doesn't want us to do what we know God is what we know is true. The devil doesn't want you to reject the Bible as the Word of God. He just doesn't want you to do what the Bible says. You're here tonight and you're unsaved. You never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. Devil doesn't care if you understand you need to be saved. Devil doesn't care if you understand the gospel that Jesus died for you, is buried, and rose again Devil doesn't care any about that as long as you don't trust him as your Savior. Christian here tonight, devil doesn't care if you know what you should do as a Christian, as long as you don't do it. So the devil has religion. He is not an atheist. Here in James 2, verse 19, we say that the devil believes in God. Thou believest that there is. In fact, he doesn't say thou believest that there is a God. He says thou believest that there is one God. The devil is, here's a big theological term for you. The devil is monotheistic. You ever heard the term polytheistic? It means somebody worships many gods. uh poly many uh did I say guns I think everybody ought to have many guns. They oughta be they oughta be polygunistic Amen? I thought I'd get an Amen on that one. You didn't pay any attention to what I said until I said guns and awesome. Polytheistic means a person believes in many gods. Hinduism is polytheistic. They have thousands of gods. A lot of your uh natives in different uh cultures have many, many gods. The devil doesn't believe there's many gods out there. He knows that there is only one true and living God He believes that there is one God. He is monotheistic. The devil believes in the deity of Jesus Christ. We won't go to all these verses. Mark chapter 3, verse 11. He recognizes Jesus is the Son of God. Jesus is God in the flesh. He knows that. He's very religious. He believes in the reality of hell. All through the gospels. Luke 8 31 is the one I have written down, but all through the gospels. You have Jesus casting devils out and they're saying stuff like this Don't send us to the pit. Don't send us into outer darkness. Don't send us to the place of torment. Satan knows that hell is his ultimate destiny. He knows that hell is a very real place. He understands that fully. You never find the devil denying the existence of hell. He knows it's real. The devil recognizes Jesus' authority over him. Every time you find Jesus confronting the devils, they're always submissive to Jesus. Remember the maniac of Gadera? The devil's name was Legion because he was possessed by so many devils. And Jesus came to cast them out. What do they say? They said, Don't send us to the pit. Let us go into those swine. And Jesus says, all right. They recognized they had to do what Jesus said. I uh this uh we were in Indianapolis, my wife and I were just going soul winning knocking on doors to these apartments and a lady answered the door and I started a witness to her and she began crying. She goes, uh uh she goes, the devil's destroying my family We said, what do you mean? She goes, my son has cancer, my husband died of cancer. She listed about four or five people that just had horrendous health things. She says, I talked to my pastor about it, and he says it's just the devil. She says I'm scared to death The devil's running rampantly destroying my family. I said, ma'am, I got some news for you. The devil can't touch you unless God allows it. Now God may be allowing this, God may allow Satan to do some things, but he has a plan and he has a purpose, and Satan cannot operate outside of what God permits him to do. He is subservient to God. So the devil recognizes Jesus. Remember Job? Satan, he said, God says to Job, gets a little argument, he says, listen, uh you can't touch his body. You can do what you want, try and destroy him, but you can't touch his body. Then later on he says, you can touch his body, but you cannot take his life. Satan could only go as far as what God's hedge allowed. I don't know about you. I'm glad for that. Amen. Man alive. And so Satan recognizes God's authority over him. The devil believes the Bible is the Word of God. The devil, we've been preaching on this in the mornings here the last couple weeks. The Bible knows that this book is God's word. He knows that's true. In Matthew chapter 4 and verse 4, he quotes Scripture to Jesus. Now he tries to twist it, but you never find Satan. I can't find anywhere where Satan questions God's word. If God says it, Satan knows it so. Now what he does try to do, he tries to get us to question God's word. Remember in the Garden of Eden? Now I don't think most of you are there, but uh uh remember in the Garden of Eden When um Satan approaches in the form of a serpent, he approaches Eve, and his very first statement to her is in the form of a what? A question. And his question is this: Yea, hath God said? What was he trying to do? He was getting Eve to question God's word. Now he doesn't question God's word. He knows it's so. He knows that's the word of God, but he sure tries to get you and I to question God's word And he succeeded with Eve and got her to start doubting God's word. So here's my point. Number one, well he says here, he says, uh, you believe in one God, thou doest well. Devils believe also. And they tremble He's addressing folks that have say they're saved. They have all the right words. They've got all the right answers, but there's nothing real in their life. It's just an empty shell, an empty profession. He says, alright, you folks going around, you say you believe in God. Yeah, well the devil does also. And number one, I pointed out the reality of the devil. Number two, the religion of the devil, and here's the point we want to get to, and this this the regard of the devil. Now what I mean by that phrase regard is this. To regard something means to have respect for it. It means to recognize its authority. And the Bible says that the devil believes there's one God and he trembles. The devil has tremendous regard for the authority of God. He hates it. He rebels against it. But brother, he recognizes it as genuine. The word tremble means to shudder. Uh I was looking it up how it's used. I looked how it's used other places and it has the idea of shivering. With fear. Get so scared you're shivering. Remember uh old uh Belshazzar in the Old Testament? There was writing on the wall, and the Bible says his knees smote one another. I mean he's scared of death. Um uh it means to be struck with horrific fear. You like that, huh? Yeah, Joy, I knew Joy would appreciate that. Uh to shudder, to shiver with fear. So he's saying here the devils, they believe in God. Brother, he scares them to death. Um, you will never find a devil driving a car around that has on the back of it no fear. You're not going to find that. Because they absolutely tremble at the thought of answering to God. And by the way, those guys with if you have to go around bragging about how you don't have any fear, that tells me you're probably scared. You're trying to cover it up, huh? And so the fear, they tremble, they shiver with fear, they're struck with horrific fear. The reality of God has a profound effect upon the devil. And look at chapter four and verse number seven with me, and I'm trying to wind down here. Look at verse seven. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Now look at this. Resist the devil, and what? He'll flee from you. He'll flee from you. Now it's important, I believe, to notice what that verse does not say. It doesn't just say resist the devil, and he will flee from you. I'm telling you, the devil is not scared of you or me. The devil doesn't think Dennis Lee Vellerman, yikes He don't do that at all. The devil looks at at you or I and he says, Ah, red meat. I can devour that one. There's they're just, I can tear them up. I'm telling you, you and I on our own, the devil can tear us up. He's not scared of us What's the first part of that verse say? Submit yourselves therefore to God. I submit to God. I put myself in God's will. I put myself under the umbrella of God's protection. I put myself in the presence of God. Now I resist the devil. He's out of there. He's out of there Because I'm in the center of the will of God. I'm in the protection of God. The devil's religious. He believes in one God. There's no doubt about it. What we preach here, he knows it's true. Well you and I reading that Bible, yeah, he believes that. Um, but he's not saved It's not saved. And the fact of the matter is, the devil's religion has more impact on the devil than some people's religion has on their lives. And that's what he's saying. You say you believe all this stuff, you say you believe all this stuff is true, it doesn't impact you at all. Hey, the devils aren't safe, they believe it, and they're shaking in their boots Now here's my final point. If my profession of faith, this is what I all wanted to get to. I believe what he's saying here. If my profession of faith has no impact on my life. That I'm worse off than a devil is, because the devils believe not done to salvation, they can't be saved But it has a profound impact. These truths about God, these truths about hell, these truths about God's authority, these truths about God's holiness, these truths about God's judgment, it affects the devil. He shapes in his boots. And yet here you have people walk around and say, oh yeah, I believe in God. Oh yeah, Jesus is cool, man. Jesus cool. And they don't want to realize that they're saying stuff that absolutely scares the devil to death has no impact on our life We started saying in our series on Sunday mornings, that book has to be more than just a theory out there. It must be the guidelines for my life. Because the devils believe it's true and it affects them. We cannot allow God's word to not affect us. Now I don't feel like I communicated this this evening like I wanted to, but the truth is the same nevertheless. We've got to take this Seriously. We need to know that we're saved, genuinely born again, believing from our heart, not just the words. And then when we understand what God says, we need to take that very seriously. We need to say, all right, that's true. I need to line up with it I need to get in step with God. Let him lead me. And then the devil's kept at arm's length. Resist him, he'll flee from us. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help. Pray you'd use this tonight some way, Lord. Challenge us. Or I pray you'd help us to see the reality of the devil. Help us to see the truths of your word. And they would affect our lives, they would impact our lives, that we would live in line with your word, not according to our own understanding. With our heads bound, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher Preacher, I can see areas of my life where the devil's giving me fits. There's areas in my life the devil's just Just working me over. And you'd say, preacher, I need to submit myself to God. There's some areas in my life I just need to get in line with the Lord, get submitted to the Lord, and I believe God will help me, and I believe God would give me victory, but I've got to make some of these decisions as a Christian. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. There's some areas the devil just works me over. God bless you. How about it? Any others? God bless you. Now maybe tonight we need to say as a Christian, Lord, I know what you're dealing with my heart about. I know what needs to be done. I know where I need to be. God, I'm going to submit to you. I'm going to get in line there. I'm not just going to talk about it anymore I'm gonna let it be real. I'm gonna take it seriously. Maybe there's someone here tonight. I don't know. But you'll know for sure that when you die, you're going to heaven. You don't have that settled in your heart. Talk about it. You know the answers, but down in your heart, not sure that's settled. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be s have it settled in my heart that God has forgiven me. I'm saved and on my way to heaven. Is there any like that at all? Any at all by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. I want it to be real and settled in my heart. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, bless our invitation. I pray you'd help us, Lord, to trust you and obey you in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.