Thank you, preacher. Well, it is a delight and a joy to be with you this morning and to be a part of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Let me say first that I Do apologize for my voice. This is a strange part of the world here at Oakland, Maryland. I think summer is July, or at least a portion of July, and I'm never privileged to get here before the snow starts falling or after it has already fallen or the weather begins to change and things get cold, but uh this week has not been kind to me as far as my throat and my uh ability to speak and and so forth. So I I wouldn't get too close to me if if I were you. Uh please forgive me though, but it's your fault. This engine just doesn't really want to run this morning, but I hope that I'll be able to get it in gear and bring the message the Lord has laid upon my heart. But uh once again, thank you ever so much for what you've done these last few days. Uh these scriptures are extremely important to the winning of souls to Jesus Christ If you have any idea how it would be for a missionary on some foreign soil to talk to people about the Lord and to reach a people for the Lord and to establish a church and to ground those people in the things of the Lord without Scripture, you know very little about mission work. Scripture is a key part of not only reaching the folks for the Savior, but also for the establishment of churches and the establishment of their individual lives uh in the things of the Lord. Can you imagine not having your Bible and going through the course of each day without the scriptures? When your heart is hurting, having nothing to turn to and read, uh when when things are going in a direction that is not pleasing and pleasant to your life, not having the Word of God to consult and find the peace of God that passes all understanding. It's extremely important that the Word of God get to the field, and yet over half of this world is without the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. What you've done this week is made an investment in the people that perhaps you'll never see, in a language that you'll never be able to speak and uh reach a people that you might never shake their hand until we get to the other side of glory. And uh this does work You took part in a project that we did in the Dominican Republic. 300,000 scriptures went down there and just recently We had word from the Dominican that three brand new churches have been established as a result of the massive distribution of these gospel booklets. And I know that as they go to Puerto Rico, as they go to Nicaragua, as they go into Burma, different parts of the world that we're involved in, people get saved. People turn to the Lord People's lives are changed as a result of that. Because God has given us a promise that the entrance of His Word gives light He's given us that assurance that it will not return to him void. And wherever the seed of the Word of God is planted, it's going to bring forth a harvest that honors him and glorifies him and pleases him and adds to the kingdom of God. And I don't know what that does to you, but boy, it makes my heart excited. It makes me want to shout and praise the name of the Lord. Do you realize that anywhere from seven to ten people will read one of those booklets? That means that we're talking about 35,000 to 50,000 people we're going to be able to touch because of what you've done here these last few days. Then the Nicaraguan project. One million booklets are going to Nicaragua. 500,000 plus have already been sent As soon as we get the remainder of the books done, another 500,000 will be going to the country. And that means that between six and seven million people will be reached with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Do you know how many people live in Nicaragua? Between six and seven million people. Do you know what that means? We're going to reach a whole country with the gospel, the potential of reaching an entire country with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Does it work? Absolutely. God's word does great and mighty things. It's sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul. I mean God's word is powerful. And thank God we have the privilege of working together to get the word of God to the field and reach these people for the Lord Jesus Christ. And preacher, thank you for having us, inviting us, being allowed to be part of this great church. It's always exciting to me to come to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. It's not exciting for me to come to Oakland. But it's exciting for me to come to this church and to be a part of this church. If there was just some way that we could come and not be affected by the elements and uh not uh have all of the ailments that go along with it and the plagues that accompany it and uh the heartaches that uh join it and uh we'd be able to get in and get out without being affected. I really, I I guess there's truth. Maybe I need to move here You know, they're the in order to prevent certain things they inoculate you or uh give you the disease. And uh sooner or later uh you're not affected by those bugs and uh those uh difficulties of life. So maybe if I move here over a period of time, uh uh it might not affect me anymore. But uh I come well and I leave sick. So play pr I spent all this money. So my eyes have worked, and now my mouth doesn't want to work. But would you pray for me that the Lord would give me strength and be able to carry on? There's a work that needs to be done. There are fields that need to be reached. There are scriptures that need to be put together. Your investment in our ministry is far-reaching. We just printed another 50,000 New Testaments that are going into Burma, and they're having a great effect in the country. Not only have we done John and Romans for that country, but we also have sent New Testaments into the country. This will make 100,000 that we've sent there in order to help those people and establish those people. Now, the story is thrilling to me, and I hope it would be thrilling to you as well. There was a monk that was studying for the monkery It's just going out over the rain. Oh. There was a monk stunting to be a monk. And he got hold of the scriptures. And he began to privately and secretly read those scriptures. And he realized his need of Christ. They asked Jesus to save them. And the Lord did. And his immediate response was to leave. The study to be a monk, and now he wants to be an evangelist in his country and reach those people, his people, with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Do you realize the potential of what's taken place in his life? That's just one that we know about. And God only knows the impact that His word is having on the hearts and lives of people. So, folks, thank you ever so much for your prayers. Thank you for Thank you for the labor of love that you have done. And uh for those of you that uh took part in this assembly. We certainly thank you and praise you and for those that Missed out if the Lord carries his coming. We'll be returning, I believe it's in the month of April, to do it all over again. Has it stopped snowing by then? I know that I was here uh uh one February. I'll never come again in February. I seen enough snow that time to last me the rest of my life. It started snowing and I thought it was never going to stop. It kept falling and kept falling and falling till I couldn't see my car anymore. And then I couldn't open the front door of the place that we were staying. We didn't have a whole lot of food in that place either, and I was getting quite concerned. I knew that I was not a bear and prepared to hibernate, but uh wanted some way to get out of there And we eventually did. And when I escaped, I went over to Chambersburg. We have we have four daughters that live in Chambersburg, and I thought we were safe. And I no sooner arrived there and it started to snow. And it looked just like the snow that you have here in Oakland, Maryland. And it kept coming and coming until the interstate was closed. And uh you couldn't go anywhere. Fortunately, they had a little bit more food in their house than what I had in the establishment that I was staying in. But thank you ever so much. For the warm welcome. Frost was on the ground this morning Now if the Lord comes before we get back in April, don't fret, Brother Chip is going to be in charge of that assembly. And he'll carry on and do whatever work is necessary at that particular time. If you have your Bibles this morning, I'd like you to take them and turn to the book of 1 Thessalonians, chapter number 1. I noticed in your bulletin this morning that the preacher is preaching from the book of 1 Thessalonians. And maybe this will just be a reminder and reinforcement of that which you've already heard. I want to call your attention to a few verses in this passage of Scripture. 1 Thessalonians chapter 1, and I'd like to begin reading with verse number 2. Would you stand with me please for the reading of God's Word? The book of 1 Thessalonians, chapter number 1, and beginning with verse number 2 We give thanks to God always for you all making mention of you in our prayers, remembering without ceasing your work of faith and labor of love and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. In the sight of God and our Father, knowing, brethren beloved, your election of God. For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance As ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake. And ye became followers of us and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction with joy of the Holy Ghost. So that ye were ensembles to all that believe in Macedonia and Achaia. For from you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith to Godward is spread abroad so that we need not speak anything. For they themselves show of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Our loving Heavenly Father, we thank you today for the privilege of being in this good church. We thank you for the sweet fellowship that we've enjoyed these last couple of days. And Lord, we thank you for the work that was accomplished and what it means to those that are going to receive these booklets. We thank you, dear Lord, that there's power in the gospel of Jesus Christ, that it transforms lives, that it prepares them to go to heaven And I pray, Lord, that many souls will come to know Jesus as a result of what has been done over these last couple of days here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We thank you for these dear people and their warm welcome and reception that they always give to us when we come. And I pray that you'd help me to be a blessing to them this morning. Now, Lord, I need your help. And I pray that you'd touch my throat and enable me to preach your word, the unsearchable riches of Jesus Christ. And it is our prayer that our worthy Savior Our wonderful Lord would be exalted in this place. That people would be drawn to Him, that you'd save the lost And encourage and bless your children. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' sweet name. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. If you know anything about the Bible, you know that the Apostle Paul was a missionary and spent some time in Thessalonica and established this church, and it was a great church He was only there three weeks. And as a result of that, this church that was referred to as a great example was established. Souls got saved and they had quite an outreach and testimony wherever they were working and laboring in the good things of the Lord. Paul referred to them as a model church, a good church, a great example, one that is worthy of following, and I believe it was for good reason. One of the first things that I see concerning this church was that they was a message-sensitive church. I want to be a part of a church like that that is sensitive to the message of the Word of God They don't sleep during the preaching. By the way, just let me remind you that if you do fall into slumber, we throw hymn books. So I would advise you pointedly to stay awake and not go off into lullaby land. But here was a church that was sensitive to the message. They responded to the message. It's always a blessing when you're in a church and the Word of God has been preached and proclaimed and people respond to that message and get their lives adjusted in proper relationship with the Lord Jesus And so here was a church that was sensitive to the message that was being proclaimed. The Bible says that they received the Word of God, not as a message of man, but as a message from God May I say to you this morning that every time your preacher stands in this pulpit and proclaims the precious, wonderful word of God, it's a message from the Lord, not from man. I think I'll run that by you one more time. I'm not sure that you heard me properly. When your preacher stands in this pulpit and opens this Bible and preaches the Word of God, we need to receive it as a message from God and not from man. This was a great church because they were sensitive to the message. Not only was it a great church because of that, but I believe they were a great church because they were ministry active I want to be a part of a church that's on fire for the Lord, that's going somewhere, that's doing something. And I'm not talking about just sitting around a table and eating things Although I enjoy that. But I'm talking about a church that has their sleeves rolled up and labors and toils in the work of God to reach souls for Jesus Christ. This church was that kind of a church. The Bible tells us in verse number three of the first chapter that this was a church that had a faith that worked. They had a labor of love, and they had a patience of hope. Patience, they had a hope that persevered and endured. Oh, would to God we were like that today. That we were folks on fire for God and was serving him, there's no room for idlers in the work of God. Not one of us had been saved to sit. We're to serve, and the Bible makes that quite clear to us. And so here was a church that was ministry active, but here was a church that was also ministry active in missions. They were a church that was mission-minded. Verse number 8 says, From you sounded out the word of the Lord, not only in Macedonia and Achaea. But also in every place your faith the God word is spread abroad so that we need not speak anything. I want to be a part of a church that has a mission outreach It's reaching mission fields with the gospel of Jesus Christ. A church that has a burden not only for their own community But as a burden for all the mission fields of the world, and thank God for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church that is supporting missionaries around the world for the purpose of winning the loss to Christ Now I say to you this morning, you either go to the mission field or you send someone on your behalf. That's what faith missions is all about. That's what faith mission giving is all about. It's part of the program That God has assigned to you and is assigned to me to go into all the world and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. These books These scriptures are designed to do one thing, and that is to aid the missionary in his particular area of the world to massively reach out to individuals. That have no idea of their need of a Savior. And to present to them the life-changing, transforming gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not what I used to be. And I'm not all what I'm going to be, but it's all accredited to the work of my blessed Savior, the Lord Jesus. That he did on the cross of Calvary for me and for you and for all the peoples of the world. This is not a message just for America. This is a message for the world. This is not just a message for a particular race of people. This is a message for all the races of the world. Jesus died for all that all might be saved and come to an understanding of him. So this was a mission-minded church. And they were a modified people that exemplified the Savior. The Bible says that they themselves show of us what entering in we had unto you and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. What a church. What a marvelous church. And as I look at this particular passage of Scripture, I'm reminded of how thankful the Apostle Paul was for these people. On at least three separate occasions in writing to them, he expressed his gratitude and thanksgiving to them In verse number 2 of chapter 1, he says, we give thanks to God always for you all. And I believe the Apostle Paul had good reason to be thankful. He had good reason to be excited about the people at Thessalonica. I heard this week. There's a group that's going to Thessalonica to see and to survey the possibility of doing a scripture project for the people. Here's what was alarming to me. To our knowledge, there is not one Baptist church in Thessalonica today. Let that sink in. Something didn't go right in Thessalonica. Somewhere along the line there was a departure from the things of God. And I say that as a serious warning To all of those in this auditorium and those that are listening around the world by means of Internet There is a possibility of drifting away from the good things of God and losing out on the blessing that He has for you. Thessalonica was that kind of a place. Here was a church that had a labor of love. Here was a church that had a faith that really worked. Here was a church that had hope that was enduring. But somewhere along the line they fell by the wayside. We better be on our spiritual guard this morning and make sure that we are not distracted and detoured by the devil. that wants to put us on the shelf and label us as non-usable in the work of God. The Bible talks about this faith of work and labor of love and patience of hope. Just one little phrase that I want to pull out of that and kind of share with you this morning. I wish I had the time to talk about the hope and the love, but I want to talk about the faith. A faith that works. If you have saving faith, genuine saving faith this morning, it's a faith that works Can I just run that by you one more time? If you have the real thing, the genuine article, you have faith that saves, you have a faith that works. A faith that works, a faith that is going to do something in the work of the Lord. I'm sure that you've heard the little phrase, only one life 'twill soon be passed Only what's done for Christ will last. I I I don't know about you, but I want my life to be worth something. I I in fact, what I do with my life, I want it to last longer than I do I realize that I'm closer to my departure than what I've ever been before. I'm beginning to sense and I'm beginning to feel the aches and pains of growing old. My family keeps telling me I need to stop this. I tell them quite point blank, shut up. Doctor, I don't find any retirement in the work of God. Brother Williams is a perfect example of that. Look at the gray hair on that head I don't see a quitting bone in his body, do you? Then I could What do I want to say? There's not an ounce of quitting in the man He's one of the most active preachers that I've ever been around. Always busy. Always about something. But faith, genuine faith, saving faith, true faith, Bible faith, is a faith that works. And it's just not something that attaches us to salvation and then lies dormant in our life, but saving faith is a faith that produces works in your life and in my life. John Wesley said it this way. I want to do all I can with all means that I can in all places that I can through all the people I can as long as I can. I want my life to count for something. And as I look at this passage of Scripture, there's some things that I draw to your attention. When we talk about faith, we're talking about something that enables us to serve the Lord. These people had a redemption that merited good works. The Bible tells us in verse number nine that they turned to God from idols to serve The living and true God. Our salvation and what Christ has done for us merits that kind of work. It's worthy of our work. It's worthy of our investment. When you stop and consider the mercy of God. The grace of God, the love of God, the gift of God. When you put it all in one big package, and you begin to survey what that means to you, it merits that you and I work and labor in the work of God not to gain salvation, but because we are saved by the grace of God. I say to you this morning that it's a delegated work. The Bible says, For by grace are ye saved through faith. Any argue with that For by grace are ye saved through faith out of yourself as a gift of God. Not one of us could ever merit salvation's gift. There's nothing worthy in you, there's nothing worthy in me, there's not one single thing that you could do or I could do that would ever make us worthy of eternal life in Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith and that not of yourself. It's a gift of God, not of works Of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us. It's a delegated work. The Bible tells us that we're not saved by faith, or not saved by works, but we're saved by faith. Not of works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, according to Titus chapter 3 and in verse number 5. I'd say to you quickly this morning, we're saved to work. Did you hear me, church? We're saved to work. We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus on to good works. Now let me ask you this this morning. What have you done this week? As a result of the salvation you have in Christ. Well, preacher, I've been to them all. That doesn't qualify. Preacher, I've been to the grocery store. That doesn't qualify. Preacher, I watched the World Series. That does not qualify. I entertained myself with football games yesterday. That does not qualify. We are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus on to good works. And as I read the scriptures, as I look at the Word of God, he clearly, unmistakably outlines what that delegated work is all about. So you and I are delegated to that work. The second thing that I would say to you about that work, that redemption merits, is that you and I are to be diligent in that work We're to be diligent in that work. We're to be faithful in that work. It disturbs me when I see someone drop by the wayside. Somebody that was on fire, serving the Lord. Something cramped your toes Bent you out of shape. Now you're sitting on the sidelines doing nothing. Now I say to you this morning, hasbins, hasbins, hasbins abound everywhere We need some people that'll roll up their sleeves and stick with the stuff. Irregardless of what someone else might say. Irregardless of what someone else might do. Irregardless of someone else falling by the wayside. Your example and your sight is not to be centered upon man, woman, boy, or girl. Our sights are to be set upon the Lord Jesus Christ, who endured the cross, despising the shame. and is sit down at the right hand of the Father with a completed work that offers to you and I eternal salvation that will keep us throughout all the ceaseless, endless ages of eternity. We're to be diligent in that work. Stick with it. Stay in the race. Don't fall by the wayside. That's a trick of the devil. Let me ask you this this morning. Is the way you're spending your days, the way that you're spending your life, is it pleasing to the Lord, or is it delightful to the devil? We're delegated to his work. We are to be diligent in that work. We're to be dedicated to that work. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, to present, to present your bodies a living sacrifice. I'd like to thank That if I had a gun to my head and someone challenged me to deny the Lord and live, that I'd be willing to take the bullet and die. But I think it takes more grace to live for him than it does. To die for him. If I understand my Bible correctly, absent from the body is present with the Lord And what I've read about heaven, I'm a wanting to go there. That means that No more aches and no more pains and no more heartaches and no more disappointments and no more sorrows No more frustration No more funerals and hospital visits All gone. No more light bills. No more mortgage payments. No more foreclosures. No more pig slips and lost jobs Eternally in the heavens with our Lord forever and forever. When you start reading about heaven And you begin to see the little glimpse that he gives us of that place, you want to go there. But oh my, how much we're needed in this world to live for We have a redemption this morning that merits that kind of life And then the second thing that I would say to you, there's a reason that manufactures those good works in your life. There's a reason for it. If you take your Bibles and you go to the book of John, chapter 15. We're reminded in this passage of Scripture that what we do for the Lord is not because of our talents, it's not because of our ability, it's not because of our intelligence. It's not because of your personality or mine. It's because we're in Christ. That we can do anything of any value that'll last for eternity. As a matter of fact, he tells us in John 15 and verse 5: without me ye can do nothing. Zilch. Zero. Nothing. As I look at this passage of Scripture, we have the presentation of our Lord and Savior as being divine. We have Christians presented as branches. And we have the Father, God the Father, presented to us as the vine dresser. The husbandman, the one that toils the soil and waters the soil and provides the ability of the branches to bear the fruit Look at this passage of Scripture. In verse number four, the Bible says, abide in me and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine, no more can ye except ye abide in me. There's a reason, there's a reason that good works can be produced in you and me. The first thing that I see and I'm encountered here is the command that is given. He says in verse number four, Abide in me. I call your attention to the fact that we're attached to him. I feel a shout coming on right now. I'm attached to him. I mean, I've got direct connection to him. He's the vine, I'm the branch, I'm connected. Preacher this morning in Sunday school was talking about Being together of one mind and of one accord and having purpose and direction that is of like mind. When you're connected You are of one mind with the Lord. And the Bible says, abide in me. We've got a direct attachment to him. And not only do we have an attachment to him, we have an acknowledgement from him. The Bible says, abide in me. In me Do you know what that means? You and I are acknowledged by him that we are part of him Which one of us could stand on the platform and brag and say, Boy, you really got something, Lord, when you got me We're nothing more than sinners saved by grace. And that redemption merits good works And there's a reason those works are manufactured in your life, and it's because of your attachment to him and his acknowledgement of you. And then he tells us in this passage of scripture, the action that is required from us when he says abide. Abide. Now what does that word abide mean? In my studies, I've come to the conclusion that abiding means to dwell with, it means to stay with, it means to stick to, it means to accompany, it means to focus. If there's anything the devil will endeavor to do, he'll trip you up right here. Anything he can do to get your eyes off the Lord and onto something that is meaningless and worthless and has no purpose in your life, that's exactly what he'll do. And he delights in that. Oh, does he delight in that? Because he recognizes that in so doing, we no longer are effective in our work and service for the Lord. But there's a consequence. Not only is there command, but there's a consequence. That when you abide in him, something comes as a result of that. Notice what he says, abide in me and I use the branch cannot bear fruit of itself except it abide in the vine. No more can ye except ye abide in me. You get fruity And I'm not talking about the weird fruit. I'm talking about the real fruit. I'm talking about lasting fruit I'm talking about fruit that remains. The kind of fruit that he's looking for is soul winning. I knew I I get a good amen on that one. The kind of fruit that he's looking for. Good Christian character. Love and joy and peace and long suffering and gentleness and faith and temperance. The kind of fruit that he's looking for is praise. And God's house ought to be a place of praise. Our homes ought to be a place of praise. As a matter of fact, wherever you go, ought to be a sanctuary of praise. If God's all over you, you can't help but praise him. He's looking for the fruit of helping you Others, investing in others. Fruit. Fruit. We're looking for fruit. Helping others. Winning others That's what this labor is all about. Then may I hasten to say to you, there's not only the redemption that merits Our works. And not only a reason that those fruits are manufactured in our life, but I'd say to you this morning: there's a review that's going to measure Those works. You find it in the book of 2 Corinthians, chapter 5, where the Bible calls our attention to some startling words Penetrating words, sobering words, serious words that ought to ring our bell and get our attention immediately. Wherefore we labor in verse number 9 that whether present or absent we may be accepted of Him, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that every one may receive the things done in his body, according to that he hath done whether it be good or bad. Are you prepared for that day? Suppose it were right now. That's how quick it's gonna happen. In the moment, in the twinkling of an eye. And we're in his presence. Are you ready for that day? I look at this passage of scripture, I see a determined action, an ambition that needs to be present in our life. He says in verse number nine, wherefore we labor. Are you toiling for the Lord? Are you exhausting yourself in the Lord? Are you giving your best to the Lord? Are you really involved in God's work? We have a redemption that merits it. We have a reason that manufactures it. And there's coming a day that's going to review it. So I ask you this morning, are you laboring and toiling, striving earnestly and constantly aiming at pleasing in him. I was a catcher when I played ball. And there was an area that was my responsibility It was all around that home plate. Oh yeah, I had to be concerned about first, and I had to be concerned about second, and I had to be concerned about third, but I had some helpers out there out there to help me along with that. But when it comes to home plate, I was all by myself. I had to protect that territory. I've got the scars, I've got the wounds that go along with my absolute determination. You're not going to touch home plate. When they would begin to barrel down the third baseline and head to the plate, I positioned myself in such a way that you had to go over me in order to get there. I've been knocked unconscious. I've had to be carried off to the hospital with get stitches and sewed up and on the front of my head, on the top of my head, and behind my head, sewed up and back out onto the ball field all over again, determined that you're not going to touch home Do we have that kind of determination in the work of God? A determination that will not give up on some soul that needs the Lord, a determined ambition that keeps us going in the work of God That we're not going to satisfy or please the devil or honor him in any way by disassociating ourselves with the work of God because we know there's a day coming when review is going to take place. And therefore, I'm going to serve faithfully in determined ambition to please him. But not only is there a determined ambition, but there's a defined aim. You notice what he says Wherefore we labor, whether present or absent, we may be accepted of the preacher. Is that what your book says? Wherefore we labor, whether present or absent, we may be accepted by our mate. This doesn't say that either. What's your say, preacher? Who? Oh, that's who worked to please. It's not the preacher, it's not the evangelist, it's not the missionary It's not one another. It's not our mates. It's the Lord. And so I ask you, what you've done this week? Is it Pleased him, honored him, exalted him. Whether we labor, we're present or absent, we may be accepted and that word accepted means approved and satisfied by him. There's a divine appointment coming, folks When clear, unmistakable, undeniable, unarguable revelations are going to be made. Not only will he unveil what we've done, but he's carefully going to scrutinize Why we did it. The motive behind it. Why why did we do this? Why? Why do we go to links to Print these things. Pack up a trailer with these things. Travel thousands of miles. Sleeping in different beds, being in different churches. Why Why? That we might please him. He's given us an assignment that we dare not neglect, an opportunity that we must not overlook. And it all starts when you have faith that really works. This is a token. Of our labor of love and our faith that works. What a privilege God has given to us to even be in involved in his work that we could ever do a thing that would please him and honor him. I challenge you folks, that divine appointment is coming when Revelation Are going to be made when unveiling is going to occur and where rewards are going to be dispensed. Don't miss out on what he has for you. Let's stand with our heads bound and our eyes closed