Uh tonight I'm going to be talking about making resolutions. I'm going to give you ten suggestions for rev resolutions. I really am in the evening service. And one of mine is I have an incredible fear of elevators But I'm taking steps to overcome it. So you pray. I'm telling you, I just had to finish out the year with that. So I'd like for us to read together, if you would, verse number eight of Hebrews chapter 11. Hebrews chapter 11, verse number eight. Well just read this one verse together. Everybody have it there ready, all together in unison, verse 8. Here we go. By faith, Abraham When he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for inheritance, obey And he went out, not knowing whither he went. I'll speak this morning on faith in action. Faith in action. Let's pray. Father. Thank you, Lord, for good services this morning. Sunday school was a blessing. The music has been a joy. And Lord, our maybe some of us are a little tired, a week of uh of uh holiday and Christmas and family But Lord, we ask that you would stir our hearts now on this last Sunday of this year. I pray you'd challenge us. I pray you would use your word to strengthen our faith. Lord, help us to understand what faith is. And Lord, what role faith plays and how we can exercise faith. And we want your blessings on us. We want your will to be done in our lives. And in our church. And so, Father, I'm asking you with all my heart to fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you as a vessel in your hands. I yield my will to yours. Lord, if there's anything I jotted down here to say that it wouldn't you would not want me to say, help me to skip it over. Lord, if there's something I did not put down that you need said, I pray you'd put that in my heart and mind and speak it through me. So again, fill me. Speak to our hearts. Help us, I pray, in Jesus' name Amen. Let me ask you a question. Don't answer it out loud, just in your own heart and mind. What do you believe would be the greatest thing that somebody could say about you? Let's suppose it's at the end of your life and they're going to give the your funeral service, a eulogy, or they're going to put uh something on your gravestone. What is it, above everything else, you would like to have said about your life? What statement would characterize that you would like to be truthfully characterize your life? It could be a lot of different things. People have different ideas and and different thoughts on that, no doubt. I believe after nearly 40 years of walking with the Lord, reading the Bible over and over and over, many, many times. I'm convinced that the greatest statement that could be made about a person is this. He pleased God. He pleased God. I think the greatest statement that could be made about a mother, a mother, is that she pleased God. Would a child say of their mother, my mother pleased God? I think that's a tremendous statement. A father. My father pleased God. I think the greatest statement that could be made about a wife, she pleased God. Or about a husband He pleased God with his life. I really believe that's the greatest statement. That statement, I think, is the greatest statement that could be made about a child. I wonder how many parents could say about a child, my child, they're living their life, they are pleasing God with their life. Or about a teenager. I wonder if God could honestly say about a teenager's life, any particular teenager, they are pleasing God, pleasing God. I don't think the greatest statement that could be made about someone is necessarily that uh they were the richest man around They made the most money. They put a million dollars up in savings. That's not the greatest statement that could be made about a person. What's the greatest statement that could be made about a Sunday school teacher? What do you think? They pleased God. They pleased God about a bus worker. How about this? Let me bring it home. Let me put it in my shoes. What's the greatest statement that could be made about a preacher? A pastor of a church? Oh, he had the biggest church in the county They had the greatest budget. They had the most ministries. They ran more buses than anybody else. They built great buildings. No, that's not the greatest thing that can be made about a preacher or a pastor. The greatest statement that can be made about a preacher or a pastor is this. He pleased God. He pleased God. What about a missionary? We've got 80-some missionaries scattered around the world. I thank God for that. That's God's doing. And the support that goes out. We read about Joy Weston this morning. What a, boy, you ought to read about Joy Weston. You ought to get to know Joy Weston. What an amazing woman of God. The greatest statement can be made about a missionary is, boy, he won millions to the Lord in his country, and he did a great work. Those are all wonderful, but that's not the greatest statement. The greatest statement is he pleased God Fact is, there are some missionaries in parts of the world that have a handful of people, have given their lives, served the Lord, are pleasing God just as much as the guy that has a big 5,000 people coming out. Some poor man working in a little factory or a scratching a living out of a farm on some side hill in West Virginia. Can please God doesn't have to be a millionaire, doesn't have to be highly educated, doesn't have to be the richest, doesn't have to be the most popular. Some kid in a in so Southern School or um let's see, what's that other one on the other end of the county that's uh I forg I forget the name of it Some kid in school might not be the most popular. In fact, nobody might know anything about him. But they can have the greatest thing in the world said about them. They pleased God. They pleased God. Revelation chapter 4 and verse number 11 says this: Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power. Listen to this For thou hast created all things. How many people believe that? That would be where you say Amen. How many people believe that? Amen. God created all things. Listen, don't believe this lie that we evolved from an amoeba. That is the stupidest thing that has ever been believed by anybody. And that's where I would say amen, right there. God has created all things. Now listen to this. For thou hast created all things, listen to this, for thy pleasure. They are and were created. I take from that and other passages, and one we're going to look at here in a little bit, the greatest thing that can possibly be said about a person. Is that they pleased God because that is what we are created to do God did not create us to be millionaires. Now, if God blesses you and you're a millionaire, I hope you tithe. But um And give the missions. But that's not what we were created to do. Now, if God blesses, and that's God's plan or whatever for your life, use it to please God. That word pleasure there, for thy pleasure, they are and were created. That word pleasure there has this idea for his desired plans and purposes. God has created each of us as individuals for a very specific plan and purpose for each of our lives. You may not have been aware of this, but God has a plan for your life. God has a purpose For your life. Doesn't matter what your background is, doesn't matter what your social standing is, doesn't matter what your financial status is, doesn't matter what your educational level is God has created you for a plan and a purpose. Your life has meaning. Has meaning to God. God is pleased when we carry that out. Our life brings pleasure to Him. Our life fulfills that purpose and that plan So I come back again, the greatest statement that could possibly be made is that he pleased God. He pleased God. We were created for God's pleasure, for God's purpose. Now, having said all that and trying to establish that fact, that the greatest thing could be said about you or I Is that our lives are pleasing to God? We are pleasing God. A key factor in pleasing God Is a simple little little word. We sing a lot about. We read a lot about it in the Bible. It's this. Faith. Faith. Look with me if you would at verse 6 of Hebrews chapter 11. Now I don't know if you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible or highlighting. I like it. I like to take notes. I like to put things down to help me uh read and study and understand the Bible. I have verse six underscored. Says this, but without faith It is impossible to what? Please him thou faith. It is impossible To please him. For he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. I cannot please God. And the greatest thing I can do with my life is to please God. And I cannot do that without faith. Without faith. A teenager cannot please God. Without exercising faith in God. A preacher cannot please God unless without exercising faith in God. A husband, a wife, a child, Sunday school teacher Politician cannot please God without faith in God. Would you read that with me again, that first phrase there in verse 6? Read it with me. But without faith, it is impossible to please him. To please him. Um it is a faith uh fulfills God's plan and God's purpose. When I exercise faith in God, and I'm fulfilling and I'm pleasing Him, that means I'm carrying out His plan and His purpose for my life Let's go back in time to the first man and first woman. Adam and Eve. By the way, they were actual, real, literal human beings. Amen. Don't listen to this lies of this world. The Bible's true. Either the Bible's true or it isn't. That was a real weak amen. I'm going to park it here for a little bit. Listen, you get lots shorter sermons if you just agree with me more. So what I'm saying is long sermons are your fault. Adam and Eve Literal human beings created literally from the dust of the earth by God breathed into their nostrils the breath of life. They became a living soul. And thank you. One of the New Year's resolution I just added a new New Year's resolution to my message tonight, saying Amen when the preacher wants you to is a good one. The purpose God created, Adam and Eve, was for their lives to please Him. To fulfill the plans and the purposes that he desired for them. And God created them. Now get this. This I believe is important. God created them to live by faith, not by sight And what did Satan do? Satan showed up in the form of a serpent. He was subtle. He beguiled Eve into not exercising faith in God. But to lean on our own understanding and to make a decision based upon sight rather than based upon faith and what God had said. You follow what I'm saying? The whole setup, the whole design, they were designed and the whole program put together, the whole, let me put it this way, the whole factory was built to operate by faith. Trusting what God said, believing what God said, and then acting upon what God had said. And sin came into the world when they operated by sight rather than by faith, simply operating on what God had said leaning on their own understanding, going by sight and believing what someone else had said, and it threw the whole machinery out of whack. And here we are several thousand years later and we're still having to deal with sin. in the world. So faith is necessary if I'm going to please God. If I'm going to please God. Hebrews chapter 11, tremendous, tremendous chapter in the Bible. I think every Christian, you've been saved any length of time, you ought to get familiar with Hebrews chapter 11. A lot of people, some people refer to Hebrews chapter 11 as God's Hall of Fame. Ever hear of a hall they have a football hall of fame? They have uh we were down in St. Peter's, St. Augustine, Florida a year or so ago on our anniversary, they'd uh they have a golfing hall of fame. Down there. There's all kinds of Hall of Fame. They say Hebrews chapter 11 is God's Hall of Fame. I don't call it God's Hall of Fame. I call it God's Hall of Faith. Faith. Where here we have listed for us numerous men and women who lived by faith. Who acted, made decisions, behaved, lived their lives based upon faith in God. And in so doing, we have a list of men and women, get this, that pleased God. They pleased God because they lived by faith. I don't know about you. And I believe I'm sincere when I say that. I certainly hope so. God knows my heart. I want my life to please God. Anybody else feel that way? How many people here say that's my sincere desire, but I feel like I fall short of that so often. I said this often. The person in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that disappoints me the most is the guy that stands behind this pulpit. The guy that's preaching to you right now, myself. And I want to please God with my life. And if I'm going to please God, and if you're going to please God with our life, we have got to learn to live by what? Faith. Faith. Faith in God. Now here's my outline I'll give to you. Number one, I want us to consider the definition of faith. The definition of faith. Here's the question. And I think a lot of us, we think we understand the definition of faith. Somebody asks us, what is faith? Well, and we'll give some definition. Here's mine. What is faith? And I've looked up the word, how it's used, the literal definition, how it's used in Scripture, other places. I've come to this definition of faith. Faith is a belief. Now hear me out. Before you react to what I say, hear me out. Faith is a belief that something is true. A statement is made, and I believe that statement is true. For instance, God says to Adam, you can eat any of this, any of the fruit of this garden I've created here. It's all yours. Hundreds, maybe tens of thousands of various kinds of fruit. You can eat any of it. It's yours for the taking. Yours for your enjoyment However, this one tree here, tree of knowledge of good and evil, you must not eat of that. You are forbidden to eat from that. And the day you eat thereof, You will die. So there's the statement. God made that statement to Adam and Eve. Boo! Adam and Eve believe that that statement is true. That would be faith. I believe that what God said, if I eat from that tree. We will die. Faith is believing that a statement is true. Let me add to that. It's actually a little more than that. Faith, by some definitions, is a strong conviction. That a statement is true. It's one thing to say, yeah, yeah, that's probably true. That's probably true. It's another thing to say, hey, there's no doubt in my mind, that statement is absolutely true. There's a strong conviction. Bank I call the bank, say, what's my balance? They say you've got $7. 93. That's a strong conviction. That is true. That's all that's in there. So faith is believing that a statement is true. Faith is having a very strong position. I am absolutely convinced That statement is true. However, there's more to faith than that. What am I missing in my definition? I'm missing a key element in my definition of faith. I'm believing very strongly a statement is true. But what am I missing? Somebody help me. Action? Or how about this? There's a step before that, at least in my definition Is trusting in that. Putting my confidence in that. Uh faith And I I use this, I I do this, I overdo this, I know, but it's such a, in my mind, such a clear illustration of what I'm trying to say. Faith is standing at a Gate to enter a plane. I see planes flying all over, I know people that have flown. And I have a strong conviction, I am absolutely convinced, that that plane and that the airport in Pittsburgh. And the other end of this little walkway, that plane there, that plane can, and if I get on it, it will fly me to Charleston, South Carolina. I believe that. I'm absolutely convinced of that. And somebody says, Do you really believe? Yes, I'm convinced that plane can do that. I'm convinced that plane would do that. That's still not having faith in that plane. I'm believing that plane can do what it says, what it claims it can do. But I'm not trusting it yet, am I? I'm trusting it when I what? When I get on it, strap down, let that thing fly me down there. So faith is what Sandy and Brian were saying there, faith is believing something is true and then trusting it by my actions. Faith is belief in action. Faith is a strong conviction in action. Faith puts confidence in what it believes to be true. Everyone has faith. We had a fellow years ago, I just thought of this. We had a fellow, this was a long time ago, 20 years ago probably. And he'd come Sunday nights. He came with a lady. He'd come Sunday nights. That was all he came, Sunday nights. Unsaved. He didn't deny it. He admitted he was not saved. But he came to church. He listened intently. And just about every invitation, he would respond to invitation. Always sat over here, he'd come up. And one of our men, who's with the Lord now, Marvin, would come with him and sit up there, and Marvin talked to that guy and talked to that guy and talk and he would not get saved and would not get saved and would not get saved. One Sunday night he came, he came forward, we went back in the counseling room. I mean they were back there, it was a half hour, 45 minutes, may have been an hour after everybody's gone. I'm staying back there, I'm starving to death And he comes out and I said, Did you get saved? And he says, Nope. I said, Listen, what's the problem? I said, Well why why can't you settle this? And he made this fame. He says, I don't have any faith. I said, that's a lie. That's not true. You do have faith. I said, do you have some money in the bank? He says, yes. Do you feel like it's secure there and nobody's going to spend it? Nobody's going to take it? He goes, yes. I said, you have faith in that bank I said, did you drive here? He said, yes. I said, did you get down and check the brakes and go over the whole engine before you came, make sure the brake line, or did you just get in and drive here? He said, I just got in and drive here. I said, you exercise faith That your vehicle would perform as it's designed to perform. See, nobody in the world, nobody in the world doesn't have faith. Everybody has faith. Uh our teams left early Thursday morning, went down to North Carolina to a conference down there. They had a fantastic time. They're on testimonies tonight. We trust life life-changing decisions were made. And Thursday morning they hopped into our new bus. Beautiful new bus. And they went down and they had absolute faith that that bus would make it. The bus would run down there. Now we have another bus back there. We would not have faith in that bus at all. But this one we did. People have faith. They have faith in our vehicle. We have faith that the bank is secure. So faith is believing something is true, being convinced it's true, and then acting upon that, trusting that truth and acting upon it. Believing that bus is safe, it'll get us down there. Get piling on that thing and driving down there. Everybody has some sort of faith. So let's bring in the subject of salvation. We are saved by faith. But it's not just faith in and of itself. It's not the existence of faith that saves us. I had a lady She was out uh off of, I think it was Foster Road, years ago, I was knocking on doors. I said I asked her, I said, uh, you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? She goes, Oh yeah, absolutely. I said, How do you know? She goes, I have faith I said, that's wonderful. Faith in what? And she goes, well, she thought for a minute, and uh I don't think she'd ever been asked that before. She just thought for a minute. She goes, Well, I have faith in my faith. It's not the existence of faith that gets us to heaven. It's not the existence of faith that takes away our sin. And let me throw this out: it's not even the amount of faith that I have that saves my soul. I may just have a little. I mean I believe that's true, but my belief isn't that strong It's not the amount of faith, it's not the strength of my faith, it's not even the existence of my faith that saves me. It is the object of my faith that saves me. What do I believe is true? What am I trusting in? The Bible says, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him. believes that he's the Son of God, is convinced that he died on that cross for me personally, was buried and rose again. Convinced that he is a loving and forgiving Savior, convinced that if I trust Him and act upon what I know is true and rely upon Him, that He will forgive me and save me And eventually take me to heaven. It's the object of my faith. So faith is Believing, being convinced that something is true, and then trusting it by acting upon it Hebrews chapter 11 is a list of men and women who were convinced that what God said to them was true and they acted on it. Look at verse number seven By faith, Noah, being warned of God, there's the statement, not seen as yet. He just has to take God's word for it. That there's a flood coming. God's going to judge this world. God makes a statement, he is absolutely convinced of it, and then he's moved with fear. And what's he do? He prepared an ark. He acted upon the statement God made that he was convinced was true, by the which he condemned the world and being become became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. All through here, by faith, by faith, by faith, by faith. In each case, God gave instructions or some promise that was believed and acted upon Some in extraordinary ways. So faith begins with the Word of God. I must know what God has said if I'm going to believe it. I must know what God expects of me if I'm going to obey Him. Right? I can't obey God in something I don't know what it is. And so God makes a statement to me. He tells me what his will is, he tells me what his plan and purpose is. He tells me what his quote-unquote pleasure is for my life. I believe that's true, and I step out and act on that. I step down and act on that. Look at verse 8. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place when he should after receive an inheritance, obeyed. Abraham, God spoke to Abraham. Abraham, I am calling you to leave your home or the Chaldees and go to a land that you don't know where it is. You follow me, and I want you to pack up, I want you to leave. And Abraham, by faith, I believe that what God is saying is what I should do. And he packed up his stuff, got his family, and left. He obeyed. He obeyed. I put this down. Faith produces obedience. If God instructs me to do something, I'm convinced that that's what God says is true. And I act upon that. I trust that, yes, this is God's will for my life, and then I step out and I obey those instructions. Faith without obedience is not faith. I know I'm giving, you know, I hope you're following with me, sticking with me here. But if I claim to have faith, but I'm not obeying what God says That is not faith. Because faith trusts what is said and acts upon it. i if I'm gonna get to in a couple of weeks I have to go to South Carolina to Charleston and and uh so if I I can believe all I want that that plane's gonna fly me down there but until I obey the ticket and do what needs to be done and get on that plane. I ain't never gonna make it. Until I exercise faith. Faith obeys. Faith gets on. When God says, Alright, I'm calling you out of this place to another place, faith says, Alright, I'm leaving. Because faith without obedience is dead. I can say I believe something till I'm blue in the face. I can say I believe God's word till I'm blue in the face. But until I act upon and follow and trust God and do what He says. It's not faith. It's not pleasing God. I'm leaning on my own understanding. I'm doing what I think is best. I'm doing what I think is right. I'm reacting the way I want to. Galatians chapter 5 calls that the works of the flesh. And it produces frustration, it produces anger, it produces bitterness, it produces unforgiveness, vexation of spirit. But when I trust God and I say, God, you instruct me to do this. I believe that's true. I trust you. And I act on that. And I obey what He says. That's faith. That pleases God and it bears fruit in my life. Faith produces obedience. Faith without obedience is not faith. James put it this way: faith without works is what? Dead. That's not faith at all. Faith that says I believe this statement, but doesn't trust and obey that statement is not faith in that statement. Faith produces obedience that originates from within the heart. Let me ask you this. How many people are sticking with me here? All right? Alright, about a third. That's not bad. Let me ask you a question. Is it possible to obey someone without trusting them? Is it possible to obey someone with no faith in that person at all? You know what? One of those instances would be called slavery. Right? That person, that slave, may hate that person. I don't trust a word they say, but if I don't obey them, I get the living daylights beaten out of me Right? Um uh robots. I am programmed to obey. My little granddaughter was here this week. I was a robot. It was great. And uh she goes, You're a robot, Pat. Alright, I'm very robot. And and I did this. This has nothing to do with the message whatsoever, but I am programmed to hug little grandbabies. Mm-mm-mm-mm. We're not robots. A robot will do what it's programmed to do with no faith, no awareness, or anything. God did not create robots Now this is just an aside. I just want to take a slap at this. Calvinists are wrong when they say everything is predetermined before the foundation of the world. God has given us a free will. I can choose of my own free will whether I'm going to trust God and have faith in Him and follow His instructions, or I lean in my own understanding. Faith The obedience that faith produces is obedience from the heart. Let me come back to my airplane. I'm not being forced into that plane like a prisoner that they're transporting somewhere, and whether I want to or not, I don't try to get in through another one. No. Faith, the obedience that faith produces says, you know, I have complete confidence and in my own free will. I am choosing to get on this thing and I am trusting it from my heart. I've been told by a Sunday school teacher and my father and other Christians for 19 years of my life that Jesus would forgive me and save me if I would call on him and trust him. On May 7, 1979, I knelt by my bed, and of my own free will, from my heart, I believed that that was true, and I called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior and forgive my sin and change my life. And he did it. Faith comes from the heart. It's a decision from the heart. It's not coerced. It's not external motivation. So that's my definition of faith. I believe that what God says is true. I believe that what God tells me in this book is true. I believe That's how God tells me I'm supposed to respond to situations. I believe that what God warns me about, the sins that God warns me about, I believe those statements are all true. I'm convinced they're true And I'm going to trust them and I'm going to respond to that. I'm going to act accordingly. And when somebody does something to me I don't like, I see what God says. I believe that's true. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to respond the way God tells me to respond, not the way I think I should. God says that that that that activity is sin. It's going to hurt you. It displeases me. It's abomination. And I'm convinced that what God says is true, and I believe that what He says is true, and I trust in and I act accordingly and say, No, I will not engage in that. By faith. Not leaning on my own understanding. My own understanding says, I don't see nothing wrong with that. I tell you one thing, as a preacher, you have people come up to you, preacher, tell me what's wrong with this. Tell me what's right about it. Guys aren't supposed to have long hair. Preacher, what's long hair? I say, anything that's not short. Faith says what God warns me about, I'm convinced that God is right and it's true. I'm going to trust him I'm not going to get involved and I'm the steat, I'm going to stay away from that. God says, listen, if you engage in this, if you do this and act this way That's the best thing, that's the right thing, your blessing, your peace, your joy, you'll please me. I believe that's true. I'm convinced it's true. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to act that way that God instructs me to act. It's faith. So what's the display of faith? Well, Abraham, we have it all through the book of chapter 11 of Hebrews here, but Abraham stands out in my devotions a couple weeks ago. Man, this stood out to me. And I just have a couple minutes. Let me give you how Abraham displayed his faith in God. Number one, I put this down. It was prompt obedience. Look at verse 8 with me. By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out Come down. He obeyed and he went out. There's a key word there. It says when he was called to go out. At the moment of his call, he obeyed and went out. Now, you study Abraham's life, he had some lapses of faith. There's no doubt about that. We see them clearly in Genesis. However, when he knew what God wanted him to do, he obeyed promptly. He obeyed immediately. I read my Bible and God tells me something. We're going to have baptism here in a little bit. I remember when uh I first got saved, nobody told me about baptism, nobody said anything about making it public and And identifying as a disciple by following the Lord in deep water baptism. Nobody taught me that. Nobody said that to me. And I was reading my Bible and studying. I came across in Mark where Jesus was baptized, and John the Baptist was baptizing. And the Spirit of God spoke to my heart and said, Dennis, you've been saved, you must be baptized. To have a testimony of a disciple. I said, well that's what I need to do. How many people remember that new sincere faith when you first got saved? No arguing, no negatiating. Oh what will people think? Well it's going to cost me this. Well, what do I do? Then it was just, God said it, that settles it. So I went to church, told the preacher, I need to get baptized. He goes, all right, they baptized me. I look back now and I thought, why didn't you guys tell me right when I got saved I should be baptized? So Abraham, when he was called to go out, went I like in Genesis 22, God spoke to Abraham. Listen to this. This is mind-boggling. God says, Abraham, I want to take your son, your only son whom you love. Take them up on the mountain, and I want you to kill them and offer them as a sacrifice. Now you're kidding. That flies in the face of who and what you are. It violates your law. I mean, there's so many things about that that from a human perspective are too much. You're asking too much of this to offer my son, my only son. Yet you study Genesis 22 very carefully. You know what Abraham did? Next morning, he's up and he's making his way to the mountain. No record of hesitation, no record of debate, no record of negotiating. God said it. Abraham believed God. And he did what God said. And we'll find out later on in Hebrews here, he was trusting God that if he did what God said, God would raise up his son. From the dead, because the promised seed was through that son. You talk about faith in God that's willing to do whatever God says, regardless of outward circumstances, and doing it immediately. Prompt obedience. Delayed obedience is disobedience. How many of you ever told your kids, get in there and clean your room? I think some of you parents need to clean your room. Get in there and clean your room. An hour later you come back and they're still playing with their Hot Wheels. Did they obey you? I'm gonna. No, delayed obedience is what? Disobedience. God tells us to do something. God says something, and we put it off, and we put it off and we put it off. All we're doing is disobeying God. I'm talking to some people. I have no doubt. I don't know anybody in particular, so this being you and God. But I have no doubt I'm talking to some folks that God's been dealing with your heart a long time about some area of your Christian life where you just need to trust Him. And you've been putting that off and putting that off and putting that off and all you're doing, listen to me, all you're doing is living in disobedience. Faith obeys promptly. What about Jonah? Jonah, God told him, go to Nineveh. Where do you go? Went down to Tarsus. He went the other direction. Finally, God chastens him and He ends up getting swallowed by a whale and that whole thing. We all know that story. Finally, he shows up in Nineveh where he was supposed to go immediately. And he's at least three days later than what he would have been if he just went, right? Because he's three days and three nights in the whale. So however much other time transpired, so at least three days, maybe five, ten, maybe a month. He shows up later than what he would have been if he'd just trusted God and obeyed immediately. Let me ask you a question. Nineveh is a city of maybe a million people. In a city of a million people, how many people die in three, five, ten days' time? Hundreds? Eventually, when he did show up, the whole city got saved. You know what that tells me? There was a heap of people that died and went to hell. Because Jonah delayed his obedience to God. There's a fellow in Indianapolis one Sunday night told this before and an older fellow. He's at the altar sobbing. He's a very dignified man, fairly wealthy. He's sobbing. I mean so out of character. Went beside him, put my arm around, said, can I pray with you? What's going on? We slobbered around a little bit and finally got his composure together. He said, God called me to be a preacher when I was a teenager. I put that off and I put that off and I put that off. Now I'm an old man. Listen to this. And I've wasted my life. Delayed obedience. Delayed obedience. Faith says, God said it, I'm going to obey God. No, no, trust God. It's prompt obedience. I put this down. It's precise obedience. It says when he was called to go out, come down to the bottom of the verse, he went out. He did exactly what God told him to do. Now there were some struggles along the way, but I'm convinced that one of the biggest problems in our Christian lives is partial obedience. I'll tell you what's killing our churches is partial obedience. I'll do what God tells me to do as long as I agree with it. I'll do what God tells me to do as long as it's easy. If I don't like it, or it's hard, or I have to change my schedule, or it costs me something. I'm not interested in total obedience, not precise obedience. I call it sloppy obedience. And it's killing us. It's killing us. Choosing what I will obey and not obey Is disobedience. What about Cain? Remember Cain and Abel? They were clearly instructed by God to bring a sacrifice It's implied very clearly and very strongly that sacrifice was to be a blood sacrifice. Without the shedding of blood, there's no remission of sins. Abel did exactly precisely what God said, brought a blood sacrifice. Cain, he did what God said. Partially, he brought a sacrifice, but it wasn't precisely exactly what God said. He brought grain, a bloodless sacrifice. God says, I don't have any respect for that sacrifice. It's not precise obedience. Abel said, God said, we're supposed to bring blood sacrifice. I'm going to obey that. I'm going to do it exactly as God says. Cain says, I'm going to modify that to fit my lifestyle. I'm going to obey God, but I'm going to do it my way. I know what His Word said, I know what He told us, but And it cost them dearly. I thought about King Saul. There's examples throughout Scripture. And then it's pure obedience. Not knowing whether he went. I'm telling you, Abraham displayed pure faith. He trusted God. He had no clue where he was going. But God said, pack up, let's go. He packed up and went. No idea where he's going. That would be in to some extent blind faith. Now, it's not baseless faith. His faith was in God's word, but he had no idea where that was leading him. Bible College, kids would kneel at an altar at our great missions conference down there at Highland Park. Great missions conference. And they'd make this prayer, college students. They'd pray, Lord, I know you're calling me, I don't know where. Listen to this. But wherever you call me to, I am willing to go. Now that's blind faith, but it's not baseless faith. You follow my thinking? It's grounded in the Word of God. It's grounded in a call from Scripture to go take the gospel and all the world. But I don't know where. And so I'm going to trust God and let Him lead me and direct me. That is pure faith. That is pure obedience. How many of you said to your kids, do this? They said, Why? What was your answer? Because I said so. Because I'm your dad. And not only that, you're going to get you're going to get a timeout. I'm telling you when I was a kid I wish they had timeouts. We didn't get no timeout So Abraham went out. Noah built an ark. Never rained, never flooded. What in the world's an ark? Just, alright, God said, alright, kids, hey boys, we're going to build an ark. What's an ark? It's a gigantic ship. Why? Because it's going to rain. What's rain? I don't know. What's a flood? I don't know. Why are we doing it? Because God said so. Okay And last of all, it's persistence obedience. And you followed through Abraham's life. He had some downtimes, there's no doubt. But his entire life was characterized by trusting, by trusting, by trusting, by faith in God. I would think Abraham's theme song would be this, When we walk with the Lord. In the light of his word, what a glory he sheds on our way, while we do his good will and abide with him still. What's the next one? Who, if we trust and obey, trust and obey, for there's no other way to be happy in Jesus. But to what? Trust and obey. That's Abraham's song. What is God telling you to do? Where's God been working on your heart? Is there somebody here, the Spirit of God from the Word of God, has been saying, you need to get saved, you need to get saved, you need to get saved. Why don't you trust God? Act on that, trust Christ, get saved. Have you been saved, but you've not been baptized? That's clear instruction. After we get saved, the next step is to follow Lord and believers baptism. Come out, identify as a disciple of Christ. If you've been saved, you've not been baptized. Why don't you do what God says? Trust them. Uh I put a list down here, church attendance Maybe there's some sin God's dealing with your heart. You know it's wrong. Why don't you say I'm going to stop that? I'm going to start behaving and talking and acting the way God tells me to. I'm going to trust Him. I'm going to have faith. Forgive somebody. Get involved in a ministry. Get involved in soul winning. Trust them and obey them. How do people recognize the name Cori Tenboom? I end with this. Corey Tenboom. She was held in Nazi prison camp. I forget which one it was. Horrific. But she was a believer. Her and her family were believers. She came out of that with a phenomenal testimony, and she had a profound impact in Europe, Germany in particular, but throughout the world really She made this statement. I tell you, when she makes a statement, I listen to what she has to say. She made this statement. She goes, I have learned. To hold the things of this world very loosely in my hand, so that when God wants it, he does not have to pry my fingers open. You know what she's saying? I've learned to trust God and obey Him. To put my faith in action. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray maybe you'd use some of these thoughts this morning to challenge us this coming year to live by faith. And to understand your will from your word, and then trust you and respond to that in obedience, and please you with our lives. Please you with our faith and obedience. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, pray chair, God's Holy Spirit has spoken to me as a believer. God's Holy Spirit has spoken to me in some specific areas. That God has spoken, God has addressed, and I need to address in faith, trusting him and obeying him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God's Holy Spirit has spoken in my heart in some very specific areas. That I know is his will. I believe it's true, and I'm going to run any other's uplifted hand. How about it? All around. God bless you. God bless you. My exhortation to you is trust him, obey him, do what he says. It's always best. It'll please him. So some here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure. My sins are beginning. I always go to heaven. I never trusted Christ. I know that's his will. I know I need to do that. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. That I make that decision to trust them and obey them and accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Jesus said, ye must be born again. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not saved. And I need to settle that. I need to get that settled. Any at all by the uplifted hand? Let me ask one more. Is there some here this morning say there's some area of Christian service? Some area in my Christian life that God's been dealing with my heart about getting involved in, maybe soul-winning, maybe whatever. But I want to serve God with my life. I want my life to count for the gospel. And you say, preacher, pray with me. God's deal with my heart about serving him with my life. Any uh any by the uplifted hand, in any capacity, God bless you, hands around. God does that. He call he calls us to serve, he wants us to serve him Father in heaven, bless our invitation time now. I trust you've spoken to our hearts from your word. Help us to trust you now and to respond in faith. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.