Service. God bless you, Chester. Been out here and been well. And uh we're glad he's back in the service. Verse number four, first John chapter five. Would you read that Together with me in unison. Ready? For whatsoever is overcometh the world. And this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith. I want to speak this morning on the faith. Faith that overcomes. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for a good service. God, my heart's stirred. And um, we're grateful for the fellowship we've had. And now as we look into your word, Lord, I just pray and ask that you would open our hearts and minds to the truths that these passages have for us. God, I pray you'd take the statements, the principles given here, and that your Holy Spirit would apply them to our lives as you know we have need. God, you know us better than we do. So we're opening ourselves up to you, Lord. We're yielding ourselves to you and praying that you would lead and direct us, challenge, encourage, change us, God, into the people you would have us to be. Lord, I cannot do this. There's nothing in and of myself that could possibly bring about a spiritual change or any spiritual improvement in any way. So God, it has to be you And with that in mind, I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew. Fill me, I plead with you, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me. And have your way in each of our lives. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. I feel like the monitors might be a little strong up here, guys, if you could Well, it's uh All-American Sunday. It's our nation's 235th birthday. I thought, what would I speak on this morning? I thought I could speak this morning on the greatness of the United States of America. We have a great history. Our country does We have great forefathers who, in many cases, love God dearly and were very devout, committed Christians. We can speak on the greatness of our country, our great history, our great forefathers. We could speak this morning on the great the great form of government that the United States has. And I am I'm for one convinced that uh uh as much as humans can do, our form of government is the best form in existence. I don't think man can come up with a better form of government than the form the United States of America has We can speak about the great resources of the United States of America. God has blessed our land with tremendous natural resources. We could speak of that. We could speak of the great churches and missionary outreach of our history, of our country, throughout the life of our country. Great churches that had profound impact on our world. The great missionary movements that has gone out of the United States, all around the world, planting churches, translating scriptures into the language of the world. We can speak about the great freedoms. that we have in the United States of America. We can say what we want, but there's no doubt about it, this is still the freest land in the world. Still freest citizens of any country in this world. And so we could talk about the greatness of the United States of America. I'll not do that this morning. I thought we could speak about the deterioration. Of the United States of America. Brother Josh presented very powerfully, very stirring, how our nation is deteriorating spiritually, morally. The integrity of our country is deteriorating. We could talk about how modern Americans are revising our history. Trying to take God and the influence of godly people out of it. Listen, they might not like the fact that Christianity is a powerful factor in the history of our country. They may not like it. That's fine But they do not have the right to rewrite history. They can deni they can uh say they don't like it, they can complain about it, but they do not have the right to lie about it So we can speak about that. We could talk about how corruption is absolutely eating up our government. I believe we have the greatest form of government. And it seems to me we have some of the most corrupt government, uh government uh politicians that we've ever had. So we can talk of that. We can talk about the compromise of the great American values and how uh it is eating away at our country. We can preach about the carnality of the churches in the United States of America I tell you what a grief it is to my heart to see so many churches that are really nothing more than worldly organizations with worldly music, worldly uh values and principles. and uh just the carnality of our churches. We can talk about the decay of our freedoms here in the United States of America. Let me ask you a question. Somebody asked this some time ago When's the last time our government passed a law that gave the citizens of the United States of America more freedom? When's the last time a law was passed when you and I are freer after that law is passed than we were before? It doesn't happen. Our freedoms are being eaten away, eaten away, eaten away, eaten away. And I, for one, feel like there are several solutions. One, I think, is prayer. We've got to pray for our country, as the choir sang But we've got to pray earnestly. I think another solution is we've got to get our lives straightened up. We can sit here and gripe about the sodomites all we want, but if we're not living in submission to God We're still not right with God. We're part of the problem, not the solution. Judgment must begin at the house of God. And number two, and number three, I think we need to speak up. I think God's people ought to write letters to the editor, or to call in, or to speak out, go to I think we ought to vote. I think we ought to vote intelligently. We need to be active. We need to be vocal. We need to be spiritual. So, I'm not going to talk about any of that stuff. I just talked about it. This morning I'm not going to speak of our patriotism, but I do want to address our personal walk with God. I want to address our spiritual condition. And I'm asking God, and I've prayed as I prepared this, that God would do this in my heart and life, and I'm asking God to do this in each of our hearts. to challenge us and expose to our own hearts and minds what our standing with God is as individuals As a Christian, let me ask you this morning: what is your relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ? Do you have one? Is it a healthy relationship What is your spiritual condition this morning? That's the challenge. Abraham Lincoln. During one of the lowest points in the Civil War, wrote in his diary this statement. He said, Without Christ, I cannot succeed. With Christ, I cannot fail. What a great statement. Without Christ, you and I We'll never succeed. As fathers, as mothers, as citizens, as Christians, we need Christ. Without him, we cannot, with him, we cannot fail. Very true, yet very sad, that many Christians, those who have Christ Nevertheless, they are failing in their spiritual life. Their walk with God is neglected. Their walk with God is Anemic, starving spiritually. And that is the tragedy, I'm afraid, of the 2011 Christians in the United States of America Our spiritual well-being. We look at here, what a great book. First John Uh book of 1 John, if you're going to come up with a theme for the book, which is a good thing when you study, is try and guess what's the overall message of the book I think the book of 1 John, the theme is twofold. I think first of all, it deals with love. The word love, loved, or loveth, is used thirty-four times in five chapters So the theme of the book of 1 John is love and also assurance. The word know or knoweth is used 28 times in five chapters So when you think of love and assurance, you think of warm, fuzzy stuff. Right? You think of smooth, kind, uh fuzzy stuff Right? Love and assurance. But then you come to chapter 5, and you get to verse 4 and 5, and you run into this word victory And the word overcometh twice. Those are not warm, fuzzy words. Those are military terms. Those are words of conflict, of opposition, victory, overcoming, an obstacle, an enemy. An adversary. And yes, the Christian life is a life of love. I am glad that God loves me. The Christian life is a life of assurance. I'm glad that I can know that God loves me. I'm glad that I can know that God has forgiven my sins. I can know that when I die, I'm going to heaven and not to hell. I can know that I don't have to hope so. I don't have to wonder. I don't go through life waiting until I stand before God and then I find out if I go to heaven or hell. No, I can know today. My sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. So, the Christian life is a life of experiencing the warm fuzziness of God's love. The Christian life is a life of assurance and confidence. But the Christian life is also a life of conflict. Lifelong conflict. The fact of the matter is, every one of us here this morning Now, by chance, I may be speaking to some folks that you've never been saved. You don't have the assurance your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you're going to heaven. You've never been born into the family of God. But every one of us here, regardless of our spiritual standing, I know this, we are all involved in a spiritual conflict. There is a spiritual warfare going on all around us, and we, whether we like it or not, whether we're aware of it or not, are involved in that spiritual battle. The weak Christian faces spiritual battles. The strong Christian faces spiritual battles. The young Christian, the one that's just recently trusted Christ, been born again, that Christian faces spiritual battles. But let's not forget that old disciple, that Christian that's been saved for years and years and years, been faithful to the Lord, I'm here to tell you that same Christian still faces spiritual battles. It is a lifelong endeavor. The Christian life is a lifelong conflict between heaven and hell, between right and wrong, between God and the devil Between purity and impurity, between obedience and disobedience, between righteousness and unrighteousness, it is a lifelong battle. The difference between a defeated Christian and an overcoming Christian is not that one has spiritual struggles and the other doesn't. They both have spiritual struggles. Somebody says, boy, you know, if I'd just be a Christian for five years, then I wouldn't have all these temptations and these struggles. Brother, you're in for a rude awakening. I remember I got saved when I was nineteen years old, May seventh, nineteen seventy nine, ten thirty at night, right after Laverne and Shirley went off. I like to say that. Um got saved Just a few hours into my salvation, a few days into my salvation, I realized there was a spiritual battle going on I had that old life was calling me. I had something new in my heart and life was was drawing me to Christ and to do right and obey the Bible. I still had an old uh force within me drawing me back to the things of the world and disobedience. And I had this struggle going on. I began to grow, got baptized, and began to grow in my Christian life, dealing with these struggles and fighting. Sometimes I'd win, sometimes I'd lose. And then God was leading me to go off to Bible college. I thought, you know, when I get to Bible college, there won't be any more spiritual battles. We'll study the Bible all day. There'll be Christians all around me. And just be in a Christian environment, I got off to Bible college, and guess what? Spiritual struggles there also I thought I leave Pennsylvania and go down to Tennessee. Uh the devil won't be down there. I'll get away from the devil up here. I'll get down there in Christian college. It won't be devil. I got moved into my room. I found out he was my roommate Finally, after six years of a four year degree, um Graduated. God called me to be a youth pastor. I was going to work in Indianapolis. I thought, you know, I get up there, I'll be pastor dentist. I'll have an office. I get away from all these temptations here. You know, in Bible college, you can it's it's easier to backslide in Bible college than any other place in the world. He's just surrounded by it. But anyway, I thought I'd become pastor. I'll be pastor Dennis. I'll have my own office. I'll leave the devil behind. Temptations. It'll be all victory. I got up there, I found out one of the deacons was the devil. He had moved up there and was what's the deacon? What I'm trying to say is you never get out of this struggle. You never get away from this battle. It is And the difference, you say, well here's a Christian, and boy, they're faithful, and there's the joy of the Lord, and uh they're not defeated by temptations and uh they're happy and they're winning souls and boy they're just their Christian life they've got it together Then here's another one over here, and this guy says, Well man, I'm defeated on this hand and that hand, and I don't have victory, and I'm not faithful like I know I should be in my Bible reading is just not where it ought to be. And I look at myself in the mirror as a Christian and I think I'm a pitiful example of a Christian. Man, why can't I be like him and not have all these struggles and these temptations? I'm here to tell you he has the same ones you do. The difference is this Christian overcomes His battles and his temptation, and this one is come by the temptations And the issues. One is victorious, another is defeated. Not because one does not have the spiritual struggles that the other one does. They both have the spiritual struggles. I don't even know what I'm about to say. Um what's the verse? Uh be uh every man is tempted. Um no be not There's no temptation. Ah! Here we go. You just gotta catch them when they fly by, those thoughts. There is no temptation taking you, but such as is what? Common to man. Said, boy, that guy's never tempted. He must never be tempted to do wrong. Look how faithful he is, look how happy he is, look how what a good Christian is. I'm telling you, there's no temptation taking you but such as is common to man Man, he faces the same temptation as you do. It's just one is a one is an overcomer. Now that's the message. I look at John chapter 5 and verse 4, and I find out how I overcome. Temptation and sin, and I have victory in my Christian life. Now, the first thing I want us to notice in our message, the first point is this: what do we mean by being a defeated Christian? What is a defeated Christian? Let me give you a biblical definition of what a defeated Christian is. There's three aspects of a defeated Christian. Number one A defeated life is a life dominated by the flesh. A life that is dominated by the flesh Now keep your place here. I want you to take your Bibles and turn with me to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5. Just a few pages towards the front of your New Testament, just a few books earlier. Galatians chapter 5 And verse number 19. Galatians 5 and verse 19 down through verse 21, the Bible describes to us a defeated Christian. Somebody whose life is dominated by their flesh. And notice the characteristics of a person who's living their life with the flesh in control. Look what it says. Galatians chapter 5, verse 19. Now the works of the what? Flesh Are these? The works of the flesh are manifest. Which are these? Look at this. Adultery, fornication, which is physical intimacy before or outside of marriage. Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness, lasciviousness is a fancy word. It simply means this: an uncontrolled life. There is no self-control. Whatever I want, I go after it. Whatever impulse comes to my flesh, I pursue it. No self-control. Lasciviousness Idolatry, which is putting anything in the place of God. Witchcraft, hatred, variance is another word for strife or discord. Emulations means intense envy. Wrath, strife, seditions means not getting along with anybody. Heresies, envyings, murders, drunkenness, revelings, just living it up, and such like, of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. If these factors given here, if these things are true in my life, it tells me that my flesh is in control. It is not a victorious Christian whose life is characterized by these types of behavior. It is a defeated Christian. A defeated Christian is a Christian whose flesh, this physical body, controls me. Whatever the body wants, it takes. No restrictions, no principles, no values, no convictions. I just want it. I'm telling you, the flesh is running rampant in the United States of America. Is that list there? Is that not the TV guide list for your average evening shows on television? FLISH A defeated Christian is the Christian whose these types of behavior characterize my life. And let me ask you a question. Ask yourself this question Does any of that sound like my behavior? Any of those things there, is that characteristic? When when the preacher read down through them, did any of those click say, ooh, ooh, ooh Defeated. Defeated. Defeated Christian is a Christian who's dominated by the flesh. Look down at verse 22. But, here's your contrast. The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Such there is no law. There are characteristics of a victorious Christian, a Christian who is overcoming the flesh A Christian who is victorious over the sinful impulses of the flesh. And by the way, there is nothing unmasculine about the fruit of the Spirit. Well I'm a man, that's uh none of that. You're a wimp if you're controlled by the flesh. This world, as Brother Josh touched on in his reading, this world has absolutely turned the truth upside down. And this world has our young people and our adults convinced that that which is right is wrong, that that which is bad is good, that that which is sinful is pure, and that which is pure is sinful. And they've got our young men convinced that if you are a good Christian, that if you live a discipline a life by principle and with conviction and uh principles and purity and righteousness that somehow you're not a real man. The only way you can be a real man is if you drink and smoke and chew and you've got to have a tattoo and you've got to run around with every girl you can get, then you're a man. That is a lie of the devil. Defeated. A defeated life is a life dominated by the flesh. The flesh calls the shots. The flesh is gratified. Not only is a defeated life a life dominated by the flesh, but I put this down. A defeated life is a life disabled by Satan. Again, if you would, take your Bibles, turn to 1 Peter chapter 5. 1 Peter chapter 5, and notice with me verse number 8. Coming back towards 1 John, 1 Peter chapter 5, and verse number 8. Now pay close attention to this verse. This is a very important verse in the Bible. They're all important, but this one is very significant. It's a good verse to highlight or underscore in somewhere in your Bible. Verse 8, 1 Peter 5. Be sober, be vigilant. Now those two words there tell me that I need to take this very seriously. Right? He's introducing something here and he's saying, listen, this is not playing around. Be sober, be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the who? Devil. As a roaring lion walketh about seeking whom he may devour. He's looking for that life he can destroy. He's looking for that Christian, that individual that is not sober, that is not taking life seriously that is just going through, having a big time, they're not very careful about the associates they have, they're not very careful about whether they're living by the principles of the Word of God or not. They're not very vigilant in their uh activities they get engaged uh engaged themselves in. They're not very vigilant about the things they expose their mind to, they are not careful about how they're living their life And brother, there's a roaring lion. The devil out there like a roaring lion is seeking to defeat that life. Take it down. Destroy it. A life dominated by the flesh is a defeated life. A life disabled by Satan is a defeated life. Satan's primary object, I hope you'll get this. Satan's primary object is to keep lost people lost. If you're here this morning, you're in this service, or you're under the sound of my voice, and you've not trusted Christ, you do not have the assurance that your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven, I can tell you what the devil's will is for your life. The devil's will is that you remain in that unsaved condition. The devil will do everything he can To convince you you don't need Christ. The devil will do everything he can to convince you you can get saved at some later time You don't have to deal with it now. It's not that important. You'll have plenty of time later. You really don't need it. You're a pretty decent person, and he will do everything he can to keep you unsaved. Now, what about those of us who know Christ? What about those of us who haven't been born again through faith in Christ? The devil's primary object for us It is to keep us from having any type of positive influence for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. He doesn't care if you're a drunkard or not, as long as you don't be a witness for Christ. He doesn't care if you shoot heroin up in your veins or snort crack cocaine. Devil doesn't want everybody to be a drug addict, but I tell you what he does want. He wants every Christian to not have any positive influence for the gospel. It's all he's concerned about, keeping the lost people lost, and keeping Christians from having any type of positive influence on bringing lost people to Christ. A life dominated by the flesh. A life disabled by Satan. A defeated life is also a life that is dictated by the world Romans chapter 12. We're not too far away. Would you come over to Romans chapter 12? Back towards about the middle of the New Testament, somewhere around there. Romans chapter 12. First two verses, very familiar for many Christians. Romans chapter 12. Look with me if you would at verse 1. The Bible says, I beseech you therefore, brethren. Who's he talking to? Christians, brethren, those who have been saved, born again. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God That ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Now look at this next statement. And be not conformed to this world. That word conform there means to press into the world's image. To take on the world's values, to live for the world's uh riches To let this world dictate what my life is. I am so sick and tired of Hollywood and rock and roll stars. telling our young people what is cool and what is not cool. Who in the world are they to still decide what's in style or what's not in style? Well that's the latest fashion. Who said You know what we're doing? We're letting an ungodly, unbelieving, unbiblical world tell us how we should live our lives. Uh I just thought of this this morning. I put some cologne on this morning. And all God's people said, praise the Lord. But I got thinking about it. Some of these commercials for cologne are absolutely soft core porn. And we got young people out there buying some cologne because some commercials said if you do that, a woman will be fornicacious with you. If you wear that cologne, boy, you're going to be able to engage in adultery and fornication because that cologne will make it happen. That is as ungodly as you can get. I don't wear that cologne simply because it's baloney. I got I'll give you I'll help you save some money Ah, you knew it would be worth it to come to church today. Musk. Hello. Anybody familiar with Musk? Can I tell you how you save a lot of money? Did you know that your dog It does. That's the truth, Brother Kent. If I ever happen to say something's true, I'll point it out. That's the truth. Well you can do is go behind your dog's ear, just rub your thumbs behind his ears, and do that. And you've got musk Praise the Lord, amen. I don't think you're buying that. What I'm trying to say is this Let's stop. Before we just swallow whole and let the world tell us what we should or should not be doing, let's stop and say, what does God have to say about this? The defeated Christian or the victorious Christian. The defeated Christian doesn't face any struggles or temptations or battles, spiritual battles that the victorious one doesn't. They both deal with the same issues. They both deal with the flesh. They both deal with the devil. They both deal with the world. But the defeated Christian is dominated by his flesh, her flesh. What this body wants, it gets. It's disabled by Satan, no witness, no positive influence for Christ. Dictated by the world, whatever the latest fashion is, whatever the latest TV show is, whatever. I I think I think we have gotten a country that is so submissive to Hollywood, if some actor with a boot on his head, that would look cool and all the kids would start wearing boots on their head Huh? Defeated Christian. Now what about a victorious Christian? What about Christian over here, young man, young lady, oh grandma, grandpa, whatever age, whatever, however long they've been saved? What is this victorious Christian? What exactly is a victorious Christian? Come back to 1 John 5 with me if you would First John five, verse four again. For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world. And this is the victory That overcometh the world. Now you could put in there, and I'm not changing scripture. You know what I'm saying here. You could put in there, this is a victory that overcometh the flesh This is a victory that overcometh the devil. This is a victory that overcometh the world, our threefold enemy. The principle applies. This is the victory that overcometh the world, even our what? Faith. Faith. Who is he that overcometh the world? But he that believeth, Jesus is the Son of God. The word overcometh is used twice here in these two verses. I got looking it up. It's a fascinating word. If for a pastor, Brother Ken can testify this. For someone who preaches, words are fascinating things. There are tools. So I got looking up this word overcometh and studying it. It's a fascinating word. It means this, to mightily prevail over. I like this definition. To have complete mastery over something. I have overcome this enemy. I have mightily prevailed over this opposition. I have complete mastery. Over this enemy. To overcome. Jesus said in John chapter 10 and verse 10: I am come that you might have life. That's eternal life. Let's live forever with God in heaven. That's why Jesus came to be our Savior. Save us from sin and hell. Give us eternal life. We can live forever with the Lord in heaven. But he doesn't stop there. He says, I have come that you might have life. That means save from going to hell, go to heaven when you die. But he doesn't stop there. I've come you might have life, and that you might have it. More abundantly. You know what he's talking about? Being a victorious Christian. This world isn't dragging me down The devil isn't messing me up. This flesh isn't calling the shots. I've got the joy of God in my life. I have confidence. There's purity in my heart. My mind is clear. The guilt is gone. I have complete mastery over the world, the flesh, and the devil. I am resisting the devil. I am denying the flesh And I am separated from the world. I am not overcome of my enemy. I have overcome my enemy. And that is not only possible, that is what Christ came to give us. I'm come you might have life, not just be alive. You can be saved and defeated. I'm not come just that you might have life, but that you can have it abundantly. You can be victorious, faithfully walking with God, steadfast in my place, rejoicing in the Lord. In every situation, a person is either defeated or victorious In every stage of life, a person is either defeated or victorious. Who in the world, why in the world has anyone bought into this lie that somehow Christians can't or t teenagers can't be good Christians? I'm so sick of hearing the world say, well, they're just going to do it anyway. No, they're not. They can be victorious. There's no reason in a world a 13-year-old girl or 15-year-old girl eighteen year old boy or girl can't keep themselves pure and be happy in Christ and be a witness and have confidence and peace and uh uh uh direction in their life Why is it a given that teenagers are messed up? That they're going to do all these damaging, self-destructive things You can't stop it. They're going to disobey. They're going to rebel. They're going to fornicate. There's nothing you can do about it. Just facilitate it. By the way, there is no such thing as safe sin. Doesn't matter what stage of life a person is in, that person can have a victorious life. They can be an overcomer. They can have peace in their heart and satisfaction in their life and direction and the joy of the Lord and the presence of God in their life. In every situation, in every stage of life, a person is either defeated or victorious. Now, how do we overcome? How do I avoid being a defeated Christian and I be a victorious Christian? Number one, by faith I rejoice in the goodness of God. By faith, I rejoice in the goodness of God. Listen to Psalm 147, verse 1. Praise ye the Lord. For it is good to sing praises unto our God, for it is pleasant. Praise is comely. That word comely means beautiful, attractive. You know how we have victory over the world, the flesh, and the devil? One of the ways is by faith. I just rejoice in the fact that God is good to me. A grouchy, complaining, ungrateful life is a defeated life. A life that is not grateful for the air it breathes, for the sun that shines, for the rain that falls. A life that is not grateful for the opportunities God has given it, that is a life that is defeated by the world, the flesh, and the devil But by faith I say, you know, it doesn't matter what my circumstances are, God is good. And I'm happy with God, and I rejoice in the Lord, and I'm thankful that He's given me breath to breathe. body to live in. Listen, you start getting mopy dopey and you start getting carnal and out of the way, you know what you ought to do? You ought to go with Brother James down to the nursing home and visit in the nursing home and sing some hymns and songs to those dear people and see what God does and he'll turn your life around. Rejoice by faith, I rejoice in the goodness of God. A contented, grateful, rejoicing heart is a victorious heart. Happy. I am so tired of hearing Americans complain. In fact, I'm tired of complaining about Americans complaining. I just thought of that, Brother Ken. We've got it pretty good. Well, just I got these old fuddy dud parents, Christians. They won't let me smoke pot. You idiot They love you. They want you to they don't want you to destroy your life. They want you to have the joy and blessing of God. Stop complaining about your parents and start thanking God for them. Might turn your life around. Well my kids are all idiots. I agree. Do you know what the Bible says? God says children are an heritage of the Lord. Not there's not a I I doubt there's a very few parents that say, oh yeah, I'm completely thrilled with everything my children are. Very few. I know Joanne doesn't feel that way. Sorry. But you know what? If I want to live victorious, I say I thank God for my kids. God bless me, God trust in me with them. I'm grateful for it. Thank God for. I tell you, your heart would be shattered if they were taken from you. Just quit complaining about them. Now, discipline them when they need it. But be thankful. Be thankful. It's where victory is. By faith, I rejoice in the goodness of God. God's good to me I think of, man, there's just so many illustrations come mine. Anna Nixon Tate, an old black lady down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. She was in the inner city projects. I mean gangs, prostitution. drugs there be literally you can ask my wife about it uh she doesn't make stuff up um but uh literally there was syringes in the streets and I know And this little lady lived there, she had nothing. She'd would been widowed, she was widowed probably four or five times. But she loved God We go in there. I called at the Haven Arrest. I said, Ms. Tate! Oh, Brother Danny! She couldn't hardly see. She didn't have any cell phone Sorry, I can resist And she we go in there and she was just as happy as could be. We're down in Dominican Republic. We had I preached a meeting down there years ago, uh out in Constanza, Dominican Republic, up in the mountains. Folks drove for an hour and a half, two hours in the back of a big old dump truck, kind of like the one Paul used to have years ago, that big old one you had Two hours in the back of a dump truck, 50 people stuffed in that thing over the mountains to come here preaching, hear a preacher for one service. Happy as could be Sing That's victory. Come up to America. Good grief, it's five till twelve. We ain't even done yet That was for Ed. By faith, rejoice in the goodness of God. Number two, by faith rely on the promises of God. The promises in God's word were made by one who cannot lie. Titus 1, 2. God who cannot lie. You open your Bible, you find a promise, and you say, that promise was made to me by the God who cannot lie. That promise is true. I can hold on to it. I can build my life on the promise of God Casting all your care on him, for he careth from you. Seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Give, and it shall be given unto you Promises of God, promise after promise after promise after promise for my life, for my needs, for direction. And God cannot lie. By faith, rely on the promises of God. Man's promises are unreliable. God's promises are infallible. Made by promises are made given to us by the God who cannot lie, by the God who cannot change. The same God that took care of and cared for Noah And Abraham and Joshua and David and Paul and John out on the Isle of Patmos is the same God who cares for you and I. We can trust him. We can rejoice in him. We can take him at his word and live a victorious Christian life. By faith, I rejoice in the goodness of God. By faith, I rely on the promises of God, and last of all, by faith, I recommit myself to the principles of God's word. It is impossible to overcome the world, the flesh, and the devil without commitment to reading, studying, and implementing the Word of God. I'll just be very frank with you. You cannot be a good Christian. You cannot be a victorious Christian. Or if you are not consistently spending time in God's word asking God to speak to you and lead you and direct you in your life. You'll blow it every time. To ignore, neglect, or disobey the principles of Scripture is to lead one to a defeated life. I like boxing. It is it is unchristian It is brutal. It is inhuman. It should be illegal. But until it is, I'm going to watch it every time I can. I like boxing. There is a art to boxing. There is a there's a beauty about it. Either. Not this not this street fighting uh U uh what's it called? U uh yeah garbage Now, I believe you should box in the fruit of the Spirit with love, joy, peace, long suffering. During this time of year on Friday nights, uh ESBN has Friday night fights. I love it. I try to watch it. If we can get out of the deacons meeting a decent time, I This Friday, this past Friday night, it was actually later, and I actually got to see it. Yeah. There was two fellows boxing. It was the main event. Ed and who else? And uh his no, not the deacon's meeting. This was after we're with the Ken shows up and the place falls apart. Uh the one guy's name was um uh Manu Ma started with an M. He was the good guy. He was a boxer. He had the form down. I mean he went by the book. All the fundamentals of boxing. He had his feet squared. I mean he was he was stronger than his opponent. His opponent's name was Lu Luan, L-U-J-A-H or something, Spanish name. Or actually he's from Argentina. Which would be Spanish, right? M Mig Miguel, I think was his name, something like that, was was definitely the boxer of the two. Going in, the announcers, everyone, you could see right the first three couple three rounds, it was a ten round, you could see the couple three rounds, Miguel was going to win. He he knew what he was doing. But Luan, he had a strange style. He just kept coming at him and kept coming at him and kept coming at him. At him. His swings were wide. He left himself wide open. He dropped his hands and left himself wide open. But he just pressed them. Come up here, James. You be the better of the two boxers, okay? Now by by all by anybody's standard Miguel or how I'm getting his name right, uh, should have beaten Luan. First three rounds he just but this is what Luan did. He was just in his face the whole time, just pushing Push him around and put your things up there like your boxing being. But no matter what he did, I mean, it was relentless He had him all around that ring, just constantly coming at him. Now you be a little submissive to me. And uh he just had him gone and had him gone and had him gone And no matter what Miguel would do back, he just kept coming at him and kept coming at him and kept coming at him. And lo and behold, about the fourth round, he catches a lucky hit. And Miguel goes down But being the good fighter he was, he got back up. The bell rang. We got into about the fifth or sixth round. Same thing. He's just Adam and Adam. His box is his boxes He's swinging wide, he's not hitting much, but he's just on him constantly all over that ring and just going at it and going at it. And about the fifth or sixth round, Luan gets another lucky shot. Boom! He goes down But being the experienced the good boxer he is, he got back up again. And about the sixth round, I'm sitting there and watching I'm thinking The guy that's The guy that's supposed to win this is losing. The better boxer is losing And about the s I don't remember, seventh, maybe eighth round, he finally clobbered him one last time. Got a lucky shot. He just pushed him around and on him and on him and on him On him and on him, no matter what he did, he was on him, on him, and on him. And about the eighth round, boom, and he went down, he stayed down. You don't have to do it. Go ahead. And the announcer made this statement. This is why I'm doing all this. Said, the better boxer lost tonight. The inferior boxer won. And he said the reason he won was he would not quit. And he made this, he used this illustration. He said he's like the tide of the ocean. He just keeps coming in, he keeps coming in, he keeps coming in. It keeps coming in. I went to bed. It was late till I got to bed. My wife is bed. I woke her up. And that started round two. But I said I learned something about the Christian life tonight. I learned you don't quit. Listen, you and I are no match against the devil. You and I go head to head the devil, we're going to lose every time. We're no match against the world. Hey, I'm telling you, this old flesh, it's going to dominate us. Well what do we do? I just decide. By faith, I'm going to rejoice in God, and I'm just going to keep on rejoicing and keep on rejoicing and keep on rejoicing. and rejoicing and the devil and the world and this flesh will throw garbage at me and I'm just going to keep on praising God. You know what we're commanded to do in the Bible more than anything? Read the last half of the book of Psalms. Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye the L Lord, you go to work, the boss says, We're shutting down, you lost your job. Praise the Lord. Good home Kids got kicked out of school or got in a fight. Praise the Lord. Just praise God and just keep going at it and going at it and going at it and going at it Keep on by faith just uh claiming God's promises. Lord, you said if I seek you first, you'll pro you'll all these things will be added to me, but I'm still getting bills. Well you just keep seeking him first. And the world throws this, and the devil thinks, and you just keep seeking him first and just keep seeking him first and keep seeking him first. You know what? One of these times that old world's going to come down and you'll overcome it. One of these days that old flesh is going to break down and you'll overcome it. One of these days that old devil will break down. You just keep resisting him and resisting him and resisting him and resisting him and resisting him You can be an overcomer. Just like the tide. Just keep coming back. Keep coming back. Keep coming back. See, I tried reading my Bible and I just got out of it. Then start again. Well, I was going to read my Bible. Then start again. I missed yesterday. Well then read it today. Just stay at it and stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. I went to church last week, didn't do me any good. Then you come and get back again this week. I prayed and God didn't answer my prayer. Well then you pray again. And just keep praying and keep praying and keep praying and keep trusting and keep trusting and keep doing right and keep doing Right and keep doing right Like the tide, boom, boom. We'll be overcomers by faith. Refusing to quit. A just man fallets seven times and rises up again. You know what Sunday mornings are for a lot of people? Resurrection Sunday Man, the world, the flesh and devil beat him up all week. Come to church, hit that altar, I'm rising up again. I'm gonna go back at the devil this week. He's better boxer than me. That world is more is superior to me in every but I'm not gonna quit. I'm just gonna keep on going back at it and keep on going back at it and keep on. Father help us To overcome the world of flesh and devil by faith. Lord, I'm talking to some defeated Christians. Blew it this week. There's no doubt. Some are struggling, some feel like they're the only ones dealing with some of these issues. God, give us victory, give us faith to not quit, not give up, not back down. Just stay at it. Our heads are bowed, and eyes are closed. How many preach how many say, Preacher, I feel like I'm in a boxing match, spiritually speaking? I feel like I look at the world, the flesh, and the devil, and I just there's no chance But this morning God stirred your heart and you say, I'm not going to quit. I'm not going to give up on my Christian life. I'm not going to give up on seeking victory. I'm just going to stay at it and stay at it and stay at it. Is there any like that here this morning, preacher? That's me. By God's grace, I'm going to keep on praying, keep on claiming God's promise, just going after it. God bless you. Hands all around I'm talking to some this morning that you're defeated. You are defeated, Christian. When I was describing the works of the flesh, influence the things, the Spirit of God was saying, that's you. This morning determine you're going to trust God and let Him turn that thing around. Maybe a specific sin that's taken you down Maybe a doubt, a fear, struggle, heartache, a setback. It's just got you knocked down. You say, by faith, I'm going to overcome. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to let God work through me. I'm going to take him at his promises. Let the Lord have his way. One last question. Is there someone here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven? I hope so. I'd like to think I am, but I can't say I know for sure. God says you can know for sure. And you can know that today. And you say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle this matter of my salvation. That I can know in my heart God has saved me and forgiven me. I'm going to heaven. And you'd like for me to pray that God will help you settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me. I need God to help me in this matter of salvation. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation. Lord, I went to the end.