Yeah, chapter forty. While you're turning there, I wanna just This is just a little child in school speaking, okay? So he says, our teacher asked us what our favorite animal was, and I said fried chicken. She said I wasn't funny, but she couldn't have been right because everyone else in the class laughed. My parents always told me to be truthful and honest, and I am. Fried chicken is my favorite animal. I told my dad what happened. He said my teacher was probably a member of PETA. He said they love animals very much. I do too, especially chicken, pork, and beef. Anyway, my teacher sent me to the principal's office. I told him what happened, and he laughed too, and then he told me not to do it again. The next day in class, my teacher asked me what my fa what my favorite live animal was. I told her it was a chicken. She asked me why, just like she did the ask the other ch children. So I told her, because it made it into fried chicken She sent me back to the principal's office again. He laughed and told me not to do it again. I don't understand. My parents taught me to be honest, but my teacher doesn't like it when I am. Today my teacher asked us to tell her what famous person we admire most. I told her Colonel Sanders Guess where I am now? Fried chicken Isaiah chapter 40, if you would, I want us to read verse number 31 together in unison. If you would, verse 31, last verse of Isaiah chapter 40. Read it with me. But they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. I've entitled the message, part of our summer series on faith. I've entitled it Faith for the Faint. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless Father. We come to your word this morning with needy hearts, whether we're aware of it or not, we have needs in our lives, and I pray that you would use some truths from this portion of Scripture and throughout the Word of God to help us meet those, that you would meet those needs in our lives through these truths and open our hearts and minds to what your word and what your will is for us as individuals. I ask God that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew to be used of you and as a tool in your hand. I yield my will to yours. Please speak through me. Lord, I have no doubt in my mind, Father, and you know, of course, perfectly, that there are folks under the sound of my voice at this very moment who are faint. Who are weak and we need uh help from you. We need your strength in various areas. So please bless now and uh meet needs and help us, we pray in Jesus' name, Amen. How many people recognize the name James Tillis. Does anybody recognize the name James Tillis? James Tillis was a professional boxer in the 1980s. He was the first boxer that took Mike Tyson ten rounds. Before him, most guys lasted about a half a round with Mike Tyson. He was from Oklahoma. He was kind of a cowboy. And he got into boxing and he moved to Chicago and he was going to start his professional boxing career from Chicago. He got off the bus and uh in front of the Sears Towers in Chicago, Sears Tower in Chicago. All he had in his possession that time were two cardboard suitcases All his worldly possessions in those two suitcases, took the bus from Oklahoma to Chicago, started his boxing career. He's going to train under a famous trainer. Got off the bus Set his suitcases down, his cardboard suitcases, and he looked up at that fierce tower towering above him, and he made this statement. I am going to conquer Chicago. When he looked down, his suitcases were gone. Isn't that the way it goes sometimes? How many times in your life and my life have we worked hard to make something a reality? We worked hard to try and make progress in some area or become successful in some area only to have our suitcases stolen. We look down and it's all going, maybe financially. Maybe somebody worked real hard financially and they invested their money wisely and they were very, very careful, and they tried to follow biblical principles and whatnot. And they put money up, and lo and behold, the stock market crashes, and their suitcases, so to speak, are gone. Maybe professionally. Maybe in your area of vocation, you determined you're going to be the best you can be. You want to be a success in that profession, whatever it may be. You want to be the best truck driver on Route 81? That was for Ron Wagner somewhere. You want to be the best at that profession. And lo and behold, something happens, the company goes out of business. Somebody says or does something that hurts your standing with a boss or whatever, and it goes it's your suitcase is stolen. Maybe physically Maybe you've tried very hard to stay in shape physically And um, you know, and and you've worked hard and you you've you ate right, and you tried to exercise, you tried to take good care of the temple of the Holy Spirit, and you go visit the doctor and he says, you know We found this spot. We found this abnormality in your blood channel. And all that effort to try and be healthy is taken away. Maybe spiritually. Maybe you've worked very hard at trying to be a good Christian. Now, I think most of us can relate to this. And I've tried to do right, and I've tried to make the right decisions, and I tried to be what God wanted me. I tried to trust God. And then one night, maybe I get with the wrong crowd and I make a stupid decision. My testimony's scarred. My suitcases are stolen. I have nothing Times like that, sometimes folks want to just give up. Why should I bother? Why even try? I've given it everything I have. That's all taken away from me. The Bible refers to that condition, that frame of mind that I'm trying to describe here as fainting. Giving up. Israel as a nation had been at that situation, in that frame of mind, as a nation, over and over and over again. And in Isaiah chapter 40, these verses we're dealing with here, if you read the context, God Is instructing Isaiah, or not Isaiah, Israel, how to deal with times like that. When we get in those situations, how do I deal with that? When I look down and my suitcases are gone. When I look around and everything I've had is taken and I just uh it's gone How do I deal with that? That's what Isaiah chapter 40, verses 28 through 31 are all about. How to deal with those times. Now, I just have a simple little outline, just three points. First one is, I want us to consider, first of all, the reality of fainting. The reality. You say, oh, that would never happen to a Christian. You haven't been around very long, have you? Say, Christians never get discouraged. People that do right and live for God never have think bad things happen to them. You've been living under a rock or something. Fact of the matter is, everybody faints. In the biblical term here is we're using it sometime or another. Look with me if you would at verse number 30 Verse 39 he says, He giveth power to the faint, to them that have no might. He increases strength. And somebody says, yeah, I believe God would do that. If somebody fainted or didn't have strength, God would help them. But look what he says in verse 30. Even the youths shall faint and be weary. And the young men shall utterly fall. Now I think it's interesting the terminology God uses here. He says, even the youths. Now the term youth there is referring to, and again he kind of repeats it later in the verse, he's talking about young men. Fellows who are in the prime of their physical development These are this is the age group, this is the time in life of a young man when generally these are the guys that go off to the army. These are the guys who are in the prime of their physical abilities. The last person in the world you would think who would faint. The last category of people you would imagine would be weary and faint. And he says, even those guys, even the ones you would never expect to get war out, they're going to get war out. Even the ones you would never dream of getting discouraged and losing strength. And notice he says they're utterly fall. The word faint is an interesting word. We think of somebody fainting, you think of what? Right? They just kind of pass out. The word faint, as used in the Bible, means this. And that's kind of the idea of fainting, but it it has the idea of becoming weak. Just so tired. Not, and again, he's not talking here necessarily physically, but getting emotionally, spiritually tired. Just wore out. I looked through the Bible how it was used in various places in the Bible, and it has the idea of the joy of the Lord just kind of fading away. In other words, there was a time in my life when the things of God stirred me up. There was a time in my life when going to church was an exciting anticipation. There was a time when singing the hymns was an exciting thing, and I loved to sing the hymns, and I just belled them out and didn't care what anybody thought around me. I was singing for God It was a time in life when this Bible was precious. And I'd read it and it was like God speaking to me. But I've become faint. And all of that has withered. And that joy that was once there now is just a drudgery. We've got to go to church. And instead of singing from the heart heartily to the Lord, it's just kind of mumbling my way through it. And I'm just spiritually tired. That's what he's talking about. He says even the people you don't expect to be that way, they get that way. The joy of the Lord fades away. The zeal for the Lord diminishes. Where once it was Jesus was everything. Where once I lived for God. That was my purpose of living. My zeal for him. And that disappears and suddenly self. Becomes the zeal of my life. It's me, my comfort, what I want. And I'm spiritually faint Courage for the Lord becomes hard to find. Where once it was not a problem to speak up for the Lord Jesus Christ. Where once it was I I wouldn't even think about it to say something like praise the Lord in public. Where once it never entered my mind to be self-conscious about bowing my head over a meal in a public restaurant or in the break room at work Or once it never was a difficulty giving out a gospel tract, but that courage has disappeared. And now I'm suddenly very self-conscious about my relationship with the Lord. And it's when we faint that we become vulnerable to temptation. When you and I get tired spiritually We are in a very dangerous position spiritually. Our ability to stand against temptation, our ability to say no to that which is right becomes very diminished. Look what he says there. Look with me at verse 30. Even the youth shall faint and be weary. But he doesn't stop there. He goes back and reiterates it and says it in even uh sense and the young men shall what? Utterly fall. Utterly fall. He doesn't say the young men are gonna fall. He says they're going to what? Utterly fall. I mean they are going to be flat on their face You cannot get any lower than what he's talking about here. They are utterly false. It's not they'll stumble, it's not them get knocked to their knees, they are out. I was watching um Last night, I was watching a little boxing. I think it's cruel, inhuman, outrageous, violent, should be illegal, but until they outlaw it, I'm going to watch it every chance I can That's getting old, isn't it? But um anyway, there was these two young guys. I think one guy was 19, one was 20, they were just starting out. I love to watch those guys And uh they're getting at it. And the one guy took a jab and he left himself open, the other guy came around with a left hook and just went whap and uh right on the side of the face. They showed it in slow motion. I love it in slow motion His face is just gonna rrrrrrr and spits flying and swe and you can see his eyes. Some people are shaking their heads, that's my preacher up there. And you could see his eyes, they were just going blank while he was in the air. I mean that guy was out before he ever hit the canvas That's what he's talking about here. Just boom. Utterly fail. Listen, that's a reality. That happens. Even the people you wouldn't expect it from are going to get tired, they're going to get weak spiritually, and they're going to fall. You say, Brother Leatherman, I'm not sure I buy that. All right. We won't take time to turn there, but let's think about Abraham for a moment Question, Abraham, good guy or bad guy? Great guy. He was the father of the faithful. He was uh he was God's friend. Surely if anybody never failed. Surely if anybody never got tired. Surely if anybody never struggled or got weak spiritually, Abraham wouldn't have. Oh yes, he did. Abraham left the Chaldees, he left his family, he brought Lot along, which was a mistake, but um uh he obeyed God, he did, he exercised greater faith, probably than you and I will ever exercise In stepping out and following God. He finally, and to make an extended story abbreviated, he gets to the land, the promised land, the land of Canaan that God has been promising and calling him to. He gets there, and lo and behold, it is a land of milk and honey and prosperity and water and just wonderful, right? Wrong Very first verse, and I think it's Genesis 10. Genesis 12, 10. It says, when he got to the land God had called him to and promised him to, he got there, and it was what? What did he find? Famine. Now you and I don't know what famine is. We've never experienced that. You say, oh yeah, I went five hours yesterday without eating Yeah, I feel your pain. Famine is when there's nothing. You know what happened to A you know what happened to Abraham? That great faith, that great man He got weak spiritually. He says, you know, this isn't what and I'm reading into it here. This is my take on it. But he says, you know, this isn't what I expected. God, this is not what I was led to believe it would be like. You said you would bless me and give me offspring like the stars of the sky and like the sand of the sea. You said you'd Uh give me prosperity and all this and I trust you and I left everything not even knowing where I was going and I finally get here and there's nothing here No food, no water, nothing. He got weak. He fainted. And he became vulnerable to temptation. And Abraham says, fill on this living by faith, I'm going down where? Going to Egypt. The world will take care of me. Those Egyptians, they've got food. I trusted God. Nothing worked out the way I expected. I'm going to Egypt. And he did. And he utterly fell in the matter of faith. Now he got down there, he messed up, he lied and different things, and I mean he just messed up bad. But God got a hold of him and brought him back. Abraham fainted Even the youths are going to faint. Even the young men, the people you would never think of, are going to utterly fall. Abraham. We could work our way through the Bible. What about King David? Man after God's own heart, the sweet psalmist of Israel. I think if there's someone in the Bible I would like to be like in the positive aspects more than anyone else, I would like to be like King David. I would like to have his positive characteristics in my life. He was a neat guy. But even someone of David's caliber fainted and utterly failed. Take your Bibles. It's not far away. Now stay here, but if you would turn over the book of Psalms with me very quickly. And we're going to look at Psalms 51 is the most public confession of sin in the history of the world. Now all of us have messed up at a time or another. All of us have done things that we're not proud of, that we would like for nobody to ever know about. But David, when he got things right after he failed, God recorded his prayer of confession in the eternal word of God preserved forever. And look what he says in Psalm 51. I want you to notice verse number 10. Now this is David confessing his failure in Psalm 15 But look at verse 10. He says, create in me a clean heart. Psalm fifty-one ten and renew a right spirit within me. Now if he wants God to put back into him a right spirit, that means he has now a what? A wrong spirit. A bad spirit He's fallen. He's fainted. He doesn't have the frame of mind he knows he should. He doesn't have the faith in God that he knows he ought to. He has fainted. Read on. Renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Now look at verse 12. Restore unto me the what? Joy of thy salvation. Notice he doesn't say, God, give me my salvation back. It's very important to notice that. David had fallen utterly, he had fainted, he had failed in his walk with God. He had failed in his faith in God. He did not lose his salvation. He lost the what? The joy of his salvation. He was fainted. He had failed utterly. Now listen, if you and I think that we are of a higher caliber spiritually than King David, we need to rethink that. Even the youths, even those you would never expect to get weak and faint and mess up. Even young men Surely they're not going to fall. They're strong and at the peak of their physical abilities. They're not going to fall. An old man would fall. A little kid would fall. But not a young man. Oh, yeah. Even they will. Abraham, King David. We could spend time, a lengthy period of time, talking about Elijah On Mount Carmel and he prays down fire and executes hundreds of false prophets Surely someone like Elijah with that tremendous faith and that power of God on him, he would never get weak. He would never get discouraged. He would never uh uh stumble spiritually. Oh yeah, read the next chapter. And he's running like a he's running he's running from uh Jezebel In fact, he gets up there in the wilderness, crawls in a cave, starts sucking his thumb. That's in the Hebrew. I wish I'd just die. Not Elijah, come on. Elijah would never get that way. A prophet of God. Oh yeah. The reality of fainting. What about Peter? Sometimes I like Peter, sometimes I can't stand him. You know? You guys are going to forsake me, Jesus said. Oh yeah, Peter. Oh yeah, I'm not going to forsake you. I'll die with you. Boy the Lord is ha is patient, isn't he? Lord says, Peter, I can I can see it this way. Peter Now I don't think the Lord wore glasses, but before that cock crows three times the next morning, you're gonna deny Deny me three times. Not me. Twenty-four hours later, Peter's outstanding outside the Pilate's judgment hall, weeping his eyes out. He's denied the Lord three times. If anybody was going to stand true to the Lord, you'd think it'd been Peter. He wasn't afraid of anything. He'd run his mouth, everything But he fainted. Even the youths. He utterly fell. Utterly You can't, you could hardly deny the Lord more thoroughly than what Peter did. Not once, not twice, three times. Yeah, there's the reality of fainting. Even the youths are going to faint. Even the young men are going to utterly fall. None of us are super Christians. Every one of us are sinners with very limited abilities. We are not super Christians, but we have a supernatural God. And one thing our God is very good at, and that is renewing the strength of the faint. God is very good at picking up those who have utterly fallen. God is very good at restoring the courage To those who are discouraged. So the first thing we find when we come to Isaiah chapter 40, God is addressing the nation of Israel through his prophet Isaiah. And the nation of Israel has blown it time and time again. They've gotten to the point where they're completely devastated. And God says, this is how you deal with that. When your suitcases are taken and you have nothing, first of all, you've got to understand that even the strongest among us are going to be weak Even the most fittest among us are going to stumble and fall. That's reality Second of all, I want us to consider before we go on here the reasons why people faint. What is it that causes someone to get to the point where they are just spiritually wiped out? What is it that brings these things about? Well, one of them, I put this one down, when we realize how sinful we really are, it can be very discouraging. When we realize how wicked our heart, my heart, my very nature, how sinful it really is, and all of a sudden I realize that, and I think I never realized that was that bad. I never dreamed I was capable of something like this. It can get very discouraging. I remember the weeks and months leading up to my salvation as a young man, 18 years old. And 17, 18, I had I had the world by the tail. Man, I was out on my own, I was making my decisions, I was doing my thing, and I was having a time. And then my world began flowing in on me. And I scrambled to try and get my act together, scrambled to try and get my some type of right thinking in my head. I began to pray and God help me. God help me. Pressed upon me to read my Bible. I began reading my Bible. You know what I started learning as I read my Bible? I was a sorry, wicked wretch. And the more I learned about myself from God's Word, the lower I went. And it came a point in the early May of uh late April, early May of nineteen seventy-nine. That in my mind, I was convinced I was the most wicked, perverse, wretched person that had ever walked this planet. There was no hope for me. I was without strength. Faint. Sometimes God lets us get to the point where we see ourselves for what we really are. We think we're something. We think we know it all. We think we've got all the answers. We got we got everything. And God says, oh yeah, let me show you what you really are. And you know what happens? David referenced that throughout the Psalms. So one thing that makes people faint sometimes is realizing how sinful we really are. I think of the prodigal son. What's your impression of the prodigal son after he got the inheritance, but before everything fell apart? That period of time there. Oh we don't know how long it was. It may have been short, may have been may have had a lot of money, may have lasted him a while, we don't know. But what's your impression of his frame of mind before everything fell apart after he got the money? He's on top of the world. Man, a lie. Whatever he wants, he can buy. Wherever he wants to go, he can go He has no financial restrictions. He has no parental restrictions. Everything is gone great. But inevitably, that falls apart. I talked to a young man here just in the last couple weeks. And he was saying this to me. He says, you know, I I know people that drink, I know people that rock and roll, I know people that are out running around immoral immoral and fornicating and all of that. He said, their lives aren't falling apart Everything's good for them. They're paying their bills. Everything's going fine. My answer was, yeah, right now. Right now. What about ten years down the road? What about fifteen years down the road? And then the prodigal son, the Bible says in Luke, he came to himself. You know what it means? He saw himself for what he really was. Living in a hog pen with nothing. Everything he had lived for, everything he invested in, everything that was important to him, had produced nothing. And brother, he says, here I am. Faint. So when we realize how sinful we really are, that will cause a reason for people to faint. Sometimes when we realize we cannot change our nature. One of the things under conviction before the Lord saved me was not only that I realized how awful I was, but I was beginning to see and understand I couldn't change. Me. There was nothing I could do. My heart was sinful wretch. And I could do nothing about it. Listen to Jeremiah chapter 13, verse 23. Well, I'm not quoting it. It says this. Jeremiah 13, 23 says this. It tells me that I cannot change my sinful nature any more than I can change the color of my skin, or a leopard can change his spots. Say, Brother Leatherman, it's been a long week. I come to church. I want to hear some good news. I want something to lift me up. Here's the news. You're a sinful wretch, and there's nothing you can do about it. It's true. Sometimes that can be discussed Discouraging. I tried so hard to change what I was before I got saved. Everything I tried failed. Everything I tried failed. Everything I tried failed. When we live our lives contrary to God's word, it'll cause people to faint. There's a word used throughout the Bible, both Old and New Testaments. When God addresses folks, he doesn't do it every time he addresses folks like this, but often for somebody that's doing what they want, disregarding the principles of Scripture. And that word, it's a three-letter word, it is this: woe. Woe unto you. Woe unto you! You can just fill in any dozens of descriptions of folks behind that word that are trying to live contrary to the word of God. And God says it brings woe. That word woe simply means misery unhappiness, weakness. And there's a lot of very unhappy people, there's a lot of miserable people, there's a lot of folks who are just weak spiritually simply because they will not obey God. They insist on doing it their way. They insist on disregarding the warnings and principles of Scripture, and their life is a disaster. I think about in Luke chapter 18, I wanted to turn there, but we won't for sake of time. Two men went up to a temple to pray. Jesus. One guy, he didn't see himself as a sinner. He did not see himself the way he really was. He was convinced, he had his act together, he was everything God wanted him to be And he said, and the Bible says he prayed to himself, Lord, I'm glad I'm not like this guy on the front row down here. James, right. Doug's pointing at James. I tithe, I fast, I don't commit adultery, I don't do all these things. I am really something. Jesus said, the other guy wouldn't even lift his eyes up to heaven. He smote his breast. God God, be merciful to me, a sinner. One was faint. One was on top of the world. You know why? Because of sin. The intensity of the spiritual conflict. We are in a spiritual warfare, folks. Whether you want to admit it or not, whether you are aware of it or not, there is a spiritual warfare going on in this world between heaven and hell, between God and the devil. And we are smack dab in the middle of it. You can deny it, you can ignore it, you can uh uh but it is going on around you. Job found that out. Didn't he? He's doing right, going to church, paying his tithes, living for God, reading his Bible, praying for his kids, loving them Whoom. Spiritual battle came crashing down on his world between God and the devil. His property, his family, his friends. His own wife turned on him. What did Job do to deserve all this? What did he do wrong? Job didn't do anything wrong. It's called spiritual warfare. And that can get to you. And Job got weak. Neglect of our spiritual health. Failing to read the Bible. Neglecting church. Prayer, not praying, not trusting God, not trying to be a witness, not doing the basics of the Christian life to keep me strong. Will cause me to faint. So there's a number of things. And we could go on reasons why people faint. But the fact of the matter is there's a reality to it. Number two, there's reasons for it. And last of all, I want to come back to Isaiah. The remedy. The remedy. How do we do this? How do we fix this? Come back, Isaiah with me. He says 29 He giveth power to the faint to them that have no might. He increases strength. Even the youth shall faint and be weary. The young men shall utterly fall. But boy, I like that word there, don't you? There's hope Oh, I'm a sinful wretch. I never realized I was this wicked. I have nothing I can do about it. Oh no. But What's the remedy? First of all, I put this down. The remedy for feigning is when by faith I remember God's character. And for that I go up to verse 29, 28. Verse 28. Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, he fainteth not? Neither is weary. There's no searching of his understanding, for he giveth power to the faith. To them that have no might, he increaseth strength. I got studying that, and that word known in verse 28, hast thou not known? It doesn't simply mean to have information in my head. Doesn't say, haven't you gathered this information? The word known there means this, to understand by experience. In other words, he wasn't telling Israel something they didn't already know They had seen God's power in the past. They had experienced God strengthening them in the past. They knew, look at this, they knew what God was capable of doing. But they forgot. They forgot. They forgot that God could help them. They forgot that God could pick them back up again. They forgot that God could reset their life. They'd experienced what God could do. They just needed to remember it. I'm talking to some folks this morning. I don't know where you're at spiritually. I don't know your personal walk with God. That's between you and God. Maybe I'm talking to somebody, you're at a spiritual low. I want to remind you, you probably don't have to look too far back in your past where God has done something wonderful for you. If not, just go back to your day of salvation. And the very fact that God saved you and I from hell The very fact that He gave us a new nature, a new life, with new purposes and new reasons, ought to be enough to say us, you know what? God can help me through this He says, you remember God's character. The second thing he tells them in verse 29, that they are to rely on God's commitment. Remember his character, rely on his commitment. Look at verse 29 again. He giveth power to the faint. And to them that have no might, he increaseth strength. You could write in a margin of your Bible. I'm telling you, that is a promise of God. God promises you and I. That He will give us strength, that He will give us power to deal with whatever comes into our life Whatever however deep the failure is, however utterly we have fallen, God says, I will give you the power, I will give you the strength to get back on your feet, to get back up and be everything I intend for you to be. But you've got to rely on me. You've got to claim my promise. You've got to trust me. So number one, remember God's character. Number two, rely on God's commitment. And number three, and this is verse 31, and I want to look at this verse a little different than maybe we normally do I think there's something being taught here that we take it wrong. I put it this way, relinquish my control. Look at verse 31. But they that what? I circled that word wait. That is an incredibly important word in this verse. They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. Okay? That's a statement right there. They that wait on the Lord, that's the person, that's the one that God is going to renew their strength. Then he goes on in the rest of the verse, I believe, and explains how that plays out in our life. They that wait upon the Lord, that word, let me stop here for a moment. That word wait is an interesting word. It means to look upon with anticipation. It doesn't mean this. It doesn't mean uh Just sitting there, like in the doctor's office. It's gonna be fourteen years till I get back there No, it's the idea the the the key the major part of the definition of that word is anticipation Leading. Our son Sam moved back for a while and he's got a dog, a golden lab. It's just a puppy. Weighs 140 pounds, but it's just a puppy. And um he loved it's very playful. His name's Champ. And you throw Frisbee and it goes good. But he's working on training it. It's doing pretty good. But the idea is you get the dog to sit there and you take the frisbee and you fling the frisbee, but the dog doesn't run until you say go or out or whatever the word is you say I just say, go get it. But um that picture, that dog sitting there Waiting for you to give him the okay to go is a, in my mind, a beautiful word picture of what that word wait means. He's not sitting there bored, oh, I'm just waiting on him to say it's okay. You talk about anticipation slobbers falling out of his body shaking, just waiting, let me go. And that's the idea here. They that wait on the Lord, man, I've messed up. I've fallen. I'm just at the lowest point of my life spiritually. But I'm waiting on God. I'm anticipating God doing something. I'm anticipating God helping me and strengthening me and getting me up on my feet again. That's the idea. Now look what he says. He says, they that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength. Then he plays this out They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They shall walk and not faint. He gives three conditions I can be in. I can be up like an eagle, sorry. Or I can be running. Or I may just be walking But in every one of those three conditions, God will give me the grace and strength I need to do what needs to be done at that time. I've been saved since 1979. How many years is that? 32 years. You know what I found? I haven't soared like an eagle every day for 32 years. Thank God for the times when we soar like eagles. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I mean just it's happening And man, you can look and you're seeing God doing stuff in your life you never dreamed. But my whole 32 years of walking with God hasn't been that way. Sometimes my Christian life has been like I'm running a marathon. Just getting after it, getting after it, getting after it. I'm not up there, but Just getting after it. And God says, when you get that times in your life, when you're just running, I'll strengthen you. I'll help you during those periods. And then he says, sometimes it takes all you got just to walk. And just think, man, one day after another, I just got to get through today. God says, when you're in that time of life, I'll give you the strength. Strength you need then. That verse is not promising that if you wait on God, you're just going to soar your whole life. It's not what he's saying. He's saying, you give up control, you let me decide when you soar and when you walk. You let me decide when it's time to run. and when it's time to walk and when it's time to sigh. You trust me, you wait on me, you look to me, you follow what I say, do what I say, and I will give you the grace and the strength you need for every part of life you experience. I read about a Baptist preacher in the 1960s in Louisville, Kentucky. He was a young man. He had a six-year-old daughter who was diagnosed with leukemia. Few days before she died, he preached a sermon from this passage of scripture entitled Strength Not to Fail. And in that message, he made this statement. His daughter was just only going to live for a few more days. He said, I'm not soaring like an eagle today. He said, I'm not running like a young man today. He said I'm barely walking. I'm barely putting one step in front of the other. But God is helping me. God is strengthening me. Waiting on God. He'll let me soar when he decides it's best for me to soar. He'll enable me to run in the times when I need to run. And when all I can do is walk, God will help me walk. But I've got to trust them. I've got to give up my control, give up my say. Say, Lord, you call the shots. I'll do what you say. And God will help us. Father bless, I pray. Lord, when there's times of fainting come to our lives, I pray you'd help us to trust you. There's nothing else we can do, Lord, I've found. We have no strength of our own to change us, our nature. It has to be you, Father. Help us to trust you. Help us to yield to you. Help us to wait on you. And then God, you do what you know needs to be done in our lives. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I've got a situation where I really need God to help