I know I know it's uh a relationship with the missionaries and it has to do with praying with for missionaries and and considering what God would have each of us to do, to go, to To stay how he wants us involved, but uh the faith promise giving that's a big part And it's a big part of what the Bible says. We're doing what the Bible instructs us to do. That's the important thing. So let's pray and we'll begin this morning. Father, thank you now for the opportunity of today, and thank you for what you already have planned to do. And uh I pray today that we would be very, very sensitive to your voice as you speak to us. May we be very aware of your presence as you move in our midst. I pray that you would open the scriptures up to us again today, fresh, anew, and that you would cause us to see some things that would encourage us. in the commitments that we need to make personally. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Now this morning in the Sunday school hour I I mentioned the setting of 2 Corinthians 8 and 9. Of course, this is a place where God teaches us in detail about faith, promise, giving. And I mentioned faith promise is a living concept, which is taught throughout the scriptures, but giving is one part of that. And of course, that's the emphasis today. And When we come to this, the setting is that the church at Corath had made a faith-promise commitment. We see that in 1 Corinthians 16. And it's uh about a year later as Paul writes here and and in chapters eight and nine of this letter, he tells them about, he reminds them. of the commitment they made, and he begins to instruct them of what they need to do to fulfill the promise they made back some months ago. He reminds them that Titus is going to come, some others, and they're going to receive that offering. Other churches are going to be involved in the offering and And it's going to be taken to the saints of Jerusalem and and to attempt to take care of the needs there in that situation. In the first verses, first five verses He uses the churches of Macedonia as an example of what he's going to say to the church of Corinth. He uses it as sort of an encouragement. Here's what God did over in Macedonia. Now you need to realize he wants to do the same thing there. And then he begins to tell them. uh what he wants them to do. I'm going to uh zero in on verses uh ten, eleven, and twelve. But I want to read down to those verses to begin with. In verse 6, now he's finished using the churches of Macedonia as an example. And in verse 6, he says to the church at Corinth, Insomuch that we desired Titus that as he had begun, so he would also finish in you the same grace also. So that grace giving that the churches of Macedonia experienced, he said, now we want you to experience the same grace. We want you to To see, hear what God wants you to do. We want you to experience His activity in your life. Verse 7: Therefore, as ye abound in everything, in faith, and utterance and knowledge And in all diligence and in your love to us, see that ye abound. He says it again, in this grace also I speak not by commandment, but by occasion of the forwardness of others and to prove the sincerity of your love. And that's what grace does. Grace proves the sincerity of our love, the genuineness of our love. It's a test thing. And verse ten and nine, he explains why he says that. For ye know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he uh was rich, yet he for your sakes he became poor, that ye through his poverty might be rich. And so Christ left heaven to come to earth to die for us. He left everything to come to nothing, so you and I who had nothing could have everything. And we have everything in Christ because of his coming and dying on the cross. Now, to begin in verse 10 In verses 10, 11, and 12, he is reminding them that they need to keep the commitment that they made. And in this we sort of have some thoughts that we can relate to, that we can apply to our lives to help us to keep in mind what God wants us to do and how we're to do it. So notice what he says. Let me read verses 10, 11, and 12. He says, and herein I give my advice. For this is expedient for you who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. That word forward has the thought of being willing. And their willingness to make the commitment. Now, therefore, perform the doing of it, that as there was a readiness to will So there may be a performance also out of that which you have. So he's talking about, you know, you were willing to do it. Now do what you said you were going to do. For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. Now I want to just give you a reminder here, and this is uh uh this is familiar to to uh most folks. You're involved in it, you know what what he's talking about here. But let me let me just give you three thoughts. Number one He says, first there must be a willing mind. Think about that. First, there must be a willing mind. And he mentions that in verses 11 and verse 12. He says, now therefore perform the doing of it, that as there was a readiness to will. Verse 12 he says, For if there be first a willing mind. So he says, now This all begins, and this all comes to a completion because there's a willingness to listen to God. There's a willingness to do what God wants us to do. And that's that's where it all must begin with with everybody here. What happens today is going to happen as a result of each one of us being willing to do what God tells us to do. Or we're going to do what we want to do. Because you see, there's a there's there's a will that God has for each of us. And then there's a will that each of us have for ourselves. There's a desire that God has And then there's our own desire. God's desire is spiritual. Eternal, heavenly. Our desire is self, me What I think needs to be done, what looks logical in my mind, what I think I can or cannot And so what we have to do is come to a place, first of all, that we are willing to listen to God Willing to do what God wants us to do. Because you see, it's very clear in the Bible what He wants us to do We just have to line up with it. The scripture that was has already been read this morning, Matthew chapter 29, and verses 16 and following. And there he gave us the command: go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to do whatsoever I have commanded you. Now, what's he saying? He's giving each one of us the command to go into all the world. It's very clear, it's very simple. Every Christian, those that are part of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has a responsibility to go into all the world. Now you say, I can't go into all the world. I can only be in one place at a time. I can't uh physically go to every place. Well, there must be an answer to that because he gave us the command. He's not going to tell us to do something that can't be done. And so he tells us to go into all the world. And then as we go on in the scripture, we find the answer to that. You get into you get into Acts and uh you have the Jerusalem church there and the church that was planted and all that took place and then the persecution and the dispersion of all the believers there. And uh you get over to Acts chapter 11 and you find that some of the folks that left Jerusalem went into a place called Antioch And it was a church started in Antioch, and God used that church to be a tremendous example for us in this matter of missions and church planting And our responsibility in that direction. Because you you see that church start and and uh boy people got saved, Jews got saved, Gentiles got saved, you see there and Acts chapter 11. And uh Barnabas over in Jerusalem, or the Jerusalem uh leaders, they heard about it and sent Barnabas over there. And when Barnabas went over to Antioch Uh he saw God just doing a miraculous work. And then he uh he realized, man, this is more than I can handle. He went and got Saul. Saul came and they spent about a year there in that church at Antioch Leading being uh uh leaders in that church and discipling people. But then you go over to Acts chapter thirteen And you find that the Holy Spirit reached down and called Barnabas and Saul out of that church to do what? To go plant other churches So what do we see there? Now get a hold of this. We see the example given to us that helps answer how we can go into all the world. You see, God calls people to go. He reaches down in churches just like this church and calls people to go other places. And so Paul and Barnabas were sent by that church after the Holy Spirit called them to go start churches. And boy, they just started churches all over the place. You say, okay, what's that have to do with me, and how do I go? Well, you get over into Philippians, and you get the answer. The whole thing is put together there. In Philippians, that's a book of the Bible that is taught by that is written by a missionary, the Apostle Paul, a church-planting missionary. And he writes to a church, the church of Philippi, he writes to them as a supporting church. They were a church that supported him financially. You support about 80 missionaries. That's uh the Philippian church supported the Apostle Paul in his church planting endeavors. He traveled. And as he wrote this letter to them He talks to them about their support of his ministry. And I would encourage you to take time to read Philippians chapter 4 and see how he talks about that relationship. Now in in Philippians chapter four, in uh verses uh thirteen and fourteen, or fourteen and fifteen He talks about the partnership that came together. Now think about this. The partnership that was created And cultivated between Paul and the church at Philippi in accomplishing this church planning endeavor around the world. So now get a hold of it. The Great Commission is given to us and all the Gospels, the book of Acts, to go into all the world. And then he shows us that it's done through his church, just like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. That's the way God does his work. And then he that's the the church, individu uh the church partners with missionaries. And the missionary, the missionary uh represents the church where the missionary is going The church represents the missionary where they are. You represent those 80 missionaries that you support right here, and they represent you where they are around the world. And all of a sudden we see how we can go into all the world and take the gospel. Now, what I'm saying is this: God has a plan. God has a plan. He doesn't want us to come up with a plan, he wants us to get in on his plan. And his plan is for us to connect with missionaries and partner with them as they go. Now, what's this how did we do that? In Philippians chapter 4, in that portion of scripture. Paul says that he partnered with the Church of Philippi when they began supporting him as a missionary. And that's how we partner with missionaries. That's why we do what we're doing. That's why we do it the way we're doing. Now I say all of that to say this. We do it because of what the Bible says. And each of us have to make a decision Now think about this. Each of us have to make a decision. Am I willing to agree with God? In other words, am I willing to do God's will Or am I going to make my own decision about this thing? So it all begins with a willingness, a willingness. Now, also we find here that he talks about performing the doing event. It starts with a willingness, and then notice what he says in verse 11. Now, therefore, perform the doing of it. Perform the doing of it. Now what's the what's he saying? Hey, just get on your horse and do it. That's what he's saying. Do what you're supposed to do. Do what you're committed to do. And that's what today's all about. Today is the day of beginning to perform the doing of it. Now, there's not going to be any performance unless there's a willingness There's not going to be any doing until we come to a place that we really believe What the Bible says, and we want to do what we're supposed to do according to the Bible. Right? Hey, we perform what we're willing to do. We perform what we believe and what we're uh and and once once you and I agree with God about the thing as he as he deals with us personally then he becomes active in doing it. He becomes active. Now I've told you a story here before, I don't know how recently, but but uh when I when I get in these verses and and think about this, I I'm reminded of a fellow that was out of our church way back in the beginning. Now this was uh This was 1972. I went to Independent Baptist Church in Clinton, Maryland, began pastoring that church. And after a couple of months, we had this family come in. And uh was a mother, father, and uh three children. And uh they they got excited. Uh people were being saved and they got excited about that, and uh the husband came to me after a while and he He said, Boy, he said, uh, I really like what's happening. He said, I'd like to bring my family and have my family in this church. And so they did. They came. And he saw we were running the bus at that time. We had one bus and we were running it and he got excited about that. And uh we ended up getting another bus and he got involved in the bus ministry and And he just wanted to reach people. He was excited about people being saved. And uh then we had our first missions conference. And when we had that missions conference, he really got excited about missions. I mean, God stirred his heart. And what he did He hung storm windows for Sears. Now Sears, you know, they talk about doing a lot of stuff. You know, they remodel kitchens and they put down carpet and they build decks and And they advertise doing all this, but they don't really don't do any of that. They just have subs, you know, that they do the work for 'em and it's a business thing. But he hung stormed with us for Sears And uh after we had that missions conference, and he got a hold of what God said about missions, I mean God put in him a willingness To do what the Bible said. All of a sudden, it came together and he understood it. And boy, God's will just got a hold of him And he came to me and he said, Pastor, he said, you know, he said, uh, he said, I think I could start my own business and build it on uh the Lord and his ways and and and keep it honoring him and I could support missionaries through that business and I think I could really Uh God would bless that. We prayed about it. So he came back a little while later and he said, I'm going to do it. He printed up some uh brochures and Started passing them out, found him a supplier of windows, and and uh pretty soon the business started coming in and he started hanging his windows for himself and and uh boy God began to bless that business And he uh he just uh he got a hold of giving. He he uh had his personal income, he tithed out of that. He had his business income, he tithed out of that. He gave to the bus ministry and the building uh uh fund for the church, and he just gave to everything it was uh uh was available to give to. But then he started supporting missions. And there came a time in that man's life that he supported 30 missionaries through our church personally. And it was all because God put in him a willingness. And when he got a hold of that Then he began to do what God wanted him to do, and God just blessed that thing in a marvelous way. Now that's I say that to say this. That that's what happens when you and I become willing And we begin to do what we're supposed to do, then God puts an excitement there. God puts a willingness there. God God begins to open up their uh not just our understanding to the whole thing, but God opens up our insight in the whole thing, and God gives God gives uh insight in just a way that uh it's not given any other way. Now here's here's the third thing I want you to see this morning in this portion of scripture. There must be first a willingness, and then there must be a performance, response to the willingness. And then we must get a hold of this thought now, that it's it's all to be done out of what we have. Out of what we have. And uh this is a key because there's a there's a misunderstanding to this matter of faith promise. I know years ago I used to hear guys say, well You know, you commit to give, and if God provides it, then you give as he provides. That's not what it's saying here. Notice what he says. Look at verse 11. Now therefore, perform the doing of it, that as there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also, look at this. Out of that which ye have. For if there be first a willing mind, it is accepted according to that a man what hath And not according to that he hath not. Now here's what he's saying. God has already given you and me what He wants us to give to missions. Here's a good thing to keep in mind. If you let this sink in, What you and I have, each of us, what we have, God has given us And he's given it to us to fulfill the plan that he has for our lives It's not uh God has a personal plan for each of us. He has something he wants to do in our lives, and and he's personally involved in our lives. And he doesn't just dump stuff On us loosely. It's a he has a God has a system. He is organized. And he's the one that provides for each and one of us. And he provides for us according to his plan for our lives. And he expects each of us to take a look at what we have with his plan for our lives in mind. And it belongs to him. You believe that? It all belongs to him. And what I have belongs to him. And he has the right, he has the authority to tell me what to do with it. I'm just a manager of it. And so he says to us, you take a look at what you have Uh and I want to tell you what part of what you have is for missions, and that's what today's about. I want you to go into all the world. I want you to partner with missionaries. And I want you to do it with. Some of what I've given you. So let me tell you what I want you to give to missions. And that's what he's saying here. I want you to give out of what you have. And so we personally, we personally talk to God, we personally get instructions from God, and we give the way God wants us to give. Now, the thing about it is that He promises to increase once we start giving. Let me show you something here. Turn over to chapter 9. Now he's continuing to talk to the church of Corinth. In chapter nine, he starts telling them how it benefits them. When they give. And he goes through a number of things, but I want you to look at verses 9 and 10. It says, as it is written, he hath dispersed abroad. He hath given to the poor, his righteousness remaineth forever. Now, verse 10, look at this. Now he that ministereth seed to the sower. Now who's the sower? That's us. Who ministers seed to the sower? God. So he's talking about God giving us what he wants us to sow Now look at it. Now he that ministereth seed to the sower, both, both ministereth bread for your food. In other words, he says, now God, as he gives you seed to sow, he gives you what's needed for you and your everyday living. He provides. Now you say, well, I don't have this and I don't have a lot of people don't have what they should have because they don't use what he gives them the way They should use it. A lot of people haven't learned that the outgo can't be more than the income. Huh? Some people say, well, I just don't know how to handle finances. Hey, it's easy. Take a look at your income and don't spend more than that. Huh? Everything will work. And then beyond that, use it the way God wants you to use it. But he says he'll provide everything we need for our everyday living. But then here's what I want you to see. Look, and he says both. He says, and Multiply your seed sown, and increase the fruits of your righteousness. See what he's saying? He's saying, now, listen. You learn to honor God, He will provide everything you need for your life, and then as you sow, He will increase your seed to sow. You sow, and he'll give you more seed to sow. And he'll not only do that, he'll work in your personal life spiritually. To make you the righteous person you need to be. Now that that all has to do with giving He says, you learn to sow, and you will experience God multiplying. Your seed to sow. So when when we talk, you know, you have the televangelists say, well, bless God, if you want to, if you want this item, then you just you sow to that item. That's not what the Bible says at all. The Bible says you learn to sow the way God wants you to sow. He'll give you the items you need for your everyday living. But the important thing is as you sow, he will give you an increased amount to sow more You know, I think God is just looking for somebody he can trust. And when he finds somebody he can trust, he just pours it out. Problem is most of us he can't trust, so because you know it's it's not this It's this. Huh? And there's no promise to that The promise is if you'll learn to just put here what you need for living, but then if you'll learn just to just to sew it, He said, God will multiply your seed soap. But it's done out of what we have. Learning to give. I was in I thought of this. I was in Dominican Republic uh in uh January And uh I was in one of the services at uh Brother Siddler's, uh, and it's a very it's a very poor area where his church is and his people are Uh people that do not have much at all. And and uh Brother Lethman's been there, he's seen it. A lot of them just have houses with dirt floors and it's uh it's different And one day I went to the service and I got there and I had fought I had forgotten my handkerchief. And I knew I was going to need a handkerchief or something during the service. So I asked Brother Siddler, I said, do you have any Kleenex? You know, usually a box of Kleenex around he said, no, I don't have any. He said, let me check with some of the women. So he went around and checked and and he came back and said, I can't find anybody with any Kleenex. So I said, okay. So I'm sitting there in the service. And this uh this uh person comes up, fella comes up and hands me this bag. And I uh opened a bag and look in there, and there's a little box. And I opened a box that had three brand new handkerchiefs. And that's Brother Sendler, I said, where in the world did this come from? He said there was a there's a girl back there, a single girl. When she knew you needed that, she went and got it. You know what I wanted to do? I told Brother Siddler, I said, I need to pay her for this. He said, no, no, no. He said, don't do that. You'll just embarrass her. You'll hurt her feelings. Hey, listen, that's what God wants. He just wants us to come to place. That we just listen to him. Huh? That we just listen, and when he tells us, we just do it. And that's what today's about. Today's about just getting involved. Not looking and saying, well, can't do this, can't do that, they don't for they don't need this, they don't need that. It's just saying, okay, God, I want to be where you want me to be. In this thing. Amen? I just want to do what you want me to do. Let's bow our heads in prayer. Every head bowed, every eye closed. I want to ask you some questions as we prepare for an invitation this morning. And I want you to think about. Think about your relationship with God. Where are you with God? How many folks here this morning say, preacher, I'm glad I can listen to that, how he came from me came uh and left everything to come to nothing, so I could know him and have eternal life. I'm glad I can sit here and listen to that this morning and know if I died today, I would go to heaven. I've been born again by the Spirit of God. I can take you to the Bible and show you how I know I'm saved. and on my way to heaven. Can you give testimony? Slip your hand up all over the building. I know I'm saved, know I'm on my way to heaven. God bless you. Thank you. Is there someone here who say, preacher, I could not raise my hand? I don't know that I would go to heaven if I died today, or maybe you say, I know I wouldn't. That's a very personal time, Brother Letheman and I, the only ones looking. There's someone here that would say, Preacher, I would love to have that assurance. Would you pray with me and pray for me? That God would help me to get that settled in my life. I would love to have assurance that I would go to heaven if I died today There's someone here who would just slip your hand up and say, pray pray for me, would you? Pray for me, pray with me. I do not know that I would go to heaven today, but I know this. I do not want to go to hell I want a right relationship with God. Would you pray with me or pray for me? Anyone at all before we pray? Third question. How many folks here would say, preacher, I'm saved? That's all settled? But uh God has dealt with my heart. I need to get some things right with Him. I need to do business with Him today. Would you pray with me and pray for me? That I am just where God wants me to be. Would you slip your hands up all over the building Let's pray as we begin the invitation. Let's stand as we pray. Father, thank you for these who raised their hands. Thank you for your personal touch in our lives. And I want to pray now as we uh as uh we uh have this invitation That uh folks would just be willing, get alone with you and say, God, uh I want to be willing. I want to be willing. I want to be, I want your will to be my will. And I pray that you would bless as we do business with you this morning. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. the penis uh place and uh let me ask you right now just to slip out of your place