Um that wasn't me falling over, that was some of the props up here. So everybody, take your Bibles, turn back to Mark chapter number ten. Mark chapter ten. We uh tried to change things up here a little bit for Comedy children. So I'm dropping things and knocking things over. And um just another typical Sunday here at Mountain Lake. Mark chapter ten, if you would notice with me one verse in particular In verse number 15, the Lord says, Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein. I've entitled the message, The Faith of a Child. The Faith of a Child. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we come to you this morning asking you to help us as we focus our attention, our hearts, our energies. on reaching children this coming week in a very uh a very condensed way uh with the gospel Lord, I ask that you would prepare our hearts as a church and as individuals to give of ourselves to bring young people to Christ. We pray for mothers and fathers that our hearts would be stirred and burdened anew for our youth. And I ask now in this message, that you would challenge us to take on this one characteristic of children that is so necessary in our relationship with you I yield my will to yours. I present my body anew. I ask you with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak to our hearts and challenge us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. I don't think you have to be around me very long, at least I certainly hope not, to realize that I like children. I like being around kids. I don't know if it's I can on their same IQ level or what it is But uh I like children. I there's nothing in the world I like more, I don't think, than to hear a child laugh or to see a child smile. In fact, I put a lot of energy and effort into trying to get little children anytime around, I'm trying to get them to smile and get them to laugh. Believe it or not, somebody did a study, some university somewhere did a study And they found that the average child laughs over 400 times a day. Now that's incredible. Your average child, of course, some are more or less, laughs over 400 times a day. That same study found that the average adult laughs 15 times a day. Now my thought was, what happened? How did we get from laughing 400 times a day? to laughing an average of 15 times a day. I thought of several reasons. One, I think the cares of life Come upon us. I think the consequences of sin begin to take its toll in our lives. But whatever the reason is Children have a tendency, on average, to laugh much, much more than adults do. I would like to get a little bit of that laughter back. I'd like for us to take some characteristics. I like children, is what I'm trying to say. And I believe, and I'm convinced in my experience and my study of scriptures that God likes children too. Um I found that the Bible reef makes reference to children 435 times The Bible references children in one form or another. From Genesis to Revelation, the Bible speaks about children, uses children as illustrations, tells us stories about children. tells us to be like children in some ways. Some ways warns us as adults not to be as children. But 435 times the Bible referenced children. Genesis to Revelation. You can't read the Bible and not read about children. You can't learn of God and not learn something about children. You can't live the Christian life and not experience something of what it is to be a child. In fact, God refers to his people as his children. I think about stories of children in the Bible. I think about David. You know when David killed Goliath, he was just a young man, barely into his teens. God uses a child to kill a giant. Isn't that something? The Bible references some kings of Israel who were just children, eight years old, sixteen years old, just children. Um, did you know in the book of Acts we have the story of a child who God used to save the great apostle Paul's life? When he was in prison. So, children, God loves children. Say, how do you know God loves children? Let me give you a few reasons, real quick, just by way of introduction. Jesus wants us to bring children to him Bible says, bring suffer the little children to come to me. God wants us to bring children to Him. Hey, why do you guys run a Sunday school bus route and bring kids into church? Because God wants us to God wants us to go get children and bring them to him. I know God loves children because he tells us to bring children to him. I know God loves children because Jesus, I see in the Bible, Jesus wants to touch children Do you notice it here? He takes them up in his arms. He hugs children. He blesses them. He touches them. He holds them. He hugs them. God loves children. Jesus wants us to bring children to himself. He wants to touch the little children, hold them and hug them. Ah, Jesus rebukes sharply those who keep children away from him Notice here the disciples, you can go in Luke 18, we'll turn over there in a little while. But uh the disciples, uh there was families bringing their kids to the Lord Jesus Christ, and uh disciples got it in their head somehow that Jesus was too busy for children. He was too important to take time for little children. And man, Jesus uh I I I want to put it this way. Jesus about bit their heads off. Did you ever have your wife bite your head off? I hate it. You've got to sew it back on. It's tough. But uh Jesus rebuked them sharply. You suffer those children to come into me, forbid them not! And he rebukes them. I don't know about you, I wouldn't want to be rebuked by the Lord Jesus. So he loves children. We know that. He wants children to come to him. He wants He loves to touch the little children. He uh rebukes sharply those who keep the children away. Uh in uh Luke chapter 18, verse 16, we find that he calls children to himself. It says he called the children over to him. Do you know that God saves little children? Saves them from their sins, from hell, forgives them, gives them new life, eternal life. Do you know God can call children into the ministry? How many people recognize the name Jonathan Edwards? Anybody recognize the name Jonathan? Great preacher back 1700s up in New England. Sinners in the hands of an angry God. Powerful message God used to bring revival to America back in the early days. Jonathan Edwards was saved at the age of seven. Isn't that something? Seven-year-old boy. God calls him to salvation and uh calls him into the ministry. Uh I don't know if you recognize the name, Richard Baxter. Does anybody happen to recognize that name He was a powerful, powerful preacher of uh the back in the Puritans. How many people remember reading about the Puritans in uh in high school or whatnot? He was a powerful preacher, wrote gospel tracts before gospel tracts were popular. He was saved at the age of six. Isaac Watts? Anyone recognize that? Great hymn writer, Isaac Watts. Saved at the age of nine. How about Matthew Henry Great commentator, tremendous commentary. I use it every week. I look something up in Matthew Henry. Save at the age of 11. How many folks recognize the name Curtis Hudson? Curtis Hudson, great preacher of our eight day and age, saved at the age of nine. Dr. Lee Robertson, anybody recognize that name? He was my pastor for many years with the Lord. Saved at the age of fourteen. God calls little children. He loves them, saves them, calls them into the ministry. I was going to try. Bible time comes and strange things happen. I was going to try and sing a song But uh that's the very thought scares me to death. Last time I sang a special, the angels in heaven drooped their wings, and the flag of heaven flew half-mast But the song goes like this. Tramp, tramp, tramp, the boys are marching. Cheer up, comrades, they will come, And beneath the starry flag we shall breathe the air again, Of the free land in our own beloved home. Thank you very much. Thank you very much. I thought I did better than that. Anybody recognize that song? That was an old Civil War song. It was ha anybody knew that song? Anybody here knew that song? A couple folks that were around back then. That was an old Civil War song. It was written and sung by a Union soldier who was taken prisoner of the Confederates. And uh he wrote that there's a lot more to it That song was very popular back then, but somebody took that song and changed the words. And the words go like this. You probably know this song a lot better. Jesus loves the little children. All the children of the world, sing it with me so I don't have to hear me. Red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight. Jesus loves the little children of the world. I like that. In fact, that became one of the most famous popular children's songs there are. Jesus loves children. If you would, keep your place here in Mark, but I want to go to the parallel passage In Luke chapter 18. Here you have Luke's account of this event where the children were brought to the Lord Jesus. Luke chapter 18. And look with me if you would at verse number 16. Luke 18 and verse 16. But Jesus called them, the children, he called them unto him. And then he said to the disciples, suffer, that means to allow or permit, it has the idea of let them alone, step out of their way. Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not. Now notice this next phrase, and this is where I get my message from. For of such is the kingdom of God. For of such. That phrase for of such means this kind of person Is what makes up the kingdom of God. This kind of, we can say it this way: suffer those little, you let those little children come to me, because the kind of faith that they have. Is the kind of faith that makes up the kingdom of God. The way a child approaches God Is the way people are to approach God. The faith of a child. There's a missionary years ago, he's a great missionary. Stanley Jones was his name. God stirred his heart to be a missionary when he was eight years old. I tell you, I just read that and my heart gets stirred about Bible time this week. We're going to have a bunch of eight-year-old kids here this week Wouldn't that be exciting for the Spirit of Almighty God to stir some of those little kids' heart about becoming a missionary for the Lord Jesus Christ? Let me say a word to our missionary story teachers that are going to be teaching the story this week to the kids about missionary story teachers. Hey, let's pray together that God will use us to call some children to be missionaries and serve God. Stanley Jones was eight years old, and God stirred his heart about becoming a missionary. He was in a church service and they were talking about missions, and they had a picture of a tiger, this huge tiger standing beside a little boy from India. And underneath this tiger and this little boy, there was the caption Who will tell me about Jesus? This poster, tiger, uh, little boy, and underneath it said, Who will tell me about Jesus? Eight-year-old Stanley Jones stood there staring at that caption, at that picture. He reads the caption and he says, I will I'll go tell him. I know about you, that stirs my heart. Little eight-year-old boy, just stirred about another child, needs to hear about the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, I'll go tell him, I'll be that one, of such that mentality. That simplicity, that faith that a little child has, oh, they need to hear about Jesus, need someone, I'll be glad to go. The faith of a child, the faith of a child. I want to give some characteristics of faith of a child. Now I preached, I got looking, and just a few weeks ago on Baby Day, I preached on the prayer of a child And you know, I got thinking about it. I don't apologize for preaching on children again. God loves children And a few weeks ago we talked about, as I said, the prayer of a child. Today we want to look at the faith of a child. Now, there are some characteristics of childhood that God says ought not to be true in our lives. We are not to be ignorant. Little children sometimes are ignorant about some things he says. We ought to be wise. We ought to have that. Little children in many ways are immature And Corinthians particularly, God rebukes us believers for being immature. Don't be like babes, but grow up spiritually. So there's some aspects and characteristics of children we're to avoid But there's some aspects that the Lord says, I this needs to be true in your life. And one of those is the faith of a child. Now, what is the faith of a child like? I put this down. The faith of a child is humble faith. It's a very humble faith. You don't hear much talk about humility in this old world we live in. The Bible speaks much about it. Would you turn with me back again to the Gospel of Matthew? First gospel in the New Testament, Matthew chapter number 18. And I want us to notice verse 16. The Lord again is speaking of children. Matthew 18. And verse number 16. That is not the right reference. Matthew 18 and verse 4. I'm sorry. Matthew chapter 18 and verse 4. Look at this I'm telling you, if there's anything that can go wrong, it will go wrong on the week of Bible time, I guarantee it. Look at verse 4. Whosoever therefore, what's those next three words? Shall humble himself as this little child, the same as the greatest in the kingdom of heaven Whoever humbles themselves as this little child, what does that tell me about that little child? It's a humble little child. The faith of a child is humble faith. To humble myself before God. Now, what does it mean? Like I said, this whole world doesn't talk much about humility. You go to a bookstore and you you look for you look go in a bookstore and you look for books on uh success. In life, business success. You look for books on self-help and those types of things. You know what they'll tell you? They'll tell you, man, it's dog-eat dog. You've got us bite and snarl and fight your way to the top. Self-help books, they'll tell you you've got to think highly of yourself You've got to have tremendous self-esteem. You've got to have tremendous self-confidence. You've got to have self-self-self-self-self-self-self. That That's the world's approach. Let me ask you a question, how's it working out for the world? It's a mess. And it's not getting better. God says we need to humble ourselves as a little child. We need to have the humble faith. Now what does it mean to humble myself? The dictionary definition simply means to make myself low. It means to have a modest opinion of myself, not an exalted opinion. I like one definition I found. I was going through different dictionaries, and um Actually, I think I think this came from Strong's uh dictionary. It says to make something level To humble yourself. I got to think of how does that mean? You know what that means? When I humble myself, I'm just on the same level as whoever I'm with. I'm not better than anyone else. Just humble myself. Uh uh if I'm with I'm just on the same level. We're all on the same level. So a humble faith to have Faith in God of a child, have the faith of a child, means unto be uh humble. Uh the people throughout the Bible that God blessed, the people that God blessed throughout Scripture, the people that God used greatly. Were people who had a childlike humility? Paul said three times. He said, I am the least of all apostles. He said, I am the least of all saints. I remember I just thought of this, so I remember uh church I served in years before we came here, uh there was a fellow in the church, and uh he held positions in the church and different things, and and for the most part he's a pretty good guy. But the preacher did something that he didn't agree with for every reason. And it wasn't nothing unscriptural anyway, it was just a preference, and the preacher uh had something, and this got under this guy's skin And he stood in the lobby, and I stood there. I was just a few feet from him, and it was a good-sized church, and there was a a lot, probably about half the crowd that's here this morning was in the lobby, or a third maybe that was in the lobby And he stood there, he's talking real loud and telling everybody around him how he disagreed and he didn't think this uh was uh should have been done that way and whatnot just going on Sunday morning before church. Visitors And then finally he said very loudly, he said this, I'm the best Christian in this church. I knew immediately he was the worst Christian in that whole church. The people God uses throughout the Bible, the people that God blesses throughout the Bible were humble people. People that saw themselves as not better than others around. Paul said, I'm the least of all saints. He says, You put me in a crowd of Christians, I'm not better than any of them. You put me with all the other apostles, the other 12 apostles, I'm not least of them all. I like, I made reference, I think it was last Sunday or recently in a message about uh George Whitfield and Charles Wesley. They had a fallen out. Was that was that last Sunday I ref I made that reference? And uh there was uh fuss going on and again I like uh George Whitfield tremendously I like John Wesley. He's okay. But uh George Whitfield uh has um always stood out in my mind. But uh somebody asked them, do you think John Wesley's gonna be at the judgment seat of Christ? No, they said, are you going to see John Wesley at the judgment seat of Christ? He says, I don't think I'm going to see John Wesley at the judgment seat of Christ. He said he's going to be so far at the front of the line ahead of me that I'll never see him. He's such a far greater Christian, man of God, than I am. He'll be so far ahead of me What a tremendous attitude. God says, I want you to have the faith of a child. Humble yourself just like a child. That is the person. That is the way you're to approach God. That is the way we're to approach our Christian life. The faith of a little child. Humble. Humble. Um one thing that God cannot resist, and that is humility. Um I was reading this week uh through my o uh in the in the uh uh through my devotions of um These men in the Old Testament. And it's amazing to me some of these kings were so perverse. Some of these kings of God's people of Israel were so wicked, so stupid. Um I mean that's easy for us to sit here later and read their story and tell them. But I was reading and the fellow's name escapes me. But he goes and he prays and he trusts God and he conquers the Philistines or whoever it was And then he takes the gods of the people he just destroyed, sets the gods up, and starts praying to the gods of the people he just God helped him destroy them. I wrote in the Mars of my Bible. What an idiot. That's my theological commentary on that. But yet that same fellow, a little later on, God rebukes him, and the Bible says he humbled himself. And God withheld his judgment. And God showed him mercy and showed him grace. It's amazing. God cannot resist humility. When we come to God humbly trusting Him, realizing that we are nothing and He is everything. God says, that's the person I can bless. That's what I'm looking for. Proverbs tells us there's seven things God hates. And one of the first on the list, the first on the list is a proud look. God hates it. God hates it. The faith of a child is a faith of humility. I have a story of Hudson Taylor. How many people recognize Hudson Taylor? Here we go. Hudson Taylor, how many people recognize that name, Hudson Taylor? He was a great missionary too. China, inland China, correct. And uh used the gun a tremendous way. He was speaking at a very large church in Melbourne, Australia. The moderator got up and was introducing different things and he introduced Hudson Taylor. He was very eloquent and he just in glowing terms introduced This great missionary to China, and uh he told them of all his accomplishments, the impact he had on that country for the Lord, and uh just went on and he introduced him as And now I hand the service over to our illustrious guest. Hudson Taylor stood up and just stood there quietly for a moment. And before he brought his message, he made this. He said, Dear friends, I am just a little servant of an illustrious master. Not good. In a way, we need to see ourselves as just little sinners saved by a wonderful, gracious God. God says that's what I'm looking for. Faith that's just humble. Just humble before God. So a faith of a child is humble faith. I put this down: the faith of a child is a trusting faith. It's usually not very difficult to get a child to trust you. Right? You can usually get a child to to uh follow you and do what you say pretty easily. In fact, correct me if I'm wrong later, but correct me if I'm wrong Uh but we work very hard at teaching our children not to trust strangers. Correct? Because a child will have a tendency to trust that one even when that one means us harm. Somebody pulls up in a car, wants you to get in the car, don't you trust them. Don't you get, you run and find us. Somebody you're at the park afterward, and somebody has uh some candy and they want you to come with them. Don't you do that. Don't you trust them. Why? Because a child has a tendency to trust. A child has a tendency to take someone at their word. Predators. Take advantage of this characteristic of children. And we have to teach them to be caution, uh, to be cautious. Uh, God says, I want you To be like a child in this matter of trust. I want you to have faith in me to the point where you are not even cautious about trusting me. Now how many folks here, and I say this, you're going to think of someone and don't say who it is, but how many folks hear you say, when I say someone you do not trust, how many folks somebody comes to your mind? your hand. I'm not about 10. Come to mind. Do not trust. Ah well I gotta be careful. That guy. She you just can't trust. I gotta be very, very careful. Don't lend him any money. Don't do this. Don't do that. Don't trust them. God says, I don't want you to be that way with me. You better be careful doing business with that company. You better be careful. Can't always trust them. The exact opposite of that is what God wants us to attend. In fact, turn with me, if you would, to Proverbs chapter 3. Boy, if this verse is not underscored or highlighted somewhere in your Bible, I highly recommend it. It ought to be, and it ought to be committed to memory. Proverbs chapter 3. The faith of a child is humble faith, it's trusting faith. As I said, it's usually not difficult to get a child to trust you. And God wants us to trust Him. To trust them. Look at Proverbs 3, verse 5. Trust, uh, how's it start out? Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. And all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy path. Trust in the Lord with all thy heart. That word trust there, I got looking it up. How it's used in the Bible and some background on the word It means this to feel safe in. Trust in the Lord. It means to uh uh be bold, it means to uh to trust without reserve. And here's the definition that caught my attention. To be to trust carelessly. To trust without caution. When's the last time you saw a Christian completely careless in their trust with the Lord? Just throw caution to the wind. I'm throwing it all on the Lord. I'm not holding back. I'm not questioning. I'm not resisting. I'm not doubting in any way. I'm just careless. Reckless in my trust in God. So God says, that's what I want you to be. Children are reckless sometimes in their trust in people. I was reading an account of a fellow. He was writing a book and he was illustrating an event that took place, kind of this truth that I'm talking about here. And he said him and his young son were out in uh I guess they were out west somewhere and there was this hill of rocks and a kind of a little mountain there and they're just climbing, not mountain climbing with the ropes and hooks and all that, just kind of climbing up on these rocks and up. And they're talking and laughing and different things and trying to get up top. He said all of a sudden, he was climbing and getting his grip and working his way up. All of a sudden, he heard his son shout, catch me, daddy! And he looked up and his son was already in the air. Had launched himself out. Catch me, Daddy! And he said he jumped and scrambled around and caught his son. And he held his son out and he says, What on earth would ever possess you to jump like that and yell, catch me, daddy? He said, the boy said, I knew I could trust you because you're my dad. That is reckless. Would you agree? Is it possible that daddy could have failed that boy's trust? Not deliberately, but just his own limitations. He could have failed that boy's trust, that reckless trust in his daddy. But God says, that's the way I want you to be with me. I want you to be reckless in your trust. Question, can God ever fail us? Never can fail us. And so I can say God is God. He's all powerful. He's all knowing. He cannot lie. He's told me I can commit myself. Fully and completely to him. I can trust him with my needs. I can trust him with my life. I just cast myself on him as a child. Catch me, Daddy Just jump out. In a sense, that's what every one of these missionaries we bring through here is exactly what they're doing. They're throwing themselves out to some foreign mission field, trusting God, that God is leading them, that God will take care of them, that God will provide for them. And listen, what they do in that foreign mission field is what you and I can do in our homes, in our families, with our children, with our finances, with the problems we face. We can cast them on God just recklessly Carelessly say, God, I put this in you. I trust you to take care of me and help me and meet my needs. Childlike faith is humble faith. A childlike faith is uh is uh trusting faith. And a childlike faith, last of all, I can't see the clock back there, so I have no idea what time it is. We may be here forever But um number three, I put this down, a childlike the faith of a child is a simple practical faith I found that children, you don't need a lot of explanation for kids. How many dads ever said this to your kids? Son, do this because I'm your dad. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Why do I have to do that? Because I said so. Anybody? Can I get a witness? Uh uh Why do I have to why do we have to clean our room every once every four months Um 'cause I'm your mother. Uh and I said so. All right Here, you gotta do this. Okay. I found that children really don't need a lot of theory behind what they're told to do and a lot of explanation. Now, sometimes they'll ask why. Why? Because, okay. Generally, a child will take someone at their word. Now let me throw a word of caution out to our workers with the children, and I've said this before. I I believe they understand that. We have to be careful when working prime uh especially with the little children about leading them to Jesus. Uh you can get a little child to pray to Santa Claus, ask them to come in their heart. You have to be very careful. I'm not saying it's difficult, they can be saved, but we need to be careful that we explain to them very clearly and very simply what the gospel is. Why? Because a child has a very simple faith. They tend to just take people at their word, for the most part. And God says of such. Just like that, that type of faith that simply takes someone at their word. That's what I'm looking for from people That's what makes up the kingdom of God. Just a simple faith that will take God at his word. God will bless those who simply take him at his word. Take him at his word. There was a church and they had children had a program. From what I understand, it's very similar to our King's Kids program where the children memorized verses. And they had it set up in such a way, it was kind of like if you were from a different denomination, some denominations have what they call confirmation. Anybody know what I'm talking about? A lot of times they'll have chemized uh verses or certain doctrinal statements, and then they'll ask them a question and they repeat that uh verse back or whatever and they go through that. Well that's what was taking place in this church. The teacher, they were, they were memorized from Romans 8, uh a passage from Romans 8. And the teacher would start out and ask this question. What shall separate you from the love of God? And one by one, they would get out of front of the whole church And the child would respond, and they would recite perfectly, I am persuaded that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything And they go through and quote exactly that passage in Romans 8. And they went down, and every child did it exactly right till they got to the last child. Her name was Rachel Rachel was a Downs syndrome child. Very sweet. And everyone, when it got to her turn, everyone thought, oh no. What's going to happen? She's going to be embarrassed. Will she get it right? And the teacher came to Rachel. And she asked, Rachel, what shall separate you from the love of God? And Rachel stood up tall and very boldly said nothing. And Rachel was exactly right. She took God at his word. Nothing. Will separate me from the level. You know what God's looking for in your life and my life? He's looking for us to just take them at his word. Jesus said, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. Oh, I need to be born again? Okay, if that's what God says, all right. I need to be saved. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you're on your way to heaven through trust in Christ. God says you need to settle that. Why don't you just take God at His Word? I need Jesus to be my Savior. I need to accept Christ as my Savior. The Bible says that after a person is saved, after a person is saved, the Bible says they ought to be baptized As many as received his word, they that gladly received his word were baptized. You say I'm supposed to be baptized? Yeah. Why don't you just take God at His Word? And follow the Lord in baptism. Bible says, we could just go down the list. Bible says don't forsake the assembling yourselves together. God wants us to be faithful to church. God says that? Okay. God says we're supposed to pray for everything. God said I'm supposed to pray? Okay. Just a simple faith. I don't like this statement. God said it, I believe it, that settles it. I don't like that statement. I like this statement better. God said it, that settles it. Right? Well, I believe it or not. So just take God at His Word. Just take God at His Word. Say, oh, I'd like to see some proof that there's a heaven and hell. We can't prove it to you other than that's what the Bible says. Just take God at His Word. I'd like to see some proof that God answers prayer. Why just take God at His Word? Take God at His Word. Of such is the kingdom. of heaven. This is what I'm looking for in your life. Just simple, humble, trusting faith. And God will bless us. Father, help us this week to teach the children. Help us to instruct and display to them, manifest to them what Christianity is all about. But God help us to learn from them. And I pray, dear Lord, that we as adults, that we as individuals will have the faith, the humble, trusting, simple faith of a child So that you can bless us and use us and lead us in our lives. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I have some needs in my life? They're really bigger than What I feel capable of handling. And you say, preacher, I'm just going to be like a child. I'm just going to trust God. I'm just going to take him at his word and cast this care on him And I'm just going to let God help me with my problem. Just like a child trusts an adult, I'm going to trust Trust God. Is there anybody, a very specific issue, you say I'm going to trust God with this situation? God bless you, hands all around. My hands raised. I have a couple uh areas in life. I just need God. I just need to trust Him. God has to do it How about it? Any others? Preacher, yes. A very specific issue, a specific area of my life. God bless you, a few other hands. I'm just going to be reckless. I'm just going to throw it in God's hands. Cast myself fully on Him. And let God's will be done. I wonder if there's some here. Now, this might be a little personal, I don't know. But if I wonder if there's some here, say, preacher, I've got a real serious issue with pride. I keep getting in fusses with people, contention. It only comes by pride. I just have this tendency to think too highly of myself. And I need God to help me. Just humble myself before Him. And just see myself as God says I am. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Now, maybe, maybe we're too proud to admit we're proud Because there's some say, preacher, pray with me. I know that. I know that's an area I need to work on. I tend to think too highly of myself. I need to humble myself before the Lord. How about it? Any like that? Let God bless you That's the beginning of humility when we recognize our own pride. Maybe there's some say, Preacher Stanley Jones, saw that picture of a little boy that needed Jesus And the question was, who'll go and tell him? Little eight-year-old Stanley Jones says, I will. I'll go tell him. And he did, eventually. We've got little children that need the Lord Jesus in our community. We've got teenagers, young parents, middle aged, senior citizens that need Jesus. He'll tell them. Who'll help us go out and get them and bring them in. Maybe God's dealing with your heart about serving the Lord, being a witness For the Lord Jesus Christ, you say, preacher, pray with me that I can be the witness. Just like a little child, just share the gospel with others because the need is great. How about it any like that by the uplifted hand, God bless you, a bunch of hands around. I want to be a witness for the Lord Now, maybe our Bible story teachers are in the service, missionary story teachers, Bible time workers, that the invitation be a good time. Maybe just come and ask God to fill you with His Holy Spirit this week, to give you a burden, boldness. Us workers, whatever aspect you have this week, whatever need is, it'd be a great thing to kneel at an altar and say, God, fill me with your spirit this week. Use me and see children saved. Moms and dads come to Christ. Father, bless our invitation. Now, you know our needs are great. God, you're a great God. Help us to trust you. In Jesus' name. Let's stand