And um uh so he's no stranger. And uh having a family conference is nothing strange to our church. We do this all the time and uh we believe that the family of God is a uh is just that, families coming to Christ and uh living for the Lord. And I do want to say this. Marriage and uh Brother Schindler's already addressed this tremendously in Sunday school. We'll deal with it through the day. But uh marriage is a lifelong endeavor. Right? It's a lifelong deal. And it is a lifelong effort I don't believe you ever get to the point where you just cruise. New challenges come up, uh new uh uh situations arrive in the different stages of life, and they all need to be dealt with. And so I'm not sure what Jerry's doing back there, but no, I know what he's doing. I asked him to do that. But um this is what I want to get at God used marriage is God's idea. Right? Everybody on board with that? God came up with it. Read Genesis 3, Genesis 2. God will use the situations and the issues in marriage. God uses that to develop our faith. And strengthen our faith. We cannot separate my relationship with my spouse, raising my children, dealing with grandchildren. I cannot separate that from my Christian growth. God takes those challenges that we face in the Christian life. And Ephesians 5 talks about this. The marriage is a picture of Christ in the church. And so when my wife and I, well, not us, but others, uh wife and I have issues or whatever we have to work through God uses that to help my faith grow, help me understand a little bit more about the Lord. So when you view the challenges in marriage or raising children, whatever it is, Don't view them as these are my enemies, these are obstacles, these are difficulties. View as it, oh, God's working in my life. God's using this to teach me. to help me grow in my faith. I think you approach it that way, it changes everything. And so let's open our hearts and minds. Ask the Lord We have more throughout the day. We'll say more about that later, but let's really um focus on what he has now. Thank you. Yes, yes, Gotham. Good morning. I'm glad to be here. At my age I'm glad to be anywhere. Uh back on the table, I hope you'll stop by our table. And I w wanna say thank you so much for your support. We really appreciate it very much. We get uh we I just got back from Zambia, uh Africa Yeah. Our first trip there. What a wonderful time. I tried to get your preacher to go for go with me, but he couldn't get it in his calendar and couldn't swing the money and everything. But I'm hoping he he'll go with me sometime. Uh and um But we uh uh we were back in the bush and uh on a mission station and in fact the second night I was there a green mamba snake got on the property. That was exciting. And uh well we had seven snakes killed the week s the week I was there, uh spitting cobras and mambas and so on like that. But we were in the bush and had thirty two pastors in a preacher's uh pastor's refresher course. and uh preached in the churches and the graduation of their Bible Institute had a wonderful time. We're getting ready to leave. This coming Thursday, pray for Lynn and I. We're going to India. It'll be my sixth trip there. It'll be her second And we're going to be there and I'm doing a series of family life series series in several churches they're putting together And then all the student body, five hundred and fifty students in the college, and then all the faculty and their families. So I'll be doing three of those and preaching in the First Bible International. uh Bible Pastors Conference. The first year we had 168 pastors, Indian pastors that come. See, one third of the unpeople reached people groups are in India. One third of them Two pastors resigned and went full time with with First Bible in that week comfort at the end of that week's comfort. Last year at 220 we're expecting well over three hundred pastors this year as Dr. Cheeron is carrying the first Bible uh first bio international ministry to reach the unreached people groups throughout India and Asia. So we're excited about that. So pray for us. Back on the table Uh if you like a bookmark, Dr. Keene put out a little bookmark and on the back of it are the uh top, I think there's hundred. Um Uh unreach people groups listed on the back and pray for them. Our prayer cards back there. And also there's some brochures if you do not understand and know which of the languages, top languages of the 1040 back there and something about the philosophy of First Bible. And then Dr. Rex Cobb down at the Baptist Bible Translators Institute in Bowie, Texas, has a school for training people to do uh translating the Bible. You might pick that information. And then also on the table that's against the wall going out the door, there's two of these unpublished word magazines, uh two different copies uh and so on. And uh they're free. One to a family, yes please take them and I think you'll find them very real interesting. It has to do with the Bible, translation of the Bible, and all those things. Really, really interesting. And so if you'll stop by there, I think you'll get a blessing. Amen? All right. Take your Bibles if you would please this morning. Go to Matthew. I'm sorry. I got my wrong notes here. Hang on. I got I got my Sunday night's message here instead of Sunday morning. Let me go down next to my wife here and Get my notes. Yeah, here they are. Yeah, there it is. Okay. I could preach Sunday tonight's message this morning, I guess, couldn't I? Um but take your Bible and go to Second Timothy. I'm sorry, Second Timothy. When I announced the text I said, uh oh, I made a mistake there 2 Timothy. I call that a senior moment. 2 Timothy, the third chapter, 2 Timothy 3. 2 Timothy 3. Alright. Everybody have it? Look to your left, right. Make sure everybody has a Bible. I want you to follow along on the Bible this morning. Said, this know also that in the last days, perilous times shall come. You ought to underline that Perilous times shall come, for men shall be lovers of themselves, covetous boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents. unthankful, unholy, without national affection, truth breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors heady, high minded, uh loser lovers of of pleasures more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof from such turn away. For of this sort are They which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers lust, ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now as join us in jambridge withstood Moses so do these also resist the truth. Men of corrupt minds reprobate concerning the faith. But they shall proceed no further, for their folly shall be manifest unto all men, as theirs also was. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you help me this morning. I really want to be a blessing and a help. I pray that you'd help me and uh to preach what you would have me preach. Help me, Father, to say only that which I'm supposed to say and use it for the glory of Christ. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Often said, I've come to preach and you've come to listen. Please don't get done before me. Okay. Uh I want to I want to share with you um something else. Uh uh take your Bible. I want to l look at another verse. Hold your hand here because we're gonna come back to this chapter. This I'm gonna do more speak preaching from this chapter right here. Maybe put your bullet in there. But look in Luke the 17th chapter. Let me lay a little bit of a front porch on my message this morning. All right. Luke the 17th chapter. And look, if you would please at um verse number 22. Luke 17, verse 22 And he said unto the disciples, The days will come when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of Man, and ye shall not see it. And they shall say unto you, See here or see there, go not after them, nor follow them For as lightning as the lightning that lighteth uh out of the one part uh under heaven shineth unto another part under heaven, so shall also the Son of Man in his day But first must be must he suffer many things and be rejected of this generation. And as it is as it was in the days of Noah, so shall it also be in the days of the Son of Man. They did eat They drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark and the flood came and destroyed them all. Likewise, also as it was in the days of Lot, they did eat They drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they built it. But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom, it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of Man is revealed In that day, he which shall be on upon the housetop, and his stuff in the house, let him not come down uh to take it away, and he that is in the field, let him not and let him likewise not return And he said, Remember Lot's wife, whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it, and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it. All right, now I wanna I wanna get some help if I can. I need four just four men to come up. Just hold something for me, will you? Can I just get you two here? Could you come and help me? And could you come and help me Just need you to hold something and I explain something, all right? You hold this up. I did this morning, I I wish I had time to print it all out, make it look fancy and so on, but I but I decided at the last minute this morning the Lord wanted me to do it this way. Now I want to draw your attention to the fact that we read in second in 2 Timothy 3 verse 1, In the last days shall be perilous days. I want to explain to you a little bit about what that means, the last days. Okay. We have a little timeline. Hold it up a little higher than we, brother. First of all, we have the cross of Calvary, 33 A. D. And then we have Jesus going back up into heaven, ascending up into heaven, seated at the right hand of the Father, where he is now making intercession for us. On the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit came down, 33 A. D. 50 days after Jesus uh was resurrected. Alright, we have the um the Holy Spirit. So the Holy Spirit's come down. He's now here, and it's we're going through what we call the church age This is the time of the church now. It's been almost 2,000 years. In fact, well, just about 2,000 years. And then the next thing we're looking for is the rapture of the church. That's when Jesus comes and takes his bride and we all go to heaven. We have a we'll all get a new body at that time and we'll go to heaven. And then there starts a seven-year trip tribulation period where God judges the the world, the battle the Antichrist, the one world government, all that will take place at this time. And then Jesus will come and there'll be the Battle of Armageddon And uh and then the thousand year reign will begin, and at the end of that will be the white throne judgment, then the new heaven and new earth. The last days he's talking about in f it has to do with this part right here, just before the rapture Alright. From the rapture on, it's called the day of the Lord or the day of Christ. In other words, it's like this. Uh they say back in uh George Washington's day Well, they don't mean a twenty-four hour day. They're talking about a period of time identified with George Washington, right? Well, the Lord, when we say the Lord's day, we're not talking about a twenty-four hour day. We're talking about when the Lord has his day Alright, that's going to begin here at the rapture of the church, and then for seven years of tribulation, God's gonna uh gonna begin to pour out his wrath upon the earth and so on. Now We we don't know when the rapture is going to take place. We have no idea. There's no signs for that. All right? But We do know there are a lot of things the Bible tells about it's going to happen in the seven-year church, seven-year tribulation period. Alright And so as we s as we look at the last days and what he explains to us there, that we read in 2 Timothy the 3rd chapter It's going to in a sense continue to get worse because when this church goes up and the salt of the earth is gone and we're gone and then God begins to now have his day and tribulation will come And these areas. Now, I I want to address the fact in this message just for a little while, then we're going into it more on the home and everything, but I want you to remember we're talking about these days here just prior to the rapture called the last days, these perilous days. Alright? And so on. Oh, but we're in last days. We talk about the Lord coming. Can we set a date? No, we've got a man on family radio. He set a date next May or something, the Lord's supposed to come. He'll be another fool. He is a fool Because Jesus the Bible is very clear that no man knoweth the day or the hour and so on. So he's going to be a fool and uh and he's going to end up probably have to go hide somewhere because it's not going to happen like he said And uh so on. But we're going to talk about these last days, okay? So remember the last days right here before the rapture, before the Lord comes and gets us. Okay? That's what I want you to say. Thank you, man, for helping me So that's kind of critical to what I wanted to share with you this morning. Alright? Now these are the last days These are the last days and um and we know that. Let me give you some things. I I just sat down and wrote down some things, preacher, that I saw And I hear and I watch that point to the tribulation period and point to the things that this the coming of the Lord draws nigh. Now I'm not here to preach on the second coming, here to preach on home, but just follow with me. This is my front porch Alright. First of all, we know as we remember history, we know that at the time of Jesus uh when Jesus went back to heaven thirty three A. D. Then the Romans began to persecute the Jews again and seventy A. D. Titus or the Roman uh general Roman uh uh army came in, destroyed uh everything in Jerusalem and uh took there was not one stone left upon another. He went in the temple and desecrated the temple and so on, and the Jews were dispersed And now for almost or uh up until 1948 they were dispersed all over the world. All over the world. There's Jewish um people in Russia called Russian Jews, German Jews, American Jews, everywhere. The Jews, many of them kept their identity Well, they returned the Jewish people returned to Palestine in the late forties. Israel was recognized as a state in nineteen forty-eight. This is the this is the fig tree that blooded blood bloomed All right. Jerusalem become the capital of Israel. There's been ongoing hostilities against Israel. You know this, and I know this These are all been prophesied in the Bible, and we know the culmination in the in the tribulation period. There's been a development of the North and Coalition There's going to be an army that's going to evade, I believe, at the time of the rapture called the Battle of Gog and Magog, Ezekiel 38 and 39. That coalition of Russia and Iran and Pakistan and um and uh Libya and Sudan, Eth Ethiopia, Turkey All those nations already have a treaty. They're already bound together. And the battle of uh of Gahagamago could take place today. Um the rise of massive armies, the army in the East, China has a a army of over two hundred million soldiers. The rise of the ancient Roman Empire the fall of USR, USSR, United Europe, Euro Dollar, all this is uniting the Roman Empire. Major shift in in um in towards global uh globalization For the first time in my life, I was watching Fox Radio, and they're talking about that guy, George Boris. I think that's how you say his name. Uh is it Soros, Soros. And he is a proponent of a one world government. And he said And they quoted it. And this is on national television. This is not this is not some prophecy program. This is not some religious program. This is national news that he said the greatest hindrance towards a one world global community was the United States of of America. It must be destroyed. That's what he said And uh and they're they're wanting a one world government. So all the governments of the world are going through financial catastrophe. They want to get rid of the American dollar, they want to have just a one world government dollar, they want everybody to be all one. Destroy all sovereignty of nations so that they can have a that what they can do is take from you and give it to the poor That's what they want to do. They want to lower your standard of living by taking. By the way, does that sound does that sound pretty much like you've been hearing in American politics, the taking from the rich and giving it to the poor, redistribution of the funds Well, that's been real strong in the in the minds of people because that's what's happening. The threat on nuclear extension, the arms treaty they just made with Russia. What happened? We decided to to um lower our supply. Even while North Korea is building a bomb and Iran's building a bomb, Pakistan has a bomb, we're gonna lower our defense by getting rid of some of our nuclear bombs and nuclear weapons. There's been an increase in knowledge. You might as well your Blackberry away because tomorrow they're gonna have another one. Your iPad's gonna be obsolete in another month and you're gonna have to get another one And it's an absolutely astounding of the knowledge that man has been able to to have given to him by God, but yet they never can come to the knowledge of the truth There's the advent of Worldwide T V. How are they going to see the two witnesses in Revelation eleven that are in the streets of Jerusalem Except now we have worldwide television live in your living room. There's a rebuilding of the temple. The Old Testament priesthood is now being re-established. Earthquakes everywhere. Persecution of Christians Uh one hundred and fifty thousand Christians died for their testimony last year. And uh not in our country, but in other countries. But of course, even today we we have seen tremendous persecution against the Christian faith and Christian belief. And then of course our moral decay that's coming. In fact, here in Second Timothy the third chapter talks about the moral decay. So the reason I said all that and wanted you to think about that and see that is because I want you to recognize we're in our last days. We're in our last days. Now I want to remind you, it says as the days of Noah, do you do remember that Noah had three sons and their wives with them in the ark? There were three sons that grew up in the middle of all that great that tremendous uh judgment time of God when He poured out a flood upon the earth. There were three boys that grew up in that home and loved the Lord We do remember that Lot did not. Lot compromised and backslid and went into the into the world, went into Sodom Gomorrah, his wife was turned to a pillar of salt. And uh so on. That's why he said, Remember Lot's wife, because she looked back to the world, because that's where her ties were, that's where her all of her interests were, and her family and the world and what the world had for her And she was turned in to a pillar of salt. Look at uh find the last book of the Old Testament. If you go to Matthew the first chapter, then turn back a page, and find the book of Malachi. My pastor is Italian, he calls it Malachi The book of Malachi. Malachi, the fourth chapter. Look if you would, please, at verse number five. Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great day and dreadful day of the Lord. In other words, Elijah is going to come before the Lord comes a second time to the earth to rule and reign for a thousand years. And he said, and he, Elijah, shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. That's really something you think about. Elijah's ministry can come, he's going to minister to homes. He's not going to come and do miracles and everything. He's going to come and preach to fathers and to children because God wants to keep the curse from happening. He says, so I've got to repair the home. See? And I got the thing in this first time I preach this message, by the way, Brother Leatherman, so I'm practicing on your people a little bit. The fact is that we believe these are the last days. And if you're a Christian and you do any study or anything and if you watch anything, I think you agree with these last days. And we do know that's going to happen that the rapture came today, what's going to happen in the next seven years in this in this world Tremendous destruction, tremendous judgment. The Antichrist, one world church, one world ruler, people going to have to receive his marker. Can't hold a job, can't buy food, can't Can't work, can't do anything, and they're going to lose their head if they if they if they don't take the mark of the beast. And we know that God's going to destroy billions upon billions of people upon this earth and everything in the judgment of God upon this earth. We know that's going to happen. This world is going to be destroyed, and so on. We know that from the word. And so I say to me than then we who are here at this last time, at this place right now, what in the world are we going to do? We got families to raise. We got marriages to to build. What are we going to do? What are you going to do? How are we going to handle this Because I and I'll be honest with you, I'm glad I'm seventy-two going on seventy-three. I don't man I I don't have to raise a family, but I do have ten great grandchildren And I'm concerned about them. I'm concerned about my grandchildren and where they're raising their kids and how they're raising their kids because they're raising them here in this world, see Now I want you to notice again in 2 Timothy the third chapter verse number 1. Know this in the last days there shall be perilous times. Perilous to who? Perilous to who? Look at look what it says here. Look at verse number one again. This know also in the last days perilous shall times shall come, for men shall be lovers of their own selves. Have you ever lived in a world? Now watch this. You are trying to build your life with you and your mate in a world that's like this. You're trying to raise your children. This is the message of the world. Lovers of their own selves. Not lovers of God, lovers of their own selves. See? And it says they're lovers of their own self. Said they're covetous. They want what you got. They want it more than what and they want anything you have they want. And then it says they also are boasters, they're proud, they're blasphemers, they're disobedient to parents, unthankful and unholy. All you children, listen up here, you teenager, listen to me Okay? Notice what it says here. Look at the verse. It says blasphemers disobedient to parents. I want you to notice the crowd that you, if you're a disobedient child If you're running around with you're running around with people who are lovers of own self, they're covetous, they're boasters, they're proud, they're blasphemers, they're unthankful, they're unholy, they're without natural affection, they're false accusers That's what you are identifying yourself with if you're running with a crowd and so on, and you are you're living your life in disobedience to the authority of your parents. Pretty bad crowd to run with if I would if I don't you think I would think about that. What crowd you're running with. But see this is what this is what society, you're looking at society And by the way, you and I already know it. We read when you read that, you're smart enough to identify this is where this is where I live. This is who I live with. This is my neighbors. This is what I read in the in the papers. This is what I see on television. This is what you see in Hollywood movies. This is what people live. This is how they live their life. They live their life. They're covetous. They're disobedient. They're blasphemous. They're unholy. And they're without natural affection. Naturally, you know what that means? Well, first of all, if you look at Romans the first chapter, it talks about homosexuality. Okay? It's called natural or demonic uh affections. There's people who love their animals more than they love anything else in the world. In fact we were talking yesterday about somebody that you can you in fact we're talking about Michael Vick, the quarterback for the for the uh Philadelphia Eagles. Well he went to jail for killing dogs. Do you know their people want him to be executed? They believe that's a capital offense? And they would kill him or putting him in an electric chair to kill him for killing dogs But if you said, Well, if he killed his neighbor with a gun, would you kill him? Oh no no. They wouldn't think he ought to die for that, but he could kill dogs. That's unnatural affection Unnatural affection. Natural affection that God made us is love each other and love our wives, love our children. Children love us. Our wives love us, we love our wives. We love people, we love God. That's natural affection And so on. But we live in a nation that's full of unnatural affection. And we also raise in our family with people who are traitors, they're heady, they're high-minded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God. That's not true. Uh do you think honestly that uh they'd have any problem filling the Superdome on Super uh Bowl Sunday if it was at Sunday Sunday morning at eleven o'clock You think they'd have a problem saying, oh no, we better not have it on Sunday morning, man. No way, we couldn't have eleven o'clock. That's church time. Everybody in America goes to church. Huh? They wouldn't have any problem filling this superdome for the Super Bowl whenever they had it, middle of the night, three o'clock in the night. See? And so on. And people now w I'm I'm really not preaching at you I was hoping that you will recognize that this is the world you're living in. This is what the world philosophy is. This is what's inundating your home and your marriage and your life. This is what you're viewing. This is what you're seeing. Notice what it says. It says having a form of godliness, but denying the power or the dynamite thereof In other words, they identify godliness as religion. But if you start preaching the gospel, which is the power of God unto salvation, oh that's a different matter. If you start preaching Jesus is the only way, the truth, and life, no man comes to the Father but many. Whoa, whoa, whoa, wait a minute. If you start talking about what you believe and how you believe it, and you want to have a a Gretsch and you want to put it on the front uh steps of your uh of a of the city uh Township building down here. Oh no no no no no no no they they they don't mind you having a little religion but don't you bring in God into this. Don't you bring bringing the Holy Ghost to God, don't you bring in salvation, don't you bring in Jesus into this. You can have Santa Claus, but not Jesus. See, that's what you and I live in. That's the last days. That's the last days. That's how you and I are living our lives. Notice what it says. It says, for this sort, uh verse number um verse number six, for this sort are they which creep into houses, lead captive, silly women, laden with sins, led away with diverse lust I saw about the morals of our ladies, morals of women today. That's that, by the way, that's Hannah Montana Montana. Huh? That's that's these team magazines. That's these that's this that's this this this influence of coming through the uh the American idol and all that, bringing to you immorality and nudity and and sex and singing and sensuality and so on. Why? It's coming into our home, into our lives. We live with it Now hang on to me, don't get mad at me through this messy time. Don't don't don't shoot the pat don't shoot the mailman. Okay? Look what it says He says also, he said, verse 7, ever learning, never able to come to knowledge of truth. Now as Johannes and Jambus withstood Moses, the man of God, so these do also resist the truth I don't want to hear the truth. I don't want to hear the gospel. They don't want you to witness. They don't want you to pass out tracts. They don't want you to share your testimony. They resist the truth. Then it says, and they said they, verse number nine, it says, uh they were men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith. That's where we're living. It's the last days. That's what society's like. That's where you live. That's where you work. That's what coming across your television. That's what's coming across your radio. That's what's coming across the iPads. That's what's coming from your computer. This is what life is. Now, if you look at that, can you at least go back to me in verse number four, I mean verse number two, and say, that men shall be lovers of God than own selves? That's what you're supposed to be trying to do Can we say, oh, we're not to be covets, we're to be givers. We're not to be boasters, we're supposed to be we're supposed to be people who are low esteem, uh, in the sense of uh we know who we are. We're sinners saved by grace, and we're nothing without the grace of God. And pride should not be a part of life. Surely we should not blaspheme God. Surely we ought to be de obedient to our family, thankful. In other words, everything we ought to be is exactly the opposite that we're living in. You can't change it. You're not going to change it. It isn't up to us to change it really. You might change it by changing somebody and their opinion about Jesus and they get saved and they in their life might change it. But you and I are trying to make our marriages in our lives work. And this is what it is. This is what's coming to us all the time. So I said to myself, there's no hope. How are we going to do this? How are we going to raise our children in this situation? How are we going to do that? Well, I think that it's very important that we consider that. It's in the Word of God, and either throw in the towel and say it can't be done and just go back to the world. Is that the answer? I don't think so. So what am I supposed to do? I know that Christ in my life and Christ in my marriage and Christ in my relationships. And Christ in my philosophy and my value system is going to make the difference in my home, in my how do I know that? Because I know a man by the name of Noah who raised his family in the time when God said, It repent of me, I made man, I'm going to kill every one of them. He said, so Noah will give everybody a chance, though, said build a boat, an ark. And he said, if anybody will listen to you, so for 120 years he preached and he resisted the truth. For 120 years he talked about God and sending judgment, and they didn't listen. And the world's not going to listen much to us. And they're not going to listen to you. They might on an individual basis, but we're not going to get much done overall. But the fact is that we need to know that we can have a good marriage and we do have a promise in the Word of God of raising our families and doing what we can to raise our families, see our kids grow up and live for God. We were talking yesterday about how the now I've noticed in our churches We're losing so many of our teenagers. They come out of the Christian home, they come out of the homeschool, they give they graduate, they've been reading their Bible, they got some they got rewards and in the in uh in Christian school for memorization of Bible verses and they've been soul winning, they've been in a bus ministry and they walk out and walk away from God. You know why? That's because you as parents are terrible failures. No. It may not be. It may be the fact that the world out there has more power and influence in it and we haven't recognized it enough to shut it out We have recognized that the world out here is an enemy of our home and our marriage and our children, you see. And so therefore we must understand. I noticed and I started leaning through this chapter preaching. I said, Well, what is the answer? I noticed verse number nine it says, But they shall proceed no further, for their folly shall be manifest unto all men as theirs also was. I think the most important thing is, can I get your attention, young people, for a minute? Wake up and look, smell roses. Take a look at the lives of people who are living their lives in the world in sin. Take a look at the harlots of Hollywood. They can't even keep their marriage together for more than a year. Take a look at what drugs do. Take a look at what emorotic does. Take a look at what gambling does. Take a real good look at what the world is out here. And all this philosophy of life that you're permeated with every day of your life. Take a good look at look at the folly of sin and the Folly of that life of sin. And you and I as parents need to look at it. Huh? I know one thing. Years ago, there was a young man that he got went to team camp. And uh is in the mountain somewhere and he he found a rattlesnake. We got a hold of that rattlesnake And he got it in his hand. He gave the head was right here like this, you know, and he had it by the neck. If a snake has a neck. And that snake had wrapped his tail around its arm and he was walking around scaring the girls And the girls were screaming and running and everything and he kept saying, You better put that you better put that down, you better not play around with that. And he wouldn't listen. But a snake has a funny thing about it He can work its way. Work its way. And all the time he's fooling around, that snake is working his head back, working his back. And there came a time when that snake's head came and loop bit him. He killed him I I know one thing, I wouldn't put a baby rattlesnake. It was a the mambo came on our camp. Green mambo is about twenty-six inches long. This is a small one. But the missionaries said they're the worst. 'Cause they bite, they bite, and they bite and they bite and they bite. Sometimes the older they they don't bite. They they they it's almost like they They want to be threatened before they bite because they get this poison. I I don't know what psychology, I don't know what snakes snakes bites. But I know this, that little one and I didn't want that little snake biting me. And I wouldn't pick that little snake up and put it in my pocket Walk around and say, here I want to show you my snake? You want to show my snake? Huh? But see, that's what people are doing. That's what young people are doing. They think they can pick up the snake and play with it They think it's cute. They think it's funny. They think sensuality and immorality is the way to go. That's life. That's what it's about. That's where the action is. That's where the fun is. That's where accepting is. That's where everything is So the devil's painted this picture and the world is giving that picture. And if you and I are not careful, our children, and we're gonna by the way we're gonna permit it into our marriage relationship Say we're gonna pick that up. I noticed that so he said the folly of them. Notice something else I noticed, he says. It says in verse number uh verse number 10, but thou hast fully known my doctrine. Oh My matter, excuse me my life, my purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my charity, my patience. Persecutions and afflictions. And he talks about what persecution he endured. He said, and how the Lord delivered him. You know, it seems to me that one of the things here I saw is somebody setting some kind of example. Somebody said something. Paul said, but wait a minute. He said, you know my doctrine. You know what I believe. I wonder if in our homes today, whether our husbands and wives shared together Bible teaching to strengthen the marriage against the influence of the devil. I wonder if we know our Bibles. And I know this that the I I just know this in forty years of pastoring. That the worldly Christian in my church were those that never come to Sunday school. Hardly ever come back for Wednesday night services. Almost guarantee they don't read their Bibles every day. So here they are, they think they're going to live their lives and be successful in their marriage and raise their kids, and they want to leave God out of it. And they gotta leave the Word of God out of it. But you're not gonna raise your kids and you're not gonna have the marriage that you and I are are really in our heart want to have. If we don't understand it, we need to believe this Bible. We need to know our Bibles. We need to obey our Bibles. Let me ask you, how many believe the Bible is the Word of God? Hold up your hand. Wow, good. Do you have a Bible? Hold it up. Let me see it. You believe that's the Word of God? You really do? I hope it's a King James. Huh? Wow. So you're a Bible believer, right? Well, let me ask you a question. What role does that Bible play in your life? What role does that Bible play in your marriage? What role does that Bible play in your child raising? So don't tell me you're a Bible believer and you take your Bible home, throw it on the table, and don't pick it up until the next time you go to church. You're not a Bible believer. You're a Bible holder. See? But if you don't, Dan, if you don't take your Bible and do like General 6 chapter, sit down and teach your family. Teach them the word of God. Teach them why you believe what you believe. Teach them why you're against this and why you're against that. And you say, well, I don't know why I'm against it. And then find out from the Word of God. The only way you're going to keep your kids from being swallowed up by this world is you get in the word of God and you sit down with your children. What happened to family altar, preacher? What happened to man? The man of God at a home comes in, sits his family down, and teaches them the word of God and prays with his family. What happened to that? And yet we cry and moan because our kids turn out for the devil. We cry and moan because we don't have a red-hot marriage anymore. The Bible says, he said, well, I got doctrine. He said, you see my doctrine. You see I believe the Bible. You see that. Notice what he said also. He says in verse verse number 10, doctrine and manner of life. What does that mean? That's his testimony. What the wife saw in her husband, what her husband saw in her wife, what the kids saw in mom and daddy was a testimony for the Lord. You know, I don't know if I have a job. I'm gonna get the horse moment. Um I I asked myself one time What can I do? And how can I help my people to see their kids grow up and go to church and live for God and be faithful to church and serve the Lord? And I've been a thing on a thing. I thought about that. So I wrote down, I don't try to give you all of them. I think I got seven or eight, but I can give you some of them. First of all, those kids need to see me loving the Lord. Loving the Lord. Our kids, my kids need to look at me and see me when I was raising them especially. That's ought to be when I'm a grandpa too We've made up our mind. Our grandchildren, the one thing they're going to see, they're going to see they're going to see a compromising grandfather. You'd be a bit surprised how many grandparents compromise, get their grandkids and compromise Take their kids' places and do things, buy things and do things with their kids and compromise Christian values and so on. Even the values that they once held. They may raise their children that way They say it's our grandparents' right. It's your grand it's the grandparents' right to destroy the faith of their kids and their grandkids? Huh? Well, one thing is to love God. Secondly, to love the church. If I love the church, I'm not going to be criticizing the church My church and my kids not gonna sit or my grandkids not gonna sit in the back of the car and hear me gripe about the preacher and gripe about the message, gripe about Sister Susie in the in the in the nursery, gripe about the Sunday school teacher Gripe about this or gripe about that or nag about that and fuss about that and criticize this person, criticize that. That all they're going to hear is loving Huh? And they're gonna not only that, but they're gonna serve in that church. They're not gonna just go to church, they're gonna get in that church, be a part of it, be serving God. Huh? Maybe you take their kids and say, come on, we're going to clean the church out. And all the family comes. The little three-year-olds in there making beds in the nursery, making a mess. Like three-year-olds only can do But she's serving the Lord. See. And the kids see mom and daddy loving it. They see mom and daddy passing out tracks They see mommy daddy to go by and they see mommy and daddy on their knees praying in the bedroom. They see mommy and daddy hugging each other and loving each other See, they see there's a difference. My mommy and daddy love God, love the church, and they live for Jesus. It's a matter of life. It offsets that. That's what Paul's saying. Look at my manner of life. Look, look at my example, he's saying. I know something else he says. He said, my purpose. Can I ask you a question? What is your purpose? Why are you here? I make a living. What if you're a paraplegic tomorrow? You don't think you can't be a paraplegic? Ask Superman. Huh? Ask what's the name Reeves? Riding a horse one day paraplegic and dies because of it. Huh? See, God didn't leave you here to make a living. God left you here to live. For Him. Raise your children. For Him. Be a family. For Him. That's why you're here. So what did the what do the children see in our lives is our purpose? Our purpose of life. Make money. Well that's what it's all about, making money. Just make money, get all we can, sit down, get all we can, put it in the can, sit down the can. Get it, get it, get it. You go out and buy everything. Kids got everything in their bedroom. Bedroom's filled with every toy and every electronic toy and everything in the world and they're spoiled and cheeky and don't don't even they don't even appreciate it. Well we keep buying it, hoping they'll get happy somehow. Maybe they'll get happy. We'll buy them this, buy them that, buy 'em the newest what do they call them? Box what's it what do they call them boxes they have called. Huh? Video games, in other words. Buy 'em. Get it for 'em. See? What do they see as the purpose of our life? What is it? What purpose do we instill in them that they ought to live their life? And then it says, or faith. Look at my faith. The children need to look at our lives and see our faith. See, that's the exact opposite of what we read the world's doing. Your faith in God and your life of faith, trusting God. What do you do when things go wrong? Do your kids see you throwing a fit, get in a fight? Complaining, griping, criticizing, throwing a fit? Or they see you both maybe on in tears going to the altar or going to the into your bed with your knees and they hear you praying for the situation. They see that you have faith in God, that God is a living person in your life. Now notice something else. He said long suffering. Charity. That's love. That's love with giving to it. That's what love. Charity is love with giving. Say. And he says, and patience You walk around, you're a bear to live with, you're fighting and fussing, and you always on your kids and you're impatient with them, you criticize them, and so on. You dumb kid. Is that the kind of parent you are? You lose patience with your kids, you lose patience with your wife, you lose patience with your husband, you lose patience That's just like the world out here. That's what the world does. That's how they live their life. Well something else. Boy, the word of God is something, isn't it? And look at verse number 11. Persecution. Now look watch this now, because he says this. Yea, those who live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Verse number 12. Did do you do your kids and do your d does your family understand that not everybody believes like you and it don't matter? Son, I don't care what the world does. I don't care what the guy down the street does. We don't do that. Here's why. See, there's a persecution to not Living like the world around you. They don't understand. So well they'll not have friends. Do you call that friends? Do you really think a friend is a friend in the world that would be a friend to your children? Huh? You'd be surprised how many Christian parents want their kids to have friends. As soon as a girl, as soon as a girl even begins to start to develop, she's starting to talk to her about boyfriends You'd be very surprised in a man who are so caught up in sports that all they want is their kids to grow up and their boys to be sports heroes. They live for that. That's what they want. I had a family leave my church when I first came to Landmark because he left because he wanted to go to another church in the area. No, he didn't agree with them, because they had a large Christian school and he wanted his kids in their sports program He said, because he himself always wanted to be a professional, but he knee he blew a knee out, could never do it. So he was living his life through his boys. And Truth's boys went on to be semi-professional. As far as I know, never made the big leagues of anything, but they did. And he was just as happy. But he really wanted to be big stars. He wanted to be a Sammy Sosa. You know, he wanted to be some big, you know, bread fire or something. They they just he just lived for that. That's what he lived for. That was his value system, that was his lifestyle. See, that's what he wanted for the kids. Now, but he so he didn't want them to live for God and suffer any persecution. I'm almost done. Look if you would please in verse number 13. But evil men, seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. Now watch what he says here, verse 14. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, and knowing whom thou hast learned them. That's again going back to what you've learned from the Word of God. What did the preacher preach to you? What did he teach you? Weren't you listening? Didn't he warn you about your children? Didn't he warn you about how to be a good husband? Why didn't you listen? Who are you listening to? Who has your ear? Who's influencing you? Who has the biggest influence? Young people ask you, who's influencing you? Now notice now, notice, notice one other thing, verse fifteen. Notice what he says. He tells Timothy, he says verse 15, and from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith in Christ Jesus. You know what he's saying? He's saying You've been taught since you're a little baby. I think maybe that might be a good thing to continue to think about is you being responsible that your children are taught the word of God and also come to the saving knowledge of Christ That they know they're saved. Years ago we had a revival broke out broke out in our church. And uh one of the ladies on a Thursday night, we we'd had we had fifty-seven people saved And that in that uh five days tent meeting in our church back in eighty three. And one of 'em was the was the uh preacher's wife. His wife his her husband got called a preacher, went off to Bible college, came back. They got before I came and uh and he got called to preach. We came back the first uh in the in eighty three the summer I was there and uh they were in the work and looking he was looking for a church and everything. And she came to me on Thursday night Her dad had been a deacon in our church before. He was not there now when I he didn't c he wasn't there when I came, but he had been back before I came. And uh she's crying and and she asked, What's the matter, Debbie? She says, Uh I don't b I don't believe I'm saved I said, you know, why what tell me about your salvation experience? What what's your profession of faith? She said, well my mother said when I was four years old I was on her knee and had family altar and I got saved. I said, your mother says that when you're four years old, you're on her knee and she had five devotions and you prayed and asked Jesus Savior. She said, Yeah. She said do you remember that? She said, No, I don't have any remember that. But she said, my mother said I was very serious. I said, Well, do you know the Lord? She kind of looked terror-eyed, you know. And I said, when did you wake up one day and find out God just poured Christ in your ear? Oh, she said no. She said, I'm not saved. I've never been saved, preacher. I've never been saved. And I led her to Christ. She told her mother, and her mother almost cussed me out for disturbing and confusing her poor little child. She should have been more interested in the fact that her daughter was saved and knew she was saved, had a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And we need to take the time in our life to teach our children and admonish our children and love our children and impress upon our children the reality of faith in Christ and the reality of salvation and the reality of God's blessing and God's purpose and God's will for their life. I'm telling you, we need to recognize from the Word of God. And then chapter 4, verse number 1 through 4, and I'll be done. I charge thee therefore before God and Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead as appearing in his kingdom. Preach the word, being in season, out of season, rebuke, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. For the time will come. Watch this now, follow me with this now, okay? For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust shall they heap themselves teachers having itching ears. Not the teacher have itching, they have itching ears. They want somebody to tickle their ears That they shall turn away their ears from the truth and shall return to the faithfulness. I'm going to tell you right now, 40 years of pastoring, I'm going to tell you right now, where most of the people, most of the people lost their children, got mad at me And left my church because I warned them like I'm warning you. They didn't like it. And they didn't believe it. And they went to one of these liberal churches where nothing is ever treach taught against sin. They're never warned. It's all mushy mushy window washing laughter and and praise and so on like that and all the music, everything governed just to make you feel good and feel good about yourself. And the preacher never warned them, never told them anything And they got mad at me and left me because I was warning them and teaching them from the Word of God how to be a good parent, how to be a good husband, how to be a good wife. The answer in the last days. I charge you therefore before God, who shall judge the quick and the dead, Pastor Loven, you preach the word, be it's an end season Out of season, rebuke, that means verbally chastise. Reprove means the blame and the censor. And he said, except exhort, that means come alongside and encourage and help and build With all long-suffering doctors, for the time shall come that they shall not hear. They will want somebody to tickle their earth, and they won't listen to that preaching, and they'll leave your church, they'll go somewhere else, and they'll lose their family. Do you listen to me? I'm Rophobia. I've been around a long time. And I want to help you. And his man wants to help you. But you gotta decide what you want. You want the world? Years ago I had an 18-year-old boy in my church. And he came from a broken home. And then a home that got together, but that home got together, both of them got saved, and they were really struggling. They really wanted to live for God. But this boy had grown up with that trouble. He wasn't doing good I put him in my school and I tried everything, got my staff and everybody. We'll work with him. But he just wouldn't do right. He's 18. He's just turning getting ready to turn 18 as a senior. He wouldn't listen. He got in trouble. He's in my office almost once or twice a week. And he wouldn't listen. So I said to him, I said, I said, ah, you know, I read him two words that Elijah said to those people at Montcomray, so how long halt you between two opinions? You believe God? Believe God. If you believe in Bill, serve him. And I said to him, I said, I'm going to give you choice. His name was Dan. I said, you can go back to that classroom and sit down and behave yourself and obey the rules. Stop giving me trouble in the school trouble. And I says, and you're gonna be happy and I'm gonna be happy. Everybody's gonna be happy. Or, if you're not going to do that, get out of here and go serve the devil. That's what you want to do, go ahead, just go ahead. That's what you're going to do, just go ahead and do it. I'm not going to help you and encourage you to do that. So you'll have to make a mind. He just kind of cocked his head and got up and walked out of the office. Left. Stanny, I'm not gonna let you tell me what to do. Six months later stood before a judge who gave him two 24-month concurrent prison terms. Six months. In six months, he spent the next four years in jail. Because he decided he knew his he knew it's best for him. He didn't want God, didn't want him to do it. That's what the world says. And quickly you and I realize that and find our arc of safety. And our personal relationship with Jesus Christ, being filled with the Spirit, serving God, living for God, going to church. Growing and loving our family, teaching our family to being all that God wants us to be. That's where the answer is. Let's stand to our feet and bow our feet. Father in heaven, I pray speak to hearts, challenge hearts. I pray, Father, that you would just do something that's so marvelous and wonderful in our life that it changed our life I pray that you help us. Every head bowed and every eye closed. Maybe you're here this morning, you're not saved. On the day of Pentecost, Preetagata preached, he said, save yourselves from this untoward generation. You need to come and trust the Lord Jesus as your personal Savior. Let Him give you eternal life. Forgive you your sins. Help you to be a Christian. Help you to live for God. Raise your family for God and do what's right for God. Some of you maybe are standing on the fence right now. And you you got so much world in you. If you if you took a if you took a pie and cut a little slice of it Just a little sliver of it, that's what's all in your life compared to the rest of the pie that's living for God. Why don't you give the whole pie to him? Why don't you just give your life to Christ? Why don't you sell out? Why don't you just make Jesus the Lord of your life? There ought to be some husbands and wives come down to an old-fashioned altar this morning and ask God to help them and rededicate their life to have a clean, godly, wonderful, sweet spiritual relationship and a home that honors and glorifies Christ. You may be here this morning and not say, why don't you come? We'll take a Bible and show you how to be saved. Shouldn't go to heaven. Why don't you do that? Teenager, why don't you make up your mind? You're going to do what's right. You're old enough to do what's right. Make up your mind. You're going to serve the devil or not. What are you going to do? Do it. But once you make the right decision, sell out to Jesus. He loves you. Will you do that? I'm gonna pray. I won't ask the penis to pray, and if God spoke to you, I want you to come and talk to God about what he talked to you about. Father, have your will and way, please. In all hearts, every head bowed and every eye closed as the piano plays, you come. That's it. Come on, God bless you. Come on. Come on, some husband wives need to really make this an opportunity to Make some real rededication in your life and your marriage. Change some things. If you're not changing, change the method of your change. Repent. Do right. Sell out. Make Jesus Lord. Teenagers, are you gonna live for God? Sir, are you gonna live for God? You ought to look at the folly of the world. It isn't your friend. The devil's not your friend. Sin's not your friend. Sin will take you further than you want to go. Keep you longer you want to stay and cost you more than you want to pay