Uh while he's coming up here, uh I just like to point out, whenever he whenever we fellowship together, we go out for lunch or last evening, we always end up talking about the things of the Lord uh you know, church or different things about pastoring. A lot of different preachers come through and they're good guys. We love them. We bring good guys through here. But you end up talking about other things Groundhogs, that type of stuff with certain ones. And uh but with Dr. Schindler, it's always focused, and uh that helps me a lot. He shared things at lunch with me today that helped me And uh I appreciate him. And he's helping our families too. So let's give our attention as he brings the final message. Thank you. All right, let me get hooked up here. There we go. I was thinking about your testimony about not arguing. I had a preacher friend preaching my church one time. He said that clowning around, he said, me and my wife had a real fight the other day. Said it was a real bad one. Said in fact I didn't see her for two weeks Said then this one I start opening up a little bit. Take your Bible and go to Genesis a second chapter, would you please? Genesis a second chapter. I did counsel one time years ago with a family of my church, and the husband came in and sat down with his wife. And I said, What's the problem? He said, My wife beats me up. I said, What? He said, My wife beats me up. Literally, his wife was Beat him up. I said, my own mind. Hadn't counseled that before. So she was a big woman too, so I said, Man, you you hurt me. All right, Genesis the second chapter, verse number eighteen, if you would please. Genesis second chapter. By the way, I thought of this this morning and I didn't say it, and I want to tell you and say something tonight. So I won't say uh while I think of it because uh I I sometimes don't remember from one minute to another what I'm saying so but I do thank this church for your prayers and your support. I appreciate so much. We could not do, honestly, could not do what God has called us to do without your help. And I want you to know it's greatly appreciated And uh so and pray for us because on on uh the January thirtieth my wife and I will both be flying to India. It'll be my fifth trip there, and uh my wife's first, and I'll be uh speaking in the in the first Bible International Pastors Conference, second annual, uh in uh in India. Last year we had 168 uh Indian pastors in the first Bible International Conference, the first one they ever had. One-third of the unreached people group is uh groups are in India And 168 pastors came and heard about it, most of them for the very first time. Two pastors resigned their church and immediately surrendered to be missionaries for First Bible. in the country of India. And uh this year I'm not sure what they're expecting, but I'm gonna guess we probably have over three hundred Indian pastors there in the conference. And my wife and I then will stay after the conference. Uh the rest will go home, but we're staying and I'm going to do a module in the college, in the seminary there. They have about five hundred and fifty, six hundred students And I'll be doing a module on the book of Genesis. I'll be teaching three hours a day for ten days, thirty hours on the book of Genesis. My wife will be speaking to the book The women's students there. So pray for her, pray for us, and thank you. I mean it with all my heart. We couldn't do it without you. Thank you very much. All right. Genesis, the second chapter, verse number eighteen. And the Lord said, It is not good that man should be alone. I'll make him a helpmeet from him. And out of the ground the Lord formed every beast of the field and every fowl of the air, and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them And what Sir Adam called every living creature that was the name thereof. And Adam gave names to all cattle, to all the fowl to the to the fowl of the air, to every beast of the field But for Adam there was not found an help meet for him. You think about that. All the creation was brought to Adam and he named them all. That's pretty smart, you know that A man asked his wife one time, said, if I make a decision out in the field all by myself when I'm hunting, am I still wrong? But you ever think about that? God brought all those animals. What if he just said, Wow, God, look at that hippopotamus? Woo wee! Now what it says, and the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam and Islephone he took one of his ribs and closed up the flesh thereof or instead thereof. And the rib which the Lord God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto man, unto the man. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, and she shall be called woman Somebody said that means woe, man, because she was taken out of man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh, and they were both naked the man and his wife, and we're not ashamed. Let's pray. Father, it's been wonderful to be here, and I thank you for the privilege of being behind this sacred desk of this good man and I pray that you'd help me. I just pray that tonight we'd hear something from heaven. The Holy Spirit will work in our hearts and help us tonight. Please I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now this is the first marriage ceremony. Here's God bringing Eve to Adam and they get married and God says you should leave and cleave together and become one flesh, start a family, and replenish the earth. So marriage is God's institution. Kind of interesting to see this and and uh and why it I I see here that God made man out of dirt, but made woman out of prime rib. Do you ever wonder how many how many fig leaves he tried down before she picked one? And you do know why God created Eve last, don't you? It's because he didn't want any advice now to do the rest Preacher, I'm in trouble. But here God made Adam and Eve. Now he says that they should leave mother and father and cleave together And so I got to thinking about that, and uh, and I remember a book that a preacher wrote about wife being a completer. But I got to thinking, you know, God made Adam, and then he put him to sleep and took his rib out, and he made Eve out of that. And uh and through that God created Eve and made her and brought her to Adam and they became one flesh, and actually they became one or complete, whole as a as a couple. And uh and I got thinking then before Adam uh was put to sleep, he obviously had probably all the feminine characteristics in him as well as all masculine characteristics Because he took out of him and made Eve. And so therefore now he's got Eve as a whole person, or as a person, Adam as a person. But he says, No, you're not complete And so therefore he said ye shall come together and become one, and a completer of each other. The real truth is that God made a woman for the man, not the man for the woman, because the man needed a complete her. But also the man is a completer. His wife can't be all that God wanted her to be without a husband. And he can't be everything that God wants him to be without a wife. She's his helpmate. And the helpmate is to do whatever God's will is for their life. And so on. So I got thinking about that and I said, well then What what does that mean? And I think I think it means this. I think that God is saying that in this relationship of husband and wife, that every husband has needs that only the wife can meet. And the wife has needs that only the husband can meet. And with those two when they when they do what God tells them in their marriage relationship, then they become a complete of each other. And so therefore they become whole because of these missing ingredients that are being given by the mate And so therefore, I if I am what I'm supposed to be according to the word of God and I meet my wife's needs, and she then does the same thing for me, then we become whole and complete, and we're complete of each other. And that means if because in Genesis we start now, that means that every wife has the same basic needs and every man has the same basic needs. And and all met and and answered by God and His Word. Now I was one time standing next to a preacher, a friend of mine, years and years ago talking to a missionary from Ukraine and this missionary is inviting me to come to Ukraine and doing a module in his Bible college on the uh in uh Ukraine And I said, I'd love to go. I really would. And uh so we're talking and my preacher friend's standing listening and he said I said, What would you want me to teach on? He said, Well, what would you like to teach on? I said, Well, I'd like to teach on the home if I could My preacher friend interrupts the conversation and says, Well, you can't teach what you're teaching your five family seminars. That's a different culture And I the missionary almost ver I mean visually go, what? And I I just tried to compose. I said, What what is this American Bible? What is this? We only God only God only knows about American couples No, the real truth is the basic need is for every wife and every husband in the world at all times, any generation, in any culture, any nation, any I don't care if it's in the jungles And uh and that's that guy running around in the jungles eating uh eating pigs and uh and uh sweet potatoes for life. Uh I don't care who it is, it's basic needs And so therefore those basic needs are important. Now, I want to talk to you about them tonight, but I want us to go to Ephesians the fifth chapter and take a look at something else before I get into that. Okay, look in Ephesians the fifth chapter, and let's begin at verse number eighteen. I'll mention something in verse 18, then we'll go down to verse number 22. Verse number 18 says, wheref it says And be not drunk with wine wherein it's excess, but be filled with the Spirit of God. Be spilled with the fill uh be filled with the Spirit. God says to us that we are to be filled with the Spirit. Being filled with the Spir Here is not a matter of content, it's a matter of control. It's not putting gas in your gas tank, it's putting the driver behind the wheel of your life. So God says you need to be run and uh you need to have your life in obedience to the Holy Spirit. You need to walk in the Holy Spirit, being filled and under his control. And then he says Then what's going to happen in verse number nineteen, you're going to give thank or you're going to sing and uh and uh songs and spiritual songs and make melody in your heart Verse twenty, you're going to give thanks always unto God, going to have a thankful heart. Verse twenty one, you're going to submit yourselves one to another, and wives are going to submit themselves to their husbands Verse twenty five, husbands are going to love their wives and sanctify them. Chapter six, the children are going to obey their parents, their parents are going to be good parents, uh a person is going to be a good uh worker for his boss, and the boss is going to be a good wor uh a good boss All that, every real big relationship in your life is going to be what it ought to be if you're filled with the Spirit. God wants us to be filled with the Spirit. And if you're filled with the Spirit, then what's going to happen is that you are going to then find out that you can fulfill God's basic needs in your mate's life. Okay? Now, uh let me give them to you, then we're going to pick up the scriptures and take a look at them from this from that point of view. I believe that there are two basic needs every woman in this world and ever has been in this world and ever will be has two basic needs of the same Number one, you want to write it down. The first basic need is security. Put the word security down. Security is not things. Security is not money in the bank, it's not your retirement all established so you can live a comfortable life. Security is the wife in her heart and in her spirit knows that her husband loves her more than anything else or anyone else in the world. Let me say that again. Security in the marriage relationship is that the wife knows in her heart, in her spirit that her husband loves her more than anyone else or anything else in the world but God I guarantee you. You go ahead and start working a lot of hours and don't come home and just work and work. She's going to get upset. She said, We never see anymore. You're gone all the time, you work all the time. What about the family? You know she's really upset? She says, You're putting your family ahead of me and the family and everybody else. You love your work more than you love us. What's happening? The basic needs being disturbed. See? So she needs to know in her spirit, you need to communicate to your wife that she is the most important person in your life See, in fact, she ought to get afraid be afraid that you might love her more than you love God. She wants to know that she's loved. That's basic need number one. The second basic need is a nesting need That means she wants a home. I didn't say house. I was a thousand miles back in the interior of the the it was now called Congo at that time was Ayair And I saw missionaries back living in places where they're spitting cobras and driver ants and and uh uh scorpions and and uh uh black mambas and they cooked on an open fire, didn't have any electricity, they had to go out and hunt. Uh the husband went out once a month and hunted for meat, for to have meat in the family, at least once a month, and they lived like that, sir, back then I said, how does this woman do this? I tell you what, they had something going more than just for God. That man, that woman had something going for each other, and that wife loved her, and she was willing to live with her with him back there because she loved him. And he loved her and she knew she was loved See, and it's a net nesting need the wife wants her husband come home. And uh she wants him to fix the screen door when it needs to be fixed. She wants her Wants him to help her with the children and and uh wants to sit down and talk about the future and the f uh the the bills and she wants to plan the vacation. She wants to be a part, they want to pray together, and they they want the w husband to be a part of their life In the family. Nesting need is called. Every wife has that. Now, I guarantee you, if m if I am a husband and I will meet those basic needs, my wife's going to be happy camper. She's gonna be a happy camper. But there's two basic needs for every husband. Hmm. What do you think what they are? The first one is your wife gonna like this? You know what the first basic need of every husband is? His ego. A man's ego is big as his building. He wants to be admired, he wants to be followed, he wants to be in charge. Now I I I'm telling you something. You can go ahead and give your husband a fit about everything he wants to do, and he'll learn saying yes, yeah Yeah dear. But you're gonna have a hollow husband. You're not gonna have a happy husband. In fact, you're gonna have a husband that probably is going to find himself in Colossians the third chapter where it says, Husbands, be not bitter towards your wives Because husbands want to be admired. They they want to be able to make the final decision and they are the head of the house and the wife is in submission to his leadership See? And so if he's not, he's not going to be a happy camper and you're not going to fulfill his basic need. His basic need, he wants to be admired. The second basic needs in two areas and then the physical, one is he likes to eat. Men like to eat, can you tell? Huh? They like to eat. And they like to, I'll put it this way, they like their sugar when they want their sugar. Y'all know what I mean. Okay? Now, so if a wife, by the way, you look in the Word of God, the Bible says in here, husbands love your wife, that's a commandment. But nowhere is a wife commanded to love her husband But it does say in Titus that the elder, the agent women, I never find the agent, we never find any agent women. We can't find the agent women in our churches to teach the younger, but it says the agent women are supposed to teach the younger to love. That word is the word failure. That's the love between husband and wife. That's that that uh that whatever that racial relation is, that love relationship, that w everything is included in that, the older women's supposed to teach the women, the younger women to love their w the love their husbands. So because that's a basic need. So if a wife will then admire her husband and follow her husband and be his helpmate And uh and uh not try to boss and be the final forward in everything and always give him a fit about everything he wants to do, guess what's gonna happen? He's gonna be a happy camper And then of course you you take care of his needs. Now those are the two basic needs of both of them. And those are the those by the way I I you know and sometimes in counseling back when I was a pastor I'd couples would come in and uh and uh they would have a lot of problems and a lot of times I'd listen for a while, but I found out it's hard to be an umpire It's hard to be a referee. It's hard to really determine who's right and who's wrong. But the real truth is it doesn't matter who's right and wrong The real problem is there's something basically wrong. So I usually say, okay, I appreciate what's saying. Can I share something with them? I share this with them You know what they and I I say I got a n I got a pretty good answer probably somewhere in your relationship the problem is not what he said and what he does, the problem is what he is and what he's doing. And your problem is that you're not meeting his basic needs, and your problem is you're not meeting her basic needs And they said, Man, I think you've been living with us. The real truth is if you're having any kind of problem whatsoever in your marriage, you I'm I guarantee you track it back to the fact that your wife somehow has lost The uh assurance in her heart that you love her with all your heart more than anyone else or anything else in the world. And you're not being a good husband, you're not coming home, or being a good father, and you're not fulfilling that nesting need And I'm guaranteeing you go back somewhere, your husband doesn't feel like somehow he's lost out. Somehow he's not in charge anymore. Somehow now he's got a tiptoe. through the tile tiptoe through the tide tiptoe through the house and everything. Don't get her upset. Why? Because man, she is upset and I gotta do what she says or she's not a hypercamper. And I'm gonna tell you something, you're not gonna have you're gonna have a lot of problems in your marriage. Look at something here in Ephesians the fifth chapter, I want to show you. The Bible says here in verse number twenty-five, Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church And gave himself for it. Now that word love there is agopi. It's a Greek word. Gopi for God's love. I am commanded of God to give my wife agopi love. That's interesting because in Titus it says that the aged women are to teach their wives the young wives to love their husbands, phale love. And so I said, Well then how come God didn't say to our wife that she's a give of goblila? And I think, honestly I can say this, I think, and I don't know that I can get a lot of argument, but I really found out in a Christian Mary's The wife doesn't have any problem giving agopi love. A wife senses and and and can give God God love, godly love, agopi love But in that, she is greatly affected by needs that are not met, and so then she doesn't always respond properly to her husband. But a husband, he's interested in failure love. And so he has to be commanded of God to give agape love. That's kind of interesting. See? And now, so that now I want you to notice something. It says here that husbands love your wives, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. Now Then if this is true, then the fact is that God here is telling me as a husband, I am to take the Lord's example, and I am to love my wife Then say here, and then also now wise a command you. It seems to me that God is saying here that I, Fred Schindler, I'm the one Who's supposed to take the initiative? The husband is supposed to be the one who initiates that love. Because, see, Jesus loved me before I loved him. Jesus initiated love for me, and I became the recipient of it, and now because he loved me, I love him. We don't love him. He doesn't love us because we love him. I love him because he first loved me. And so God said, okay, husbands, then I initiated love for you. So if you're going to love your wife as I love the church and loved you, then you need to be the one who initiates the love. You're the one. Now talk about Gopi love now. Talk about you And I, as husband, being responsible unto God to be responsible for the love affair that you and your wife are having Now know something else. Saw something else. Look at verse number 26. That he might sanctify and cleanse it. Talking about the church. Jesus that he might sanctify and cleanse it by the washing of the water by the Word Now here he's saying that then the Jesus set apart us, we the church, we God's people, we individuals. He set us apart, sanctified us And it says here by the washing of the water by the word. Now, a lot back years ago the psychiatrists would have something where they called it uh Everybody's gotta vent themselves and they gotta just get in kind of these little circles and they wanna scream, scream, and uh they just kinda get it off their chest kind of idea. And uh so on. And they saw it cleansing, in fact, uh it it it's still prevalent. Well that's not what it means, but I know this that Jesus loved me and he initiated love and now he also took the responsibility to communicate with me Now I have a Bible. Did I give Jesus the Bible or did Jesus give me the Bible? Jesus gave us the Bible. And so he initiated communication. He set the stars in the in the heavens so that we would see him and recognize his handiwork. He took the initiative and so now if I'm going to love My wife, like Jesus, loved the church and sanctified, set apart by the washing of the water word, that means I am responsible for the communication in our marriage, not my wife. What usually happens is I don't know why it happens this way, but the Dallas Cowboys are getting whooped by the the Vikings And the diehard Dallas Cowboy fans still hoping that somehow with two minutes to go, their twenty-five point line, they can score a miracle two and twenty-five points and win And so he's glued to the television, and she comes in and says, Honey, what? Can we talk? Talk? Talk. He says, What are you talking about? We just talked yesterday. Went to the store. I talked to you all the way to the store. What are you talking about? And uh she says, Well never mind. So what do you mean never mind? You want to talk? Go ahead and talk. What do you want to talk about? And he's got his eyes, you know, and and now he's mad. She's she and he said, Oh, what do I do now? Now I'm gonna be I'm gonna she's gonna make me feel like a lousy husband because somehow I don't talk to her and I just talked to her for 20 minutes yesterday So she says, never mind. He said, never mind. You brought it up. She said, forget it. She says, forget it. What do you mean you brought up at a big argument about not communicating? Why? Is she the one who has to go to her husband to somehow try to communicate with him? That you need to communicate with me. I feel left out. What she's really saying is, I don't think my basic needs are getting met. I don't know if you really love me But who's supposed to be responsible? I, because Jesus is the example, I'm supposed to say to my wife, I'm supposed to communicate to her, number one, you are the most important person in my life. More important than anybody else in the world, even the kids. You are the most important. I love you and I adore you. You are my wife and I love you beyond words And not only that, but I'm gonna talk to her and I'm gonna make sure. You know when a husband comes home and he has to throw his hat in the door to see if it comes back out, whether he's welcome or not Huh? He goes into the house and his wife's at the sink washing dishes and you she he doesn't even have to say anything. He knows, uh oh, I'm in trouble He can see the bias, man. It's just something coming out, emanating from there. I'm in trouble. I don't know what I did. Huh? Communication, talking. Talking things through. Who's responsible to make sure that the communication lines? Huh? The husband is. Because Jesus gave us that example, husbands love your wives as Christ loved the church, he gave himself for it that he may sanctify, set her apart. And cleanse her. That means solve her problems. Who my wife Bonnie told me years ago, and probably you have said it and probably Linda said it to Jim, said, You know I don't have anybody to go to. My wife said, You know I don't have a pastor, you're my pastor. And if I if you don't talk to me and I can't get the answer, who am I supposed to go to? Do you want me to go to Brother So-and-so? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, let's talk. But she was taking my role. I should have been smart enough. There's something's not the there's something between my wife and I. What is it? She seems to be upset with me And she's not warm towards me and there's something wrong, honey. What's wrong? No, of course not. Oh yes you are. Yes you are. What I do, what I say. And who's responsible to do that? See? Now the Bible says here now I know what you're thinking. You say, Yeah, but I die, you know And but the Bible says here in verse number twenty-two, it says, and I said, wives, submit yourselves to your own husbands, as unto the Lord For the husband is the head of the wife, even if Christ is also the head of the church, and he's the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. I know what happens in a church business meeting Isn't this right? Preacher comes down and he said, All right folks, now we have this project and everything, so uh let's all get on our knees and tell the Lord. Now Lord get busy and get that done. It don't work that way, does it? No. We're subjected unto the Lord. Lord, what's your will? Lord, what do you want us to do? How do you want to handle it? Pastor talks. Uh let's say a church wants to sell their property, move to another piece of property, and he's praying and talking to God. He's not telling God to do it, he's telling God, is that what you want us to do? Because we are in subjection to the Lord And I, as a person, as an individual Christian, I am to walk in submission to the Lord. Whatever he says, amen. I'll do it. Want to have selective, now listen to me, selective Christianity where I select what I do and what I won't do I select what I'll give and what I won't give. I select how I'm going to serve the Lord. No, I'm going to want to go to God and say, God, whatever you want, I want to do it. I want to be in full submission to you. I give my life to you, and here I am. And you're the Lord of my life. That's how we are to the Lord. Amen? Now, God says, then you as a wife are to have the same attitude towards your husband. Now, take your Bible and go to 1 Peter of the second chapter. Let me show you something. 1 Peter of the second chapter. Look if you would please at verse number 21. 1 Peter 2, verse 21. For even hereunto were you called, because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example that ye should follow in his steps. Or follow his steps, who did no sin, neither was Guile found in his mouth. Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judges righteously who his own shall bear our sins in his own body on the tree, that we being dead to sins should live under righteousness by whose stripes you were healed you were healed. For ye were as sheep going astray, but now are now returned unto the shepherd and the bishop of your souls. Now here is talking about how Jesus, when he was reviled, he never answered back, he suffered, even though he threatened, he committed himself to God, and the And he was willing to suffer for us. Now look at chapter 3 and verse 1. Likewise ye wives be in subjection to your own husbands. That, if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation or the behavior of the saint. Wives. You know what he's saying? He says, as Jesus submitted himself, never opened his mouth, never answered back, never reviled Kept his mouth shut and was willing to suffer. He said, So you, as a wife, you have the same likewise subjection to your husband, even if they don't obey the word. Here, talking about the rock spin, he said that they may be won, not by your preaching, but by your chast conversation. And he says this. He says, and look in verse number two, wildly behold your chast conversation coupled with fear, fear of God. Whose adorning? Let it not be the outward adorning, or the plating of the hair, or the wearing of gold, but or the putting on of apparel. But let it be the hidden man of the heart, and that which is not corrupted corruptible, even the ornamental, meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God, a great price. For after this manner, in the old times the holy women also, who trusted in God, adorned themselves, being a subjection on their own husbands, even as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord whose daughters you are, as long as you do well and are and are not afraid with any amazement. Now, watch this. God says to a wife, let's say the why the husband not doing it, he's not being everything he ought to be. He's not meeting all your basic needs. Well the best thing he is loud. Just preach at him, man. Holler at him. Let him have it. Scream at him. Call a fit, right? No, God says, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, here's what Jesus did when he was reviled. He reviled not again. He didn't answer his mouth. He committed himself to God. Likewise, you wives, you be in subjection unto your own husbands. That if they don't obey the word, they can be one, and here, one over. By your chast comfort your chast behavior coupled with fear. Who's adorning? Now it's interesting about that word adorning. It's the same word in the Greek that we have for God so loved the world. Cosmos. The word adorning is the word cosmos. It's the word world. I couldn't figure that out when I study now. I was teaching 2 Peter. And I couldn't figure it out. Whose world was And I couldn't figure it out. Then I got an idea and I started studying that a little bit further. And so I this is years and years ago. So I went to church and my secretary, Terry Nelson, was there and she was close to Bonnie, my wife at that time. And I and I said to her, I said, I want to ask you a question. And I said, not a trick question. I said, but I want you to think about it before you answer it. I said, who Does my wife, Bonnie, as far as you can see in her life, live for? She said, Oh, Pastor, you're her whole world. That's what she said. I went to her, Terry's best friend and another close pretty close friend to my wife, and it and she didn't know I talked to Terry. I asked her the same question. She said, Oh, Pastor, you're her whole world. You heard the testimony my wife was to those people that watched her life? That Bonnie made me her whole world. Now don't be embarrassed for her because she does that to me All right. We you you can't be married forty-eight years to a man and be married forty sevenhouse and be in the ministry all the time, so don't feel uncomfortable for her, right? Right Now, so it says she's my whole world. That's what it's talking about. Your husband needs to be your whole world. And the adorning of your life, see the dentur in a tree. If I had an evergreen tree up here, if this is an evergreen tree, it'd be an evergreen tree But if I put some stencil on it and some light bulbs and some ornaments on it, what would you say? And look at the Christmas tree. The adorning identifies Alright? The adorning of your life ought to identify you to everybody that your husband is the most important thing and he's just your whole world. Now watch this. I got that word subjection. That's Sarah with subjection. And I got into that and I couldn't figure it out. And I kept digging around and started going back to root words and so on. And I found out it means and I think you might have mentioned it, did you mention the your message? Snuff the candle. It means snuff your candle. I said, what in the world does that mean? Being subjective means snuff your candle. I couldn't figure it out. I I studied nothing. I looked at commentaries. And finally I said, I think I'll do a I'll do a word study on candle then Follow that from the root word. And I found out, it says in two or three places in Psalms and Proverbs and some other places it says that you have a body, soul, and spirit. But when God saved you, He lit your candle, your spirit. Your spirit is the candle of the Lord. The Bible says that. Your spirit is the candle of the Lord. Now, your spirit Is depicted by your attitude Have you ever said something about she's a free spirit? Or you say, boy, she's got a grouchy spirit this morning, so by attitude. Your spirit, many times, is shown by your attitude. So God says to you as a wife that when you disagree with your husband, snuff your candle or snuff your attitude. Snuff it. Shut it up. Close it down. Don't say anything. And don't go, okay, buddy. Huh? And for the next week he sleeps on the couch. And he and he and he and he said, Are you all right? Yes. You mad at me? No. And he now he pays the price for disagreement. That's not snuffing your candle. So God says to a wife that she now why are you doing that? Because it goes back to his basic need. It's not if you want a husband that wash on say. Yeah, dear. Yeah. I can't get men in my church to say that. I try to get Tony Fusco to say yes there. He said, please don't ask me to say that. I said, Come on, come on, tell all the men I'd say yes there. He said, Preacher I love you but don't ask me to do that. I can't say that. Yeah, dear. Now if that's what you really want, or do you want a man? I think I if I was a woman, I'd think I'd want to be married to a man, a raw bone man, man of death who can make up his mind and lead my family and love me and do the things he ought to be and so on. I'd want to have a man somebody walking around worried about how I felt about it. Huh? Okay, dear, whatever you want to do So God has biblical principles for you and I in our marriage. God gave to you a wife. She's supposed to meet your needs. She's supposed to make meet your needs. She's supposed to make you know in her in your life there's one thing. Bless God. My wife trusts me and loves me. She's following me Now I told her just the other day, my wife is so submissive to me that I said, it makes me so sensitive About what I'm going to do because whatever I do, it's almost like she don't have an opinion. Her opinion is It's my opinion. And I don't like that. I I if I ask her, you know, something, I want to hear what she thinks. I'm asking her for her opinion, I think. See Well I wanna I wan I I went a little straight. We got a single teenage girl here. Oh both of you single? Now I'm gonna tell you what I tell my college kid back at Northeast I tell them something. Now let's be real close. I'm I'm not trying to embarrass you. I'm going to tell you what's true. You are somebody. You know that you are a spir special creation of God. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. You have you have interests, you have opinions, you have needs, you have desires, you have plans, you have goals You have concepts that you live by. You have uh opinions about your husband to to be someday. You have already thought about what kind of wife you want to be, what kind of mother you wanna be, how many children you like to have. You thought all that. You are somebody very, very important. So the young man that comes into your life needs to realize you are somebody. And you do have a brain in your head. And you can think, and you do have opinions. And your opinions are important. And a wise husband will listen to his wife. But he's gonna filter that through the Holy Spirit and through God's will for what you're talking about. I remember years ago uh Bonnie and I were talking, we talked for Oh hours about a decision we're trying to make. And uh we talked and she actually looked at it, I mean entirely different. I mean, rarely did it happen, but she absolutely, I mean, she just I said, I think we ought to do this and this is why. She said, Ah, I think this. And we talked and talked and talked and talked. Never got mad, never got I uh uh got a little tight a couple of times and everything, but I mean we just kept talking and talking and finally I just knew in my heart this is what we're going to do. I just knew in my heart we had what I was going to do and I had to make the decision so it had to be made. So I said to her, no, I said we have talked to us, I've listened to you, I love you And everything. I wouldn't hurt you for anything in the world, but I don't agree with your viewpoint. And I've got to make a decision and I really believe we ought to do this. She's okay She didn't say, Okay. And now I hope it does work because if it doesn't, she goes, Oh, you should have listened to me, didn't you? But I had to make the decision, I did. It's like the the wife and husband went to a counselor and uh they were to have counseling and and some was over family finances and so he told her, let him run the finances Well he didn't have a good history of handling the finances. But she said, no, he needs to take over the finances. And she said, okay, preacher, or the pastor, the counseling said, okay. But I'm gonna tell you what's gonna happen. He won't pay the bills And he'll he'll let the car insurance won't be paid and we'll lose our car insurance and may lose our car and lose I he just won't pay. And said, well, and he said, No, I can do it So he did. He took over finances. But guess what he did do? He didn't pay the car insurance. And it lapsed. And he totaled the car after insurance laps. Boy, was she ready for the next counseling session? So she says, I'll tell you what happened, told them what happened. And the pastor said, Wow. And the guy's hanging his head down. I said, I mean the pastor said to the baby says Do you think he'll ever forget to pay the car insurance again? She said, I guess not. So then I guess God told him in one flash of a second, in an accident, what you've been hollering and screaming at for years and years. The real truth is God is able to change your husband. God is able to change your wife. It's not your position or responsibility to change them. It's your responsibility to do what God says in the Word of God. You're to be a loving husband. And that doesn't mean just I love you like the guy the woman said to her husband one time. She says, You never tell me you love me. He said, I told you when I married you twenty-three years ago I love you. If I change my mind, I'll let you know. Huh? No, we're not we we are on a daily mission. And we ought to do it through verbal ver what I call verbal massage. We ought to compliment them regularly and often. Tell them often I love you. Tell them often I need you. Tell them often you're wonderful. Tell them often. They need to know that you love them dearly. Now, if we will, in our hearts and lives, make a commitment to our mate to fulfill biblical roles And meet basic needs. Guarantee you. Guarantee you. Down the road, you're going to have a happy marriage and a happy life. Because it's Bible's Bible principle. Amen. Well let's stand on our feet and bow our heads. Father in heaven, thank you for the Bible and for all it teaches us. And I pray that tonight it's been a real help and a blessing. I pray that you'd speak the heart And help folks tonight, please. Every head bowed and every eye closed. Why don't you do this right now? If you're with your wife, why don't you just take her hand? Just hold her hand for a minute. And uh I I know that you can communicate a lot with just a little squeeze of the hand and so on, but I wondered maybe there can be some kind of a agreement made in your heart with God and His Word that you will do everything you can start meeting your basic the basic needs of your mate And if you'll do that, begin to work on that, it's going to change things in your lives. Preacher. Standing. Like for you, maybe you're apart from your spouse. Maybe you can get together, just shuffle around there. And just hold hands. And what I like for you do, I'd like for all our couples. You're holding hands now. I'd like you to just slip down and come to an altar. Husband and wife. Some of y'all maybe never done that before. Maybe your spouse is out or whatever. Why don't you come on? It's as if your spouse was beside you. Hold hands at the altar and I have a couple things I'd like for you to do. Come on. Won't hurt you. Spread out we can make the front pew here and altar. Like if you just our heads bowed and maybe for folks that are still at the pews here, whatever Like you just look at each other and tell each other you love each other. Right there, just quietly. You may have done haven't done that maybe in years. I love you And as husbands and wives, let's pray together at the altar tonight. Say, God, help us. Help me as a husband, dear God. Let your wife hear you pray that. Help me to be a good husband to my wife. Ladies, let your husband hear you pray. God help me be a good wife to my husband. Now some of you young people Five years from now, ten years from now, you're going to be married, children, most, if not all of you. Why don't you come to an old fashioned altar and say, God, when that day comes, I want my heart to be right. I want my thinking to be straight so I can be the husband. Come on, young people, why don't you That's it. Come on. Just ask God right here and now. Don't wait till you're in a mess. Say, God, when that day comes, I want to be the wife you intend for me to be. I want to be the husband. God help me now to start thinking along those lines, be biblical, spiritual in my thinking. Maybe some young people, you've never been in an altar praying for your mom and dad. Maybe you've never come to an old-fashioned altar and say, God, thank you for my mother. God, thank you for my father. Help me to be a good child. Want me to obey them and honor them. My words, my actions, my attitude. Why don't you ask God to help you? Why don't you come and say, God, that's what I want to be? Child, you want me to be. How about it, young people? Why don't you come on? There's something for everybody in this message tonight because everybody is part of a family in one way or another Kathy, why don't you play just a little bit of music here while Christians are praying? No doubt some folks at the altar now in the last five days, last couple weeks you've had a fuss He said some things he ought not to have said. Maybe a parent and a child. Crosswords, things done. You just need to come say, I'm sorry for that. I don't want to do that. I want to be that way. I want to be what I'm supposed to be So I like for our young people, before you leave tonight, before you go to bed, just get with your mom and dad and say, Mom, I love you. Daddy, I love you. I'm glad you're my father. I'm glad you're my mother. Go to the kids. Tell the kids you love them. I have no doubt I'm talking to some parents. Probably dads would be more this way, but parents, mothers. It's been years since you told your child you love them. Proud of them. That would mean the world. That may turn some kids' lives around. I think young people for the most part just want somebody to believe in them. Somebody think that they are they have potential. They're a value.