Tragic stories in the Bible. Saul happens to be one of them. He started out as a uh as a good man, as a godly man, as a man that was willing to uh to give up uh or to give of himself to uh To help a help a prophet. He was a uh he's just a good man. And uh God picked him to be king over Israel. And if you know the story of Saul Uh Saul disobeyed the Lord here and then he disobeyed the Lord there, but he was still a pretty good king, and the people loved him. And um and eventually Saul ended up cr uh committing a sin that there was no turning back from. That there was no turning back from. You see, Saul uh God told Saul this is uh In 1 Samuel, uh earlier on, I think 1 Samuel 13, early on he talks about uh Saul was commanded by the Lord to slay the uh uh the king. And uh And the Amalekites, and he said, and he he did kinda did that You know, he didn't slay the king and he didn't kill the animals, and he didn't kill the and he didn't kill all the people like he was supposed to, but but but he did kind of did and then he took the uh the Cattle that you're supposed to have just killed outright. And he sacrificed that unto God and it was and Samuel came unto him and got he said, The Lord took the king or the kingdom out of your hands. Now we all know this, but this is actually many years later. This is actually uh this is probably ten or so years later, where after God told him that he would take the kingdom from Saul, Saul is still the king at this point But then there's a turning point. The title of today's sermon is going to be Fatal Decision Points. Fatal Decision Points. Each of us in our life have decision points. In fact, in fact, your life is made up of decision points. The the difference between us and animals is because we have a soul, we have a choice. It's not based on it's not based on our instinct. It's not based on our training. We have a choice in everything we do. And and so your life is not made up of just events. Your life is made up of choices. And those choices make your events. Alright, so that and that's what your life is. And Saul has different decision points. Now I'm going to be honest with you, some decision points are much more important than others. Whether you go to McDonald's for breakfast or Burger King's for breakfast is not going to have too much of an effect on the rest of your life. It will if you do it every day. Um but by one decision you know, and and of course you'll be much happier going to Burger King because McDonald's breakfast isn't near as good. And I don't care if you disagree with me. But um but but yeah, it's uh maybe uh if that won't affect you much. However, deciding to uh say uh purchase a new car that you're not sure you can afford, that could have an effect on at least the next five years of your life and how you live there. Deciding to marry someone will probably affect the rest of your life Listen, even if you get a divorce in like two years, there you go. You have a divorce on your record for the rest of your life. Like no one thought like it's weird. We people treat divorce like it's on your criminal record. It's not. Um whether whether or not um sometimes you make a decision to go out teen sledding with teens and fall down the whole way and slide on your back down the entire hill. That has the decision that that that has a little bit of effect on like the rest of your week and how sore you are. Alright? I don't know where I got that idea. But um but the fact is guys Our lives is made up of decision points. Some are very, very important. Some are crucial. Some will affect the rest of your life. And some just really don't matter. But there comes a point in everyone's life where I call fatal decision points. These are your decisions whether or not you live or die. Now, while all of us have these, and um it doesn't necessarily mean Then when I say fatal decision points I'm not gonna say that they're all about life or death. They're all about living or dying. They're all about uh either you take the medicine to save you or you don't take the medicine to save you. Either you decide to go 130 miles an hour on the highway backwards, or you don't. That's not the only decision points there are, but the fact is there are some decision points that might not kill you, but they might ruin you. They might hurt you. They might harm you I'm talking about these fatal decision points. Saul ran into one of these decision points. And it wasn't just when he uh when he defied God and then uh slay the king of the Amalekites. It wasn't just when he defied God What? When he went to the witch. You see, Saul Saul said, you know what? He won't answer me in dreams. He won't answer me by prophets. He won't uh answer me by the Uram. He won't answer me. God will not answer me. Now is that saying God wasn't listening? I don't think so, because because God hears everything. But God is not going to answer Saul Now by the way, we're a little like this in our real life. Um has anyone ever called someone and they didn't answer? So you called them again and they didn't say answer. And they called you and so you called them again and they didn't answer? And you called them three times now in a row. By the way, the the chances of them not answering on the fourth time is pretty good. Alright, but but we're s but you know we're impatient people And Saul said, I need to hear from God. Now here's the thing. Saul had this urgency earlier on in his relationship with God, and he had this urgency when he didn't need God quite so much. Or when he just wanted a relationship with God, maybe he couldn't have got a hold of God. But the fact was, him not being able to get a hold of God, him not being able to get an answer from God was no reason. For him to go to a witch. By the way, a witch, by the way, that he he made illegal. He put all the witches and wizards to death. He said anyone who found him the filling of your spirit, he would put them to death if they were if they were uh you know basically worshiping demons, if they were asking demons for help. He would put them to death, and now he was using them. You see, his fatal decision point may have been with Amalak with the Amalekites and not slaying the king, and that might have taken the kingdom from him, but how he died, I think, rested on this point of what he did when God wasn't listening. I don't see him sitting here asking for forgiveness. I don't I see him praying a lot, but I don't I but it doesn't necessarily say he was sitting there going, God, I know I messed up. God, I know I know I need you. And listen. He's not saying that I God I messed up. He's saying, God, I need you to answer me. I need you to answer me. And though he was living contrary to God's will. Though he was doing things he knew was wrong, he needed an answer from God. Tell you what. I deal with teenagers a lot. I like teenagers. Uh most of them. Um particularly when they're not in the same room with me. I love teenagers. They're great. Um And I I do I I like teenagers that are fun. I will say this though. And and I am actually a substitute teacher well s as well. So I deal with teenagers that are not in this youth group. So I can talk about them and I can't talk so I won't talk about the youth group kids like I usually do But you have that kid in your class who's always just messing around and and a small and it doesn't really matter with a small little bit of Unadulterated hatred. For that kid. And you're like me and that kid's messing around. I don't like that kid. It's not real hatred, but it is annoyed. It's it's vexation. You're sitting there like, I just don't like that kid. Now here's the thing. That kid has been messing around. He hasn't been listening to you the whole class. He's been talking. He's probably been cursing. He's probably been spitting. I don't know what he's been doing. But he's not been doing anything the whole class. And he raises his hand to go to the bathroom. He raises his hand as all. You know what sometimes a teacher will do? Like I don't see that hand. I'm not gonna look at him I don't care, I'm I'm I'm looking at him. Hey, I don't need to answer him. I'm or or or if there's a bunch of kids that need help. You go right and help him. You'll help that kid last. Because you know what? He's been disobeying you, he's been annoying, and he knows it. Now, Saul has disobeyed God for years, has tried to kill his son-in-law. A man after God's own heart. David, he tried to kill David for no reason. And by the way, David loved Saul. He loved him like his own father. And he tried to kill him for years. Now my father-in-law is here, he's never once tried to kill me. And I appreciate that. That's good, right? You shouldn't shouldn't kill your son-in-law. That should be in the Bible somewhere. But anyways, um But seriously. He he's tried to kill his son-in-law for years. He has tried, he has disobeyed God at every turn. There are no prophets that can come to him and talk to him and tell him he's doing wrong and he will turn his way. And yet when Saul needs God, God's not answering. So Saul throws a little fit and goes to a witch. By the way, this is not part of the sermon. I should probably really get to the sermon because this is going to be a long message otherwise. But this is not part of the sermon right here. But if God doesn't answer one of your prayers and you quit church, Listen, I I live with a one year old. You're as bad as a one year old. Because my one year old man. He's like And I told my wife because she told me I wasn't allowed to make fun of him today. Which is not fair, 'cause that's what I do. That's like my hobby. Um but uh but listen then you don't give him what he wants? You like he might headbutt you? By the way, baby headbuts, h babies heads are hard, man. Like it's a little harder when you think 'cause you're like, you're so cute, and he's like, uh yeah. And you're like, whoa And first of all you're like, do I have a ninja baby? 'Cause that's cool. But second you're like, I have a fat lip. My baby just came I haven't had a fat lip in a long time. What in the world? That's what you wonder Oh if you don't give him one lunch, he's like, man, I want puffs. So he's sitting there and he's like in his high chair and you give him some of his little snacks. We call them puffs. And you give him little s puffs and he eats them. And you're not paying attention. You're working on something. And then you hear, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. You look around, he's like banging on his thing, and he's like main looking, he's like, ah, yeah, yeah, So I give him more. And he eats him. And boom, boom, boom, boom, boom! I want more. And so by the way, if you if you if you headbutt God, if you leave God, if you leave church because God didn't answer one of your prayers. That's how bad you are. You're bad as Saul. Listen, Saul is acting like a little spoiled brat. Now, so he decides to go to a witch. And after he decides to go to the witch, that's when God said, Listen, he's already taken the kingdom from him. He always said that his sons would not be in the king would not rule the kingdom. He's done that for years. But after he goes to the witch, Samuel comes to him and says, by the way, tomorrow You and your sons will be with me. You and your sons will die tomorrow. Then Saul fell straight away all along the earth and was sore afraid because of the words of Samuel. There was no strength left in him, for he had eaten no bread all the day nor all the night. A fatal decision point is a decision that overtly goes against God's will and the character of God and is often, listen to this, it's often a hypocritical decision. You wanna know what a fatal decision point is? It's the it's not just listen, I'm not just talking about a sin where you accidentally where you you mess up, you sin And you ask for forgiveness right away. That's not what I'm talking about. I'm talking about one of those things where you think about it, you know it's wrong, you know it goes against the character of God, you know that it's evil, and you've probably told other people not to do it It's a hypocritical decision. What are some decisions that are fatal decision points in the Bible? I'll give you the first one. First one that was in the Bible was Adam and Eve when they ate the fruit. They knew it was wrong. They knew God's will. And if anyone else was going to do it, they probably would have told them not to. Let's let's talk about uh Abraham. Uh when he took Hagar. By the way, when Abraham took Hagar uh to have a child with her, um that Adam and Eve's decision was bad because, you know, it it uh it doomed all of humanity to hell without Christ's blood. But Abraham's decision was pretty bad because he could created all the problems we have today in the Middle East. Because he became impatient. Because he didn't believe that God would actually do what God said he would do. When Saul went to the witch, he talked about when Samson uh got his hair cut. When Samson uh told his secret to uh Delilah. Listen, you're saying and and we'll get to how it affects others in a second, but but that's a fatal decision point. When uh when David numbered the people, when David committed adultery and murder, by the way, when Judas betrayed Jesus, these are fatal decision points And by the way, all of them knew it was wrong. Every single one of them knew it was wrong, and I'm telling you, if they if if if they could have coached someone through this. If this was their son, their daughter, their brother, their sister, if this was their friend, and they were next to them when this was about to happen, most likely they would have said, Don't do that, that's stupid. Don't do that, that's evil, don't do that, that's wrong. But they didn't. It's a decision with a major consequence, but secondly, it's a decision that affects others. You see, most fatal decision points will not just affect you. They will affect you, don't get me wrong. But if it's a fatal decision point, if it's a real actual decision in which you're about to sin against God, It will not only affect you. We I talked about Adam and Eve and them dooming the rest of the hum uh human race Abraham created nations that are still at war with Israel today. Samson, Samson's parents lost a son, so there's that, and Israel lost their champion. David lost his son. David lost his newborn son after he committed adultery and murder. He lost his newborn son. And then when he numbered the people against God's will? Um, seventy thousand men died because of that. Seventy thousand men. Judas' friends scattered and lost faith, and the world, and again I know it was God's will, but the world lost its greatest teacher and its savior. Now I know it was God's will, but Judas didn't know that. Fatal decision points. Now luckily there's ways to avoid fatal decision points. And that's the first part of this message is how do we avoid a fatal decision point? First of all, don't sin. Now that's pretty simple. Most people are like, well, don't sin. If I could I I know that, if I could pull that off and we wouldn't have to be talking about this, we wouldn't have to go to church, we'd just party all the time. No. Listen, don't sin. Resist lust. See, I think there's two things we need to resist if we're going to avoid sin, if we're going to avoid fatal decision points. Because here's the thing, we don't necessarily know which um decisions are our downfall. We don't know which decisions is God going to come and and and actually punish us for. So we we we you really need to be careful with sinning. Because if you know something that you're going to do is a sin, and if you know you would tell someone else not to do it And you do it anyways, that could be that point. Now, God is merciful. And we'll get to that in a little while. But the fact is, if you don't sin at all, which I know we can't Avoid sin forever, but the less you sin, the less likely you are to commit one of these fatal decisions. First of all, resist lust Galatians 5, 16 says, Then I say, walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfill the lust of the Spirit. You say, well, how do we resist lust? Because lust is a feeling inside of you. Oh, it's really easy. What you do is you walk in the spirit. See, because if you're walking in the spirit You don't have time to lust. See, see, the the then walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And ye shall not. This is very interesting. Walk in the spirit and ye shall not. It doesn't say walk in the spirit and don't fulfill it. It says if you walk in the spirit, you won't fulfill your lust. Now lust is not just uh like a sensual type of lust. Lust is anything you want to do, takptation, any type of temptation I apologize. That your body learns w or yearns for is a lust Walk in the Spirit. Read your Bible. Pray. Get to know God on a on a personal basis. Because when you know God on a personal basis, and I'm not saying I'm perfect because I'm certainly not perfect. I'm certainly not perfect, but I know when at those times when I know God and I actually can and I actually feel like I'm very close to Him Those things that I want to do that are evil don't enter my mind as much. But I know when I get when when I get out of my Bible or when I get out of my prayer life like I know I should, those are the times that that that your lusts, that your desires That the your temptations of sin, those are the times that those really, really grab on you, is when you're really out of God's will and out of his spirit First Corinthians six eighteen says, Flee fornication, every sin that a man doth without the body, but had that but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body. That's about a physical lust, but still You we we just need to flee it. It says flee fornication, but it works for everything. If you can put that thing in front of you that you know is sin, that something will attempt you, if you can just kind of run away from that and back up off of that You'll be in a much better place. Listen, I I know m no one has this temptation here, but if you have a temptation to rob banks Just try not going to banks with like loaded guns in your car. Right? It's that simple. And it's kind of a silly thing to say. I if you have a trouble with kicking cats, that's probably a sin I guess. Um, maybe not. I don't know. Say it was a sin. If if kicking cats was was a sin, which I don't think it is. But um if it was. And you got convicted about it and God said you should stop kicking cats, and you're like, alright God, I'll stop And you see a cat on the same side of the street as you, you should walk across the street and cross on the other side. Now you're like, that's a stupid example. Yes it is. And I know that. But there are very many things that are as simple as that. That are as simple as I know that's wrong, so I'm going to walk across the street and do something else. It's as simple as that. So resist lust. But secondly, resist lies. You see, lust is that thing that you just that temptation inside of you. But here's the thing. That temptation is usually gets to you not just by brute force, but by lying to you James 4 7 says, Submit yourselves therefore to God and resist the devil and he will flee from you. I talked about Adam and Eve a little bit. And and Adam and Eve, then they they didn't think that, you know, they didn't think that you know the fruit was like the fruit we knew it was bad and we knew God but then the devil came and he's like, Listen, it's not that bad, you won't die, you'll be fine. He lied to 'em Now the devil doesn't always have to be there for you to hear lies. Sometimes you lie to yourself about your own sin. Say, you know, it's not that bad. You know, I do all these other things. This is my one vice. You know, i is it really a sin? You know, if if I do it this way, it's I mean is that technically a sin? I don't know. And then that is that technically a sin I don't know becomes Nah, it's not really a sin, and then you do it. And it's a lie. And you lied to yourself. Or the devil lied to you. It doesn't matter who lied to you. You got lied to and you fell into sin. That's what matters. Listen, Adam and Eve, and I don't like preaching against Adam and Eve because I feel bad for 'em. I mean they were naked and such. And uh I mean They're no fashion whatsoever. I'm just telling you. In fact, first thing God did when it came down, they they're like, Oh we made this thing leaves clothes. He's like, Get rid of those clothes. You need new clothes. Terrible fashion sense, Adam and Eve. God said so. But um what's it Uh please laugh. No. Uh but Adam and Eve. I don't like picking on them because they were the first humans and And I think the more we pick on them, the more we judge others, the more likely we're to fall into sin. And so I didn't like I really don't like judging Bible characters because I wasn't in their position. But Adam and Eve, they got they had one rule. And then someone lied to him about it. But God Himself gave them that rule. What they should have done, and again I'm not saying I would've done it, but I'm saying what they should have done is said that's stupid, snake. You think they would have called him snake. That's stupid. That's that's not what God said. You're a liar. And then he should have just squished the snake These snakes are gross. But um But no, this isn't that stupid. I'm not listening I'm not following you. Why are you lying against God? I'm gonna tell God on you, that's what I'm gonna do. That's what I mean like seriously, like that's what that's what they should have done. They should have said that's a lie. But instead they said because they wanted it, in their hearts they were like, Well, maybe you're right. Listen, by the way, if you ever hear someone say if you if you ever hear yourself say, maybe that person's right, like that, like, oh well they might be right. And it's something that you want to do, there's a good chance that they're not necessarily right and you just really want to do it. Sorry. But don't sin. Don't resist your lust. Resist lust. Submit yourself therefore to God. And by the way, if you're submitted to God, the devil flees from you. Or when you resist that, he flees from you. Put your wants, your desires, your temptations in the light of others around you and how it could affect them. I kind of wish Adam and Eve would have been like, you know, we're the father and mother of this entire human race. Maybe we should go eat a hamburger. Right? Like I wish they would have just like for a second been like, you know, we're gonna have kids one day and and at this point I really want them to know that we didn't eat the fruit and doom their entire human race. Well they didn't. I wish uh David, maybe maybe maybe uh Maybe when he uh when he committed or w maybe when he numbered the people. By the way, people are like, what is up with David taking the census? Why'd God kill everyone? Well, back in biblical times, the only thing you were allowed to count, this is honest, the only thing you were allowed to count. is what belonged to you. Alright? Now it's not that way anymore, but the fact is the only thing they were allowed to count is what belonged to them. So when David numbered the people of Israel, he was saying that was his country, not God's. By the way. And by the way, he not only said that, but he said that to everyone in Israel. Because they had to go around and ask people how many people are in Israel. So God killed seventy thousand men. Um I wish uh Saul, who knew that his sons weren't going to get the crown, I wish he might have thought, you know, maybe I shouldn't go to this witch, because this could affect my kids somehow. And by the way, it did. You know who was lost on that day? Was Jonathan. Johnson was an amazing man. Nothing bad in the Bible is said about Jonathan. He was a super brave, super nice, super humble guy. And we know that because even when David and him were buddies, They were the best friends. He said, you're gonna be king to David, not me. Even though Jonathan actually had the right. But he but he he wanted God's will, he said, So you're gonna be the king, not me. Jonathan was an amazing man, and when his when his dad went to the witch and committed that sin, that hypocritical sin, when he did that Jonathan's fate was sealed. And in 24 hours, Jonathan would be dead. What if Abraham had said, you know what? I really want to have kids? But I probably shouldn't uh have them through the through Hagar. You know, I should probably just wait. God probably has a plan. God promised it to me. He'll probably give it to me. What if he just waited instead of taking things into into his own hands? The world would be a different place. So don't sin. Put your decisions in light of how it will affect others. And uh and next, forgive others freely. Alright, this is this is very this is one of my favorite points in this sermon, so please uh pay attention. You know how to avoid a avoid a fatal decision point is you make all of your decisions less fatal. Let me say that again. To avoid a fatal decision point, make all of your decisions less fatal. Now what's that mean? It means this. I have Ten bottles of cyanide and a hundred or of cyanide laced water and a hundred other bottles. Hmm. I would rather, and that maybe this is a bad decision. Let's get away from that one. Let's say that uh we have a giant revolver. And you have to and and and if you guys don't know the game, you play Russian roulette where you spin thing and they pull the trigger at your head. Don't play it. Stupid Why Russians are not doing very well in the economy right now. Uh because they keep playing stupid games. But uh but anyways, say you have this revolver. Now here's the thing. If you're smart And say you have a choice between a revolver with like three cylinder holes. I don't know what called. Cylinder holes or the bullets where you where it's a one in three chance that you could kill yourself. Or if you could have one with six. Or if you could have one with a thousand. It's a big gun. Um The guys on Mythbusters created it. Anyway, so Steve one in a thousand so if there's a one in thousand chance that you're going to kill yourself, because there's only one bullet in there. Which one would you rather take? The one in thousand, obviously. And you're like, alright, well how do we do that? How do we make sure that our decision points are less dangerous? You forgive others. You know, like wait a second, that has no effect on on on on me and how God treats my sin. Oh, wait a second. The Bible has something to say about that. Actually Jesus has something to say about that. Because he says, For if ye forgive men their trespasses Your heavenly Father will also forgive you. But if you forgive n but if you ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses. God says, now listen, this isn't talking about salvation. This is talking about something else. But the fact is, if you don't realize that other people are going to mess up, and then when they do, you forgive them? By the way, if you don't forgive them, God's going to look down at you, he's going to judge you harshly for your sin. He will judge you like you judge others. If someone messes up, if someone sins against you and you will not forgive them, you are going to have a tough time with God. Listen, if you're sitting there and you're j and you're and you have a list of black lists there's like like a thousand people long of people you just hate People that are just they just they've wronged you and and and you're never gonna forgive them, you are going to get judged by God way harsher than the guy who is very forgiving. You want to make your sins less fatal to you? Forgive others. I'm not saying it will work every time. I'm not saying that you won't run into a point where God has just had enough of you and and it has to punish you. But I'm saying this: God will be more lenient on you if you are lenient on others. And that's that's the Bible. You wanna you wanna greatly increase your chances of surviving, of not making that decision? Forgive others. Uh Colossians three thirteen says, forbearing one another and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you So also do ye. By the way, there's a very very important phrase in there. Even as Christ forgive you, forgave you, so also do ye. That means that your forgiveness is not allowed to be based. On anything. It's not even allowed to be based on whether or not they say they're sorry. It's not allowed to be based on whether or not they try to make up for it It's not a lot it's not even allowed to be based on anything because Christ will forgive any sin. And it doesn't matter how bad someone sinned against you. It doesn't matter how how how awful someone was to you. It doesn't matter if they if they aren't repentant. It doesn't matter. You're going to f you should forgive them before they even ask for forgiveness. And that's a very good way to avoid punishment from God. It's a very good way to avoid sa uh avoid fatal decisions. Lastly What happens if we make a fatal decision? See here's the thing. This sermon's great if you haven't already done something stupid. If you haven't already messed up bad. Fact is though, we're humans. And by the way, you don't necessarily know if the decision you made is fatal right away. I hope you realize that you don't like remember Saul well he found out about it within a few days of his uh right well right here he found out about it within like twelve seconds. But but we don't always know what's going to affect us later on down the road. We might have already made that decision that is going to stink us, that God's going to punish us for. We might have already made it. So what do we do? Here's what Saul did. Saul fell on the ground and he didn't eat and he didn't drink. He fell down, didn't eat, didn't drink. There's no there's no story of him telling his sons um how much he loved them. There's no story of him asking for forgiveness There's no story of him telling uh uh begging God for the mercy of his sons. There's no stories of that. All it talks about is that he just became depressed. Listen, you mess up, you you you make what you think might be a fatal decision, what you think might be an awful decision, what might affect you, your kids, your family, your friends, you make one of those, the wrong answer is always to do nothing. The wrong answer is always to get to just get depressed and mad at yourself. And that's all you do, you are doing nothing. You're as bad as Saul was. So the first thing is if you make a fatal decision, or you might think you have made one, the first step is pretty easy. Don't forget. Don't forget the idea that God's merciful. Don't forget that God is merciful. God is really merciful. It happens to be my favorite quality of God is mercy. God will forgive you for anything. Now, by the way, we'll get to this in a second. Just because God forgives you does not mean That he's not going to punish you. He's not going to chastise you. Now what that means Now, to be honest, it might mean if if you ask for forgiveness, if you ask for mercy, there's actually a chance God won't Listen, and I again um and parents understand this. If a kid does something and then apologizes for it Versus does something and never apologizes for it, there's a greater chance of punishment if he never apologizes for it. Now, depending on what it is, even if he apologizes, it might not matter. But no matter what, if he apologizes, it's going to turn out better for him or her than if he doesn't. And if we're that kind of merciful and we're just rotten sinners. God's that merciful. You see, God says, hey, listen, I was willing to send my own son to die for you to forgive you. You don't think I'll wipe this off the list? Now God will chastise us, not because um he's laying sin to our account, but because he needs to teach us something. Because here's the thing, even I I knew this kid, alright? And you want to talk about kids that are just annoying And none of you know this kid, which is so I'm gonna talk about him. He was annoying. I'm not gonna tell you his name, but this is a kid that you were just like, man, I wanna you just kinda wanna trip him. You don't wanna hurt 'em, but they fall down, hit their face. You're like Oh well. Anyways, um but no, it's one of those kids guys. They because what do you do? And I had to watch him for five days. Because his parents were out of town. Probably shouldn't have said that. That might give away who it is. Um this kid. Uh we'll make it a thousand days. That way they don't know who's at. So, anyways, um so this kid, right? He would scream and throw fits and throw stuff and just yell and he was an awful, awful little human being. And then his parents I love them, but his parents would allow that as long as he just said, I'm sorry, and there was no punishment ever. You know what that led to? Him being a spoiled little brat. Now listen, my kid's not gonna be perfect. In fact, I'm pretty sure my kid's gonna be spoiled. But he will also be spanked. But um fact is guys, if we never if God if we expect God never to punish us for our sin Then we're gonna turn into spoiled little Christian brats. But if God does punish us sometimes And sometimes he does he is merciful and he lets it go. And he does help us out. Man, that's how you raise kids You see there's there's three ways to raise kids. I can't remember all the names. I know one's authoritarian, I know one is uh disciplinarian. There's a bunch. There's a few of them. But the fact is, one of them punishes their kids is harsh. They're they're they're their uh dictatorship. You're doing it my way, and there's no arguing, there's no forgiveness, it's all hard and it's harsh, harsh, harsh, harsh, harsh Those kids don't turn out very well. There's another one where you just let your kids do what they want. Those kids also don't turn out very well. But there's one Where you're kind and you're loving and you're merciful, but you still have a firm hand, those are the wicked that turn out the best. And by the way, God knew that before science did. And so that's how he treats us. God is merciful, so depend on his mercy. Uh in Exodus 32, we won't read it right now, but in Exodus 32, God's going to kill all of Israel. He's talking to Moses. He's like, alright, I'm done with them. Let's just start with you, Moses. You're gonna be the new nation. And Moses asked for g forgiveness for the nation of Israel, and God's like, alright, fine, I won't kill them. God's mercy works. You can change God's mind. That's what mercy is. Psalm 51, 17. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit. A broken and a contrite heart, O God, will thou not despise? You have a broken heart towards God. If you have a humble heart towards God and ask for forgiveness, you will not despise it Never stop trying to do right by God. As I said, Saul gave up after God gave him his punishment. Samuel said, This is what's gonna happen to you. Samuel just or Saul just accepted it and didn't care. And he got depressed and didn't do anything. And it led to his son's death and his death. Judas, by the way, I think Judas could have could have gotten he had every chance to get saved before and after his betrayal of Jesus. But instead he said, you know what, my sin is too great, and he hung himself. The right reaction to after you make that sin is to try to get back up. Try to get back up, try to keep doing right for God. And if you do that, then you might have a better chance. If you ask for forgiveness, if you try to do right by God, and lastly. Be ready to accept that sometimes there are consequences for our sin. Listen, one of the greatest uh chapters in the Bible is Psalm 51. You never read Psalm fifty one, I just I implore you go read it. Even if you don't read your Bible regularly, which is a good idea but which you should, which will really help you, even if you don't do it, you should go read Psalm fifty-one. Because it's about after after David commits adultery and basically murder. He commits adultery, then murder. It's then how he asks forgiveness from God. I think you should read it. But even after he asks forgiveness, nine months after he committed adultery, his child is born. But when David saw that the servants whispered, David perceived that the child was dead. See, his child died uh shortly after childbirth. And therefore David said unto his servants, Is the child dead? And they said, He is dead. Then David arose from the earth and washed and anointed himself, and changed his apparel, and came into the house of the Lord and worshipped. And then he came to his own house, and when he required they set bread before him, and he did eat. Listen Many of us when we when we when after we uh after we sin and then we actually and by the way, you'll know when you get punished for sin because you'll I think God brings it to memory. You're like, Oh, this is why this is happening. After David, uh after David committed adultery and like I said, and and basically murder. And his son died from it. His son died from it. David did not get bitter at God because God had to chastise him. David did not give up on God because he thought he was too worthless of a human being. David didn't think of himself at all. You see, here's the thing. Pride it comes in two ways. Pride is either always thinking highly of yourself or always thinking lowly of yourself because you're always thinking of yourself. With her pride. If you think you're too useless to do anything for God, if you think that God can't use you, what is that saying about you? It's saying who you are and then saying God can't. No matter where you are, no matter what you've done, and this is pretty evident in David's life, who again was a murderer and an adulterer, no matter who you are and what you've done. God can forgive you and then use you. But only if after you sin and after God and after God actually chastises you, only after that period, or forgives you, or after that period, You don't just say I'm worthless and sit down and sit out the rest of the game. Only you get back up. Proverbs talk about a man uh Proverbs talks about a man who falls seven times and rises again. Listen, you are going to make mistakes, you're going to make decisions that are that are awful and terrible and you would never want to make again and you never want anyone else to make again, and God might punish you for them, and that punishment might affect you, and it might affect your kids, and it might affect your People around you that you love. But just because that happens gives you no right to stop worshiping God. The first thing David did after his son died because of his own sin, after God took his son. For just reasons, was go to the house of the Lord and worship We're going to run into fatal decision points? Hopefully we avoid them. Hopefully we don't hopefully we resist that uh temptation. We resist that lust. We resist those lies of the devil. Hopefully we do that. Hopefully we think of others before we commit it. But when we commit it Never forget God's merciful, but never stop doing right. Let's pray. Dear Lord, just uh God, you are so gracious to us, Lord. And uh Lord, we ask that you would just uh Lord forgive our trespasses, God. Or that we might be broken when we do sin, God. And never forget your love, Lord, or your mercy, God. Never forget to ask for that mercy, God. Lord, we know you're merciful, but we know that that we need to that uh that calling upon your mercy, Lord, is what you want us to do, Lord, when we mess up. As the pianist comes, if uh as the other pianist plays if if you need to do build business with God, I ask that you come.