Joshua chapter 1, I'd like for us to read together in unison one of those tremendous passages of scripture. Of course, all of the Bible is given by inspiration of God. It's all profitable. But uh would you agree with me? There are certain passages that just kind of stand out. There's certain passages that just seem to really uh apply to our lives, and I think this is one of them And I really want to urge you, if you don't have Joshua 1, verse 8 and 9 committed to memory, I would strongly urge you to do so. Put it up around different places. Brother Charlie's been working a little job and he said on the computer there where he's working, he said they have Bible verses all around the computer screen. I think that's a tremendous thing And this would be a great passage to put up around and really get it in your heart and mind. Verse 8 and 9, I'd like for us to read it together in unison, if you would, if you have it there. Ready? Let's read together. Beginning in verse 8. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed, for the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. Isn't that good? I want to speak this morning on fatherhood and leadership. Fatherhood and leadership. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we bow now before you Our Bibles are open before us. God, we believe with all our hearts that this book is your word. That you want to lead us and direct us. You want to instruct us and warn us. And so I pray you'd give us open hearts and open minds. That as you speak to us from your word, we would trust you, that we would obey you, we would submit to you, and that your will would be done in our lives as fathers, mothers. individual believers, whatever our place is in life, we ask you to take us and lead us into your perfect will. And I ask, Lord, as the preacher this morning, that you please fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, I yield my will as best I know how. And God, I present my body anew, as always. I ask you to speak through me and fill me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Does anybody want to take a guess who the penman of the book of Joshua is? Very good. How do we know that Joshua is the penman of the book of Joshua? Because it's titled Joshua. Well, that's not necessarily true. It might be titled Joshua because the book is about Joshua It's a record of his leadership in Israel. But we do know that Joshua is the penman. Of course, God being the author, God is the author of Scripture. We always emphasize that But Joshua is the penman of the book of Joshua, and we know that because the Bible tells us so In Joshua chapter 24 and verse 26, it says, Joshua wrote the words of this book. And so that was a simple conclusion, easy to come to. The book of Joshua is penned by Joshua. It is his experience as the leader of Israel during a very crucial time in Israel's history. Joshua is the record of Joshua's leadership during a very transitional time for Israel. It is what we refer to as a historical book. Some books of the Bible, certain sections we refer to as poetic books. Job, Psalms, Proverbs, a lot of these, we view them as poetic books And then some of the books of the Bible, the Old Testament particularly, but also the New Testament, we refer to as prophetic books In other words, these are books of prophecy where God is telling what's going to take place. The Old Testament, many, many of them pointing to the coming of Christ, first coming, the second coming. And so you have prophetic books, but then you have historical books. And these are simply a historical record of um of uh what God did primarily through his people Israel uh in the Old Testament. Now I like history. I enjoy reading history, I enjoy seeing historical documentaries, those types of things I minored in history in Bible college and um always every now and then try and point out that I actually did go to college. I are a college graduate, just so you stay impressed But I enjoy history. And so if if it's important for us as believers that we understand and we appreciate history History. What's the old saying? Those who forget history are doomed to what? Repeat it. And so God gives us tremendous lessons God gives us tremendous truths, examples, in the historical books of the Old Testament and New Testament, in these historical books to help us live for Him as we ought to. And so Joshua is a historical book. It records the transition from Israel's wandering in the wilderness, transitioning over to settling down into the land that God had promised them. Settling down into the land of Canaan, the land of milk and honey. Sunday school teacher was teaching about the land of milk and honey. And I've said this before, but she asked the class, what do you think it was like there in Canaan when Israel came in, a land flowing with milk and honey? The little boy raised his hand. He says, I think it would be very sticky, milk and honey And so it's a transition time into Canaan. It is a transition time from when Israel is wandering in the wilderness. Now they're transitioning over into a time of warfare. And they are going to have to go in and conquer this land of Canaan. They are going to have to drive out the inhabitants. They are to, in many cases, exterminate the inhabitants of this land. And so it's a transition from wandering to warfare, but it's also another transition. It is a transition of leadership For forty plus years, Israel has worked underneath the leadership of Moses as he led them out of Egypt As Moses confronted Pharaoh under the direction of God and with the power of God upon him, Moses confronted Pharaoh and did amazing miracles God did through Moses. And then as they left Egypt and they crossed the Red Sea and the miracle there of the going through in dry ground and then wandering for forty years in all the things that God did to provide for Israel under the leadership of Moses. And as we read in our scripture reading time, now Moses is dead. Moses, the servant of the Lord, is dead. And now there's this transition. And God raised up Joshua to replace Moses. I want to suggest this, that transition times can be very dangerous times. Whenever there is a transition, it is very easy to get off track and uh uh get away from the will of God, whether it's in a home or a maybe moving somewhere or transition of some sort in a church or anything in a nation. It's a very dangerous time. And it just thrills my heart to study, particularly Joshua chapter 1 and passages leading up to it, how God had his hand In providing uh Joshua to step in in Moses' place and to continue on that leadership and continue on Israel's journey into the promised land. It's a very, very encouraging time. And so we have Moses and Joshua, two of what I consider Israel's greatest leaders. Two of Israel's greatest leaders. I sat under the ministry of Dr. Lee Roberson for a number of years down at the Highland Park Baptist Church. And what a tremendous leader, what a tremendous man of God, had a profound impact on my life in so many ways. And I had the opportunity, and Dr. Robertson resigned as the church there and went out while I was a member of the church. And in the university, he had taught for years a class on leadership. Him and his assistant, J. R. Faulkner, they taught this to the students. It was a select group of fellas, and he would teach on leadership And I was able to get in the last time he taught that class, and what a tremendous class it was. And he would say over and over and over again, he made this statement, and it kind of became well known, a quote of his. He would say this. Everything rises and falls on leadership. Everything. He would say to us, young men. Everything rises and falls on leadership. Be a leader. Be the leader that God has called you to be. And He taught us on that. But everything rises and falls on leadership. Now, I don't want to discard, I don't want to neglect the role of followship. I think being a good follower is very important. Followship is important, but nevertheless, I believe that's a true statement. Everything rises and falls on leadership. We see that in Israel's history. We saw when Israel had a godly leader, when Israel had a strong man of God to stand at the helm of their nation. And provide leadership and make decisions and give the direction of that nation. When they had a good, strong, godly leader at the helm of the nation, that nation had God's blessings. And we see how God's hand was on them in a great way. However, we read particularly through the book of Kings and Chronicles when Israel had a weak leader, a carnal leader. When Israel had somebody that did not fear God, but was consumed with themselves, then we notice the nation go into decline. And suffered many times the chastening hand of God, the wrath and judgment of God. And so as we study our history of Israel, we see that everything rose and fell on the leadership that was in that nation at that time. We see that in Israel's history. If we study church history, we see that true also in church history. Everything rises and falls on leadership. I think of great revivals here in our nation under one of my favorite preachers of all time, George Whitfield. Up in New England, Boston, and down through Philadelphia, and all through that area, and the power of God that was upon that man, that leader, and the influence he had in the early days of our nation. Charles Finney. And others here in our own nation, John Wesley over in Europe, and so many others we could name, when you had good, strong, godly leadership. Then God's blessings fell and God's hand was upon that. Not only do we see it in Israel's history and see it in our church history, but we also see it in our homes. We also see it in our homes. Now To me, it's very, very clear the Bible teaches every home ought to have a good, strong, godly father in that home. Now I want to be careful here because I understand there's a lot of different circumstances, a lot of different situations happen, and uh you know maybe not not every home necessarily has a father, but I'm simply saying this That it I believe it is God's design that children have a home has a godly father, a man that has faith in God, that walks with God, whose heart and mind is pure Who loves the Lord, that has convictions based on what the Bible teaches. Leadership in the whole God has given to the fathers. To the fathers. Not to say that others in the home or the mother is not important, absolutely not. And by the way, I thank God for single mothers or mothers have to raise their kids. Maybe it's an absent father, a negligent father, or whatever. Maybe he's passed away and a mother is raising those children herself My hats off to those dear ladies raising those children. God bless you. And many great leaders have come from homes where it was a single mother and just a mother. But God's design For the home is for the father to be the leaders, to be a godly, strong leader that loves God and uh lives for him I jotted down, thinking of Father's Day, and this is just by way of introduction, I jotted down a few things about fathers. Fathers are leaders by default. And many of you could perhaps say the same thing, but this morning I got up and I prayed for my boys, and um my mind went back to when the boys were born. And more what a profound moment in my life. And I thought when uh when our firstborn, Sam, was born, uh, we were in Indianapolis and um My wife was taken back and they were taken in. They were going to have to do a C-section. And the doctor came out and he says, uh, Mr. Leatherman, uh, would you like to come back and watch us do the C-section? What he was saying is you want to come back and watch us cut your wife's stomach open and pull the child out of her. I said, um, uh I'll wait out here. He says, no, come on baddies, will you come back? I said, I got a cold, bad cold. I said, no, it'll be fine with this. So I got back in the operating room there and um they said, uh, would you want to sit down here and watch us do it? I said, no, I'll just sit up here and look at her face and I'll hold her hand and did that. What a leader, what a strong, courageous. But finally, he was born. You hear that cry. I tell you, they took little Sam, put him in my arms. I'm telling you, I just began sobbing, just sobbing, sobbing. The tremendous responsibility that God gave to me as a father is overwhelming. And then when Daniel was born a couple years later, and as he was being born, he ingested fluid into his lungs and they hand him to me, and he's just gasping for every breath, and they had to put him back in a special unit and incubator and all that. And uh I tell you, I just sobbed. I tell you, a father is by default a leader of his children. He's to provide guidance. He's to provide security and direction for those dear children I jotted a few things down about fathers, just some suggestions that I I wish I could say I lived up to these and all the way I may I wish I'd go back and do a little differently. But let me, here's a few things. As a father, number one, just quickly I want to give these to you. A father should prepare his children for the day they move out. I mean from the moment they're born, I am beginning a process of preparing them for the day when they will be out on their own Where they're out establishing their own home, establishing their own lives. I put down number one, prepare your children for the day they move out. Number two, I put this down Explain yourself kindly and clearly to your children. Many times I just assumed they knew what I was thinking I would think and sometimes I'd get upset with them. Why didn't you do and I realized I never actually told them what I wanted them to do. I just assumed that they knew And what children need is a very kind and very clear explanation of what we want from them, what we expect, what they should and should not do. So I put down, explain yourself very kindly and very clearly to your children. Number three, understand God has gifted each child uniquely. God has gifted each child uniquely. As the boys grew, I began to realize they were gifted in areas I was not. There were some things my boys could do far better than I could do. I used to uh arm wrestle, particularly my oldest son, and we used to arm wrestle, and I beat him every time. Until. I think it was about sixteen or seventeen, somewhere around there. He said, Dad, let's arm wrestle. I said, all right. Put her down. Wham. We never arm wrestled again. Ever. And I learned some things. God has gifted our children in differing ways. And we need to see that and understand that. They not may not their strengths may not be our strengths. They may have different areas, and we need to recognize that. Number four, I put this down. Remember that our children are people and not tools. Uh, just because they're out mowing the grass doesn't mean they're a lawnmower. They're a person. And if we're not careful, sometimes we'll view our children as tools to do stuff for us. Now don't misunderstand. They ought to have chores. They ought to have responsibilities. They need to learn to work and they ought to learn to work hard. But they're people. They're not tools. I put this down. Number five, help them find God's purpose for their lives. God has a plan for every single child. God has a plan for every single individual. Regardless of the circumstances of their birth Somebody said to me years ago, and for whatever reason, this stuck in my mind. They said, I was an accident, I wasn't planned. I don't know that God has a purpose for my life. Listen, it doesn't matter what the circumstances are, the very fact that that child is alive. Tells me God has a plan and purpose for that life. Bible says, raise up a child in the way he should go. Now listen, I had to learn. I'm not told to raise up on the child in the way I think he should go. I need to raise him up in the way God has planned for their life. And I need to recognize that. Um next thing I put down, uh number six, be patient. Be patient. How many people agree with me? That'd be pretty important. Be patient. How many people struggle with being patient I want to be patient right now. I want to be patient. And children require a lot of patience. They take a lot of patience. I put down number seven along with that. Confront issues. Now I think there has to be a balance there. Sometimes you have to be a little patient with the child. Give them a little room. Let them make their mistake. Let them go and do that. But other times it's an issue. You need to step in there pretty quick and nip it in the bud. Nip it in the bud. And so it takes some wisdom. It takes a little bounce. Alright, should I just be patient and let them go, let them learn? Or do I need to step in here and say, all right, this has to be dealt with right away So it takes some patience. Learn to confront the issues. Number eight, I put this down. Learn to say no. And stick to it. Learn to say no. I tell you, there's a heap that uh uh this generation could uh be helped a lot. They just had parents that learned to say no to them. We got a whole generation, they don't know what it means to be told no. And if they don't get their way, they don't get what they want. Man, they're rioting, they're they're stealing, they're tearing things up. And so learn to say no. No! And stick to it. Stick to it. Number nine, I put this down. Allow them to fail. Allow them to fail. The only people who never fail are those who never try anything. And we want our children to succeed. We want them to grow. We want them to be what God wants them to be. And part of the process of being the person God wants us to be is being able to fail. You know what children need to learn? They need to learn how to deal with failure. They need to learn how to deal with that because life is made up of failing. A just man falleth seven times, rises up again. He learns how to come back after failure This nonsense of uh having games and stuff where there's no winners or losers. That's ridiculous. We're not preparing these children for anything. I found that sometimes the best winners are those who lost a lot. And they learned from losing, and it produced a winner. And those who are the most successful are those who learned how to deal with failure. And so we've got to allow our children a little bit of room to fail. Give them a little room and then teach them how to get back up. And then number 10, I put this one down. is as a father or a parent, but as a father in particular, I need to be teachable. I need to be teachable. When we again we were in Indianapolis, we were young, I was youth pastor, the two boys showed up, and uh I learned something. You know who the best parents are? You know who the best parents are? Those who don't have any kids I don't know how many times we had people come to us and say, Well, you know, if I had kids, boy, if I had a boy, that's what I'd do. And I learned early on, boy, these people without kids are experts. Man, they know how to deal with every situation perfectly. They know how it is. You know what I found out? I wasn't an expert parent, and I had a lot of learning to do. I need to learn to be teachable. Even now as a grandfather, I still need to learn I'm teachable. None of us have arrived. How many people have found that out? All right, if you're here and you've arrived, see me afterward. I want you to talk to me and tell me about that. And so be teachable. Be teachable. So fathers, fathers are leaders by default. And we have to be able to exercise leadership in an effective way, just as Moses was a tremendously effective leader over Israel. In fact, in my mind, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ I believe Moses was the greatest leader to ever walk this planet. Tremendous man of God. Tremendous leader. Human, yes. Limited, yes. But a leader That God used in tremendous ways. Do you know Moses is the only man that Jesus Christ is compared to? Now that's an amazing thing. I can see somebody saying, well, he's a lot like Christ. But in Hebrews, God says Jesus was like Moses. What a tremendous man. A father is a leader. By default And we can learn from Moses. And then Joshua shows up in our passage here. And Joshua, what a tremendous leader Joshua was. And God's hand upon him, and the wisdom that he exercised, and the faith that he had in God, and the impact he had upon that nation. We can learn a lot from Joshua. And so, as I said, fathers are leaders by default. Now we're going to look at Joshua here for a moment. And I noticed that Joshua was a national leader. He was head of a nation and all that that required, but he was also a spiritual leader And Joshua provided a tremendous example to the people of Israel as he led them. He provided a tremendous example as to what a man of God is to be. He presented a tremendous example, a living object lesson, as to what it means to live by faith. Now I'm thinking of fathers today. I'm thinking of myself. And what our young people need is to be able to not just Hear what it means to live by faith, not just hear what the Bible says that we how we are to live, but a young people need to be able to see in the life of their father A living object lesson of what it means to live by faith. To live by faith. And Joshua is a tremendous example of that. Listen, the easiest thing in the world as a father is to preach at my kids. Man, just preach at them. But I'll tell you where the effectiveness is when I can model for them What I'm teaching and preaching them. When I can display to them, this is how a Christian acts, this is how a Christian exercises faith. This is how a Christian prays. This is how a Christian treats others, wife, and others around. And display that, model that, be an example of that so they have something to pattern themselves after And Joshua was very, very successful at that. And Joshua was also a family leader. He was a leader of family. Back in chapter 24, he makes that tremendous statement. As for me and My house, we will serve the Lord. You know what that's a statement of? That's a statement of leadership in the home. My house, me, and my house, we are going to live for God. We are going to follow God's instructions We are going to trust the Lord and make him the center of our home and our life. What leadership? Leadership. And so Joshua gives to us. A tremendous example, a tremendous model of leadership. Now, I want us to come to our text here real quickly And I notice three instructions or three lessons that God gives to Joshua in verse 8 and 9. The first one is this. If you're jotton down an outline, here's the first point: the Bible must be top priority. The Bible must be top priority. Look with me, if you would, at the first part of verse 8. This book of the law, that's the Word of God. Shall not depart out of my thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night You know what the Lord's telling Joshua? Joshua, the Bible must be top priority in your life. Every day, day and night, it's in your mouth. You're meditating, it's in your mind. It is priority. A little over 55 years ago, a fellow showed up in Oakland, Maryland. His name was Ed Wilt. And he took this little group of believers that were here and he established the First Baptist Church of Oakland. How many people here have ever been to the First Baptist Church of Oakland? They're here right now. That's what Mountain Lake was when we first showed up. And Ed Wilk showed up. And he started the little church downtown, down at the little restaurant by the train tracks there. Um Tom and Eddy's. And that's where that's where Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church began. First Baptist of Oakland. And for all these 55 plus years, Ed Wild started, and I have tremendous respect for that man. He's with the Lord now. Brother Ed Wild started it, and he started the church on this premise that the Bible Is the Word of God and is our sole authority and is our top priority, not just in church, but in our life. The Word of God. The Word of God. And all these many years, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has held to and sought to practice the fact that the Bible is our authority and the Bible is top priority. If we don't do anything else around here, we're going to do what this book tells us to do. That is priority. That is priority And so God is telling Joshua, he says, listen, the Word of God must be top priority. Meditate therein day and night. Why is the Bible Top priority. Why is the Bible such a priority? Well, let me give you two reasons. Number one, because the Bible is the inerrant word of God Now, what do we mean by the phrase inerrant Word of God? It's inerrant. It simply means this: the Bible is without error. There are no mistakes. Everything God's word teaches us is exactly true. This book is God's word without error. If you would turn with me in your Bibles to Psalms chapter 19. Psalm chapter 19. Everybody doing alright out there? Alright. Are you glad you're saved? Alright. Glad you're uh alive? Amen. Some of y'all. Never mind. Psalm, turn me to Psalm 19. I'm going to read a fruit few verses here about the Bible. Verse number 7, Psalm 19, verse 7. If you open your Bible right to the middle of your book, and then you should be in Psalms, then find Psalms 19 and verse number 7. Look what the Bible says. The law of the Lord is what? Perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure. In other words, you can depend on it, you can trust it. Making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right. Rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold, sweeter also than honey, than the honey and the honeycomb What is he saying here? He's saying this book is without error, it is perfect, it is exactly what we need, and is to be a high priority in our lives. The Bible is our God-given, infallible rule for life. So, number one, why should the Bible be such a priority in my life? Because it is the perfect Word of God given to me. Number two, it is because it is the sufficient Word of God Now, what do I mean by that? By that I mean this. Everything in the Bible, we find everything we need to live a life of faith. Maybe your new father you say, Preacher, how do I know how to be a dad? I want to be a good dad to my kids I want to be right. I want to be what they need me to be. How do I find out how to do that? I'll tell you where to find out how to do that. It's not from Oprah Winfrey. It's none these yardbirds on TV giving all the ridiculous advice. I'll tell you where you get advice and direction, instructions on being a good daddy in God's word, the Bible. It is sufficient. Everything I need to be a good father is taught me in that book. It's taught to me in that book. It's true for mothers and children in every aspect of life. It is our God-given, infallible rule for life, and it is sufficient. For every aspect of our life. In the Bible, we find how to be restored back to God when we fall away. In the Bible, we find we are taught completely and perfectly how to be saved. Let me say this. I say it so often. If a person doesn't have Bible salvation, they don't have salvation. The Bible gives us the only way to be saved. You say, Preacher, I got baptized, and I would say I had a lady call me just two weeks ago. She'd gotten one of our gospel tracts down in Cumberland from track month, I guess. She'd come across one of our tracks She called me up and she said, um, she said, uh, Pastor Leatherman, I got your tract and I read it through and I'm bothered by it. I thought, oh, praise the Lord, she wants to be saved. She doesn't say anything about baptism in it. I said, okay. She doesn't say anything about baptism. And you need to be baptized to have your sins washed away. I want to tell you one thing, that dear lady's wrong. She's mistaken. Baptism doesn't wash our sins away. The Bible says there's only one thing to wash our sins away. That's the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. And coming to Christ by faith. So salvation, the Bible tells us everything we need to know about being saved. And by the way, most important issue in life is the salvation of my soul. Salvation of my soul. A person can succeed in any other area in life, but if they fail in the matter of salvation, they failed in life. Failed in life. So why should the Bible be a priority? It is the inerrant, perfect Word of God given to us, and it contains everything we possibly need to live here on life, a life pleasing to the Lord. Every father, every Christian should spend quality time in God's Word on a daily basis. Has anybody here ever heard me make this statement? You ought to read your Bible every day. You know why I say that over and over and over again? Because you ought to read your Bible every day. It is a priority. And it gives me direction and light that strengthens my soul. Every family, every home ought to be centered around God's Word. I want to challenge you, fathers. I want to challenge you. Do as Joshua then said, as for me and my house will serve the Lord. I want to challenge you to take the leadership that God has given to you and establish sometime every day when the family comes together And looked into the Word of God for wisdom, for direction, for warnings, for blessings, and spends some time every day as a family in the Word of God. The Bible should have top priority. What I'm trying to say is this, the most important item in your home is not the television. Most important item in your home is not the computer. Most important item in your life is not the phone. It's not the four-wheeler, it's not the shotgun, dads. It's not the Xbox. It's not the PlayStation. It's not any of that stuff. The most important item in my life is God's precious word. God told Joshua, You're leading this nation, you're a spiritual leader, you're a household leader, you're the father. This book of the law must be top priority. You must meditate on it day and night. Keep it in your mouth and in your mind. Because it is vitally important. Number one, he told him the priority of God's word. Number two, he taught Joshua that the Bible is given, the Bible is not only a top priority, but it is given also for a purpose For a purpose. Look with me again at um uh chapter one, verse number eight. This book of the law shall not depart thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. Why? That thou mayest observe to what? Do. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. I believe you ought to memorize the Bible. We try hard, we push it hard, memorizing scripture. I believe we ought to read the Bible. How many people agree with me? Christians ought to read their Bible regularly. Sure. Sure. But wait a minute, if all I'm doing is memorizing it, all I'm doing is reading it, and if I'm not doing it, I'm missing the very purpose for what it was given. Very purpose. God has given to us his word for us to live it, to do what it says. The Bible is God's instruction book. Now, dad's men are notorious. We'll get a bike or something, something for the boys, and there'll be instructions. And what do we do with the instructions? Nothing. Pst. I don't need that. And the b and the tires where the handlebars should be. The pedals are where the seat should be. You say, what kind of design is this? This thing's messed up. And if we just follow the instructions. And you know what? We got homes. We got homes. The tires or the handlebars should be. And that home is so messed up And things are so turned around and inside out and upside down. And you know what the reason is? We're not following our instruction book. We're not doing what God says we should do. Hey, husbands, dads, the Bible is very clear. It is very simple what our role is in the home We're to love our wives as Christ loved the church. That's significant. And gave himself, I was talking to somebody a Christian uh husband. Uh just uh recently, not long ago, and something was said, and I said, Well, you know, we're to love our wives and give our life, uh, be willing to give our lives for them. He made this statement. A Christian. He made this statement. That'll never happen. You know what? I was ashamed that a Christian husband, a Christian dad would say, I would never give my life for my wife. The Bible tells us very, very clearly that I'm to love that woman. And if necessary, I'm to be willing to give my life for her. I'm to provide for her, protect her, meet her needs. I'm to provide leadership for my children. This is the Bible's instructions. Listen, just carrying a Bible around in your back pocket is not obeying God. Obeying God is getting that Bible out and seeing what it says and then doing it. That thou mayest observe to Do according to all that is written therein. We got people, we got people, uh we got we got folks on their way to a devil's hell that know what the Bible says about salvation. But they won't do it. They won't trust Christ. They die and end up in hell. Do it. Do it. Do it. The Bible gives instructions for young people How they're to live their lives and how they're to prepare for the life that God has designed for them. Mothers, fathers, wives, husbands, grandparents. It's an instruction book right here. Right here. And we need to do it. You know what America needs? Just a bunch of churches and Christians just start doing what this book tells us to do. Just start there's a fella I told this before when I worked at the meat packing plant there was a fella uh Jim big muscle builder And uh I mean he worked out. It's kind of weird. He shaved his whole body is weird and uh from exercising, but just disregard that. But anyway I was a witness to him, devout Catholic. I witnessed to him. No, his name was Kevin, I'm sorry. And I I witnessed to him and uh I'd say man you need to get saved. So finally one day I brought him one of those little Gideon Bibles Remember that I said Kevin I had it all highlighted in there how to be seen. I'll give this to you. A couple months went by. I said, Kev, hey Kevin, are you reading that Bible? Hey, you got that Bible? Yep. I got it right here, man I said he says I take it everywhere. Saturday night goes to the bar, nightclub, dancing, rocking, rolling, drinking. Got his Bible right with him. I said, listen, that thing ain't a that's not a rabbit's foot Right? I remember how many people remember that? Good luck to our rabbit's foot. Well and very much luck for that rabbit Listen, this Bible was given to us for us to do what it says That thou mayest observe to do, according to all that is written therein. And so the Bible is to have top priority, and the purpose that is given to us is so that we follow its instructions. The Bible gives us, uh warns us of dangers in life. Dangers in life. There's a lot of, you know what I found out reading my Bible? There's a lot of thou shalt not Thou shalt not commit adultery. Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. Thou shalt not do this. Thou shalt not do that. Why does God do that? Because he's mean, don't want us to have fun. No. Because he loves us. And everything that God says to us in his word that we should not do is there for a reason, because indulging in that, engaging in that will hurt us badly. And so God loves us and He says, don't do these things. I'm warning you. How many here, when you raise your kids, there was some stuff you told them not to do? Anybody here tell them not to stick their finger in the electric plug? Well you're you don't want him to have fun. And tell them not to play in the road Why eh you're hateful? No, you love them. And you say don't do these things because it will hurt you. It's dangerous And when God says to us, don't engage in that behavior, don't engage in that lifestyle, don't engage in these types of things, warning, thou shalt know it. He gives it to us in his word because he loves us. And he designed us to live a certain way, and these things are outside that, and they become very dangerous. The Bible is filled with uh warns us of dangers in life. The Bible guides us in our duties in life This book tells me what my purpose in life was. One of the great things when I got saved, one of the great things I learned, and God impressed in my heart, is He had a purpose for my life. It wasn't just here There's a reason for my existence. There's a reason I was created. There's a reason I am alive. God directs me in His Word, in the duties of my life, how to interact with other people. How to have a home and a marriage that's pleasing to God, that can function. How to pray and how to interact with the God that created me, what he expects from me, and what he wants for me. And then the Bible gives us, strengthens us in the discouragements of life. I tell you, there's a lot of great promises in this book. I'm telling you, all across this auditorium, there's Christians who could stand up and testify. I went through a dark, dark valley, but God, in his word, encouraged me and helped me and saw me through that. Amen or not? I thought of my father today. This morning I got up and I thanked God for my father. My dad went through some dark valleys, and many of you know the story. He was a truck driver. And I tell you, some of you guys will testify this. Being a truck driver can be an awfully lonely life. Especially back before they had cell phones and all that. They had CBs. Anybody remember CBs? Breaker, breaker, 119 We had one. My m my uh my handle was the menace. Ten four, this is the menace. So trucking can be an awfully lonely life. And my dad went through a dark time and he'd be out on that road for days at a time. And brokenhearted and discouraged, stuff going on back home, and he could, nothing he could do. And he told me after I got saved, he said, son, he says there was times it was so dark. My heart and soul out driving. He said, but God would bring verses to mind that would help me. And remind me that God is still in control and God can take this and turn this around and make something good out of it. I tell you, this book is precious. This book warns me of things to stay away from in life. This book shows me how to function and operate here in life. This book gives me promises, encouragement during the difficult times of life The purpose that God has given us the Bible is so that we will do it. Follow its instruction, claim its promises. Heed its warnings that thou mayest observe to do. Then the last thing he tells Joshua is this, that the Bible has some precious promises, some great, great, precious promises. Look what he says there. He says, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein, for then thou shalt make thy way what? Prosperous. And then thou shalt have what? Good success. The word prosperous means to make progress successfully, to advance into profit. Prosperous. And the phrase good success. I like this definition. I got looking it up. It means this: it means to wisely prosper, to skillfully succeed. Now, at first I thought it was strange that God would say, listen, if you'll do what this book says, if you'll follow its instructions, heed its warnings, claim its promises, follow its instructions You will uh then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and thou shalt have, and this is what I thought was strange, good success. And I thought, why would he say good success? Why wouldn't it just be success? You know why? Because there can be bad success. There's people that get away from the Word of God and they become very successful in sin. And they become very successful in the world. We're studying the book of Ecclesiastes on Sunday nights, and we found that Solomon became very successful in a lot of bad areas. And you know what his conclusion of all of that was? It's vain, vanity of vanity. He said it is vexation of spirit. Listen to me. You can push God's word aside if you want. You can ignore what God teaches and ignore God's warnings and ignore God's instructions. You can do that all you want. You might make a lot of money. And you might live in a nice house. And you may be, as far as this world's definition is concerned, very successful. But I'll tell you this, when it's all said and done, and we stand before our Creator, we're going to find out that not all success is good success. Sometimes it's bad. Anything that I'm succeeding at that is drawing me away from God and His will for my life is not good success. That's bad success. God says, if you'll follow my instructions, if you'll make this word a top priority in your life, and you do what it says, you follow its instructions, and you will have good success. I wish I had more time. Joshua followed God's instructions. Joshua is a tremendous example for you and I, not just as fathers, but as individual Christians. On what it means to live by faith and follow what God instructs us to do in His Word. And at the end of the book At the end of the book of Joshua, in chapter 24, in chapter 24, verse 29, 30, and 31, we find out that God blessed Joshua tremendously. And he was buried in his inheritance that included a great mountain, a tremendous amount of land. Now, I'm not telling you if you do what the Bible says, you'll have a lot of land and you'll be m financially rich. But I am saying this, that if we follow God's instruction and make it a priority, we can experience and possess everything in life that God has designed for us. I'm telling you, there's a lot of people missing out on what God has for you because you're not following instructions in God's word. You're not doing it God's way. And so Joshua experienced, he received all that God had for him, but not only that, he influenced a nation for God. And the Bible says in verse 31, I think, of Joshua 24, the Bible says this, and I'm putting my own words, but he says this. And all the days that Joshua lived, Israel feared the Lord. Israel feared the Lord. And my point is this: when we live by the Word of God, we heed its warnings, claim its promises, follow its instructions, we have a tremendous influence. On those around us. On those around us. Dad? Hey, Dad. You're influencing your kids. Whether you're living for God or not, you are influencing them. Either to the Lord or away from the Lord. And what we need to do is get to the Word of God, make it a priority, practice what it says, experience God's blessing, and we'll have tremendous influence. Tremendous influence on those around. I think, again, I keep coming back to this, but I think our country just needs some churches that'll start doing what that book says. I lay the blame of the condition of our country on the churches in our country. If my people, which are called by my name. And so how about it? The Bible priority in your life? Do you read it every day? Do you get the family together, family time, read the Word of God as a family, make it the focal point, the centerpiece of your family? The hub of the family? Are you doing what it says? Following its instructions. God says that He'll bless you. will prosper and have good success as God defines it. Let me ask you this question. Do you know for sure that when you die, That your sins are forgiven. You go to heaven, not to hell. The Bible tells us that we can know that. Are you living what it says? Doing, follow its instructions. Father, I pray you bless now. This challenge from your word. I ask you to use these verses and these truths to help us grow and pray there be decisions made as Joshua made that as fathers, individual Christians Our house will serve the Lord. We're going to go by the book. We're going to follow God's instructions. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it But I have to be honest, that Bible doesn't hold the priority in my life that I know it should, that the Bible teaches it should. And I need to make some decisions and get that Bible back as a priority. In my life and in my home. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I need to get that book back as a priority. Reading it every day, living it. How about it? God bless you. Hands all round. How about it? Others? I need to do that. I need to do it I trust you didn't raise your hand. I trust that means you're reading your Bible on a regular basis, the family. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know there's some areas in the Bible that God has instructed me and I need some attention there. Whether it's a father, mother, child, there's some instructions there. I need God to help me, to follow those instructions, heed those warnings. Or anything like that. Preacher, God's spirit has spoken to my heart. God bless you, hands around. Hands around. Listen, let's not just raise our hand. Let's not just say, oh yeah. Let's act on it. Let's decide. Let's make those changes Then there's some here say, preacher, I need to claim some of God's promises. I get so discouraged. I get so under the cloud. And you say, preacher, I need to get back in that book and claim these promises that God has given me. Is there any like that? Preacher, sometimes I get just so down. I need to refocus on God's promises. Any at all? God bless you. God bless you. Hands around. Let me ask one last question. You know for sure you're on your way to heaven. Say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die, I go to heaven. I want to urge you with all my heart, get that settled today. For someone, say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I'm concerned about it. Any at all by the uplifted hand. How about it? Any at all? God bless you. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless our invitation time in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Kathy's playing the invitation song.