Somebody called in a couple of years ago during our serathon and said, when are you going to start playing contemporary Christian music? Contemporary rock and roll Christian music. And uh they the the one that took the call couldn't resist. They went and got Brother Duane that's now the pastor of Grace Baptist Church and General manager of FDN, he went in there and he said, we'll play dead air before we put that stuff on the radio. But he he was nice about it too though. He he explained to him what the difference was And uh people want something that's not confusing. The Bible tells us to be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of our minds. So we're not to have anything to do with things that are worldly, amen. And that's why FBN has a good listener base And uh we're going to continue on. And uh this afternoon I texted Brother Dwayne, told him I was going to get an opportunity to to speak and give an update about FBN. I asked him if there was anything that he wanted Uh read or anything and here's what he said. Uh go down through all the introduction, no all He said, if you don't mind, letting them know that extra prayer would be much appreciated. Grace Baptist Church is in a transition, but it was a smooth transmission because uh transition because um uh brother Duane is Pastor Ebron's nephew And uh he is now the pastor now since uh Pastor Ebern went on to glory. Um, have extra prayer would be appreciated. Also if you could ask them to be praying for Sister Robinson since she started her radiation treatment. now. She's been through the chemo and now she's having radiation treatment. She is the secretary, all of you know Sister Robinson, Brother Robinson. Sister Robinson does our legal work. Uh she's the FBN secretary and uh so she needs extra prayer right now. Uh she's been through the chemo and now she's having a radiation and I think it If I'm not mistaken, it's like six weeks every day going for radiation. So please pray for her. Pray for Brother Dave, too. He fell. Um I don't know how he fell, but but there is a sack around your elbow that keeps everything going good. He busted that sack and now his elbow is swelled way up. He needs your prayers also He's he's working on a lot of uh different um radio uh stations at this time. Says additionally Brother Dave is working with several stations on some technical issues And uh we've been trying to help him with those. Uh Collinsville, Virginia. Uh we uh went up there and put a new box in there and plugged in the Uh the thingamajig into it. Uh no, the uh the router and then another box had to be plugged into it. That way when the when the power goes off, which it does a lot in Southern Virginia cause of thunderstorms and everything, he can he can actually take control of the computer and get it back up and running from Newport, North Carolina, out on the coast. So instead of him having to drive five hours to take care of that, now he can do it automatically. Uh but then lightning ran in on the satellite dish And he thinks it blew out one of the uh lightning uh surge uh protecting uh devices on that And he said, What's your schedule like? And I told him he said, Oh, that's not gonna work So uh he's gonna work on that. He's working on a station, a couple of stations down South Carolina. Then he's gonna make the trip up through North Carolina to Collinsville, uh sister Uh Alicia is traveling with him and uh they're going to take care of those problems, so pray for him. When he explains to me what I'm doing, uh when he explains to me what he needs done It's over my head. It he is so technical. He was in Desert Storm and he he did communications for Colin Powell and General Schwartz called because he he didn't always go by the book. He he did things to where they could get the communications through to the ones that needed it. And so now we're thankful to have him at FEN Radio Let me see if there was anything else that he sent. Oh, he said, thanks. Give them a great big thank you from us for being a part of FBN and uh says he hopes you have a great night uh tonight. So thank you uh from FBN but also uh I want to thank you for your continued faithful monthly support for me and my family so that we can get out and tell people about FBN that otherwise would not know anything about it. We've been on the road for eight years now Never had an accident because of your prayers and support. And uh w the farthest west we've been able to get to still is Ava, Missouri. We can't get past Ava, Missouri. We've been up in the Ohio, we've been all over Indiana, Kentucky. Tennessee, Georgia, Alabama, uh uh Virginia, Maryland, of course, Pennsylvania. And um and we're having a wonderful time doing that But I want to tell you we're trying to get in every independent Baptist Church just in North Carolina and for eight years we've been doing that and we're still finding them within 30 minutes to an hour from our house. They're everywhere. They're everywhere. So please pray for us. And uh we'll continue on. Uh we have some papers back there that you can look at. Sister Robinson sends me a report We have a radar, uh she she calls it a radar on her computer, and when somebody listens for at least 15 minutes, anywhere in the world, the little blip will come up and it'll tell what country they're in. And uh so and it tells on that sheet of paper how many days uh that the station was listened to, how many days FBN was listened to in any given month. If you look on that, uh Russia Listen, 31 days. Every day, we've got brothers and sisters in Christ in Russia. Ukraine up till about January, we're listening at least 27, 28 days. Now for obvious reasons, they're down to about 8, 9, 10, 13 days. We got brothers and sisters in Christ in Ukraine. We got brothers and sisters in Christ in Poland. All around the world. Our new number of countries and territories around the world is 234. Our latest one this year is a little island nation called Tuvalu. Oh that sounds like a song or a poem or something. There's got to be a song in that somewhere. But Tuvalu is the name of the latest island nation. They're between If I can remember the name, Tom, Micronesia and South Pacific. Micronesia and it starts with Samoa. They're between those two uh areas. So please pray for them. We've got a listener there. And uh they had to listen for at least fifteen minutes, still Sister Robinson back this past spring said, uh praise the Lord, somebody at the Vatican is still listening to FE in the radio. Somebody is listening for hours at a time at the Vatican comes up as the Holy See. Praise the Lord. We've got listeners there. Believe it or not, we got listeners in New Zealand. Praise the Lord. You can see on the paper back there, we've got listeners there. We have listeners all around the world, and we're thankful for that. Pastor Abern wanted to reach the world for Christ. And it started with that one little station there in Moorhead City, North Carolina. But before he died, he got to see 234 countries and territories listening, tuning in to what he started and he never would take credit for it. He said, This is not my station, this is the Lord's work. This is his station. And we want to thank Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church for being a part of that network and and all that you do all the time. Uh only eternity will tell when we get home one day how many people just in the Oakland area trusted Christ by hearing the gospel on FBN. Heard of the gospel by the outreach of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We thank you for it. And um I want to bring you a message tonight from Acts chapter number one. Acts chapter number one and and um it's it's more about missions, it's more about FBN. That the Lord's laid on my heart just to share with you tonight. I want to bear my heart with you and uh talk a little bit about the past few charathons that we've had And uh uh let you see just what it means to to a lot of people. Uh we appreciate when uh Brother Matt comes down to uh to be a part of charathon. We'd like to get Pastor Ledman too down there sometime. But it means a lot whenever he brings those slips of paper, those testimonials of what FBN means to you That means a lot. And the people out there all around the world are hearing that. We didn't know. I was preaching At Grace Baptist Church there at FBN headquarters and and uh a fella uh I met sometime later Uh in China Grove, it was for a retirement party for a pastor because of health reasons he was having to retire from his church and He said, You know you got a following in Africa. I said, I've got a following in Africa? How's that possible? And he said, Well, uh the different ones that live streamed. He said, I uh I put you out there because I'm a missionary to Africa And uh he said, I put you on the radio there. And uh Pastor Ebern, after I would preach at Grace Batteries Church, he said, Look here, this is how many countries tuned in this morning I wonder how many countries tune in to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We'll never know until we get to heaven one day We had the technology down there just to see what all the countries were. Ireland was tuning in. Brazil. All these places. Getting to hear the gospel of Jesus Christ. You'll never know what it means. In Acts chapter number one, I want to start reading in verse number six. The Bible says, when they therefore were come together, They asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom of Israel to Israel? And he said unto them, Is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power. But he sh ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem And in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. Folks, you have part in that great commission uh that Jesus was telling his disciples, all his followers right there in Acts chapter number one, and verse uh there in verse number eight Notice right there, he says, be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, not just in Jerusalem, not just in Oakland. But under the uttermost parts of the earth. Obviously, I cannot be everywhere. I cannot go to every country that I would love to go to and preach the gospel. I would love to have opportunity. Back in 1995 I had an opportunity to go to Romania and I got to preach in about five or six churches over there and give the gospel uh with one of those interpreters and and and people really responded to the gospel over there in Romania, but I can't go. I can't even go over there today Me and my son are are uh raising funds. We're trying to get some money together so me and him can take a trip to Israel. We were waiting for him to build a bridge over there so we wouldn't have to fly. But we're gonna The Lord willing, before the Lord returns, we're gonna fly over there and see where Jesus walked and and go to that that area and give the gospel out Uh while we're there. Uh but I I can't go everywhere. And you can't go everywhere. But what you are doing is sending missionaries out all around the world I see that board over there. Missions. God's will, God's way, praying, giving, going, worldwide faith, promised missions. That's the heart of God tonight. Uh I go travel to all these churches all around the country and I've been in the churches. Some of 'em are falling off miserably uh don't have hardly anybody going there at all. And one of the reasons uh some of them are dead churches because they don't have a missions program But there are some others that are uh have fallen off not because of anything that they have done. Uh they just don't have a pastor And but they're still supporting missions and God uh uh honors that and he's gonna bring it back, amen Worldwide Faith Funds Mission. Faith promised giving $2,910 last week. That is amazing. That's how you're getting to around the world. You know, but we got a responsibility to the people right here too. And this church is very active in soul winning. My son and daughter got to go with the young people today And got to go door to door with them. That's something we don't get to do everywhere that we go. But it's wonderful when they do get that opportunity. We appreciate that It says, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth. I want to ask you tonight, what is your part? Where is your part? It didn't say exclusively in Jerusalem. That's not what it says. It says both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and in Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth. I think about some of those that I've looked up to that are have gone on to be with the Lord. I think about Pastor Bill Wingard that has the early morning sh programming on FBN. Went home to be with the Lord on a Friday before spring charathon a year ago. He was missed, missed badly Done so much for FBN, done so much through the ministry, done sent missionaries all around the world Great man of God gone on to be with the Lord. I remember he always opened up the very first shift on Monday morning when FBN Spring Sherathon or Fall Sherathon would come on, he'd say This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. He was always happy. He was always he was an encourager. He was one of those that would uh come up to you, you could uh feel like nobody. I mean this is Pastor Wingard. Uh this is somebody, you know, and it but he'd make you feel like you were number one He would encourage you to keep going for the Lord and always thank you for what you've done. He'd pray with you just like Pastor Abron would pray with you. Well, our spring charathon this year, Pastor Wingard's wife went home to be with the Lord a year later. She'd be truly meest, dearly meest. Our spring charathon Whenever we start in our fall shafts on we try to get to the end of September, we're going to be starting on November the 5th With only $1,123 left on November the 5th, we're set up in real good shape again this time. $261,677 uh is what the Lord impressed upon people's hearts. And a whole lot of that came from Oakland, Maryland. We appreciate you. The last time I looked at the number of phone calls come in, we normally get three, four hundred calls, uh up to five hundred calls sometimes during Sheriff. When I looked this time it was nearly 800 had called in. For the weak. There's a verse of scripture that I think about when I think about FBN, I think about the faithful supporters, Psalm 118, verse 23 Just before Pastor Wingard's favorite verse, it says, This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the Lord's doing. You've got a part in that. There'll be rewards someday. I was thinking about those Masters Club. They were coming up and getting those little crowns and everything. I went to the dentist Thursday before we came up here on Friday and I got two of my crowns before I got to heaven. Amen I wish I'd brush my teeth a little better when I was growing up, but but uh but there's rewards, eternal rewards. We might not have a whole lot down here on earth We're just pilgrims and strangers passing through, but when we get home one day, just to see Jesus' face will be enough to bow at his feet. And to weep at his feet for having mercy on us and giving us the free pardon from our sins through his death, burial, and resurrection. That's going to be worth it all, but then to have rewards, and then to take those rewards and cast those crowns at his feet. Can you imagine? You know, when I was a child I I'd hear scriptures and everything growing up and I I would think about, you know, it talks about the the cast of crowns at at the foot of the throne at at Jesus' feet there and I thought, wow, twenty, thirty crowns coming in. No. It's millions Millions, every saint of God from the beginning of time till whenever it's over is going to be in heaven. We've already been seen there. We're just waiting for our body to catch up with our spirit that we're going to be in heaven and we're going to cast those rewards at Jesus' feet because only he is worthy I can imagine if if there are crowns of gold and the gold is pure like the street of gold that's in in heaven tr as transparent glass, it it's gonna look like fireworks going through the air. It's gonna be like uh maybe a hundred thousand crowns cast from this side and a hundred thousand from this side uh two hundred and fifty thousand from this side Just continual throwing those at Jesus' feet for he alone is worthy. I look forward to that day. Not only do we look at what our part is And what part has been given and helped through helped through FBN radio? Turn your Bibles to Matthew chapter number twenty-four. Matthew chapter number twenty four. Starting at verse number three And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us when shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you For many shall s come in my name, saying I am Christ, and shall deceive many. And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that ye be not troubled, for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet. For nation shall rise against nation and kingdom against kingdom, and there shall be famines and pestilences and earthquakes in diverse places. All these are the beginning of sorrows Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted and shall kill you, and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake. I look at several things, but I I'm viewing in, I'm focusing in on verse six where it says, And ye shall hear of wars. and rumors of wars. Sure, we've had pestilence. Had pestilence called COVID. We've had that, but we've also had wars and rumors of wars and and uh I think back to last fall charathon. Whenever all the funds were raised to end the physical year through the end of March for FBN radio, we started raising money for the military and the uh law enforcement of Poland Pastor Ebern had come up with uh met up with a missionary and and the Lord just spoke to Pastor's heart and said, we need to get some Bibles over to Poland. Little did we know that Russia was going to invade Poland And that they were gonna have a lot I mean uh uh invade Ukraine and they were gonna have a lot of refugees come from Ukraine into Poland. They needed the Word of God to help them in that and and FBN was able to be a part of that. Twenty-five thousand Bibles, the first twenty-five thousand Bibles went into Poland, and they were so excited the military, the the missionary uh emailed and talked to Brother Dwayne on the phone and he said they love it. He said it it it's a camouflage cover. It was a very nice printed Bible. It was Old and New Testament and and they loved it. So many of them clutched it to the heart and and they could carry it in their pocket with them and and uh they were just so excited to have the Word of God that they could read and study and be a help to somebody. I don't know how many people have been saved uh through those Bibles already But then the ones that you helped raise during the charathon was the next twenty-five thousand to go over there, which was actually I think the funds came in for twenty-eight thousand is what we ended up with. Uh but the next twenty eight five thousand were to go in at Easter. And the war was very hot during that time. Uh the Bibles were being printed, guess where? In Russia. Belarus. And so they made the safe passage and they got in to Ukraine and to Poland. They're working now on a project. John Romans, another missionary, is working on a project on John and Romans. uh in Ukraine and Polish uh side by side to where they can help each other with the word of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ Then not only do we look at being a missionary to around the world, not only uh to get Bibles uh to help in a war-torn country and and their neighbor there to be a help to them spiritually. Then we looked at prayer or prayer time. You don't hear it on on the radio, but at the top of every hour when we go to a station break and the news and all that, everybody comes in to the studio and we pray A lot of you have seen in, I remember seeing some of the names and everything. They don't normally send names in, but we see the names of the people that send in the prayer request and what the prayer request is And we do pray. And and I'll tell you, you know, it it affects us. I mean, F E N charathon is like revival that breaks out and and our hearts ache for people that are hurting. Those that have confidence in the people behind the microphones that they would offer up a prayer for them and we're going to be Uh we're going to do it to the best of our ability. And and it doesn't just stop at at Sherapon time. Whenever we go home at night, when I wake up in the middle of the night, some of those prayer requests are sticking out my mind And I'll just stop right then and pray, but thinking that, you know, God woke me up for a reason to pray for that person again. Many times we don't get to hear the results Because charathons only one week, and some of these have long-term illnesses and things going on in their lives. Many times we don't get to hear, but sometimes we do James chapter number 5 and verse number 16 says, confess your faults one to another and pray one for another. that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer for righteous man availeth much. One thing we do before we ever start, Sheraton, on Sunday night, we meet together And many times we'll go to the altar and pray and say, Lord, is there anything in my life that's not pleasing to you? Show it to me so I can repent of it. I want to go on the air starting Monday morning, going all the way through Saturday with a pure heart to where I can pray for somebody, where we'll see somebody saved. We prayed for a girl with that was having a double lung and heart transplant. In North Carolina, I think it was Roseboro that called it in. North Carolina. It was to be done. It was like a 17, 13 to 17 hour surgery. And we knew it was going to be done like I think it was Tuesday that it was going to be done. So we didn't hear anything, we didn't hear anything. So when I uh got on my ship I said, if you're the one that called in for that girl that had a double lung and heart transplant Would you please call in? We've been praying. We want to hear how did the surgery go? And they called back in and said she's standing beside her bed. She was up and woken. Only God can do that. And people praying all around the world, Oakland, Maryland, West Virginia, Virginia, all these countries around the world that are listening to Sheraton, they're praying. We're praying together. We're uniting as one people, praying for these people. We got another prayer request. A woman had spinal surgery. It was a very, very touchy surgery. Anytime, anytime you have surgery, it's it's serious. But hers was on her spine. And we got word after her surgery that they didn't know what had happened, but she had air bubbles that had gone to her brain. And she was in uh dire strait, she get she was touch and go there for a while. She could have a stroke or a heart attack uh from this taking place and and we didn't get to announce it during charathon time but Sunday morning I got a text uh after church I had announced it. Keep praying for that girl that has the air bubbles on her brain and And I got a text on my phone and said that she's not out of the woods yet, but they were sending her home and the air bubbles were slowly going away. And then I've heard recently that she's doing a lot better. Prayer changes things. It touches the heart of God like missions does. He cares for people. You know, we think about the universe, we think about all the stars and the planets. He he used three words there. He made the sun and the moon. He he made the stars also is what the Bible gives to it. Three words. But Rahab the harlot, loath person in society, he gives a whole chapter to. She got saved and her house. God cares for people. Amen. He put all those things out there for his honor and glory that we can look up at night and say, wow, what an amazing God we have. That he cares for people. He cares for what's going on in your life tonight. What's going on with each and every one of you tonight? And then Matthew chapter number twenty eight Verse 19 and 20. The Lord said, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. And lo, I am with you all the way, even unto the end of the world. Amen. I read in the Word of God about the ends of the earth If Antarctica's not the end of the earth, I don't know what it is. But we've got listeners in Antarctica. New Meyer Base. Under the ice, down under, underground level. We read, and many of you probably heard it, we read it a couple of times during the week of Sherathon this past time, but It's called uh Missionary to Antarctica. FBN has been privileged to broadcast the gospel of Jesus Christ around the world for many years now. Back when we were able to broadcast over shortwave radio, we received a letter from a German scientist who was stationed in Antarctica who had listened to our short way broadcast while there. Needless to say, we were thrilled to learn of this But recently one of our FBN representatives was at a preachers fellowship in Virginia and was told a story that was even more exciting Well that was real exciting, so this is real, real exciting. One of the fellowship uh attendees mentioned that he used to be a mission board director During that time he received a phone call from the church secretary of a church in South Carolina. She told him her pastor was interested in supporting a missionary to Antarctica and wondered if the director knew of any missionaries that uh there or that were preparing to go there. He said that he was not aware of any. There's no permanent residents there, just a transient group of scientists and researchers. They're just in and out uh from that area all the time. A few weeks or so later the mission board director received another phone call. This time it was from the pastor of that church in South Carolina The pastor began to share uh what had just happened at his church. A man walked the aisle and wanted to follow the Lord in baptism and joined the church. So the pastor asked him to give his testimony about when he had asked the Lord to save him. To the pastor's surprise, the man said he was a research scientist in Antarctica. While there he found the fundamental broadcasting network on his computer He said what he heard caught his attention and over the next several weeks he listened when he could. He said something deep inside was telling him he needed to get saved. He said that evening I asked the Lord to save me and he did When the scientist came back home, he wanted to go to church and learn more about the Lord Jesus Christ and his word. The pastor was so excited by his testimony that their church took FBN on as their missionary to Antarctica These things are exciting to me. Sure, we get excited at Sherathon. I feel like crowing right now, but I'm not going to I and and that's just for charathon, amen. Because I tried it to wake my kids up and it didn't have the same effect. Nobody nobody called in. I got pillows thrown at me and everything. But those things excite me. That that is why FBN is there. That's why this is the 33rd year, 34th year of FBN in December will be the anniversary And we're so thankful just to have just a small part, and we're thankful for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and all that you do for it. And uh just please pray for Brother Duane He is the pastor of Grace Baptist Church and general manager of FBN Radio now. And he covets your prayers. He's so humble. He's a whole lot like Pastor Ever, just humble as he can be. And uh he's he's met with uh some trials already, like any pastor would, but just pray for him As we pray for you and for your pastor. Thank you. Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll just take your word and encourage people. through this that anybody can give the FBN, anybody can give them their church and support missions. Uh just any any bit will help uh with the mission program or with FBN radio sending sending the gospel out around the world. Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll just bless continue to bless Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church and the leadership here, Pastor Leatherman and Pastor Matt, and all those that that uh do the work here And Father, we just praise you and we love you. We look forward to seeing you someday soon in Jesus' name. Amen.