Psalm chapter 56. And we're going to look at verse number three this morning. While you're turning there, we praise the Lord for a good week at Neighborhood Bible Time. Uh as I said we had about I think we had 120 some young people enrolled. We were a little down this year number wise as far as attendance enrollment was concerned, but we had a good number of young people make decisions for the Lord. I believe I'm correct in saying we had twenty So we praise the Lord for that. We had a great Friday night closing program. Uh some of the most uh parents we've ever had for that. And uh the best I could tell, we had nine adults Friday night profess faith in Christ with us also. So we praise the Lord for a good week. We're very grateful to uh everyone that helped. And Um uh all the workers and different folks uh that gave put their uh a lot of effort into making this a great success I came across something, it really doesn't have anything to do with the message itself, but uh I thought it might be helpful for you. Uh uh talks about failure. This is unrelated to the message really, but like I said, I think it might be helpful to you. Failure does not mean that you are a failure. It simply means you have not yet succeeded. I like that Just haven't succeeded yet. Failure doesn't mean that you've accomplished nothing. It does mean that you've learned something. I thought that was pretty good. Failure doesn't mean that you've been a fool. It does mean you have a lot of faith You tried something, you stepped out. Failure doesn't mean that you've been disgraced. It does mean you were willing to try. Failure does not mean that you don't have it. It simply means you have to do something in a different way. Failure doesn't mean you're inferior. It does mean you're not perfect. Failure doesn't mean you've wasted your life. It does mean you have a reason to start afresh. Failure doesn't mean you should give up. It just means you should try harder. Failure doesn't mean you will never make it. It does mean it will just take a little longer. Failure doesn't mean God has abandoned you. It does mean God has a better way for you. And so I read that the other day. It came in an email. I thought that was uh really good. I wanted to share it with you. Has nothing to do whatsoever with the message But uh thought I would share with you though. Look at Psalms 56 with me and verse number three. What I would like for us to do is to read verse three together in Judason. Very short verse. Some of you have had it memorized since you were a child And uh let's read it together. Ready, verse number three. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. I've entitled the message, Fear versus faith, part of our summer series on summer of faith. Let's pray. Father, bless now as we look into your word, I ask that you would strengthen our faith in you, dear Lord, in this hour Use the Word of God to help us. I pray you'd give direction this morning. I pray that there would be decisions made that are in line with the Word of God. Decisions made by faith on the part of Christians and all of us to go forward in our walk with you. I yield myself to you now, Lord. I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew, and I ask that you would fill me with your spirit, dear Lord, that you would speak through me. And challenge us and help us in this matter of fear versus faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One other thing before we actually get in the message, a couple weeks ago, I put a challenge out to all the men and the young men, men of all ages, adults and young men to uh make it uh a distinct effort to read a chapter from the book of Proverbs every day. Uh to read the chapter that corresponds with that day's date. For instance Today's the 17th. This morning I read Proverbs chapter 17. I want to renew that challenge to our men and young men. I believe If uh in addition to your regular Bible reading, or if you don't aren't in the habit of reading your Bible, find the book of Proverbs, and every day take a moment, don't take but three, four, five minutes to read down through that chapter Read that chapter of Proverbs that corresponds with that day's date. I believe, with all my heart, I believe that it will help you spiritually I believe it'll help you mentally, emotionally. I believe it'll help you physically, and here's what gets everyone's attention. I believe it'll help you financially. I really do. And uh and help your testimony job. So I throw that challenge out again this morning. Now ladies, you can get in on it if you want. We'll let you read the Bible if you But uh the men uh particularly, I'm challenging the men. W uh take that up. Uh make an effort to read a a chapter from the book of Proverbs Proverbs was written by Solomon, who happened to be a man, to his son, his teenage son. And so it's very pertinent for uh uh men today, and I want to do that How many people recognize the name Charles E. Bowles? B O L E S Charles E. Bowles. Does anybody recognize that name? I didn't think anybody would. How about this one? Does anybody recognize the name Black Bart? Black Bart. Some folks have heard that. Does anybody you've heard that name, you have heard it. Does anybody know who Black Bart was? Brother Brian, who was Black Bart? Aha! This guy knows his Western history. How many folks knew that? How many folks know it? Oh, you all knew it, yeah, right. How comes you didn't Charles E. Bowles is Black Bart. That was his real name. Black Bart was one of the most successful stagecoach robbers in American history. He robbed, he had 28 robberies between July of 1875 and July of 1880. 28 robberies in five years. He only robbed stagecoaches for the Wells Fargo Company. He wouldn't rob any other stagecoach, Wells Fargo, for whatever reason. That's all he robbed. Somebody asked him years later after he had gotten arrested, they said, where in the world did you come up with the name Black Bart? He goes, I don't know. I just thought of it on the moment when somebody asked me what my name was and I needed to use an incognito. So he just made it up on the spur of the moment Here's the thing about Black Bart. Not only was he one of the most successful stagecoach robbers in all of history, But he was also one of the most unusual stagecoach robbers in all of history. He robbed these 28 stagecoaches successfully In five years, never fired one shot. Never fired shot. He never took a hostage He was never trailed by a sheriff. Twenty-eight robberies, five years, never shot a shot, never took a hostage, never trailed by a sheriff. He was known for being very polite. When he would stop the stagecoach, he'd get it stopped, he would say something to this effect. Sirs, would you please throw down the strong box? Now the strong box was what we would call the safe They said, Sirs, would you please throw down the strong box? And also, if you would please, throw your guns down also And every security guard on there, every stagecoach driver would do exactly what Black Bart said. In fact, he never robbed individual people. The first robbery he did was out uh somewhere in California, and very first robbery he did There was a stagecoach riders. They would take the mail and the strong box, which was money, they'd take to banks and everything. And they always had stagecoach riders, very usually very wealthy people, who pay the stagecoach to transport them. The first robbery, one of the ladies got so scared she threw her purse out the window, scared to death. Black Bart, being the gentleman he was, walked over to the purse Then down, picked it up, he bowed to the lady, and he says, ma'am, I have no use for your valuables. Please keep them to yourself. Stagecoach Robert. Very polite. Never fired a shot. Never took a hostage, never injured a person. Yet successfully robbed 28 stagecoaches in five years. How in the world did Black Bart do it? Come back next week, I'll tell you. No, I'm kidding. Black Bart was very tall. What he would do is he would stand in the middle of the stagecoach road as the stagecoach approached. He was very tall. He wore a dark, and he always had a very dirty, big overcoat. He wore a very large hat. He would get sticks that looked like guns, and he would put them in the rocks above the stagecoach trail where the stage would stop, and he had these sticks pointing out that looked just like 2530 rifles pointing down where the stagecoach was. He carried a very large double barrel 12 gauge shotgun. And he would stand in the middle, and as they would approach, they saw this very large man. Oh, and one other thing he did. He would wear a black sack over his head. And cut out the holes for eyes. And when that stagecoach would come around and big old black barts standing there With that hat, that black overcoat, that sack over his head, 12-gauge shotgun, the very sight of him brought fear to the heart of the people in that stagecoach I've mentioned the lady that threw her purse out. The historical account of that first robbery says when they saw him. The security guards, the stagecoach driver, the passengers were so struck with fear they could hardly move. And the lady, out of fear, just blew her purse out. He said, Don't move, sirs, if you would, as you very please, sirs, if you would, throw the strong box down, please, if you would, throw your guns down. Fellows up in the rocks, if they move, shoot them all. People were scared to death. They did exactly what he said. He used that method twenty-eight times successfully. He became a legend in his own time. The biggest thing during that period of time that stagecoaches with the Wells Fargo Company feared was Black Bart robbing their stagecoach Yet, you never never shired a fot. I mean fired a shot. He never fired a shot. Never took a hostage, never injured a person. Black Bart knew and used to his advantage the power of fear. He knew that fear could paralyze the most courageous security guard. In fact, one of the newspaper reports at the time says that Black Bart, here's it is, makes cowards out of the bravest of our security men. He paralyzed the mail and passenger routes for five years. They were scared to death to send money. It affected businesses. It affected people's travel plans. It hindered the mail. All because of fear. In reality, every one of those stagecoaches, they were in very little danger All that was pointing out of them out of the rocks were sticks. But they didn't know that. Black Bart probably did not have the courage to point that gun at someone and shoot someone. In fact, when they arrested him, when they finally got him, they lured him him into a uh Wells Fargo uh facility somehow, I don't know the details, but they tricked him to come in there. And when they arrested him, he put up no resistance. And uh was taken very easily. Black Bart was really no one to fear But he knew the power of fear itself and used it very successfully towards his ends. Fear. It's a powerful thing My part knew its power. Hey, fear is a very powerful thing in people's lives, even in the year 2011. Now we don't fear Black Bart on the stagecoach line today, but we have our own set of fears We have our own issues that can paralyze us, hinder us, hurt us, impair us. How many people recognize the name King David? Sure. You know your Bible at all. You know about King David. If you read through the book of Samuel and Kings and you read the biblical record of the life and reign of King David, You find a man who is known for his tremendous courage, tremendous bravery. In fact, we're told that as a child, we don't know the age 10, 11, 12 maybe, probably in that range there somewhere. He was working as a shepherd. Now shepherds uh abode with their flocks at night. uh out in the woods and in the f in the wilderness and uh day and night out in the wood out of the out in the wilderness away from home often by themselves taking care of the sheep And they didn't have Nintendo or PlayStations or anything to take with them out there. And so here you have David as a young man out in the wilderness by himself at night with sheep, taking care of them. The Bible tells us, he relates in one of the instances here, in the historical books, that while he was watching the sheep as a young child, one time a lion came. Now, I don't know about you, but when I was an 11-year-old kid, to spend the night by myself out in the wilderness would be a horrific experience. In fact, when I was a little kid, I was scared to spend the night in my bed by myself. There was monsters under my bed. No, really, there was. And I remember I know this none of y'all ever this happened to you. I know that. But I remember as as a young child in bed, wake up in the middle of the night and you got it you know it was summertime you ate five watermelons before you went to bed Wake up in the middle of night, I've got to go to the restroom. But I can't get out of my bed because there's monsters under it. And they're gonna grab my legs and pull me under and pick my bones. Anyone Come on, somebody say that's the way it was. Alright, Chuck's the only honest one here this morning. And that's debatable. But um But I remember I would stay I had it I had it figured out. They could only reach so far. So I would stand on my bed and I would leap as far as I could out from the bed so the monsters couldn't reach me, run to the bathroom, then come running in and jump as far as I could through the air and land on my bed. Somehow I survived that years and uh never got eaten But David's out there, a young man, at night, watching, and a lion comes. And he didn't run, he didn't scream. You know what he did? He killed it. Young boy killed a lion. He said another time he was out there as a young boy watching and a bear came. And he didn't run, he didn't scream, he didn't say, here, eat the sheep, leave me alone. He killed the bear. David was known for his incredible bravery. He didn't have a 12-gauge shotgun. In fact, he didn't have a crossbow. All he had was a sling and a rod and a stick, and he killed him. As a young boy, his daddy sent him one time to check on his brothers. They were at war with the Philistines. The Philistines had a uh what would be the equivalent to our day of a nuclear bomb. It was a giant. Nobody could beat these giants. In fact, there were several of them, but one in particular, his name was Goliath. And the whole army of Israel is paralyzed with fear by this giant named Goliath. And the Goliath had the nation of Israel paralyzed. He knew the power of fear. So he played on that. And he would come out and he would hold his huge sword and his gigantic shield. In fact, they had a guy who would carry the shield for him in front of him. And I can see him picking that shield up and picking that sort of, I defy the nation of Israel. And they would just tremble in fear. David shows up to check on his brothers. He brought him some cheese and whatnot, Cheez-Its and Cheetos brand cheese chips. And um While he's there visiting with his brothers and giving the stuff out, the guy comes out and says that. He goes, Who's this guy? He's the giant. And you know the story. David says, why don't somebody go out there and kill him? And when it's all said and done, they found out that Goliath really wasn't that much of a threat. A young boy with a sling was able to take him out and kill him. But fear. David was known as being very one of the most courageous men in the Bible. As a child, You read later on when he becomes one of Saul's military men. He's out on the battlefield. It seems like David was as comfortable in the midst of battle with the blood and the death. He was as comfortable and confident there as he was at home in his living room. Nothing seemed to rattle David. But if you will look at Psalm 56 that we just read, and if you have any kind of study Bible at all, up under the title Psalm 56, It says, my Bible says this, I don't know if yours says the same. It says to the chief musician upon Jonathan, some kind of word there, Michum, of who David. David wrote this song. Look at verse three What time I am afraid. I will trust in thee. He doesn't say if I ever happen to get afraid someday, I'm going to trust in the Lord. He doesn't say, you know, all y'all that get afraid, you better trust the Lord. What's he say? What's he telling us here in this verse? David Got afraid sometimes. Not David! Yeah. David had to deal with fear. Here he plainly, in front of the whole world, declares the reality of fear in his life. One of the toughest. One of the bravest, most courageous of men faced issues in life that brought fear to his heart. Fear is reality. I have several soldiers and generals and whatnot in World War II, and reading this history and studying it, I have several that are my favorites. One of them is General George MacArthur. I like General George MacArthur. If you read about him, he's just an amazing man. I believe, my own personal opinion is, I believe he was a saved man. I believe there's testimony to that. Another one of my favorite generals, as far as a military man is concerned, was General George Patton. Many people are familiar with George Patton. Now, I do not believe he was a saved man. I wish he was. But he was a tremendous general. George Patton was known for as a man without fear. The soldiers, his own soldiers, feared him because they felt he had no fear. One day, in a candid interview with someone, George Patton made this statement: I am not a brave man I have never been within sight of a battlefield that I was not so scared that my palms were covered in sweat. George Patton had to deal with the issue of fear. David. Most courageous, bravest man in all the Bible says you know, when I'm afraid I looked up that word afraid in the Bible. I looked up the word fear in the Bible. I found it's used 189 times in the Bible. Fear. I looked through there, as best I can tell, not one time does the Bible ever refer to God being afraid. God being afraid. Hey, I'm glad to have a God that's afraid of nothing. There's no reason to be afraid of anything. He's all powerful. He's all-knowing. Every time, as far as I can tell in the Bible, when it talks about fear, it's talking about man being afraid. Man being afraid of another man. Man being afraid of a situation or an issue or an event. Man being afraid of God. But never of God being afraid of anything. In the Bible, the word fear is used Refers to people who are strong and were afraid, people who were weak and afraid, men who were afraid, women who were afraid, young people afraid, old folks afraid Fear. I want to give a few thoughts about fear real quickly. Number one, I want us to consider very quickly some characteristics of fear. Some characteristics of fear. First of all, I think fear indicates immaturity. Now I'm not saying if you're fearful of something that you're immature. But I am saying it is characteristic of an immature. For instance, you think of children, you think of children being afraid. I illustrated very courageously and openly uh how afraid I would be when I was a child. And I opened myself to ridicule from people like Tom and others for weeks ahead. And they make fun of me for being afraid as a kid. But I'm willing to do that for the cause of the church here. But you think of a child, you think of afraid. What are some things that children are characteristically afraid of? The dark. Afraid of the dark. What else? Spiders. Spiders. I don't think it's just children afraid of spiders. But yeah, children. Snakes. The Boogeyman, I had that one down. And uh I think I met him this week. I was out visiting. But um Children are afraid of the dark or of the boogeyman or of little insects and different things. How about thunder? Well that thunder starts rumbling, they're over in bed with you, huh? So you think of children, uh you think of fear. Uh things that they're afraid of. Sounds in the dark. Uh my one of our sons, I won't tell you that it was the youngest, but when they were little, um, and he had gut called into work this morning, so but so I can say this story safely But when he was little, he he had this, he he would hear a sound. And if it was an unusual sound that he didn't recognize, it would scare him to death. And he he'd go, he'd hear something. We wouldn't hear it. And he'd be all of a sudden, Oh was that sound? What's that sound? What's that sound? And he'd be scared to death. And so Me being the loving, kind, gracious, gentle father I was, I would make all kinds of weird noises at night. And we had a lot of fun with that. But children, uh, fear is characteristic of children. Uh I put this down. Fear is unpleasant. Now some people are sick and they like to go on rides that scare them to death. But for the most part, fear is unpleasant. Fear will cause stress in our life. I was reading a medical report about the effects of fear on us. And a continual being in a continual state of fear literally affects our health. Will deteriorate our health of our body Fear will affect us physically. Fear can not always, and this isn't always the cause of these things, but fear can produce in us involuntary um ticks or responses of our body. Twitching The Bible refers to people being afraid and their knees smiting one another. It's an involuntary reaction. That state, now think about this. That state of being afraid affects how our body works. Involuntarily. The power of fear. It's a very unpleasant thing. It affects our health, affects us physically, affects us mentally John Hopkins did a study, and uh without going into all the study and details, but summarizing it, they say that fear can also facilitate various types of sicknesses If I am living in a state of fear, I become vulnerable to various sicknesses that are out there. Whereas, if I didn't have that fear, I would have a stronger immune against that sickness. So it's a very unpleasant thing to experience fear and to live in fear. Fear affects our appearance. It can literally cause, living in a state of fear will literally cause, can, I should say, literally cause a person to appear much older than what they really are. They've done studies where a person was in an extended period of a fearful situation, and they come out and their hair is much grayer than it was before. Or their hair was much more in presence than it was before. Produces wrinkles in the body. So fear is characteristic of childhood. Fear is very unpleasant. And here's a third one, and this is where Black Bart took advantage of it. Fear impairs us. In other words, when I am in the state of being afraid. It is very difficult, sometimes impossible, to function at my best when I am overcome with fear. When those stagecoach drivers and the security teams that were with them, if they could have controlled their fear and just stopped and assessed the situation clearly. They could have noticed that those were not guns pointing down at them. They were just sticks. That that was just a man standing in front of them. But because of fear, it impaired their ability to think clearly and it overwhelmed them, and it affected their decision making. When overwhelmed by fear, many times people will make bad decisions. How many times? Have young people because of being afraid of what the other young people will do will make a decision to do something that they know is a bad decision. Huh? They will go someplace that in their heart and mind they know I ought not to go to that place. But they are so afraid. Of what other people will think, of what other people will say, that they will make a knowingly destructive decision Because of fear. Fear. It impairs our ability to make right decisions It impairs our ability to accurately assess the situation we're in and deal with it in the best way. How many times people, because they were afraid of a financial situation they faced, made bad financial decisions and got themselves so far in a hole that for the rest of their life they have to deal with that decision that was unwise but was made because of fear. Am I right or wrong? Fear impairs our ability to think clearly. Fear impairs our ability to make good decisions. To live in fear is dangerous. It's destructive. Do you know? It's very difficult to overcome fear. It's very difficult to overcome fear. Someone asked George Patton when he made that statement that I'm not a brave man, I'm scared of death in the battle. And they asked him about that, and he says, but I've made the conscious decision not to take advice from my fear. I thought that was a pretty good statement. I'm not going to let fear be my counselor. I'm not going to make any decisions because of fear. So the characteristics of fear. It's characteristic of children, it's very unpleasant, it's very dangerous. Second of all, what are some of the causes of fear? Now good night, they the causes of fear are about limitless. You could be here for hours coming up with Things that bring fear into people's lives. Let me just give a few and generalize some of them, some specific, but just throw a few out here to you. How about the everyday trials of life And what I'm talking about are just the things we deal with on a daily or weekly, maybe monthly basis, that just eat away at our peace, that just eats away at our confidence, just this gnawing fear. That is just constantly there in this daily issues of life that we face. For instance, and I touched on this, financial issues Constantly ulcers being come about, high blood pressure because I'm constantly concerned about paying these bills and getting that mortgage met and making the ends meet and operating in the black rather than the red, and it just eats away and eats away and I become irritable, I become difficult to live with, and that gnawing fear of there whether I can make ends meet. It's part of everyday living. You need to have some of the greatest, most outwardly appearing, successful people, and yet they're eat up with financial fears. Am I going to lose the house? Rumors are going around. The job is closing up. What is my security for next year this time? How am I going to get the kids in school? What Eats away, eats away. The trials of life, job security, debts, the economy. How about the issue of raising children? That's a scary endeavor. I remember when our oldest son was born, 23 years ago, this past April And they he was born Caesar section and the doctors had asked initially, said, we're gonna have to go Caesar and do you want to be in there when we do it? I said, I kind of got a cold. I think I better wait out here I said, nah, cold's not a problem. We'll put a little mask on. It's pretty bad. No, it'd be fine. So they let me back. They said, uh do you want to sit here and watch us take the baby out of her womb I said, tell you what, I'll look up this hand's a little nicer, I'll look up this way. And so I sat there holding my light. They said, We got a mirror here, you can watch. I said, No, I understand so fine Finally brought him out and you daddies you know what I'm gonna talking about here I have no doubt I took that little baby eight pounds or whatever And he said, here's your son. I tell you what, I was so overwhelmed. I just began weeping and weeping and weeping. And I was so scared How am I going to raise this child? The responsibility of caring for him and teaching him and training them. It's a fearful thing. It's a fearful responsibility. And by the way, moms and dads, you're sinning against God if you don't take raising your children seriously. That has an incredible responsibility. It's a fearful responsibility. I just wept. God help me. God help me. Raising children, their safety, their education. Then they grow up and move out and you're scared to death. God, are they going to make the right decisions? Are they going to marry the right person? Are they going to go down the right path in life? You pray to God. Fear. It eats away, eats away, eats away. Marriages. Man, so often nowadays spouses are afraid is my is my wife being faithful to me. It's my husband, faithful. Will our marriage last? Can we make this thing work? Can we get through this issue? That can be devastating. No, I take that back. That is devastating when you have a fearful situation in a marriage, and how that can eat away. Health. I've been here 18 years. I don't know if anyone noticed, but I've gotten older in the 18 years I've been here. I tried very hard not to let that happen, but I've gotten older. I'm at the point in life now, some of y'all can relate to this more of this maybe than what you'd admit, but I'm at the point now I wake up in the night and I feel this little pain under my rib and it's like, oh no, what's that? You know, your leg cramps up. Uh-oh. I need a hip replacement And every little thing, every little thing all of a sudden it's like oh no. Um one of our men a couple years ago had a little mild heart attack and they were able to put some Stinson and take it, and he's a little bit older than me. Uh if you want to know who it is, see me afterward, give me a quarter, I'll tell you. But um after I I was concerned about and I kept going to him afterward. I said, what did it feel like exactly? He goes, well it was kind of like this. I said, did it was it over here or over there? It was over here. Well what what what did it feel like? And for about a month after that, every night I'm laying in bed, oh there it is, I can feel it That's it. I call him up. Hey, did it feel like listen, does that what it sound like? We laugh about that, but there's a very real element to that Fear for our health, our children. So the everyday trials of life, we have to deal with the issues of fear, but there's some other causes of fear. How about the guilt of past sin? Some skeleton in the closet. I'm afraid maybe someday it'll come out. Huh? Something I've done in the past, and it just hounds me. What am I going to do when I stand before God? How am How's this going to affect me getting to heaven? Years ago, it was a long time ago, there was a fellow and he wasn't from around here, he's just living up here to die. I was working with the hospice and they had asked, he didn't have a pastor, had no church background whatsoever, very elderly man. They asked if I would visit him before he died, that he would like he said he wanted to have I speak to a pastor. I went and visited him. The first visit went very well and we talked and I read some scripture and I prayed with him. I said And I kind of felt like I won him over. He was kind of a hard cookie, old man, old World War II veteran. Never been to church as far as I know. Didn't know anyone around here Second time I came back and I was visiting him and he seemed a little more comfortable with me, a little more open. And before I left, he said this. He said, Preacher, he said, I'd like everyone to go out of the room. I want to talk to you I said, okay. So everybody went out and they closed the door. He looked at me and began to weep. And he told me something happened in North Africa in World War II. Something he had done. That was horrific. Horrific. And he was weeping. And he said, All these years I have been so scared Of what that act is going to cost me. He said, Can there's any way that I can possibly be forgiven? For what I've done. The fear of a past sin, the guilt that haunted him all these years. Probably was a significant factor behind his drinking and much of his behavior. By the way, Just to finish that story out, I was able to take my Bible and show him from the Bible that he could be forgiven for that horrific act. And just a couple days before he died, he prayed with me to call on the Lord and ask the Lord to come in his life Like, forgive him for that sin. I believe the blood of Jesus cleansed him from all his unrighteousness. But the fear of a past guilt Maybe not everyone I'm speaking to has experienced this fear that I'm addressing right now, this fear of a past guilt, but I will say this. If anyone ever hopes to make it to heaven, they need to understand the fear of guilt and sin. Because that is what salvation is from, the punishment and judgment of sin. I was 18 years old, and you folks around here, you've heard my story so many times. But I began looking at my life in the early years, early months of 1979. And I saw that my life was going a direction I did not want to go. And I was becoming a person I did not want to be. And it seemed like the harder I tried to change my life, the harder I tried to be a different than what I was, the worse I became. And I got scared. I was afraid of what my sin was doing to me as a person. I could see it was destroying me, it was changing me, it was taking me down a dark road that I did not want to go down. I was scared. Really scared. I remember so many times, late at night, I'd come home four or five o'clock in the morning. I'd lay there in bed crying, an eighteen-year-old boy cry, young man crying like a little baby. God help me, God help me The fear of sin and what it does to us. I cried out to God, and God put on my heart to read my Bible. And here's the thing: the more I read my Bible, the more scared I became. The more I read my Bible, I began to realize I had sinned. Not only was I destroying my light, but I was sinning against the Holy God. And I was under the wrath of God for the things I was doing Produce tremendous amount of fear. So we have the fear of trials of life. We have the fear of past sin and guilt. I don't know. I may be talking to someone right now. There's something in your past. There's some sin, some guilt there. And you say, you know, I don't know how to deal with that. How do I get this off my back? How do I take care of this before I face God? The Bible has the answers. How about trials of life, the guilt of past sin? Now here's one, and we're just going to hit this in passing, the fear of losing my salvation. Sometimes face that fear. They think, what if I lose my salvation? I know I trusted Christ. I know I accepted Him as my Savior, but what if somehow I lose that salvation and end up in hell after after all? I'm here to tell you that is an unjust fear. If a person legitimately, genuinely trusts Jesus Christ as Savior Jesus said in John 10 verse 28, I give unto them eternal life. If something is eternal, how long does it last? Forever When I trust Christ the Savior, he gives me eternal life. It lasts forever. And then he goes on and says, I give it some eternal life, and they shall never perish. Perish means die and go to hell. The people that accept Jesus Christ as their Savior, God gives them eternal life, life that lasts forever, and He says they will never, ever, ever go to hell. So the fear of losing my salvation is a groundless fear. The fears of life, dealing with the issues of life, the fear of Guilt of past sin, the fear of losing my salvation. Let me give you one more and we'll bring this thing to a head. What about the fear of death Fear of death. The Bible says death is the last enemy, the greatest enemy. The Bible speaks about how fear of death Can control people. Fear of death is really the fear of the inevitable. Last I checked, the mortality rate of humans is 100%. Last I checked, nobody gets out of here alive. Death is inevitable And it's the fear of that death sometimes can just eat away at people I have done uh I wish I'd have kept track of how many funerals I've done over the 18 years I've been here. It's in the hundreds, I'm sure. And occasionally I'll do a funeral where there will be a family member or a friend of the deceased who gets it in their mind that they don't want to come in to where the dead body is. I'm thinking of one fellow in particular many years ago. He would not come into the funeral home. He would not come into the room where the body was, not during the viewings, not during the uh funeral service, he wouldn't go to the grave sign He says, I don't want to be around a dead body. Now that is an unreasonable reaction. But I believe it was based in a fear of death. Afraid of dying. I have a very good friend in high school, his name is Johnny Alderford. Uh he was a truck driver even that was back before they had CDLs and all that stuff. That was back when they just started putting engines in vehicles and no not that long ago. But um he's a truck driver, 16 years old, he started driving trucks, 17 When he graduated, 18 years old, when he graduated from high school, he got a job, get this, got a job driving a truck around that hauled a tractor trailer dragster A drag race, but it was a tractor trailer. Anybody anybody know have any clue what I'm talking about? It was the strangest thing, but his job was to drive the truck that pulled this truck around. Had big slicks on, big motors, stacks and everything. And he'd drive it all around the country, getting these big drag races and all this stuff, living it up. I'd gotten saved and gone off to Bible college, a number of years went by And I was home and my dad said to me, he said, Did you hear about Johnny Olifer? I said, No, what happened? He said, Johnny Olifer got saved. I said, You got to be kidding. Man, he was a partying, driving, living it up, high life. He's, yeah, he got saved. He's married a preacher's daughter. He said, you gotta be kidding me. I said, I gotta talk to Johnny, see what happened. I got all called him up. I didn't meet him in person. I gave him a call. I said, hey, this is back then I let him call me Denny. I said, hey, this is Denny. He said, hey man, what's happening? I said uh you know we were real cool we'd say stuff like what's happening man and um I was I was with it I said, Johnny, I heard you got saved. He goes, yeah. I said, I got saved too. Yeah, I heard about that. I said, what's your story? told me. He said I was out driving across the country, Mexico, New Mexico, Arizona, California, Chicago, home going around from races. Each weekend there'd be a race. And he said, I'd see so many car wrecks were people killed. I'd see a person there, tractor trailer, a guy was killed. Next week I'd see another one, a guy was killed. He said, that started eating at me. He goes, I got where every morning I woke up, I was scared to death, I was going to die that day. He said, I got where I could hardly drive down the road. I was so scared of dying and going to hell So I started reading my Bible. He said, I realized I could be saved from hell and I didn't have to be afraid of that. And Johnny Altifer got saved. The fear of death. If you're here this morning and you never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, the fear of death is a very legitimate fear. Now, what's the cure for fear? It's very easy here in Psalm 56. What time I am afraid, I will what? Trust in thee. The cure for fear is trust in God. Whatever the cause of that fear is, I can put my trust in God And God will help me. God will deal with it. God will get me through that if I will just trust Him. I don't have to be afraid of this situation. If I will trust God, do what God says, believe that He knows best, trust Him, and God won't have to be afraid of that. Say, brother, my financial system is such that I'm just scared to death. I don't know about listen, come to the Word of God, trust God, do what the Bible says in the area of finances, you trust Him. And you don't have to be afraid of that. You follow what I'm saying? My children, I'm trying to train them up, and I just I'm scared, I'm worried about my kids. Hey, trust God. Find out what God says you should do. Have faith in God, that what He says is best. Do what He says, trust God, and you don't have to be afraid of that. What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. Um The word trust means have confidence in. Place my security in. Psalms 118, verse 8 and 9 says this: it's better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. It's better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in princes. Listen, I believe there's a place for government, but listen, if your hope and for the future this year Security of your future is in the United States government, you have every reason in the world to be scared. But if your hope for the future, your security of the future is in the Lord Jesus Christ, you have no reason to fear. I want to remind you, there's no recession in heaven. Amen? Say, whoa, what do I do? What do I do? You go to the Bible, do exactly what God says. You trust Him. You don't have to be afraid. Our natural tendency is to lean on our own understanding. Our natural tendency is to trust ourselves, trust in man, trust in government, trust our guns. Let's trust our man-made things. Listen, I think the United States of America ought to have a strong military. But I don't think we ought to trust in our military. We ought to trust in God Fear of death. So man, I'm afraid when I die. I don't know if I'm going to heaven or hell. I don't want to go to hell. Tell you what Every person that's not saved ought to be scared of death of dying and going to hell. It's the worst thing that can happen to an unsaved person is to die without Christ. Say, how do I deal with the fear of death? You trust God. God says, you accept my son as your Savior. You recognize your own sin. You turn to me. I died and suffered hell, the judgment of hell for you on the cross. I was buried and rose again. If you put your faith and trust in me, you don't have to be afraid of dying and going to hell. You'll go to heaven Follow what I'm saying? The cure for fear is trusting God. The most logical thing in the world to do is trust God. The most effective thing in the world to do when I'm afraid is trust God. I got reading and thinking about this. Every miracle in the Bible that I can think of, now Correct me if I'm wrong later. Every miracle in the Bible that I can think of began with somebody being afraid of something Widow. Oh my son is dead. How am I going to face life without my son? Jesus comes along, heals her son. Israel is slaved in Egypt, living in fear and bondage. And God does some of the most amazing miracles. Listen, whatever you're afraid of, whatever it is that scares you Could possibly be the opportunity for God to do a tremendous miracle in your life I was 18 years old. The day I turned 19 on May 7, 197 I turned 19 on May 6, 1979. It was a Sunday. May 6th. It's my birthday. May 6th. Write that down May 6th. I was scared to death of what I was becoming and where I was going. May 7th was a Monday. I took off work. We were out partying all day. Annie Swartley and I, and we came home. That night I was reading in my Bible, as I had been for a while. That night I got on my knees. And I trusted what God said, and I asked Jesus, come in my heart and life and be my Savior. And God did a miracle. He changed changed my life. Those things that were destroying me, it took them away, the fear that was just eating me up was gone. And I'm here to stand before you this morning and I can testify that I know for sure, God forbid, if that pain I've been feeling is actually something. And I died this afternoon of a heart attack. I know for sure that I'm not going to hell. I'm going to heaven. Not because I'm a preacher, not because I'm better than anyone else. The Lord knows I'm not better than anyone else, but because Jesus promised that whoever received him as their personal savior will go to heaven when they die. I don't have to fear that. I don't have to be afraid of it. The only thing about dying that bothers me is what you've got to go through to do it. You know what I mean? There was a fella up in uh, and you've many have heard this before, and I end with this. That's the truth. I'll end with this. They had uh he was a tightrope walker, and he was up in Niagara Falls, and he put a rope across there, and they had advertised it and sold tickets, and it was a big phenomenon. This back 100 years ago And he got up there and the crowd was there and the water falls and the mist and everything going on. And he got out in that tape rope and he walked across the taprope. And everybody's Yay! Amazing, that's incredible. So you got a bicycle, put that bicycle on there, rode the bicycle across. Everybody's, that's incredible, amazing. Did a few other things. Then he got a wheelbarrow out. Put that wheelbarrow on there. Huge crowd. He says, how many folks here believe I can push you saw me walk across, you told me do all these things, the bicycle. How many folks believe I can push this wheelbar across that wire and back? Yeah, you can do it. You're the best. He goes across. Gets the other side. Yay! Comes back again. Yay! He goes, how many people believe that I could put someone in this wheelbarrow and haul them across there and bring them back safely? Yeah, you can do it, yeah. He goes, who will let me? The point I'm trying to make is this. It's one thing to believe what God says is true It's another thing to trust. Everybody there believed that he could do that, but nobody was willing to trust him. to take them across. Now be honest with you, I wouldn't have either. You know why? Because he was a man. And man men fail. Maybe only once out of a hundred times, but they fail. Here's the point. Jesus never fails. And he says, if you will trust me If you will get, so to speak, into my wheelbarrow, I will get you to heaven safely, but you have to trust me. May 7, 1979, I got on my knees. I said, Lord, I'm trusting you. With my sins, with my life and everything. I want you to save me. And Jesus became my Savior. And he's the one that took my sins away. He's the one that's getting me to heaven. I'm just sitting in the wheelbarrow. Follow what I'm saying? Now, whatever your fear may be, financial, health, I don't know, it could be any number of a thousand different things. I'm here to tell you if you will trust Jesus Put your faith in him. He can carry you through that fearful thing safely. He will not fail. He never has. Now, if you're here this morning and you aren't 100% absolutely sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you're going to heaven, I'm here to tell you Jesus can give you that assurance. And we'd like to show you from the Bible how you can trust them. Now, we can't get you to heaven. I can't get you to heaven anymore and I can walk across that type rope with you on a wheelbarrow. We wouldn't make it five feet. We'd be in the drink. But it's not me, it's not this church, it's not a man getting us to heaven. It's Almighty