Matthew chapter number eight, and uh I would like for us to read together in unison right there at your home. You got your Bible in the living room wherever you are. Uh read along with me out loud if you would, verse number twenty-six. Matthew chapter 8 and verse number 26, if you would read along. Here we go. Ready? And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was great calm. We introduced this passage last week. uh with some thoughts, uh kind of introductory thoughts. I want to pick it up here again this morning. I've entitled the message, Fearful Disciples. And so this will be part two of what we introduced last week. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you, Lord, for your love for us, your goodness. for us. Lord, I'm thankful for your um uh your sovereignty Lord and uh the things that happen and the situations we find ourselves in. Lord you've allowed these you are in control you are God And so we trust you, Lord, that uh what you allow us to experience, what you allow into our lives, you are able to take and use for good and use as tools to help us grow in our faith. And I pray that would be true in my own heart and life, Lord, that I would grow during this time of crisis in our world, in this time of um uh of uh uh uncertainty that our faith in you would grow, we would learn things of you and about ourselves and that we'd be stronger Christians a stronger witness. So Lord, please bless now. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew for this hour. and pray that you would fill me and speak through me to all each of our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We pointed out last Sunday evening. that Matthew chapter number 8 is a chapter 8, 9, and into 10. It's a series of miracles that the Lord performed. And each of these miracles had a purpose. What the Lord was doing, he was displaying his power. He was letting the nation of Israel, the people there see that he truly was the Son of God. He was God in the flesh. He had authority over all of creation. And he displayed that power uh in several instances over devils. He would cast devils out of people and I'm glad, I'm glad this morning to know that our Savior has authority over Satan and all his devils And Satan does not have free reign, although he wreaks havoc, no doubt about it, but nevertheless God can and does control and limit what Satan is able to do And so we don't have to be fearful there. Then we see in the in the passage we read, the Lord exercised authority and power over creation. He simply spoke to a storm and it calmed to the amazement of the disciples. And Jesus Christ is not only the creator of the universe, he also controls it. And um he is he is he is has authority and power over even uh creation. And then sickness and disease, and we saw where he healed that And so what the Lord is doing here, he had been making the claim to Israel that he is the Messiah, he is the Savior, the Christ of God. And more than just make that claim, he would perform these miracles. He would manifest this power and authority to back up his claim, to add credentials to the claim. Anybody can claim to be anything. But it is our actions, our the the uh the reality of it that displays that, and that's what the Lord's doing here. He's giving uh cre uh uh giving his credentials as the Son of God. Uh this miracle here, as we pointed out last Sunday night, is recorded in the first three Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John And we pointed out also, and this is what I want to use to step into our actual outline of this passage, the fact that he brought his disciples into the boat with them. Look with me if you would there. In verse 23. And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him. Now the Lord knew they're going to go into a storm. We're going to talk about that later on. He knew what they were about to face And he willingly, and he knowingly brought his disciples, people that had trusted him as Savior, these men who had forsaken all to follow him And he knowingly and willingly brought them into the ship and brought them into the storm. Didn't catch the Lord by surprise. This wasn't something that snuck up on the Lord. He knew exactly when he got in the boat with these disciples, he knew exactly what they were going to go through, and he brought them in. Now you say, why would he do that? Someone that loves him, these men that have committed themselves for. Why would he take them into a storm? I could, you know, maybe take a bunch of wicked sinners and drunkards and thieves and murderers, prostitutes Take him in a storm, but why his disciples? Why? Because he was going to use this storm as a teaching tool to help them grow in their faith, understand a little bit more about who he was, what they were, and how they should trust him and how they can trust him in that So we uh we pointed out last Sunday night that the the uh the circumstances God brings into our lives, the uh trials, the storms, so to speak, that God allows us to go into, He uses all of that. as tools to help us grow in our faith, as tools that we can learn more about our Lord and Savior and His power and His authority, His wisdom. And we learn more about ourselves. And so this is a teaching tool. This is a teach, a learning experience for his disciples. And I want to suggest to you that uh circumstance, our world is turned upside down right now. Nobody uh, you know, this is uh nobody knows uh uh has ever experienced anything like this in the whole world And I want to suggest to you that God has not lost control. God knows exactly what he's doing. And he, I believe, God wants to use this in your life and my life to help us grow spiritually. To help us learn to trust Him, help us see His hand and uh and uh develop us in our walk with the Lord. And that will happen if we let it, if we let it And so uh I hope you I hope you'll uh uh pray along with me that we'll grow and be stronger as a result of what's going on. Now, here's my outline for this morning. I probably just get to the first point And number one, my first thought here as I look at this passage, I put down this, I want us to notice the unaware disciples. Now I explain what I mean by that. The unaware disciples. Look at verse 23 again in verse 24. And when he was entered into a ship His disciples followed him, and behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea. These disciples got down in this ship. They had no idea what was about to come down on them. They had no idea that this this intense storm was about to hit them. They were unaware of the of what was about to take place. Now I notice here th three things that the Disciples were unaware of. Now the Lord was not unaware. He knew exactly what was happening. He knows the end from the beginning. Nothing catches the Lord by surprise. But these disciples getting in this ship, settling down in here, lounching off from the shore, they had no idea what they were about to face. Here's my first thought under that is they were unaware of what their future held They were unaware of what their future held. Uh take your Bible with me if you would and turn back to Proverbs chapter twenty-seven I read this in my devotions the other morning. I try to read a proverb every day that corresponds, a chapter from Proverbs that corresponds with that calendar day and uh I hope you're reading your Bible every day. Every Christian ought to read their Bible every day, have daily devotions. And I read the other day, uh I guess it was Friday morning. Proverbs chapter 27. And look with me if you would at verse number one. Proverbs 27, verse number one. Notice what the Bible says Boast not thyself of tomorrow. Now look at this, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. I wrote in the margin of my Bible there, I said, you never know what's going to happen. You never know. Boast, that word boast there in Proverbs has this idea to be overly confident Boys, sometimes we just think we've got the tiger by the tail. We think we know we've got this figured out. We know how things are going to go. And uh lo and behold Uh something comes up out of nowhere and uh next thing we know uh things are not working out the way we planned. When I first, when I was young, got out of Bible college, brother Uh I had the answer to every question. I had the solution to every problem. I knew how things were going to be. I was overly confident about what my future was going to be. And you know what? The older I get, the more I realize we have no idea what the case may be by the end of today. My daddy, of course, went to be with the Lord this past Sunday. We buried him uh Friday. We pre- I'm so grateful for your prayers and notes and everything. But he used to say to me so often, he used to say this, he says He says, you never know when you put your shoes on in the morning, you never know who might take them off that night. In other words, you don't know what the future holds. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We don't know what the rest of the day holds. And these disciples got in this boat. They had no idea that within just a short period of time, maybe an hour or so They're going to be in a storm of their life and be fighting for their lives in that little ship. No idea what the future holds. All through Scripture, the Bible make this statement, and there was a day And there was a day. A day when things were turned upside down. A day when the situation completely changes. I thought about Joseph. As his father sent him out to check on his brothers and he's uh making his way out through the fields and through the forest to find his brothers with the sheep, had no idea that when they saw him they began plotting his murder. They began plotting his death. And that day when Joseph showed up with his brothers, his whole life changed. His whole world was turned upside down. And he had no idea as he approached them what was about to take place Now God worked it all for good. God had a plan. But it caught him totally by surprise, no doubt about it. I thought about Job In chapter one, as Job would offer up the sacrifices for his family, and he prayed for his his children and their families, and he walked with God, and he was upright in all his ways And then there's a little statement, and there was a day, there came a day, and Job's world was turned upside down All through Scripture. And that that's both positive and negative. God used that in Joseph's life. God used that in Job's life to be a blessing, encouragement, a help to us But there's also a positive aspect of that. I got thinking about when Jesus Christ was crucified and he lay in the grave and the disciples had given up hope and all their dreams were shattered. And uh all their what they believed was uh was in doubt now about Jesus and the future. They had no idea what their future held. And then Mary goes out to the grave and She finds the tomb empty and their whole world turned around. They had no idea that Jesus would rise from the dead. They never anticipated that everything would turn around. What I'm trying to say is this, you and I don't know what the rest of the day holds. We don't know what tomorrow holds And so we trust God and we live day by day by day. In Matthew chapter 6, the Lord told the disciples in the Sermon on the Mount, he says, take no thought for the morrow. Tomorrow will take thought for itself. God takes care of the tomorrow. God's got it in his hands. Now s are you saying, preacher, shouldn't we plan? Yes, absolutely. We ought to get in the boats. We ought to plan crossing that ri that late. But we need to understand that that uh a lot of times things come up we never saw, we never anticipated And so we live day by day. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. We always try and figure out what the future holds, don't we? This morning I got up, I had my devotions, and before I come over I I went to the weather channel. I wanted to see what the weather would be this week. I wanted to know what the future weather would be And uh we uh uh Pastor Matt and I this week were looking at the stock market. And uh what are the stocks gonna do? Are they gonna go up? What's gonna happen? We'll invest Uh I've got seven dollars. What do I invest it in? And uh they're gonna and we want to know what the future holds. Which which one's gonna be good, which one's gonna be bad. And people spend thousands waste money on these ridiculous Uh fortune tellers and all of that, what a wicked, wicked racket. They don't know what's going on any more than you or I do And so these disciples were unaware of what the future held. They were unaware of what's going on. Life is uncertain. Now listen. If you're tuned in this morning, if you're listening in and you're not saved, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. We don't know what tomorrow holds. You don't know what the rest of the day holds. You need to be saved, and you need to be saved today The day of salvation. So I urge you, trust Christ, turn to Him, acknowledge, and confess. Forsake sin. Turn to Christ. Trust Him as your Savior. He died for your sins and rose again. And please contact us. And uh we can show you from the Bible how you can know for sure sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. Uh we had uh About a week ago, uh one of our church folk called me and said, I got a fellow here in my truck with me. He's unsaved. Uh he needs to get saved. Uh can you tell him how to get saved? And over the phone there, I was able to go through the plan of salvation And this young man bowed his head there in the truck and trusted Christ as Savior. I'm telling you, the most important issue in life for an unsaved person is to trust Christ and get that settled. And so we don't know what tomorrow holds. If you're listening in and you're not saved, I want to urge you, turn to Christ, trust him, call on him here and now and trust them as your Savior. If you are saved, those of us that know the Lord know the Lord as Savior, it's imperative that we walk with God today. You say, oh, someday I'll dedicate my life to the Lord. Someday, uh someday, I'm telling you, we don't know what the future holds. We have no idea what tomorrow may be And what we're going to do for the Lord, we need to do now. If we're going to get right with God, we need to get right now. If we're going to confess and forsake sin, we need to do it now. Because we don't know what the future holds. So these disciples were unaware. Unaware of what their future held. There was something else they were unaware of, I notice here. They were unaware of what following Jesus would involve. They had no idea. If I'm going to follow the Lord Jesus Christ, I'm going to face storms. If I follow and dedicate my life as a disciple of Jesus Christ, you mean I'm going to have life-threatening circumstances? I mean, everything had been going their way. They had uh great preaching was going on, souls were being saved, the miracles were happening And uh they're about to go into this storm. Uh they were willing to follow the Lord, but they're about to find out that following the Lord is not a bed of roses. I'll tell you what gets under my skin are these these uh Yardbird TV preachers that promise health, wealth, and prosperity if you'll just trust God, if you have enough faith You know what? I know some missionaries, I know some Christians that have exercised tremendous faith in God, and because of their commitment to Christ They were placed in storms. I know folks that had family members turn against them because of their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. And so uh We need to understand being a disciple of Christ, being a Christian, does not mean there will never be storms, does not mean there'll never be heartaches, does not mean there will never be trials. In fact, many times trials come because we're following the Lord Jesus Christ. Sunday nights we're studying the book of 1 Peter. Peter is writing to a group of believers who were under intense persecution. Not because of sin, not because of crimes they committed. They were under intense persecution because of their faith and commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ. They lost their jobs. Many of them had family reject them. Some were beaten severely. Many had lost their lives. Because of their f their faith in Christ and their commitment to follow the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to learn following Jesus is not a bed of roses. This is not always easy sailing I believe it's important for Christians and a young, new Christian, to understand the storms will come and they'll vary in intensity. Uh they're different. Storms for one person is is uh maybe different than another person. Some through the fire, some through the flood And so these trials come, even for those following the Lord Jesus Christ. Look here what it says. It says, His disciples followed him, verse 23, and behold, there arose a great tempest That word great tempest, I got looking that up, how it's used, and it has this idea, an intense upheaval. In other words, it was absolutely turned upside down. It says down there, it says, Insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves In other words, those waves were breaking over top the sides of the ship. This was bad. This was really bad. Their lives were in danger. One commentator I was reading says, where it says that the ship was covered with the waves, had the idea those waves are so huge that that ship would go down into the valley Between the two waves, you could not even see the ship. You could they could not see out beyond the waves that were coming over them. Uh the intensity of it. Upheavals will come. Tempests are going to come to our homes In our careers, a lot of people in this current situation, trials have come to their jobs, out of work, unemployment, uncertainty. Trials come to our spiritual lives And the Lord will test us. Maybe we fail in a way we never dreamed we would fail in the consequences. And we need to understand following the Lord Jesus Christ does not mean there will not be trials, there will not be difficulties. Hebrews chapter 12 and verse 6 says, Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. God loves us, and he sends storms our way, he sends trials our way. And the third thing the disciples were unaware of here as they got in this ship and head out into the lake and uh the storm is about to come upon them. Uh they were unaware of what their future held. They didn't see this coming, I'm convinced of that. They were unaware that following Jesus would mean storms would come and trials. And that's true, it does. We're not exempt. And the third thing they were unaware of is this, how weak their faith was. They were unaware of how weak their faith was. Look again at verse 26 with me if you would And he, Jesus, said unto them, now they're scared to death. They're crying out, Lord, save us. We perish. We're going to die. They were convinced they're going to die unless God does something. Look what the Lord says. He saith unto them, Why are ye what? Fearful, O ye of, say it with me, those next two words, little faith. Little faith. Oh ye of little faith. I don't know how you are, I figure you're probably like me. We tend to think we have more faith than what we really do. We tend to think we're better Christians than what we really are. You know what happens? God sends a storm. God allows a virus to turn the whole world upside down. God allows us to lose our job and have financial straits. God allows us to face a sickness, a death of a loved one. Suddenly, we learn what our faith really is, the quality of our faith. We learn what the quality of our Christian life is. Storms reveal to us how strong or weak our faith really is Storms reveal to us how good of a Christian I really am or am not. And these disciples are going to find out that their faith wasn't nearly as strong I'm telling you, when the miracles are happening and the food is on the table and great sermons are being preached, that's not what tests our faith. That doesn't reveal to us what our faith is When the storms come, the trials come, then we find out what our faith really is. We tend to think we're stronger in our faith than what we really are. I was reading about ancient farmers back in the Middle East here during this period of time And uh they would go out into the fields and they'd have their wagons and they would harvest their wheat, they would harvest the grain, and they'd bring it back to the barns and they'd dump it there on the floor, barn floor. Oh, they have a big pile of grain and it it'd be all stacked up and they'd think, oh, what a great harvest we have here. What a we have so much wheat But then they would begin the widowing process, winnowing process. And they'd spread that wheat out on the floor, and they would take a fork or a shovel or something, and they would toss that wheat up in the air and they'd that grain they'd sling it in the air and they had what was called a winnowing fan and the wind would blow on that wheat hard. They'd pro they'd they'd fan that wheat And what happened was all the chaf all the ch all the um chaff would uh what's it called? Chaff All the calf would would blow away and uh the wind would blow and uh it'd be turned upside down and tossed in the air and fall on the ground And what would happen was that would separate the cha chaff from the wheat, from the grain, and they'd find out they didn't have nearly as big a harvest as what it appeared to be before the fan, before the wind blew And so many times that's true for us, God uses storms to blow away our uh uh our uh false confidence And God reveals to us what our faith really is. It's the trials of life that reveal the strength of our faith. It's the trials of life that reveal the quality of our Christianity. We get angry, we get scared, we panic. We realize my faith in the Lord wasn't what it ought to be. It wasn't all I thought it was. God used this storm to reveal to the disciples where they were at spiritually. Where they were at spiritually. I wonder. If God isn't using this virus crisis going on, maybe to reveal to our churches that we're not nearly as strong as we think we might be. Maybe to our own lives. And maybe our faith isn't auto-be. And God is using this to help us grow and help us trust Him more and understand. Where we're at. Storms also often reveal the need of salvation. How many times I've been able to lead someone to Christ, they went to the doctor and a doctor said there's cancer. We're going to have to deal with it. A storm hits, great tempest, their world's turned upside down, and they come and say, Oh preacher, I'm worried about my soul. I'm worried about where I spend eternity. And God uses that storm to reveal their need of salvation. How many times in a funeral or a grave sign where somebody uh lost a loved one Suddenly they become concerned about their own salvation. I was thinking this week and I've mentioned him often, but uh it was such a uh a a blessing and and just an amazing thing to watch was old Jim McGrovy years ago. And um he never had much time uh for church or for preachers. In fact he wasn't a big fan of preachers. First time his wife his wife said Pastor, will you go visit my husband? I said, sure. I'll be glad to. She goes, okay, good. He hates preachers. I said, oh, great, thank you. And uh so I went and visited them and didn't get anywhere. But one day old Jim was diagnosed with a life-threatening sickness I began to visit him and pray with him. And old Jim trusted Jesus, personal Savior, got saved. Not long before he passed away. I'm telling you, we became dear friends in Christ. He became a dear brother in Christ. He bought us our first uh cordless microphone so that he could get this the cassettes back then and listen to them at home when he was sick. He made this statement to me one time He said, Pastor Leatherman, if getting this sickness, if getting this cancer, if this is what it takes to bring me to Christ, then it's the best thing that has ever happened in my life. How about that? Storm. Cancer. That's the best thing ever happened in my life. It brought me to Christ. Showed me my need of a Savior. I'm telling you, God uses storms to show us where we're at, what we are. God uses storms to uh sometimes to uh help unsaved people uh see their need of salvation. Sometimes God uses storms to reveal to us our need of revival. Our need of revival Now, I don't know. I've been praying for a year now. I've been begging God to send revival to our church. I've been praying for revival in my heart, in my home, and the homes of people in our church I've been pleading with God and Pastor Matt and others have been praying. They know that's the case. I don't know. God's allowed this storm to come. God's allowed this situation we find ourselves in. I'm wondering if maybe he isn't trying to prompt us to seek him, to humble ourselves and pray, and seek his face and turn from our wicked ways, so that he can hear, uh answer our prayers and heal our land And I'm praying God will send revival. I ask you to pray with me. I seemed like we were having a bit of revival in church. People getting saved, people coming out, new folks. Great decisions being made, and the Lord knows what he's doing. And sometimes storms uh will provoke us. Maybe we're not too concerned. Hey, I'm saved. That's fine. God sends a storm to provoke us to go forward in our Christian life. You've never dedicated your life to the Lord Jesus Christ, as a believer, and you say, you've never dedicated yourself to Him. I'm going to live for Christ in Christ alone. I want to follow him as a disciple. Take up my cross. Follow him. Deny myself. Follow the Lord completely. I believe God may be working in your life. These disciples got down in that boat. All they're excited. They're with Jesus. They saw some amazing miracles. Heard some fantastic sermons. Brother, their world is about to be turned upside down, brought to their wits' ends, and the Lord was teaching them. The Lord was teaching them. Would you pray with me that God will send revival? Would you pray that souls will be saved through all of this and God will help us be a faithful witness? That when the day comes we come out of this chaos, that we'll be closer to the Lord than we've ever been before, and our faith will be stronger than it's ever been before. And our witness will be clearer than it's ever been before. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, Lord, we don't like the storms of life. Lord, we don't like the disruption, the setbacks, the hurt, the fear. We don't like any of that. But God, we trust you. And in the midst of the storm, you don't change And you're still God, I pray you'd send revival. My heart, my home, our church, our nation I pray, Lord, that you would help us. And Lord, I pray for any that are listening in that do not have assurance of their salvation Lord any that uh have never trusted Christ as Savior, I pray that right now, right where they're at, in their home, car, wherever they may be, O Lord, I pray they'd bow their head, believe that you died for them and rose again. Turn to you, acknowledging their sin and trusting you for forgiveness that they call on you right here and now. Lord, those of us that know you, Lord, don't leave us alone. Provoke us To give our lives and live for you and be a witness. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen, Amen