Someone said that a baby A baby will make you love stronger, make your love stronger, make your days shorter, your nights longer. Your bankroll smaller, your home happier, your clothes shabbier, the past forgotten, and the future worth living for I thought that was a good quote about a little baby coming into the home. Somebody else said this. I like this one. It said the word diaper, spelled backwards, is repaid. Huh, that's interesting. I like this quote about babies. Babies are always more trouble than you thought it would be, and always much more wonderful. And boy, isn't that the truth, little baby. I thank God for a church that has a nursery full of babies. That's a good thing. Let's uh look here, if you would, in Psalms 139 And I'm going to read verse 13, 14, and 15 and 16. Notice verse 13, Psalms 139. For thou hast possessed my reins. Thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. I will praise thee Triumph fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. My substance was not hid from thee when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. That eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect And in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned when as yet there was none of them. I want to speak to you this morning a little phrase from this verse 15 or verse 14, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing on our study now and your word. We are grateful for our families. We are grateful for that little bundle of life. That you put into our hands and give us such a tremendous responsibility. I pray that some of these passages and truths from your word would grip our hearts And you would stir us to love you and live for you. I plead with you, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body anew. I yield my will to you, and I ask God with all my heart That you would speak through me and challenge us, encourage us, help us, instruct us in the way we ought to go, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalms 139 is an amazing psalm. This is one of my favorite chapters from the book of Psalms. The Jews, I understand, in doing a little background study of this chapter. Back in the day, the Jews considered Psalms 139 one of the greatest of all the Psalms. It was dearly loved by the nation of Israel If you'll notice in the beginning at the heading above verse 1, this was penned by the great King David. The Bible says that David was a man after God's own heart. If you read this chapter and you study what is taught and given to us in Psalms 139, I think it's very appropriate that King David would be the man that God chose to pen this. David knew God. David knew God in an intimate way. You read many of his other Psalms that God used him to pen, and it becomes obvious that David genuinely was a man after God's own heart. He loved the Lord dearly. He loved God. I like this word. I think of this word when I think of King David. He loved God passionately. He he had God had all of David's heart. And so when David sets down and God moves upon David, the Holy Spirit moves upon David to record this portion of Scripture It is coming from David's experience. He knows these things are true about God. If you notice again, there above verse number one, Psalms 139, is written to the chief musician. Now that tells us that this psalm was not written as a private prayer or a private song, but rather this was written to be sung by the people of God. This was given over to the chief musician who in the temple and in the worship services of those ancient Jews would lead the great congregation of Israel to sing this psalm as a form of worship to God. Some of the Psalms written, particularly by David, were written more of a private nature. Maybe he just on the hillside or alone or in a specific time of his life, he would write something about God or to God, and it was of a private nature, but God in his sovereignty would use that and use it to become a blessing to many others. I think Psalms fifty one is an illustration of that. I tend to think that Psalms fifty one perhaps was written by David in a private moment between him and God And yet because it was inspired, God gave it to all generations. So this was to be sung by the nation of Israel in worship of God If you look at this chapter, and we don't have time, of course, to look at the whole thing, but there are two attributes or characteristics of God that are highlighted in Psalms 139. One is this God's omniscience. Now that's a great theological term. Many of you are familiar with it. But what do we mean when we mean that talk about God's omniscience or that God is omniscient? We simply mean this: that God knows everything. There's nothing hidden from God. There is nothing that God is not aware of. God knows everything. And a great portion of this psalm uh teaches that and speaks of that, the fact that God is completely aware of all my life, of everything there is. God knows everything about you God knows everything about me. He knows what our strengths are. He knows what our weaknesses are. He knows what our dreams are for the future. He knows what our dreams are for these little children He knows what their future holds. He knows what our burdens are, our fears in life. God is all-knowing. He is omniscient. We cannot hide anything from him. He knows us There's another attribute or characteristic of God that is highlighted in this chapter, and that is this, God's omnipotence. And by that we simply mean this, that God is all-powerful. There is nothing God cannot do. God, there's not a problem you and I have face that God cannot solve. There's not a need that we have that God cannot meet. There's not a question that we come up with that God cannot answer. God is uh uh uh omnipotent He is all powerful there's nothing God cannot do. So that what a great chapter this is I've got it underlined and highlighted in notes all around us as I just enjoy this chapter so much. Then we come down to the portion of that we read here a few moments ago, verses 13 through 16. And here David zeroes in on a very specific situation. He is referencing, of course, under the inspiration of God, he is referencing the fact that God is aware of Every individual, when that individual is still in the womb of their mother, God knows all about that little infant. In fact, he tells us here that God not only is aware of that little infant. in the womb of its mother, that God actually has a hand in the design of that body. God is behind the development of that little bitty life. In the womb of its mother. All the characteristics that that child is going to take. God is behind all of it. The physical characteristics. The personality and all of this, God has a part in developing that little, little child down inside that womb You can't read, hey, you can't read this portion of Scripture and not come to the conclusion that life is extremely precious to God. That little child, that little infant in the womb of its mother, and then later in the arms of its mother and father, is extremely precious, extremely precious to our God. Listen, it is clear from Scripture, this passage and many, many others, that from the moment of conception To the time that that person is called home, that person is extremely precious and valuable to God. To put it a little more succinctly, from the womb to the tomb. Life is to be cherished. From the womb to the tomb, life is to be valued. We live in a day We live in a day where life is considered to be of no value. Young and old, just thrown aside. Like uh like a piece of garbage, like an old used rag of no you no longer use, just thrown aside How tragic it is. I was reading just recently uh one of the European nations, and seems like whatever happens in Europe, America has to do it here eventually. One of the European nations has now legalized euthanasia without it there being any terminal illness involved whatsoever. In other words If an older person wants to take their life that's just legal, go ahead and do it, whether they're termally ill or not. I want to suggest to you that is a very low, perverse view of life. I noticed something here in Psalms 139, as I pointed out just a moment ago, and particularly verse 13 and 14. Let's read it again, would you? Notice, follow along. For thou hast possessed my reins. Thou hast covered me in my mother's womb. He's talking about before he's born. This is an unborn child being referenced here. I will praise thee. David's thinking back. While I was just a little infant in my mother's womb, God still possessed me. God still covered me. He cared for me. I'll praise thee. Look at this. For I am fearfully and wonderfully made. That word fearfully there has the idea of making one timid or humbling one. David says, I think back to the fact that when I was still in my mother's womb, you designed me and you care for me in such a way it humbles me before you. It makes me timid before you to think. the design and the care that is going into you developing me as a person in my mother's womb. He says, I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. There is God is behind the development of a child in the womb. Turn with me if you would. Now keep your place here. We're going to look at a number of passages of scripture this morning. So I hope you brought your Bible And listen, if we brought our Bible, we might as well use them, huh? So let's look up some verses. If you would, as I said, keep your place here. Come over to Jeremiah chapter 1 and verse number 4 Jeremiah, of course, you go to towards the back of your Bible for several books. Jeremiah, chapter one. Now Psalms 139, as we notice here, David says, When I was still in my womb, God, you covered me. You were there. And then down a few verses later he says, You designed me and you laid out my body. What kind of uh body light. Do you notice about these little infants two years old on earth? Some were big, some were small. Some were very skinny, some were Not skinny. And uh they're all different. God created each of us a little bit different than the others. He has an individual plan and purpose. Look at Jeremiah chapter 1 and verse 4. Then the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Look at this, this is God speaking to Jeremiah. Look at this. Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. In the womb. How's that little infant being formed? Who's behind it? What's he say here? God says, I formed thee. What am I saying? This is not some evolutionary process taking part in the womb of a mother. It is the direct hand of God giving life and developing that life in the womb of the mother. Am I right or wrong? Look what he says. Before I, God, formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. Look at this. Before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. What's he saying? I believe this. I believe there's a principle here. Every little child conceived God is behind that. God has a plan. God is behind the development that child God is behind the plan and purpose that child has in life. I do not believe there are accidents when it comes to the hand of God. You say, well, preacher, I was born, but I wasn't planned. I was just an accident. Hey, there are no accidents with God, especially when it's talking about the life of an eternal being. God says, I had a plan, I have a purpose. Every one of these little babies is lined up here. God has a very specific plan for every one of those lives. That is a very purpose for every one of those lives. That makes that life very precious. Say, preacher, what about me? Every one of us here, if we're stuck in air, God has a plan for us. There's a purpose for us being on earth here. God has a plan and purpose. So I think it's interesting here in Psalms 139, then in Jeremiah and other passages. That God is a part of the development of the little child in the womb. And by the way, that little child in the womb is not simply a fetus. It's not some physical mass that happens to be growing, then at birth becomes a human being. No, no, no. From the moment of conception, that is a living being precious to God. Amen or not? Let me show you something very interesting. Come to Genesis. I told you we're going to use our Bibles this morning. Genesis chapter 25. Now, I think it's tragic that in the day and age we live you have to explain that a child in the womb is a human being. How sad is that? Messed up as a society that doesn't understand that in the womb of a mother is a living child And not just some tumor or some mass that can be taken at will. Look with me at Genesis chapter 25, verse number 21. Isaac is praying for his wife, that she would have children. And notice what it says. And Isaac entreated the Lord for his wife because she was barren. And the Lord was entreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived. Now look at the wording of verse number 22. And the what's the word? Children struggled together where? Within her. Question: Are these children born yet? No. They're in the womb. There's twins. But God refers to those little children, those little beings in the womb. He refers to them as what? Children. The exact same word used in other scriptures, the children outside the womb. In 2 Kings chapter 19 and verse 3, and for sake of time we'll not turn there, but the exact same situation where God refers to a A being in the womb, a life in the womb as a child. Now, when we come to Luke, and I would like for you to turn there, we see it even clearer. Now, this caught my attention. And uh captured my imagination a little bit. Luke chapter number one And I highly recommend if you're in the habit of marking in your scriptures and taking notes or highlighting, here would be a good thing. uh to to highlight some things and take some notes here um that I think would be very helpful. Luke chapter 1, third gospel, the New Testament. And the first chapter, here we have Elizabeth has conceived of John the Baptist as God promised. Mary shows up to visit her cousin Elizabeth. Of course, Mary is expecting. And notice in verse number 41. And it came to pass. That when Elizabeth heard the salutation of Mary, look at look at this. The what? Babe leaped in her womb. And Elizabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost. So Mary shows up. As soon as Elizabeth hears Mary's greeting, the babe in her womb leaves. How many of you ladies uh when you were expecting that kid would not stay still? Anybody we had Samuel was just Poor Kathy, I think he's saying Kung Fu in there or something. But um here and this babe leaps in her womb. Come over to verse 44. For lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy. So this is an unborn child, and God refers to John the Baptist in his mother's womb as a babe. Now, you say, okay, what's the big deal? Here's where it gets interesting. Come over to chapter 2. And here you have the angels announcing the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And notice in verse number 12. Well, we'll begin in verse 11. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. Question: At this point, is baby Jesus in the womb or out of the womb? For unto you is born this day in the city of David a sick. Well, if you're not sure, let's read verse 12. And this shall be a sign unto you: ye shall find a babe wrapped in swallowing clothes lying in a manger. Out of the woof! Now this is now let me finish reading, I'll come back and tell you where I'm going with this. And this shall be a sign unto you, you shall find the babe. Wrapped in swan-closed lying manger. Come down to verse 16. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. Here's what's interesting. God refers to the John the Baptist in his mother's womb as a babe. He refers to Jesus Christ laying in the manger as a babe. In other words, there's no distinguishing. There's no Distinguishing between the unborn and the born as far as God's concerned. They're both babies. One is in the womb, one is in the manger. It's not a difference in the quality of being or whether it's a living person or not. It's simply a location difference. Follow what I'm saying? Let's come over, if you would, to Luke chapter 18. It gets even more interesting. And by the way, you get your strongest concordance out, and look, that word babe, referring to John the Baptist in the mother's womb, and babe Jesus lying in the manger is the exact same word. And uh what it's translated from the Greek. Exact same word. Now look at Luke chapter 18 and verse number 15. And they brought unto him also what? infants that he would touch them. And of course the disciples got worked up and that became a whole nother issue But here you have little infants. These are children, the age of what we just had lined up in front of us here a few moments ago. Small little babies. Guess what? Get your strongest concordance out. Look up that word infant. Exact same word as the word babe referred to John the Baptist in his mother's womb. You know what that's telling me? That tells me that God sees no distinguish there's no um uh difference. In God's mind, that child that is held in its mother's womb, he refers to as an infant, is no different in substance and in value and in who and what they are than the one that is still in their mother's womb. Elizabeth was up here. Anybody notice? Or not Elizabeth. Emily was up here. Anybody notice she's fixed to have another baby. Anybody notice that? Shh. She didn't swallow a watermelon seed. It's uh that's a baby. And she's holding one of the little twins in her arm, and she has a baby in her womb. And according to this, there's no difference between the two other than location. Other than location. You say, what's the big deal about this? Big deal about this is abortion is the murder of a child. Whether it's in the womb or in the crib, you're killing a child. There's no getting around that. And I don't know about you, but I'm trying to think what kind of perverted thinking would not see that. How, how, how dark Has society come that we can't even see that It is unthinkable that from nineteen seventy three to two thousand and twelve, get this Fifty-five million, eight hundred and eight thousand, three hundred and eighty-seven children were murdered in their mother's womb. Fifty five million in United States alone Hitler only killed six million innocent people. America has legalized the slaughter of fifty five million. And we hate Hitler. We are absolutely disgusted with him and despise what he has done. And then we as a society turn around and multiply that by almost ten. And we're okay with that. Twenty six babies And their mother's womb are aborted in the United States of America every second. Twenty-four hours a day. That's 137 an hour. That's 3,304 a day. That's 23,196 a week. That's 10,576 little babies killed a month. That's 1,206,192 a year. Hitler killed six million. And because they were out of the womb, that was wrong. Looks to me like the safest place for a person to be would be its mother's woo. Most defenseless, most helpless. Can't flee, can't defend itself, can't even fully comprehend what's happening, and would just snuff it out because it would interrupt my lifestyle. Now come to find out in Canada And lo and behold, in Oregon, state of Oregon, not only are we aborting babies by the millions. Now we're using their little dead bodies as fuel to make electricity, burning the bodies of aborted children in power plants to produce electricity so we can listen to our filthy rock and roll music. And we can watch the ungodliness on television and the perversity on the computers and burning the bodies. Of babies to do that. The Old Testament, you had the pagans would burn their children to the god Molech. We're no different. We're no different. We must never, ever, ever lose sight. As to how precious these little babies are to the Lord Jesus Christ We must never ever lose sight of the great responsibility that God gives to us as parents, as grandparents, as a church. To raise up these children to know the Lord Jesus and how precious they are to the Lord Jesus Christ. We live in a wicked, wicked world. We live in a fallen world that desperately needs the truth of the Word of God, that desperately needs the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And these little children are growing up. Into that kind of world and how they desperately need moms and dads, brothers and sisters, grandparents Aunts and uncles, and church and Sunday school teachers that understand how precious they are to God. We need to give each and every child a thoroughly Christian home. A thoroughly Christian upbringing. We must not let the devil get our children. Now let me give you a few thoughts here, real quick. A few tips. I just want to jot these down how we can do that. I hope this will be encouragement. Number one, if we're gonna rate if we're gonna keep the devil from getting our children, if we're gonna raise up our children in a society that just despises them so much and is so wicked Number one, we must make the Word of God the authority in our homes. Must make the Word of God the authority in our homes. In too many of our Christian homes The world has become the authority. The world is telling dictating to us what we should and should not do. The world is dictating to us what is right and wrong. The world is dictating to us What is proper and what is not proper. We need to push the world out of our homes and get the Word of God back into our homes and make the Word of God the authority in our homes once again Our homes, let me give a challenge to moms and dads. Make the Word of God precious and valuable in your home. Don't let this book just become another book. This is the word of God. God says that He has exalted His Word, magnified His Word above His very name. Let's make this book an authority in our home. Let's make it precious and valuable. Let's make it the guideline for our life and how we operate in our home. Let's live by its principles. Let's claim its promises. Let's heed its precautions and warnings. Let's get back to the good old book. Amen. This whole world needs families. Desperately. Our country desperately needs families. where the Word of God is the authority in its home. Here's some suggestions along that. Read it daily as a family. Daily, get the family together. Open up the Word of God and read it together. Read it together as a family. When our boys were small. In fact, I tell you this before while they were still in the wood Kathy would sit there, she was uh she'd lay there on the sofa and it was like uh Mount Everest, you know, and And she lay on her belly and it was like a seesaw. But um don't tell her I said that. But um She lay there and I'd get the Bible and I'd put myself up to her belly and I'd read, For God so loved the world, He gave His only begotten Son. You say, that silly preacher, that little baby, uh didn't hear that Bible. I don't know if he did or not, but I want to read the Bible to my children. Read it daily as a family. Read it to them. Say, oh, they're just little babies. Go ahead and read the Bible to them. It's not going to hurt them. Number one, I put this down, read it daily as a family. Number two, read it out loud as a family. Get the kids around. And read it around there. Each one read a verse or a portion of scripture. And read around there. That has a profound impact on our children. Memorize verses as a family. So I don't know what to memorize. Hey, we've got a bulletin, has a big hundred list of a hundred verses there. Get that family together and memorize those verses together in a family. What an impact that would have Have each family, I put this down, have each family member bring their Bible to church. Mommy has her Bible, Daddy has his Bible. Junior's got his Bible, little Susie's got hers, little baby has his little first Bible there tucked in its diaper on the top part. Well not maybe not But just get them in the habit, the idea of bringing their Bible to church. Bringing their Bible to church. In my mind, church attendance and carrying a Bible are inseparable. You don't have one without the other. You bring your Bible to church and get the kids in that mentality. Get the family doing that. What am I saying? I'm saying this: make the Word of God the authority in our homes I put this down, number two. Make prayer the number one resource in your home. Make prayer the number one resource in your home. Prayer is the key to a godly Christian home. It's absolutely necessary. Donna Rice made a statement on prayer. I've taken it and tweaked it a little bit. I put it this way. Much prayer in the home. Equals much blessings in that home. Little prayer in the home equals little blessings In that home. And no prayer in the home equals no blessings in that home. Oh, there might be TVs. There might be wall-to-wall carpeting, there might be fancy cars, they may be NP3 players and DVRs and SUVs and XYZs and everything else Maybe all kinds of stuff in that home. But I'm telling you this: if there's no prayer in that home, there's no blessing. Because God blesses prayer. Make prayer the number one resource in your home. I put it down this way: pray together as a family. Mom and dad, get the kids together and pray together. Pray. I put this down. Pray consistently on a daily basis. Just make it part of the daily schedule. It's Bible reading time and prayer time. We get together, whether it's in the morning or maybe of the evening for us, the boys growing up, and Kathy and I now Nine o'clock at night. That was always our prayer time and Bible reading time. Nine o'clock. And the boys are real small. It was an hour earlier, eight. They got older, we let them stay up late till nine o'clock. And uh we'd read the Bible, we'd pray And by the way, have the whole family pray around. Out loud. Daddy pray, mommy pray, kids pray, all around. Take requests. All right, what are we praying for, Junior? What are we praying for, Sissy? And let them give requests and then pray out loud to God. Pray specifically for individual requests. I put this down. Pray humbly and reverently. Don't let the Bible reading and prayer time become silly. That's a very sacred time. I like to horse around and have fun and we did that with our boys. But tell you, when it came time to Bible reading and prayer, That's a very sacred time. We're coming before God. And so make the prayer time humbly and reverent. Our homes, our Christian homes desperately need the family altar re-established. Desperately needed. You say, how did our country get into this state of? I'll tell you how Christians become negligent in our walk with God. We've neglected the basic things of what it means to have a Christian home. Bible reading and prayer. I'll give you a third one real quick. Number one, make the Bible your authority in your home. Number two, make prayer the number one resource in your home. Number three, attend church faithfully. As a family. Att church faithfully as a family I want to be real frank with you this morning. We are making a terrible, terrible mistake when we neglect church attendance That is a terrible mistake. God instituted the church. It is the body of Christ. And when I neglect my church attendance, I am in a very direct way neglecting my relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. Dr. Lee Robertson said that the first step in backsliding is being absent from church. I agree with that. I've seen it, I've seen it, I've seen it. I put some suggestions down here. Number one, make church a special, happy time to worship in your family. Make it a big deal. We're going to church. Get those kids to dress up a little bit. Uh uh uh don't fight on the way to church. Come on now. That takes effort. Uh uh, you know, I've been around for a little while. I know how this works. Ah, we're always waiting for you. We're at the kids, you never help with the kids. I forgot my Bible. Go get your dumb Bible and uh And then you pull in the parking lot, pastor stand at the door there, and we hop out of the car. How you guys feeling? Great, thank the Lord. I ain't no dummy. Work at eliminating that. Sing some songs, some happy songs on the way to church. Making it exciting. Make it Hey, while we're at it, why don't you go to bed a decent time Saturday night so you can get up and be ready Sunday morning? Go to bed at three o'clock on Saturday night and you wonder why you can't find your toupee Sunday morning. Listen to what David said. I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the Lord. It was a happy thing. He's excited about it. I was glad. We need to instill that into our children. Make church a happy special time to worship. Number two, attend all its services. The Bible says very clearly, forsake not the assembling of yourselves as the manner of some is. Some people do that. Don't you do that. John again, Dr. Robertson used to say this, three to thrive. Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Every Christian needs three to thrive. And I found that true in my own life. Number three, don't leave early. Stay till the end. Sometimes God's greatest blessings are in the last few minutes of the service. And by the way, when it's over, don't go running out the back door. Stand around and talk to folks. Visit a little bit. Fellowship. Get to know people. What a blessing it is. Number four, be respectful during the service. When your little children are sitting there with you and you're texting somebody, they see that. Uh and uh uh you're uh making noise and talking and carrying on. Uh little children, that has a profound impact on what they understand church is all about. It's something I gotta go through. It's something I've got to do. I'd really be rather doing something else and trying to hide it down there. No, I don't do that Don't do that a guy. When I first got saved, the church I was attending, it was a large church, and there was a fella and uh he come in, he always sat uh sat towards the back and he had he always had his Bible in another book And I was a new Christian. I got talking to him. I said, what's the book? He goes, oh I bring that in case the service is boring. I said, brother, I was a new Christian. I thought I don't I don't see that. Satan is out to destroy our children. If you don't believe that, wake up. If you don't see that, open your eyes. Look at our look what our country has become. Where did we go wrong? I'll tell you, I think we've neglected some very important aspects of the Christian home. We set the Bible aside, ignored its teachings. We've neglected prayer. We've become delinquent in our relationship with the body of Christ, the church And it's taken a great, great toll. And so my challenge this morning to all of us, really, is to let's take seriously. Our responsibility as parents and as Christians. And let's at least do these three things. There's so much more that could be addressed. But let's at least get the Bible back in the homes as an authority. Let's at least get back together in prayer as a family. And let's at least be faithful to the house of God. And I believe God can do a great work. And I believe we can know God's blessings. How about Him? Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us and challenge us in this area. I love these little children, the parents. We're so grateful they bring them to church today, especially on a special day. But I'd help ask that you would help us take seriously the great responsibility we have as Christians And send revival to our homes, dear Lord. Please, we pray for revival for our country. Lord, we need it in our homes, in my home. And help us to pray and read the Word of God and live by it, be faithful to you and your people. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say this morning, preacher? I haven't been reading my Bible like I should as a Christian. That Bible hasn't been a part of my daily life like it should be. And you'd say, Preacher, God's spoken in my heart, and by his grace and with his help, I want to respond to that and read my Bible like I ought to on a daily basis. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. It's a great need we have How about moms and dads? How many would say, preacher, we used to have family altar, Bible reading, and prayer in our home. It's kind of gotten neglected. It's not like it should be. And God's challenged me this morning And as a family, as a home, we want to reinstitute that family altar and have Bible reading and prayer in our home once again. As we know God intends for us. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preach or pray that God will help us. God bless you. A number of hands around. This is so important. So important. And then we have church attendance. Oh, how we need the church. God has given it to us to help us, encourage us, teach us, and train us. And we need that. Now, one last question, let me ask you this. Do you know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven and not to hell? That's what Bible reading is all about, primarily for unsaved, to point us to Christ For a person to die in their sins is to die without God and be separated for all eternity in a horrible place called hell. We've got to know that we've trusted Christ. So Randy here this morning, say preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die I go to heaven and I don't want to go to hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me. And I would have that settled in my heart that I can know that God has forgiven me all my sin. And I have a home in heaven. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, please pray for me. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die, and I don't want to go to hell. Any at all? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, please pray for me. Any at all? Any at all? Now we're going to have an invitation in just a moment. Many hands were raised for various things. I want to urge you, find a place at old-fashioned order. Maybe mom and dad or even a whole family wouldn't be bad. And kneel at an altar on this special baby day and say, God, help us to be the home and the family you intend for us to be. Help us to trust you and obey you. And live by your principles, we want your blessing on our home. I tell you, I believe God would hear that. And God would honor that Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer plays a few verse of invitation. How about it this morning? God spoke to your heart. There's a real need there.