And what I'd like to highlight this morning is verse number twenty-six and twenty seven. I just want to read them again. The disciples, of course, are in the storm and they say, Lord, save us, we perish Then look at verse twenty six, and he saith unto them, that's the Lord to the disciples, Why are ye fear fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose, rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was a great calm. But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this that the winds and the sea obey him I want to look, as I said, for the third time now on this subject, uh, the sermon uh Fearful Disciples. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we thank you for the Word of God and uh the unchanging, um eternal, uh uh inerrant Word of God, and the promises here and the lessons, the principles that are taught in your word. I pray you would uh apply them to our lives this morning, particularly here in this passage. Father in heaven, I yield my will to you, and I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, that it would not be me speaking, but Lord, it'd be more than that. It would be your Holy Spirit speaking through me. and touch hearts and lives all around whoever may have tuned in. Pray for those as Brother Matt prayed a little bit ago, maybe some need encouragement Lord, we pray you would encourage those that need that. Some of us perhaps need some rebuke. Maybe we need to be challenged and confronted in our Christian life and uh some decisions need to be made there. And uh whatever the case, Lord, perhaps some need to trust you as Savior, need to be born again, most important issue And so we ask your will be done. Again, you fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Just quickly to review, we had pointed out a couple weeks ago that as we started this passage that the Lord is te bringing the disciples with him down into this uh ship, going out into the storm. There's a whole series of miracles recorded here in this portion of Matthew. The Lord's confirming the fact that he is God, that he is the Son of God, He is the Messiah, that His claim to be Israel's Christ is legitimate and he's and he's uh giving his criteria, he's confirming that with these uh amazing miracles he's performing. And so he brings the disciples down into the ship, knowing that they're going into a storm And uh the thing we pointed out there that the Lord was going to use this, and we'll see this here in a bit, the Lord was using this storm, this fearful event that they're about to go into. He is using that as a tool. uh to develop their faith and to get them to understand who the Lord really is, who this Jesus that they're following, who He really is and uh the authority that he has uh over all of creation. And so it's a tremendous learning tool, a discipleship tool is what I've called it. This storm that He's allowing them to go into. And by way of application, uh if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, if we've committed ourselves to be followers of His, to be His disciples We can be very, very confident that anything and everything that God allows into our lives, uh regardless of how confusing it may be, how fearful it may be uh how trying it may be, we can be absolutely confident that God knew about that before it came. He has allowed it for a purpose, and he will, if we'll trust him He will use that to help develop our faith and help us to get to know the Lord and understand him and his power uh better. So that's the setting here as they're going into this storm. The first thing we pointed out last week was that uh we wanted to notice the unaware disciples. And I won't re-preach that message, but uh just uh just to get us up to speed, we pointed out they were unaware of what their future held They had no idea that within an hour or so they were about to be in the storm of their life. Now most of these guys were hardened fishermen. They had spent their lives out on the sea. They had been through storms before. But this is one that was uh especially intense. And uh they they had no idea it was coming. They were unaware of what their future held. And that's true for you and I. Uh we hardly know from day to day what the next day may hold. I I go back to Proverbs 27 verse 1 often. Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We have no idea what tomorrow may hold or even the rest of the day. So uh they were unaware that what their future held. Then we pointed out they were uh unaware of what following Jesus involved They had heard a tremendous sermon, a sermon on the mound, just a few chapters earlier. They're seeing phenomenal miracles take place, demons cast out sick are made well and um uh and so I would imagine in their mind, hey, things are going great, and uh they had no idea that following Jesus not only was meant seeing miracles and hearing great sermons It was also means going through storms and going through trials. And it's important to understand, particularly for new believers, those of us that have known the Lord for a while, it didn't take us long to learn this The Christian life is not a uh exempt from trials, is not exempt from storms. In fact, sometimes It's our commitment to Christ that brings us down into that boat that leads us to the storm. Sometimes it's our commitment to Christ that produces the storm. And so we cannot misunderstand that fact that being a follower of Jesus Christ, knowing Jesus Christ as Savior does not mean our life is stormless. And so they had to learn that. They didn't they were unaware that following Jesus Christ meant they're going to have to face some fearful things. And then we pointed out last week that they were unaware of how weak their faith was. Jesus said unto them, He says, Why are ye fe fearful, ye of little faith And we have a tendency to think of ourselves as better Christians than what we really are. We have a tendency to think of our faith being stronger than what it really is. And uh and what proves our faith, what reveals to us the quality and uh the strength of our faith is not the easy times, is not the sunny days It's not the uh uh easy times. It's the storms that reveal to us. It's the times of trial that reveal to us how strong our faith really is, or how weak our faith really is. And so these disciples are uh brought face to face with the fact that their faith wasn't nearly as strong as what it needed to be. Now the Lord's about to address that. The Lord's gonna uh uh show them and strengthen their faith in tremendous ways. But uh this storm revealed it. Now here's where I want to pick up this morning just quickly and try and finish out this passage here. Uh first of all, we notice the unaware disciples. Second thing this morning where we pick up is the undisturbed savior. The undisturbed savior. Look at verse 24. And the last part says um There were great tempests. Look at the last phrase there. Read it with me. There in your home, wherever you're at. Read this along with me, that last phrase But he was what? Asleep. You say, what in the world? How in the world? This is a tempest. This Great tempest, uh the waves are going over the ship, and the Lord is asleep in the midst of this incredible storm out on the middle of a sea Uh, how can that even be? So I got trying to think, wonder what the layout of the boat was. I mean, was he just, you know, I don't know how you picture this ship It must have been of some size that the Lord was able to find somewhere to get in and lay down and sleep. In in the Mark's account of this event, it says that uh the Mark says that Jesus was in the hinder part of the ship on a pillow. So I don't know if there was like a little cubi hole down there underneath or somewhere or the Lord had crawled in underneath But uh I mean he is sound asleep, his head's on a pillow, he is absolutely comfortable. And uh the disciples are amazed at this. And uh They say Lord save us in the other passages and you don't you care w uh that we're going to perish And uh by all accounts, it seemed like the Lord was completely uninvolved in what was taking place here. When I was studying this, I couldn't help but think of uh John chapter 11 When uh Mary and Martha sent to Jesus and asked him to come, that Lazarus was sick, and the Lord acted like he didn't even care. Initially, the Lord's response was indifference And uh he just ignored their plea for the Lord to come and heal their brother. And uh finally um uh he says after several days he says, we'll go And uh he gets over there, and of course Lazarus is dead. And Mary and Martha, I think, are in a similar frame of mind as these disciples are here. What in the world, Lord? Where were you at? In fact, uh uh Mary, I think it was, said, um uh she says, uh Lord, if you'd have been here, our brother had not died And the whole implication was, is Lord, you don't even care. You were inactive. You did nothing. And the disciples heared, Lord, you're sleeping. Seriously? For an extended period of time, there was no apparent concern on the part of the Lord. There was no involvement on his part. The disciples had to come to him and rouse him out of his sleep to get any kind of response at all. You say, well, does God not care? I think sometimes you and I uh we're not careful. We get that same sort of thinking. Lord, don't you care what we're going through? God, aren't you paying attention? Lord, where are you? David struggled with that throughout those Psalms Several times he says, Lord, you're you're uh in so many words, I'm not quoting exactly, but he would say something to the effect, Lord, why are you silent Uh why don't you respond? The heathen are raging and all this and and God there's silence on your part. We have to be very, very careful that we do not confuse The silence of our Lord with indifference of our Lord. Just because God doesn't respond in our timing and in our way does not mean that God is not in control and he does not care. I assure you, on the Word of God, the unfailing Word of God, God does love us, God does care about our situation, and He is in control. So whether we see it or not, whether we understand his actions and his timing or not, we exercise faith in him, that he is God, he does care, and he's got everything under control. And so we see this apparent unconcern of the Lord. He's undisturbed. This storm doesn't bother him one bit. Though the disciples are terrified. The storm did not catch the Lord off guard. We mentioned this earlier. The Lord knew exactly when he got in the ship with his disciples, he knew what was going to take place This didn't sneak up on him. It wasn't some mistake on God's part. You've heard this before, no doubt. We've said it before. God never says, uh oh. God never says, oh man, I didn't see that coming. No, no, no. God knew all of this. And this virus that we're dealing with, listen, trust me, God knew a year ago exactly what you and I would be in today. He knows the end from the beginning, and we can totally trust him. The Lord was not afraid. The Lord was not concerned about perishing He had everything in control, though the disciples could not perceive that. They uh uh they saw him sleeping and uh perhaps assumed that he was unconcerned and indifferent The storms of life never catch our Lord out off guard. In fact, as I was studying this, I came to this conclusion in this situation here The Lord was more concerned about the disciples' lack of faith than he was about this storm that's tearing their boat up. It was the lack of faith that they were in danger of. It was the lack of faith that was endangering them, not the winds and the waves and the rain. The disciples were fearful, they were frustrated, they were irritated, but the Lord was still in control, and he knew what he was going to do. Years ago, and I've told this before, but uh years ago when the boys were small and we had only been here a few years, um uh we got uh we decided we were going to go home, my folks back in Philadelphia, we were gonna go home for Christmas. And so there was a busy schedule at church, of course, at Christmas time. So we made the plan. We had an old van at that time. And uh we made the plan. We're going to get up early Christmas morning, about four o'clock, load up the van Head up to Philadelphia, spend Christmas Day with my family, and uh just have a wonderful time. We pulled out. We got up that morning, it was pouring down snow. I mean pouring down snow And uh by the time we got loaded and pulled out the driveway, there was probably four or five inches of snow on the ground. We headed up uh to Route 68 to head over uh to Hagerstown, then up to uh Harrisburg, over to Allentown, down into Philly where uh my folks live in the north side there. And uh we got going up two nineteen and it's Snowed more and more. I mean it was piling up. It was on the road. And uh we got up to uh get on the interstate up there. We're getting on the entrance ramp And as I turned, uh the van made this terrible noise, just a little gun, gun, gun, gun, and kind of jumped a little bit, and uh and then it quit and we went on. Soon as that happened, my wife's head snapped over at me And uh she goes, What was that? And I had no idea what was. I'm not a mechanic. I so I just said, Oh, I think there's ice building up on the muffler or something like that. And she goes, I said, it'll be fine. And so she said, okay. And she kind of dozed off. We got down the interstate a few miles. Boy, it did it again. Her head snapped up I said, I think it's just uh the alternators missing or something and uh I don't know, I just made something up and she was satisfied and drived on and uh we got over about Rocky Cap And finally that thing started rattling and shaking and we drifted off. I turned around, went across the inner s uh crossover there, and we tried to make it back, and finally the thing quit and we pulled off on the side of the road About 5. 30 in the morning, something like that. It's dark as can be. Christmas morning. There's not a car on the road. It is pouring down snow. And here we are broke down alongside the road. And so we got in there and we're trying to assess the situation, what to do. And I looked back and the two boys were sitting on the seat behind us. And I looked back at them and checked on them and they were scared. They were really scared. They were just young. And I could see it in their eyes and they're looking up there and And uh we were talking if I need to get out and walk down the road, leave them there in the dark and what to do. And um they were scared to death and they were their eyes were glued to me. What was daddy going to do And so we got talked a little bit, and finally I just decided, uh let's sing a song. And so we just started singing. Everything's alright in my father's house In my father's house, in my father's house, everything's alright in my father's house, where there's joy, joy, joy And I started singing that again and Kathy joined in. Everything's all right. We sang it through, and then the boys joined in. About four or five verses, four or five times over, we just sang that song over and over and over. And I noticed when those boys saw that daddy wasn't scared, then they weren't scared either. When they saw daddy was okay, then they were okay. And what I'm trying to say is this: listen, God's not disturbed. God's not scared. God's not worried. And if God is okay, then you and I are okay And if God isn't an afraid, then you and I don't need to be afraid. Everything's alright in my Father's house. God is in control. God has a handle. God knows the solution. And we just need to trust him, have faith in him, follow his instructions given to us in his word. And everything will be all right. So I see this undisturbed Savior. He's asleep in the midst of the storm in this boat. And last of all, real quickly I want to give you this thought, the unveiled authority. First of all, the unaware disciples, they had no idea what was about to take place The undisturbed Savior, he's sound asleep. And then the unveiled authority, the disciples come and wake him up. Look at verse 26. The last part that says, then he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was great calm. But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this? What manner of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? He word, obey. Ah, uh the disciples, uh, Lord, uh we perish, save us. Lord wakes up And he rebukes the wind and the sea. Do you ever try to do that? Do you ever have a storm going on, a lightning storm? Go out there and say, base! Base tail! I tried it once. Guess what happened? Nothing. I don't have authority over the winds and the sea. I don't have authority over all that, but my savior does. My savior does. And the disciples, they believed that the Lord could save them, save their lives, but they had no idea that he could calm the storm. And Jesus revealed to the disciples here an authority, a power that the disciples never dreamed. That this man that they were following, this Jesus they were following him. I thought it was interesting, verse 27. It says, What manner of man is this that even the winds and the seas obey him They saw firsthand the elements, the wind and the sea, obey the instruction, the command of the Lord Jesus Christ. The word obey means to listen to and submit to. The wind, the storm, the rain, the clouds, the tempest, the sea, the waves, all of that heard, so to speak, the voice of the Lord, and they obeyed it. They submitted to it. I'm telling you what a God we serve. That even creation obeys his very words. What an amaz the power of God is incomprehensible. The authority and power of our Savior is incomprehensible for you and I. And even the winds and the seas obey Him. There is no man, there is no man like the Lord Jesus Christ. He is God Almighty, God the Son, God Almighty And uh what an amazing thing this is. What amazing thing it would have been to be there and see that and experience the experience I thought of Ephesians, if you would, take your Bible and turn over to Ephesians chapter number three And I'd like you to notice verse number 20. I don't know if you're in the habit of underscoring your Bible or highlighting verses in your Bible, but uh this is a good verse. I've got it underlined and I've got uh red ink underlined on here And uh good verse for a Christian to get a hold of, Ephesians chapter 3. And look with me at verse 20. And you read along there as I read this. You follow along in your Bible as I read this. Now look at this Now unto him, that's the Lord Jesus Christ, unto him that is able, look at this, to do exceedingly abundantly above. Now he adds on to that All that we ask or what? Even think according to the power that worketh in us. That word able, unto him that is able, that word able means this. to be possible unto him that is able. It is absolutely possible. Somebody asked a God, asked the question, can God? And the answer all through the Bible is, God can God can. Him that is able. When I consider the omnipotence of God, the power of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, I tell you, hope shines bright God is all powerful. God is in control. He is able. And in the midst of our trials, in the midst of our storms, we look to a Savior who has total, absolute authority. And we can trust him. And we can trust them. The storm had a purpose. Jesus Christ wanted these men Who were about in a just a few short years are going to go out into all the world and preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And he wanted them to know and understand completely the power of the one that said, Lo, I am with you always. How in the world did these disciples, years later, have the courage and the boldness in the face of death to preach in the name of Jesus. I'll tell you one way, they saw the power of that name. They saw the power of the Savior, who they committed themselves to, and he said, Lo, I'm with you always. I'm with you always. This storm had a purpose. In this storm, they discovered that Jesus Christ was far more powerful than they ever dreamed. And I'm telling you, Jesus Christ is the same today, yesterday, today, and forever. And that same power rests in the Savior that you and I know. The Lord could have prevented the storms, and the disciples would have never learned. What the Lord could do. I think one of the best things that happened to the disciples was for them to go in this storm. I look back over my Christian life and there were some awfully dark days No doubt about it. Days I would never in a hundred years want to go through again. But as I look back on them, I can say I thank the Lord that he let me go through because I saw what God could do I found the peace that God could give in the midst of the most difficult times. And many of you could testify to the same thing. Our Lord is good, and our God is powerful. Our God is powerful And we must never ever forget that. Don't limit what God can do. Never underestimate what God is able to do. Trust Him. And put our faith in him. Here's the thing. The disciples believed the Lord could save their life. They said, Lord, save us, we perish. But they had no idea that he could actually calm the storms and command the waves. And I'm afraid sometimes you as I as Christians, well, we believe believe the Lord can save our soul. Yeah, I'll trust Jesus to save my soul, but we don't think he can Heal our marriage. Oh, the Lord can save my soul, but we don't believe he can save our kids and change their lives. Oh, the Lord can save my soul, but we don't believe he can Save us from addictions or get us through trials or give us joy in the midst of a storm and peace in the midst of storms. I'm telling you, God is all powerful. We must never ever underestimate what God can do. And final thought, our trials, our storms make us more effective in the kingdom of God. More effective This virus has hit our world. And my prayer has been, Pastor Matt and I have been praying about every day. We've been praying, praying. And uh my prayer has been that we come out of this stronger Christians than we were than when we came in. My prayer for our country, and really it's the whole world or our country is not the only one dealing with this, but my prayer for our country Is that we come out of this a more righteous cut nation than we were when we went into it? We're an awfully wicked nation, there's no doubt about it. I'm praying that God will turn this thing And God used this storm to make us stronger in our faith, draw us closer to the Lord, make us bolder in our witness And make us a little more pure and holy in our walk with God. God used the storm to help the disciples grow in their faith. F. B. Meyer, great preacher of years gone by. uh told uh uh I was reading one of one of his books and he told of a he used it gave an illustration and at least at that time these were the prices he said if you had a bar of iron Just a bar of iron, it was worth about two dollars and fifty cents at that time. He said, however, if you take that bar of iron, you heat it up in the fire And you put it on an anvil and take a heavy hammer, and you beat that bar of iron into horseshoes It goes from $2. 50, then you beat it into horseshoes, it becomes $5. The value of it is $5. He said, however, if you take that same bar and you melt it down, put it in intense heat and melt it down and beat it into small little needles It becomes the value of it becomes $175. You take that same bar and you put heat it and and melt it down, red hot fire, you beat it with the hammer into pen knife. uh blades, blades for your little pen knife. He said, then the value of that bar becomes $1,625. He said if you take that same bar of iron, two dollars and fifty cents, and you put it in the fire and you heat it beyond Uh uh it's uh beyond imagination. That thing melts down and you beat it and mold it and form it into springs for a little watch, little watch springs The value goes to $125,000. What was he saying? What he's saying is this, God uses our trials God uses our the fire, the storms, the virus. God uses all of this to increase our faith, to make our usefulness for Him to increase more and more and more. What I want to challenge us to do is trust in God. Just have faith in God. He's all powerful. Nothing that this world or Satan or anything can come up with the Lord can't handle. And so we're trusting the Lord, and let Him use this time, use this fire, this trial we go through to strengthen our faith, to get closer to Him, embolden our witness. And let the Lord have his way. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us to see you, keep our eyes on you. Lord, help us to allow the setbacks and the difficulties, the heartaches, the fear. That we would learn to trust you and have faith in you, and we would grow in our walk with you. I pray you convict us. Maybe, Lord, the trials come Show us some sins in our life, some disobedience that needs to be dealt with. I pray, God, Holy Spirit, help us to do that. Lord, some of us need to just learn to rest in you. And Lord, for those that are tuned in, that do not know for sure that when they die, their sins are forgiven on their way to heaven, my prayer this morning is, Lord, that they would acknowledge to you their sin, that they would believe that you died for their sin, suffered hell in their place, and rose again And Lord, that they would turn to you in repentance and faith, calling on you and asking you to come in their heart and life and be their personal Savior. God, help us and use your word, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.