Wayman, it is good to be here and be home uh for a little bit, snow or not. Um I think I'm getting a little sick in the head that but we left uh forties and fifties and sixties and seventies in South Carolina to come up here and uh I was telling someone today I think it was in the bank as we uh left. I don't have one brother Oh, here it is. Okay. Anyway, I was telling someone as we left um South Carolina at three o'clock in the morning as we drove north. It was forty seven seven degrees when we left at three o'clock in the morning. And as we drove north it continually dropped until we got here uh Thursday night at seven degrees. So um we were quite uh quite thrilled to be here. Um let's see here now where do I How about now? We on? Is that working? Good. He's got it. Now I know what Brother Dan goes through. Whenever he does this all the time, I usually leave most of this up to him. Uh I'll work on the machines and I'll let him do the preaching, amen. But uh our pastor uh asked me to bring the message tonight and and I'm honored to do that and and honored to Stand behind his pulpit. Turn with me in your Bibles, if you would, to Hebrews and chapter four. Hebrews chapter four. Some of this is uh familiar uh scripture to us. Um Several of the verses that I'm going to use tonight. And uh as I was preparing this message, I had written uh kind of a title out and and just a couple things. And this morning as I sat down in my devotions and was was just doing a little Bible study this uh this seemed to come together and uh I just uh uh I hope that uh that it speaks to your heart tonight. I know it's But Hebrews in chapter four. Um I'm not going to read a text per se. I'm going to uh just pick out uh some verses for the points But uh I'll begin by reading verses one through three in Hebrews chapter four. Let us therefore fear lest a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them, but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it. For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said, as I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest, Although the works were finished from the foundation of the world. Lord, these scriptures uh uh uh Lord, the the very word of God, Lord, that are going to these foreign lands where folks have never held it, never seen it, never been able to grip it or own it for themselves. And God, we just thank you, God, that you've allowed us to do that We thank you for the work that's been accomplished this week and the great spirit that surrounded it. Lord, we just pray now your blessings upon the message tonight as we open your word. Lord, speak to our hearts. Help us to be attentive and Lord receptive to your word, I pray in Jesus' name The title of my message tonight is Fear, Labor, and Be Bold. Fear, labor, and be bold. If we see here we're talking in Hebrews chapter 4 and verse 1, Paul is talking here about let us therefore fear Lest the promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it. And fear is simply being afraid of something, to be anxious or apprehensive about something If uh the pastor was talking about uh uh these these dear folks that were martyred for the cause of Christ, uh I'm sure that e even though their faith was strong in those given situations and they they failed to denounce Christ and they stood firm for him. I'm sure there was some fear in their hearts as a steamroller approached them and they knew that their death was pending. It was something that they were anxious about. They were apprehensive about. Fear is something that we don't want to happen. But we should tonight we should fear our unbelief. We should fear our unbelief. We should examine our own salvation, I think. I think that's what Paul is trying to convey here. That's the thought he's trying to convey. And I'm not trying to get anybody lost tonight But there are some if we if we are honest with ourselves and and we look around through our cong church congregations today, we'll it's it blatantly obvious to me that there are some folks in our congregations, in our churches that are not saved. They're not genuinely saved. They profess to be saved. They go through all the motions. But when you look at the fruit, then Paul in the in the Bible explains to us that we should be fruit inspectors. I believe that was a term the pastor used. We should examine the fruit of other Christians. And if we look at that and we study that, I think you will come to the conclusion a lot of times that maybe that person is not saved. And those are some people we should fear for. We should fear for our own unbelief. I think we should examine our own salvation. I can't tell you tonight whether you're saved. I can tell you how to be saved But I can't tell you if you're saved. The only person that knows that is you and the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the only person that knows the genuineness of your and the sincerity of your profession of faith. So but we need to fear that tonight. We need to examine ourselves. We should fear God's wrath to the point that we know that we are saved Think if you would for me just a few moments of some of where most of us tonight are regular in attendance here and we've we've heard the gospel and the and the scriptures taught very well here and we know that in the end times that we're going to stand before Jesus Christ Or we're going to stand before that great white throne judgment or the judgment seat of Christ. One of those two places, every person will stand. So think tonight Just think, if you would, and put that fear into perspective of what it's going to be like. The Apostle Paul, I think one of the greatest Christians that ever walked the earth, and I'm sure that there's a lot of folks that would agree with me tonight, feared that day. He feared that day that he would stand before Jesus Christ. If he was one of the greatest missionaries, one of the greatest Christians that ever lived, how much more should I fear? How much more should I fear? And how much more should I fear if I were to know that I weren't saved? And not be standing before the judgment seat of Christ, but be standing before that great white throne Knowing the results of where that's going. But we have folks in our churches every day that know those facts. They hear that preached over and over and over again, but they won't come to the real repentance and trust and faith in Christ. So we need to fear that unbelief. We should fear for others' unbelief. We should fear for others' unbelief. This is we were just talking about that great great white throne judgment Think tonight of what that person is going to face. If you're saved tonight, you know that you're going to face the judgment seat of Christ, but you know, after that judgment seat of Christ, the Bible tells us that Jesus will wipe away all the tears in heaven. So we have a good hope. But what about those that face that great white throne judgment? There is no hope. The end of that great great white throne judgment results in those words, Depart from me, you curse that I never knew you. Depart into everlasting darkness, into hellfire, where the worm dieth not. What kind of a place are they going to go to I don't think I read a book uh not long ago, uh uh one that uh I think Brother Fox brought in here, uh Hell You Say was one of them, and then another one was uh A Lost Soul's First Day in Eternity And and boy, when you study out hell, I can't I don't think we can comprehend what that's like. I don't think we can even begin to understand what those folks are going to go through. Not only is the fire not going to be quenched, not only is the worm going to die not, but eternal, forever separation from God. You see, the Holy Spirit is in the world, as evil as we see, the evil reports that we hear, and the many wicked things that we know are going on in our world today, the Holy Spirit is still in here, and he's still interfering with Satan and his progress. But in hell there's not going to be a Holy Spirit. It's going to be pure evil there, pure torment there, pure destruction there. I don't think we can begin to comprehend. If we could comprehend what a single moment in hell would be like, every single person sitting in this room would be knocking on a door on Sunday evening. Every single person set in this room. If we could understand what one minute was like in hell, just one simple minute, we should fear others' unbelief. Let me put it to you this way. And you seen the fire, you seen fire coming out of the windows of that school, and as you pulled off the side of the road, you heard children screaming inside. Would you be fearful enough for those children to take action? Or would you do as most Christians do, lost folks, and just continue to drive by? That's putting it in perspective, folks. We have lost folks that throughout Garrett County that have never heard the Word of God. We have folks that need, unfortunately, repetitive door knocking in order to get through to them to accept Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Are you s are you handing out gospel tracts? Are you going out and knocking on doors? Are you telling other folks about Jesus Christ? We should fear that. Because every person that we come in contact with that we don't tell about Jesus Christ or share the gospel with, we're going to give an account one day. Before Jesus Christ. You see, they're going to depart into everlasting torment and hellfire, but we're going to have to give account For why we didn't share the gospel of Christ with them. We should fear unbelief. We should fear unbelief. The next point tonight is that we should labor We should labor because if we fear genuinely like we should, that will cause us to labor. Labor simply means to toil, push, pull, or drive. Put in basic terms, it means to take action. Action requires movement You can't set someplace and take action. You can't do that. It requires physical labor. It requires you to move. We should labor to see others saved. If you look down here in verse eleven of Hebrews chapter four, let us labor therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief. For the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart We have a weapon that's more powerful than anything the devil has in his arsenal. We have the weapon of victory. It's right here in your hand. We should labor with that tonight. Mark 16, 15 says, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. It doesn't say Pastor Leatherman, Dan Hummel, Chip Paul, and their spouses go into all the world, does it? It doesn't label out a single person. It says go ye. That's everyone. That's every Christian. That's everyone that's accepted Christ as their personal Savior. You say, well now, Brother Chip, everybody can't go to the mission field. Yes, you can. We're surrounded by a mission field. We're surrounded by a mission field. We should labor to get the gospel to every creature. I appreciate so much what our church has done this week. We have labored intently for two days. to get the gospel into the Dominican Republic, into Puerto Rico. 10,220 books of Romans with the plan of salvation outlined are going into a foreign land where folks have never been able to have a copy of that for themselves. That's what this is about. We need the labor to do that. And I'll tell you what, I enjoyed the labor. I enjoy the labor. It's not like digging a ditch with no purpose There's rewards to the labor. There's fruit for the labor. If you've never led a soul to Christ, there's nothing sweeter this side of heaven than to see someone bow their head and profess Christ as their personal Savior We need to labor. We should labor to be in the center of God's will. Turn with me if you would to 1 Thessalonians and chapter 4. 1 Thessalonians in chapter 4. Lost my Thessalonians. What's that? It's in the Old Testament. There we go. Here we go. A bookmark fell out ahead at all, Mark. First Thessalonians in chapter four. Look with me if you would at verse three. For this is the will of God, even your sanctification Well, what does that mean? What does sanctification mean? I asked myself. And I sat down and I looked that word up. And it simply means to cleanse, purify, or make holy. And this is your, this is the will of God that we should be made pure, that we should be cleansed, that we should be holy. That takes labor. That takes it. Paul said that he crucified himself daily. We should labor to crucify our flesh daily. I don't know about you, but I battle some things in my life. There's some things in my life that I have to rein in under control. If I was just to let my flesh go, there's no way that I could even be called a servant of God. You see, our soul is saved, but you've heard it time and time again, our flesh is not. The spirit is willing. Pastor, preach Sunday. The spirit is willing, but the flesh is weak. We need to labor intently to be in the center of God's will, to be cleansed, to be purified, to be made holy. How many times have we heard that? How many times? I'm preaching tonight to the Wednesday night crowd, I'm preaching to the cream of the crop tonight in our church. How many times have we heard that we need to be made holy? We need to be set aside for God's service We need to be pure in our thoughts and our lives. We need to be honorable and honest in what we do. Everything that you say and do affects your testimony, and it affects the testimony of Jesus Christ. If you do today what you know God wants you to do, tomorrow you will be right in the center of God's will. I have that written above that verse in my Bible. I don't know if the pastor said it or who said that one time, but if you do today what you know God wants you to do Tomorrow you will be right in the center of God's will for you in your life. It's that simple. And it's it's very simple. If you uh if you look at uh uh um uh Romans chapter twelve and verse one. I beseech ye therefore, brother, by the mercies of God that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. We should labor because of Jesus. We should labor because of Jesus. Think for a moment. Just like we can't comprehend hell, I don't think we can begin to comprehend what Jesus went through on the cross. We should that's just our reasonable service. For us to labor and give our entire lives to the cause of Christ is merely reasonable. It's not even equal, it's just reasonable. It's not the asking price, so to speak, but it's the s it's the bottom of what they'll sell it for. You know, if you go in to buy a car, you know they've got a big sticker price on there, and the boy they'd sure like to have that, or somewhere between that and the cost. But you know, there's always that bottom line where they'll just take just that amount for it. What that's saying is Romans chapter 12 and verse 1, being holy, being separated. That's simply the bottom line. And it's just reasonable, just acceptable. We should labor because of Jesus. Why go soul winning? Because it just makes sense Why preach? Because it just makes sense. Why be a missionary or an evangelist? It just makes sense. Think about what Christ done for you Not only shed his blood on that cross, not only allowed himself allowed those soldiers to nail him to that cross, to beat him, to despise him, to mock him, to put that crown of thorns on his head, to shove that spear in his side. Not only those things. But he took your sin on a pure body, pure Godhead that did not know what sin was. He took that upon himself. You know, we can look around and we can find some wicked people in our world. Can you imagine what it would be like to have their conscience? Or to apply what they've done to your conscience? That's just a drop in the bucket to what Christ suffered for us on the cross. He cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? His very Father turned his back on him. Because of you, because of me. Are we asking too much? Is Christ asking too much to ask you to hand your neighbor a gospel tract? To live a holy and a pure life, we should labor because of Jesus. Fearing God, laboring for God, all just makes sense. Lastly tonight, I'd say that if we look at verse sixteen back in Hebrews chapter four We should pray boldly. We should pray boldly. Verse 16 in Hebrews chapter 4 says, Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. I looked that word mercy up because I just wanted to make sure that I had that that definition down tight and in my mind and that I knew completely what that meant. And let me read, if you would, allow me to read to you the definition, Webster's definition out of the 1828 dictionary of mercy. That benevolence Mildness or tenderness of heart, which disposes a person to overlook injuries, or to treat an offender better than he deserves. The disposition that tempers justice and induces an injured person to forgive trespasses and injuries and to forbear punishment or inflict less than law or justice will warrant. The Bible says that we should come before the throne of grace boldly that we might obtain that mercy. Boldly means confidently and assuredly. But we should ask for that mercy. You know, every day we fall short of what God expects us to do. Every day we should pray for mercy that God doesn't give us what we deserve. If we're honest with ourselves, we all know that we don't deserve to go to heaven. We don't deserve to serve Christ. We don't deserve to handle God's holy word. God exalts his word above his name, but he allowed us the privilege this week of handling it and assembling it and putting it together that others might see and hear his whole We don't deserve that. We don't deserve that. Our merits are not enough to allow us to do that. But through His mercy Through his grace he's allowed us to do that. We should pray that we might obtain that mercy. We should pray boldly that we might find grace. We all should know that grace is God's free unmerited love and favor by now. I've heard our pastor preach it time and time and time again. God's unmerited favor. You know, I don't know about you, but I want God to intervene in my life. I need God to do things for me. I need to see his power evident in my life. I have some things that come up that I can't handle. And I need God. I need his favor. I need him to reach down from heaven and touch me and help me. Brother Jerry tonight was giving us a a story when he was down in Virginia about a truck that slid sideways. He could see the plow coming right through the door of his truck. And he said it was almost he said it was it was almost supernatural, I think, is probably the word he was trying to say. Something reached down and just pushed that truck away from him. Hey, you know, I dare say somebody was praying for Jerry. And I don't find it hard to believe at all that God sent a guardian angel down there to stand in the middle of that road and just push that truck out of the way. I've seen God do too many things. I've seen God do too many things. We need to pray for one another. We need to pray for God's favor for one another. We should earnestly be praying for a Christian brothers and sisters. Sisters. Every day I pray for this church. I'm not doing that to exalt myself. I'm doing that because I hope that they're praying for me. When we're out traveling the highways, we need that edge of protection about us. We need God's favor on our travel. We need to earnestly, earnestly pray that we might find grace. Every answered prayer is God's grace. Every answer of prayer is God's grace. Thirdly, we should pray that we might find help. might find help. You know, I as I was writing that down and and as I mentioned that this evening again, I thought about those in Haiti and what that must be like I can't begin to understand. I've seen some third world countries. In the service, I was privileged to go to Thailand. I went on a mission trip with Jerry to Mexico. We've seen some of the light I can't imagine how that country will ever recover. Even with America's help, even with the world's help, the government is just in disarray. It takes organization, more than money, it takes organization to recover from something like that. Their families are devastated. Lost loved ones everywhere. I just can't even begin to imagine. They need help. We need help. We need to pray for God's help. I need God and I want God to help me. Don't you? Don't you? Let's stand with every head bowed and every eye closed. Do you want God to help you tonight? Maybe tonight you need God to save you. Maybe you've examined your life and you realize that Oh, I made an empty profession at some point in time and I got baptized and I've been coming to church, but you know in your heart genuinely you weren't something Seer. Or maybe you just need God to help you. Why don't you come down as the piano begins to play? And kneel down at an old-fashioned altar and meet God there. You need someone to lead you to show you from the Bible how for sure you can know for sure to be saved. Flag one of us down. There are many here that would love to show you tonight. As the piano begins to play, won't you come?