Alright, Matthew chapter 8, verse number 23. The Bible says, and when he was entered into a ship, of course, the he there being the Lord Jesus Christ, when he was entered into a ship His disciples followed him, and behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves, but he, Jesus, was asleep And his disciples came to him and woke him, saying, Lord, save us, we perish. Now let me just pause there. I don't know about you, but to me, that sounds like the disciples were a little bit afraid of the situation they found themselves in. They were scared. Lord save us, we perish. But I also sense in that statement a little bit of frustration and irritation with them that they were having to go through this If you read earlier in the chapter, things were going great. Preacher, in in uh in uh uh chapter 5, 6, and 7, the Lord had preached this Tremendous message we know is the Sermon on the Mount, uh the one of the greatest messages ever preached, no doubt. And then you get into chapter 8, and there's miracles happening, and people are getting saved And now the disciples are in this boat with the Lord, and it looks like everything is lost. It looks like everything that's been accomplished, all the momentum that had been going on, now is going to be gone because of this storm, and they're going to lose everything, even their own lives. And so I kind of sense a little frustration, a little deathly fear, and maybe a little irritation that this is happening. But look look how the Lord responds And he, verse number 26, and he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? And he arose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was great calm. But the men marveled, saying, What manner of man is this that even the winds and the sea obey him? What an amazing event here. I'm not very creative on titles. I just called it Fearful Disciples. So let's pray. I believe I'm going to be uncharacteristically short this evening, brief And we might make this whole thought, this passage a little serious over the next couple weeks. So you pray with me. Let's ask the Lord to speak to our hearts as we have the message. Father in heaven Lord, we live in disturbing days, and a lot that's going on, Lord, we don't even understand what's happening. But Lord, we look to you. And God, we know you're still God. And we ask now that you would help us from your word to have faith in you. Help us, Father, to trust you and rest in you. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak your word through me to every heart and mind, to folks listening, wherever they may be. And I pray that we could learn from this and you would help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I mentioned as I was reading through the scripture, Matthew, this section of Matthew, we get to this point in Matthew. It is following when the Lord preached this great sermon on the mount. And uh and then you go into chapter 8, the first twenty-two verses. And we find the Lord doing series of miracles. And actually into chapter 9, even into chapter 10, the Lord does these series of miracles. And these miracles are displaying The Lord Jesus Christ's power uh over and his authority over a number of things. For instance, we see where he cast out devils and the Lord is displaying to the disciples and those around him following him that he has authority over Satan. He has authority and power over the devils. He has authority, we see here in this passage we just read. He has authority over creation. He can simply speak to a storm and it obeys him. Jesus Christ is showing to his disciples, he's displaying to them that he is all-powerful. He is the creator of this universe. He is the creator of this world. And as creator, he certainly has control and authority over it. And so he's displaying these supernatural, amazing acts of power and authority over the spiritual world, over the creation, over sickness. We see him healing people here just by speaking to him, healing them. And uh, so what is he doing? He's performing all these miracles, and what he's doing, he is displaying to his disciples his credentials as the Son of God. He doesn't just say, hey, I'm the Messiah. He doesn't just say, hey, I'm the Son of God. Anybody can say that. Anybody can claim to uh to make any claim that they want But Jesus Christ goes beyond just making that claim and he is displaying, hey, I really am. Here's the credentials. I'll speak to a storm and it stops. I'll command a devil to come out of a boy and it has to obey me. I'll speak to a disease and it'll be cured And so there's undeniable evidence, what he's presenting here is undeniable evidence that he is exactly who he claims to be. He is the Son of God, he is the Messiah, he's the Savior of the world. And by the way, by way of application, that ought to be true for all of us that know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. There ought to be more than us just saying I'm saved. saying I'm a Christian, just professing, there ought to be evidence in our life that that is true. There ought to be some credentials, so to speak, that yes, I am a child of God. I'm saved out of this world. I am fundamentally different than the world I live in. I'm a child of God. And so the Lord is presenting, as I said, his credentials. He's not just making an empty claim. He is presenting his credentials. Now again, this miracle here, this calming of the storm, this this event is recorded and all in the first three Gospels of the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke. John doesn't have it. Matthew, Mark, and Luke have this. And they record this here. And you pick up some other details if we go to the other books. We'll not do that tonight. But I do want us to notice one thing, and this is my thought tonight. And I'm going to try and bring this home, and hopefully the Lord will apply this to our lives. But look with me, if you would, at verse 23. He says this, and when he was entered into a ship, his what followed him? His disciples. His disciples followed him. It is his disciples who are getting in this ship with the Lord Jesus Christ and are about to go into the storm. It isn't it isn't a bunch of unsaved people he's taking down into this storm. Now they may be affected by it But it's his disciples. It's not a bunch of drunkards. It's not a bunch of unsaved folks that have rejected him and Pharisees. The people he's taken into this boat are folks who have trusted him as his Lord and trusted him as their Lord and Savior. And more than that, they have made a commitment to follow him as a disciple He tells us in other passages, he says, if you want to be my disciple, you need to take up your cross and follow me. You need to forsake all. Deny yourself And so when it says his disciples followed him, these are men who have forsooken all, they have committed themselves to the Lord Jesus Christ. to be a follower of his. They have uh taken up their cross, they've forsaken all else, everything is dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, the question that comes to my mind is, why in the world, what kind of Savior would take his devoted followers And put them in a ship and send them out into a storm that could kill them all. Did Jesus not know? Was he unaware of the fact that going across this uh this uh sea that they would face this danger? Was he unaware of that? Did it sneak up on it and catch them off guard? Did he not care that they were uh that their lives were being dangered? No, this storm didn't sneak up on the Lord. It didn't somehow slip through his fingers or uh uh uh escape his attention. Jesus Christ is God. He's God in the flesh. And being God, he's all-knowing. He is the theological term, big term we use, is he omniscient, all-knowing. He knew exactly when they got in that ship. He knew exactly what they were about to go into. He knew that in a few hours they were going to be in a life-threatening situation. And yet he took his disciples and led them directly into that. Now, why would he do that? Well, I believe that the reason for that is this. They had committed themselves to be followers of Jesus Christ. And for three and a half years, as they followed the Lord, he used illustrations. He displayed his power in healing. And he led them in the storms, all a part of their discipleship, all part of their development, developing their faith. Maturing them spiritually, because in just a few years he's about to send them out into the world to preach the gospel and take the gospel all around the world, and their faith must be strong. if they're going to be able to do that. Every one of these disciples, with the exception of Judas, gave their life for the gospel. And they're not there yet. They're not prepared to do that. They're not strong enough in their faith yet. So he sends them into the storm as a tool, so to speak, to develop their faith and to strengthen them in their spiritual life If we know Jesus Christ as our Savior, you trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, and if you've committed yourself to be a follower of him, you say, I've forsaken all I'm taking up my cross. I'm a follower of Jesus Christ, dedicated to him. One thing we can be certain of is this. Every storm Every trial, every difficulty, every experience that comes into our life, the Lord allows them into our lives. So that we can grow in our faith, our faith in Him can be stronger, and God can develop us to be the kind of Christians that this world needs to be a witness to this old world. We're on in unprecedented days. Did this virus that's taking over the world, did this catch God by surprise? Absolutely not. He knew five months ago exactly where we would be today. He knew a year ago exactly where we could be today. Let me ask you this. Could God have stopped this from happening? Of course he could. He's all powerful But I know this, he has a plan, he has a purpose. When this first started coming up, I began study reading my Bible and and I looked through the Bible when God would send pestilences to a nation or to a people. And he always had a purpose. Whether that was a sickness or a plague of locusts or it was an invading army He always had a purpose for allowing that to come to his people, and that purpose primarily was to humble them and bring them to repentance where they would trust God fully. And let his will be done in his life. Now we can complain about the things God brings in our life. We can get bitter We can throw accusations around and do all of that. The disciples did a little bit about this. Save us, Lord, we perish. I think in Mark or one of the other books, they said, Don't you care? They started throwing accusations. They started griping. And the Lord took care of all that. He says, no, no, no. I'm in control. I'm in control. I'm trying to teach you what I'm able to do. Now, I don't, like I said, I don't understand all that's happening anymore than those disciples understood that storm or how they were getting out of it. But I know this, there's a God in heaven. And I know he loves us and he is still on the throne and he is still in control. And if we will trust him and obey him He can lead us through this, and I'm trusting that we can come out of this stronger in our faith, stronger in our witness, and have a better understanding of who God is and what he can do And what we are and how needy we are to trust Him. If you're listening this evening and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, I believe God may be sending this to get your attention And make us stop and think, wait a minute, what is my relationship with the Lord? What is the state of my spiritual well-being? And I urge you tonight, come to the Lord. The Bible clearly teaches we are all sinners, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We have broken God's law, we are under his judgment. But God loved us so much. Jesus Christ came and suffered that judgment for us. He died on that old cross, shed his blood, was buried, and rose again. And he says, if we'll come to him and recognize and acknowledge the fact that we're sinners, we have nothing good to offer to make us acceptable to heaven. But we'll humbly accept Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. God will save us. He'll forgive us and give us eternal life. We're talking about my daddy, who's in heaven right now, and he sees the face of the Lord. 1970, he told me many, many times, 1970 knelt, beside an old bed, an old sofa down in the basement of a home we were living in. And he called the Lord to be his Savior. And he told me just recently, just a month ago, we were talking, and he said, Son, that was the greatest thing that's ever happened in my life when God saved me. Forgave me and gave me a new life. He said, My life has never been the same. God changed it completely. And that's what God does. And about nine years later, I've knelt by a bed in my bedroom. I call on the Lord to be my Savior, and God forgave me and saved me, changed my life. And the Lord does exactly what he promised he would do. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. If you've not trusted Jesus Christ as your Savior, I urge you to do that. You can send a message there through the computer or message on the through email somehow. And let us know that you're concerned for your spiritual well-being. Now, those of us that know Christ, now's the time to trust the Lord. Now's the time to keep our eyes on Lord Jesus Christ and see what he's going to do And see how he's going to display his power. When man is helpless, when man is uh is at the end of his rope, that's when God comes through every time. And so let's pray for one another. Let's be a good witness. Let's trust the Lord with all our heart. And let's anticipate God doing something in us and helping us. Now, if you're a Christian You're not living for the Lord. If there's some sin or something there that's not right, I'm telling you, now's the time to make that right. You can take there by in your home, wherever you're at, you can make that sofa, an old-fashioned alder You can slip down on your knees and as a Christian do business with God. And if God's brought something to mind that needs to be made right, I urge you, right there between you and God You just humble yourself, confess it, forsake it. Let the Lord uh pick you up and use you. If you're unsaved again, you can call on the Lord and trust Him as your Savior. And let us know. We'd like to help you know that you have your sins forgiven. You're on your way to heaven. If you know someone else that's unsaved, someone else that needs the Lord, pray for them. Ask God to help you be a witness to them And so these are confusing days, but they're exciting days when we see what God will do. So Lord Willen, we'll pick this up maybe next Sunday, and we'll look at the rest of this and work our way through this uh These disciples in a storm, fearful disciples in a storm