Then turn with me to Hebrews chapter number twelve, and of course chapter thirteen comes right after that. I want to give you something profound right at the start. Hebrews twelve and thirteen be the text of choice tonight. And um Pastor, if we got water tucked away. Yeah, here it is. I see it I see it. Uh it's all packaged up. Yeah, yeah, thank you very much. Uh Brother Brother Harper told me that he kind of preached a little too hard this morning. I think I may have too. Whatever the case. Uh those of you who don't have allergies do not understand some of the uh things that happen, but sometimes your voice can be strong and clear. One minute And the very next minute, without anything happening, you don't take a bite of anything or whatever, and your voice can just be strange. And uh so anyway, it'll probably warm up as I go here. But anyway, uh let me let me just uh take a minute here as you're finding Hebrews twelve and thirteen. I I've enjoyed Ever every time I've been here through the years, I've enjoyed being here at the church, uh being here in the area just to enjoy everything And uh this time certainly has been no exception and it's been a joy to work with these guys and uh to be in on getting fed from what they do as well. And you know, sometimes when you're uh giving out a lot. If you don't take time to get yourself fed, uh it don't work too good for a while, you know. And uh so I I put my feet under the table when they're up And try to soak it in just like you're doing. And it's a help to me and a blessing. And I appreciate these men. They're dear friends. I thank God for them. And I hope that you'll pray for them and pray for us And uh I'm privileged beyond any way that I can explain to get to do what I get to do every day and be a part of the ministry that Dr. John Rice started 87 years ago today And we appreciate you praying for us, coming to the meetings here and at other places where we are. And we thank you for all of that. And just grateful indeed, all of you that have signed up for the paper. And if you haven't signed up, please do. I'll give you a copy of that book. You'll find that very, very helpful. And it'll be a help and a blessing to you. Now I'm going to get into the message here and take just a few minutes to do this tonight. I hope it'll be a help and a blessing to you. And Tomorrow morning I will be headed back down to Nashville, Murfreesboro. And uh Murfreesboro is just in the south edge of Nashville. You've heard of Nashville, one of our suburbs. And uh we're we're working to catch up with them though. Mur Mercinsburg's up to about a hundred and fifty-four thousand people now inside the city limits. And uh and another fifty or sixty thousand sitting on the edge So it's become a pretty strong city itself. But um I go home for a couple of nights and then Saturday, Lord Willing, I'm flying out to Denver I've been in church there in in Brighton in the suburbs of Denver on Sunday and then about an hour away to Colorado Springs Monday and Tuesday and then back home on Wednesday with the Lord being my helper So do pray for us, and I appreciate it so very much. Hebrews chapter 12, right at the end of the chapter. Verse uh 27 is where I begin reading, and I will read into chapter 13, all right? Hebrews 12, 27. And this word, yet once more, signifies the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain. Wherefore, we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably, with reverence and fear For our God is a consuming consuming fire. Let brotherly love continue. Be not forgetful to entertain strangers, for thereby some have entertained angels unawares Remember them that are in bonds as bound with them, and them which suffer adversity as being yourselves also in the body. Marriage is honorable in all, and the bed undefiled, but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge. Let your conversation be without covetousness and be content with such things as ye have, for he hath said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee, so that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper And I will not fear what man shall do unto me. Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God, whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation. Jesus Christ, the same yesterday and today and forever. Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines, for is it a good thing that the heart be established with grace Not with meats which have not profited them that have been occupied therein. Now, if you look back to the last verse A verse of chapter 12. That verse says, For our God is a consuming fire. I want to talk to you about a little different kind of fire than what Brother Harper was talking about in the first message tonight. I began by giving you a little illustration that helps to make the point I think I want to make here with you tonight Several years back, I was invited to a church, and I'll not mention the name of it, and you'll understand why in just a moment. I was invited to a church. I will tell you that it's uh roughly about 800 miles from here. So you can run that 800 miles in any direction you want to, and you would never guess where it was But uh uh they they called and asked me to come for a Sunday. Now I did then what I have done every day of my ministry for all of these years to this present hour When a guy comes and and when a guy calls me and asks me uh to come and preach for him, uh now sometimes I will ask, are you an independent Baptist? I will do that But I've never one time asked or even hinted about uh how many people do you have, what will be the size of the crowd Or uh you know, how much money will there be? None of that. I have never done that, don't intend to do it. Uh just, you know, I sing that song, Living by Faith, and I think that's a good way to go. And uh we've tried to do that. Not perfectly, I'm sure. But at the same time, I I've just never asked. And uh it's been my my delight to go to churches large and small I've preached in some of the smallest in the country, and I've preached in some of the largest in the country, and a lot of things in between. This particular Sunday was a January Lord's Day It was cold, and it was raining. Cats, dogs, parakeets, gerbils, I mean, it was raining. And uh we drove um a good little ways to get there. Uh maybe uh we did it on a Sunday morning. Uh it's roughly well I'm about to tell you where the direction where it is. But anyway we drove it on a Sunday morning, a couple hours. And uh got there, got to the town that was the address, and then we discovered from the directions that we were outside the town of Ways, and actually got down into a little very narrow country road and ultimately onto a little gravel road and found our way to the little tiny church building. Uh the inside, the auditorium seated maybe half of what this one section of seats would seat. It was a white clapboard building sitting on concrete blocks that were open underneath about this four cats and dogs could go in and out and not have to open or close anything And the steps it was two steps up into the door to get in. No no awning over it, uh no no uh patio or anything, and and the the steps were rickety They I mean they were loose. I mean I don't know how they kept somebody getting hurt. But but anyway, we got out and stepped inside, and immediately when I stepped inside, I noticed that uh the pulpit was setting just a little bit to the side, not dead center, but over on this side, maybe six feet from the wall There was an old well I say old because you don't see the much anymore but it there was a warm morning stove Any of you understand what I'm talking about, a warm morning? Some of you do. Some of you don't. Most of you don't. A warm morning stove is about this big around That warm morning is a brand. It's about this big around and it stands just about this high. Now, I I knew I was well acquainted because for I lived when I was growing up as a as an elementary age kid. We had an old warm morning stove that heated our house. And uh so I knew what it was. And when I as soon as I stepped in the door of that little building, I saw that stove, it was the heating system For that church. And it was red. I mean the belly of it, about like this, the belly of it was totally red. They had that thing fired and it was up and running. Now, again, it was a cold Sunday It was raining, but the folks there in that neighborhood, they kept coming in, kept coming in, and ultimately that small auditorium was maybe two-thirds full. Folks made their way out And uh I I uh taught the Sunday school class in the auditorium and preached Sunday morning. Um we went with uh family, uh they fed us and we uh had a a nap in one of their bedrooms And came back in the evening and I preached again before Betty and I left to go home. Now here's the reason I'm telling this story I'm up teaching the Sunday school lesson, and about ten minutes into it, there's a brother sitting back over here, and he gets up and he walks over. And he puts a glove on and he reaches down and gets a piece of coal, opens the door, puts two or three pieces of coal in there, and he goes back and sets down 15, 20 minutes later, I'm still teaching the Sunday school lesson. He gets up again. He comes and he puts a couple more pieces of coal. He's keeping that thing red hot. Church time came, we started to sing, he got up and did it again, and did it again. Did it maybe three or four times while I was preaching. Sunday night, same same brother, same thing, kept feeding the fire. Now, you can start a fire But if you don't see the fire, it'll go out. Right. And um This passage that I read says, verse 28, that we may have grace. God's good grace that will enable us to serve God acceptably. Now that tells me there's some things you could do that you ought not to do Some things could be unacceptable. God has some standards. God has some rules. God has some priorities. And if you and I meet those priorities, if we follow those rules, we follow those standards, then we can serve God exceptionably. And by the way, it's always on his terms To be acceptable with God is not something of my invention, it's not something of my imagination, but it is always on God's terms. Otherwise, it's not going to be acceptable This passage says with reverence, that is with all, we need to understand that we are dealing with the God who is God. Amen. And we ought to do that reverentially, with awe, and and with a godly fear. Now, we get to that twenty-ninth verse, and he says, For our God Is a consuming fire. Now, I have to tell you, that verse has always been a little bit of a mystery to me And uh in preparation for this message, I checked three or four of the commentaries that I have, and the ones that I checked, every single one of them. tried to say that the fire here is a destructive thing, suggesting that God says he's a destroyer. Now, if you want to take that point of view on it, go and run with it. But I look at this, and if and if that is what that's about, it's the only thing in the in this section It doesn't fit the context. The word consume means to use and to use up. If you consume something, you use it. And I think what the passage is saying, what I'm going to offer to you tonight is, I think the Lord is telling us here That when we serve him acceptably, you know, I think about Jeremiah. Got down, got discouraged, he was ready to quit. And then he said, there's a fire, a fire burning in my bones, and I cannot forbear. Right Now that fire, that burning fire in the heart of Jeremiah, that burning fire in my heart, that burning fire in your heart It will burn if we feed it. It will burn, it will burn, and ultimately we will be consumed. We will be used up, ultimately We have a certain amount of life and it's done. The question is: will we put our life on the altar so that God can use it up? And if we will do that He'll put fire in our bones. He'll put something in there that drives us in the moment of when we're disheartened, when we get disappointed, when we're betrayed When things go sour, that burning fire within us, it'll consume us. It'll be like God working in us. And when When we get set on fire of God, down deep in our heart, I mean, the car that you drove in tonight It would not have brought you here except for the fire in its belly. Except for the fire in the engine, the motor will not run. But you light the fire, you ignite the fire, you keep putting gasoline in to feed it in order for the engine to run. You keep it running because you keep feeding it. And within the church, this church, any church, within the church, that fire needs to burn. Otherwise The church is going to dry up and die without the fire burning. Now you've heard both of these guys preaching this week, and I know Uh brother Lederman pretty well and I know he preaches with with dynamics and um and I uh frankly uh I think it'd be our opinion, all four of us, and others of these guys too that are here. I mean, when we open the Word of God We need that fire to burn in us. He says to us, our God is a consuming fire, so let brotherly love continue. You say, what's that got to do with it? I'm just convinced that if you and I have the if we have the fire of God burning in us, and if we keep feeding that fire then we will in fact love the brethren who are indeed our brethren. Yes, sir. The Bible says we know we pass from death into life because we love the brethren. Now you uh you look at uh me and you say, I don't like the way you part your hair. My response to you is I'm gonna I'm I'm just glad I got hair to part. I went to the barber shop Walked back in the front door at the sword and the lady who's on the reception desk looked up and she said, Oh, you got a haircut. I said, I'll have you know I had them both cut. At my age I'm just glad I got a few left. You may not like the way I part my hair. You you I mean you may not like short people. I mean you might find other things about which you know you can say, ah, I just don't like You may not like some of that, but if you're right with God, you're going to love me. You see, how do you know that? Because I've got a Bible. And the Bible tells me that brotherly love ought to continue. Now how do I get I mean, you say, yeah, but I I'm just a human being and I I see things and I can't I can't Listen, when the fire of God burns in your heart and you're letting God consume you, to start with, you'll have a understanding about your own self and know that you ain't so perfect either. Amen. And that'll help you to be patient with some of the brethren who are not quite perfected yet. Amen. So this brotherly love thing, I mean it's it's something that ought to be working in our midst, and it will work in our midst if we just feed the fire. Just feed it. You look at verse number two, and he tells us that we're to let Christian hospitality Be extended, and we ought to let it be extended to the farthest reaches, because sometimes strangers come in among us. He said, some people have entertained strangers not realizing they were entertaining angels. And whenever you and I have our Christian hospitality working like it's supposed to, we will keep the welcome mat out. For strangers. Nothing so stifles the fire in a church. Nothing so stifles that fire as a disinterested souls. Yes. People walk through the doors. We have no idea whether they're saved or not, but we ought to find out. We go for souls. That builds the church. That helps everything makes it work like it's supposed to When I came to Maryland, came to Westminster years ago, I realized I was coming into an area that was heavily Catholic And uh back to our county over there at that time I've forgotten the exact number, but there's like 40 some little tiny Methodist churches. And uh they they weren't they weren't doing anything. Long since departed from Wesley in terms of who they were. And um and you know, but but heavily heavily in very very liberal territory politically And uh, you know, I I was I was eager. I mean I I felt like the Lord had brought us there, but I was eager, you're gonna laugh at me, but I was eager to find out if the gospel would work In an environment like that. And so I I went out first week, got our furniture unloaded, and I I went almost immediately and took a little stack of visitors' cards that had been piling up Uh while they've been without a pastor. And I I went checking some of those folks to see and I I was so delighted I led one person to Christ. Got them to church, got them down the aisle the first Sunday I was there I was so excited and the people uh I inherited some wonderful people there, about 175 of them when we got there There's about a hundred and forty or so of them that were precious people. I mean they were salt of the earth. Good folks. What'd that say? Yeah, yeah. Well there was a few in the few in the bunch that but I mean I inherited a bunch of good folks They were all excited. New pastor, hey, somebody down the out. They'd only baptized six children the whole year before. Children families in the church. I went out second week, I got another one. Third week I got three. You know, and I discovered, you know, I I discovered something. Even in a liberal environment, in a heavy Catholic environment, I discovered the gospel does work. You know? And and and just just letting that fire burn in my heart and say, I'm gonna see, can I reach people? Can we do this? And keep that welcome mat out for people whoever that they are. Yes. People walk in the doors, we don't have any idea where they came from, how much baggage they're bringing, what what their hurts and their heartache are But the fact is we keep the welcome mat out, and it enables the fire to keep burning. Verse number three talks about remembering the believers who suffer adversity Some of them they're in prison, some of them they're in difficult circumstances. You know, I think about the people who got left behind in Afghanistan Some of them are Christians. Some of them are dead now. Being beheaded and other such things. You know, you won't hear a lot about that on NBC, but but uh it's happening nonetheless And the Bible tells us here that we're to remember those that are in bonds, remember those that suffer adversity They're a part of us. They're part of the family of God. And we have to remember them. And whenever we think about folks like that Uh the the prisons, more than two million people in America are behind bars. Probably ten times that many who need to be And uh, you know, we we put the sword into hundreds of prisons around the country. I have I have more friends in prison than anybody you know. We get a huge amount of prison mail, and we answer every single one of them. I have somebody in the office who helps me with that, but I sign every single one of them. Splash my red signature on them. Some of the difficult ones I'll get involved in helping to to do it Carry on correspondence with a number of famous prisoners and all of that. You say, why do you do that? Because every single one of them is somebody for whom Christ died. Every one of them Verse 4 says we're to keep our vows in marriage. Tells us that marriage is honorable. Dear friend, when the fire of God, when God is consuming you, when He's got that fire Burning in your heart, you'll think right toward the strangers, you'll think right toward your marriage, you'll think right toward your brethren in the Lord, you'll think right about doing the things that God would have you to do for those that are in adversity Verse 5 talks about being content with things, not letting covetousness get hold of you. Determining by God's grace that you're going to be satisfied with what you have. I mean, just not doing stupid things. I use that word too, brother. Brother Harper, because that you're ambitious or because you just say, Man, I I'm gonna meet certain goals, however, whatever it takes to meet those goals No, we let God's fire burn in our heart and let God motivate us, let God drive us, let Him direct us in how we go about such things. Verse 7 talks about godly leadership The fire of God's burning in us, that means we're right with God. That means we're letting God consume us as we go Three verses in this chapter, 7, 17, and 24, talk about the leadership in the church, talking about the pastor, and how that we're to follow. Let him lead, let him be the pastor. And by the way, you have nothing to fear from somebody who is following the Lord and who binds himself by the Bible. You have nothing to fear Leadership, that is godly leadership, can be followed to the ends of the earth. And if you and I let the fire burn in us, then we'll uh we'll be sensitive to that Uh we're members Betty and I are at Bellwood Baptist Church in Murfreesboro. Dr. Sumner, who's the pastor there now, pastor in East Tennessee for a long time. And he decided he would retire, and I'd tried to hire him a couple times before, and when he announced retirement, I called him and I said, still got a job for you So he came and worked at the sword for three years. Well, Bellwood needed a pastor and they came to me and asked me about it. And I said, Dr. Sumner's not getting to preach as much as you would like I tell you what, and church was down, real down, uh number wise, so tell you what, I'll share him with you. Halftime here, halftime of the church Well that worked for a little while and of course things got going good and and so he's been full time church now for a couple of years. But anyway when uh when when he when he went to the church I said to him, I said, Betty and I will come And join if that's okay and and we'll we'll do what we can to help because the church was needing support and help. And uh and I told him, I said, now it may not be the best news you ever heard, some preacher wants to come join your church You know, some preachers, you know, they know they know everything. And uh and I said about now, Brother Sumner, I said, you've worked here for three years and I've known you a long time. And I said, I think you would agree If I tell you I I know how to lead, I think you have seen that and you know that I do know how to lead. He said, Yes, that's true. And I said, Now when we come and join, I promise you we also know how to follow. And we will follow. And we have. And we are. And we will. You say, uh, why why why why is that? Because it's in the book to do it that way. And because the fire of God burns in me, and I don't want to squelch that I don't want to throw water on that fire. I want it to burn. I want it to burn in me. And so I follow the godly leadership. And then verse 9 talks about the truth No fire is going to burn very long, no fire is going to do well unless the truth is there. When truth is honored, my church, your church, anybody's church, when the truth is honored, the fire is going to begin to burn. That's why we make such a to-do, and you've heard it over and over here in the last 24 hours about the Bible. We've talked about doctrine. This verse 9 says, don't get carried away with strange things, strange doctrine. Why would you why what happens if you do that? It puts out the real fire and maybe creates a counterfeit one So, everybody, yeah, we want our church to be on fire. Well, listen, it's more than the pastor's job. You say, what are we supposed to do? Well, let me let me go back to my stove The guy who was feeding that fire was not the pastor. You say, who was he? I don't have any idea. I don't know what his name was. But I'll tell you what, and the reason I told you the story, not to tell you about their little broken down building I I saw something happen that day that impressed me so much that I still remember, and it's been a long while ago I saw a guy very faithfully feed the fire, feed the fire, feed the fire, and on a cold January day That was the heating system, and it was because of that that we were able to meet in that building and have services three times that day. Because somebody was committed to feeding the fire. I'll also tell you that little building, there was cracks and stuff all over the place in the walls, and the fire brought out the wasp. They they were they were inhabiting the the attic. And that that stove got warmed up the entire time of the Sunday school and both services Just every little bit there'd be one come breezing past me and I'm swatting at wash while I'm preaching, you know. Now and then others were buzzing around every once in a while, somebody stand up and wave at them with their Bible, you know. Oh, it was an interesting Sunday. Oh because hey, listen, you feed the fire, feed the fire, some of the stingers will show up But ultimately, you feed the fire, feed the fire, feed the fire. It'll keep the church warm. That fire provides warmth, it provides light, it'll do some purging along the way. Some of these folks don't realize what all is going on here. They don't realize that there's power in the fire. I remember as a kid when we had that old warm morning, that house down there in Carlisle County. I remember some mornings waking up and the whole house was cold. Because mom and dad slept so well that night, they forgot to get up and feed the fire. And when you don't feed the fire, the fire goes out, and the church gets cold. The baptistry gets dry. The altars get empty. And a lot of things don't go like they ought to. Now again I'm just telling you how I how I see this passage. I don't think I've done it any damage. I look at it and I just say, God wants to consume me He he wants he want he wants to have dominance, he wants to have priority, he wants to have all of me, he wants to have all of you. And he will use us and use us, and if we'll keep feeding the fire, the fire keeps burning. But the fire needs to burn. Everybody can be a part of feeding the fire. You sing in the choir, you're helping feed the fire. You help usher, you're helping feed the fire. You run the vans or the bus routes, you sweep the floors, you're helping feed the fire. Amen One of the responsibilities that all of us pastors have is to help divvy up the work. I don't mind work. My dad taught me to work, I like to work, but I don't like to do it all And finding somebody else who can help with the chores. I I I remember coming in, that guy came up, put his glove on Oh, a glove. Yeah, he or somebody else had thought to bring a glove. Not only that, but somebody had already brought the coal in Was it him? I don't know. Maybe somebody else did that. But every single person who puts their hands on the task is helping to feed the fire. And I'm telling you, there's enough dead stuff going on in our country. There's enough churches that are drying up on the vine. There are enough churches that are going out of business. Somebody, somebody needs to feed the fire, feed the fire, feed the fire, and feed it some more. Lest the fire go out and the light go out Our cities across America are burning with violent fire because there's very little witness in most of them. The gospel has been squelched. The Bible has been decimated in the minds of so many people by the universities and the schools. What they started out doing 60, 70 years ago in the universities and they now do in kindergarten. And it's destroying our country one piece at a time Somewhere along the way, I say to every one of my preacher brethren here tonight, and whoever might be watching and listening online, dear brethren, let's let's keep the fire burning. Let's keep it burning You may be in a small town, you may be in a large city, wherever that you are. Let the fire burn in you, let God burn in you, be like Jeremiah, a burning in your bones that you cannot forbear. Just keep it going. And if every one of us will determine, I'm going to help my pastor. Yes. Need somebody to put coal in the stove? I'm available. Need somebody to fill a seat in a choir? Need somebody to drive something? I'll do it. Need somebody to cook some Burgers or whatever, I'll do it. You'll be helping to feed the fire for the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. If you'll just determine, I'll find out what I can do And I'll be one of the fire feeders. Our God is a consuming fire. It tells me that he wants to use me. And he will use me if I'll just let him. I pray the Lord help all of us to just determine we're going to help feed the fire. Dear Lord, thank you. Thank you for letting us be your servants. Thank you for the privilege we have to serve you, to live for you, to walk with you. And I pray, dear Lord, your blessing will be upon Pastor Leatherman Upon Brother Harper, Brother Fox, these other pastors that are here, that are visited in the service, that bless operate this church and this ministry. If I pray the year just ahead, dear Lord, let it be something extra, extra special as they build the new building and do other things that they're into right now Lord, help them, I pray, and help every single person to just say, I'll help feed the fire. And so help us, I pray. The year ahead will be good and straight and good and strong in Jesus' mighty name. Amen. Pastor.