And right with what the message is this morning and the songs we sang, the hymns, just come together um beautifully, that's obviously planned by God. So Uh thank you, Jennifer. Very good. Psalm or uh 1 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse number 9. I know you've heard these before. We're 1 Corinthians 1 9. You've heard these before, but uh I'm finding them to be true Uh people say if I'd have known how wonderful grandbabies are, I would have had them first. And someone else said, grandchildren are God's reward for not choking your own kids. So what a blessing uh it is to be a grandfather, have that little Kenley. I just love her so much. And um do you mind if we just talk about our grandbaby for a little while? Look at verse number nine with me if you would, in First Corinthians chapter one, verse number nine. What a great verse this is. It says, God is faithful by whom you were called unto the, look at this phrase, by whom you were called unto the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. The fellowship of Jesus Christ. Let's pray together and we'll look at this here. Father in heaven, Lord, it's it's such a wonderful opportunity to come into your house. And the fellowship together with your people. Lord, these songs are such a blessing to my heart this morning, choir and and every uh all every song And I pray now as we look into your word and the thoughts I feel that you've laid on my heart here as we've studied this. And Lord, it just seems like it all fits together. So please fill me with your Holy Spirit, I pray. He's the author of this book, and so teach us this morning, from your word through me, I ask, and open our hearts and minds. that uh our daily lives would be lived in fellowship with Jesus Christ and and he would be very real to us. Bless Lord now, I ask in in the coming moments. In Jesus' name, amen. If you study 1 Corinthians very carefully, if you take this entire book, 15-16 chapters, you find that the church at Corinth, whom this is written to, and then later on the 2 Corinthians was a letter of Paul under the Inspiration of God written to the church there at the city of Corinth. If you study this very carefully you find that this church had its shared struggles. Um it had issues to put it mildly. We glean from studying what Paul wrote to the church there that um they obviously had some uh horrendous division within the church. Uh it seems like I don't I don't know exactly the size of the church. Uh I think it was a pretty good sized church, but Within the church there were uh own little uh groups that didn't get along with each other and they kind of had their own little following And it was a deeply divided church. We read through here and we study some of the things that he addresses, some of the issues in the church he addresses, we find out that it was an incredibly worldly church. I mean my impression in studying 1 Corinthians is you could not tell the difference between a member of the church at Corinth and the world. I mean there was no distinction whatsoever between the child of God who was part of the church at Corinth and the unsaved pagans in the in the uh city of Corinth. There was no distinction in their behavior, in their attitude, in their values, in their appearance. There was no distinction. There was nothing Christ-like about them. They were worldly in every sense. And Paul addresses that. They were very immature in their understanding of the Christian life and what the Bible teaches and biblical principles, they're very immature. He says I he says, I have to talk to you like babies And so the church had its share of struggles. It had its issues. In fact, look if you would at verse number seven. This is Paul again. All this is under the inspiration of God, but he's writing and he says, so that ye come behind in no gift, waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. I kind of get the impression here, Paul is kind of grasping at something positive to say about these folks. And he says, listen, you come behind in no gift. And he's talking about the abilities and And gifts of the Spirit and different things that God had made available. And you read through here, and I come to this conclusion. They had the gifts of the Spirit, but they did not have the fruit of the Spirit In other words, they could teach, but they did not do what they were teaching that the Bible says. They knew the Bible, but they didn't obey it. They knew what the principles of Christianity were from Scripture, but they didn't live by those principles. They had the gifts, but they did not have the They had the gifts of the Spirit, but they did not have the fruit of the Holy Spirit. And so 1 Corinthians and then 2 Corinthians is a follow-up. And they got some things right, and praise the Lord, they were able to deal with some of these issues as a result of the first letter, and Paul uh follows up with the second letter and encourages them in those matters. And uh so he writes to address these issues, but I think it's interesting here in this passage that we read that Paul begins Dealing with the problems that the church had by pointing out that in, and this is the message, that in spite of their failures In spite of their uh failures, God has not forsaken them. They were so far from what they should be, but he's assuring them God has never left you. God has not abandoned you. God has not forsaken you. Look at verse 8 in the first part. He says, speaking of Jesus Christ, he says, who shall also confirm you unto the end, that ye may be blameless. And then he later on, of course, he addresses all these things, but he starts out by saying, listen, God's not going to forsake you. He's going to confirm you. He's going to see you through all of this. And when it's all said and done, you're going to find that God has not forsaken you. God is not failed. You look at verse 9. I circled this little three words in ver the first part of verse 9. I circled in my Bible. This blesses me. Verse 9. God is faithful. And I found, and the Bible confirms this, of course, I've found that when I am not faithful to God, God has always been faithful to me. And the times when I have failed God, God has never failed me. God is faithful Even to folks like the people in the church at Corinth, who were so carnal, so worldly, so disobedient. Yet God was faithful to them. Our faithfulness to the Lord may waver, and it does waver many times, but God's faithfulness to us never wavers. And I thank God for that. And I believe that what God has done in the past, we can be sure that He will continue to do in the future. I look back and I see on God's part I see nothing but faithfulness to me. On God's part, I see nothing but patience. And his working in my life, and his grace to me, and his mercy to me, I look back, and I and the history is a prophecy of what the future will be. If God has been faithful to me in the past, I can be sure he will be faithful to me in the future. If God has been gracious and merciful and and And working in my life, working with me in my life in the past, I can be very sure God will be gracious and merciful and work with me in the future. And Paul was assuring these dear folks And he's going to say some hard things to him, and he's going to address some very serious problems. But he begins by saying, listen, God is not going to forsake you. He has not He will not. He is faithful to you. And he addresses that. I like, if you would, keep your place here, because we're going to come back and look at this a little more deeply, more thoroughly, I should say. But turn with me, if you would, to Philippians chapter 1. I love this passage. I've kind of claimed over the years as my life verse, Mark 11, 22, Jesus answering said unto them, have faith in God. And that's helped me through a lot of trials. But if that was not, if I ever changed my life verse, I believe I would take up Philippians chapter 1. And verse number six. Boy, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, I recommend you underscore this verse in your Bible. This is a good verse. In fact, uh I've mentioned this before, many of you know this, but uh when I when I left home, I grew up outside of Philly, and when I moved down to Tennessee in 1981 Um it was my father and I living together and uh dad would write me and has for all these many years up until just recently. He doesn't write me every week, he calls me every week now, but Up until just recently, every week of the year, without fail for 30 years, plus My dad has written a letter to me every single week just kind of tell me what's going on. He sends a bulletin from the home church and different newspaper clippings and he always ended his letters to me. Every single one ended. With Philippians chapter 1 verse 6. Look what it says. Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you. Now look at this next statement. will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. In other words, what God has begun in your life and my life, He is going to make, He's going to carry that out. until the day the rapture takes place and we go to be with the Lord in the air and ever be with the Lord. God always finishes what he starts By the way, let me just throw this out. That's why the doctrine that you can lose your salvation is unscriptural. Because salvation is of the Lord, right? God's the one that does the saving. I simply accept what He's done for me. I accept that God saves me and He performs it. He carries it out. He keeps me saved. And so, what a great, great verse. The salvation that God begins when we trust Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, God will carry it through until we're in heaven. And so, Paul's writing here And uh he says to the church at Corinth, God's faithful. He'll confirm you. Um I I I am absolutely convinced that the assurance Of my salvation. In other words, I know I'm saved. I'm sure of that. And the security of my salvation, in other words, I cannot lose it I'm saved, I know I'm saved, I'm secure because of Jesus Christ and his faithfulness, I will end up in heaven, I will ultimately be with the Lord. Those truths are the platforms, so to speak. On which we build a life of faith. When I understand that I'm safe, I'm secure, it's not going to change, I'm not going to lose it, that's a platform now I can build on my faith. And I can grow in my relationship with the Lord, and I can be a strong Christian. I can grow into a mature believer And that's what Paul, I believe, is doing for the church here at Corinth. He's laying a foundation. Listen, God's faithful. He's not going to go back on his word. God is faithful. He's going to confirm you to the end. Now have that established. You failed, you guys are a mess, but it but you're you're secure, you're safe. Now let's on that platform, let's grow and let's be what God wants us to be Verse number nine, notice there, it says God saves us and he secures our salvation. God is faithful by whom ye are called into the fellowship. Of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. What he's telling us here is God saves us, he keeps us, he secures our salvation, so that I can live a life In fellowship with Jesus Christ. That's what the Christian life is. Living a life of fellowship with Jesus Christ. I think that's my grandbaby saying amen back there. Amen, brother. She she likes my preaching already. How about that? Crying means she likes it. So God saves us. He secures us. I'm safe. Aren't you glad listen? Aren't you glad I don't have to worry tonight whether I'm still saved or not? Phew. If I thought, think about this, if I thought that there was a chance that something would happen that I'd ultimately end up in hell, wouldn't that would be horrific? What joy is there in that salvation? What what confidence but when I know that I'm in God's hands And that no man can pluck me out of his hand, that I will never perish, my life that he's given me is eternal. Brother, I can lay my head at night and say, thank God, worse comes to worse, I'm safe in the arms of Jesus. Isn't that good? So, uh, but he saves us, he secures us in that relationship, so that now I can live my life in fellowship with Jesus Christ. Now here's the question What does fellowship mean? What does it mean to be in to live a life in fellowship with Jesus? I like to say, when I first got saved Uh started going to church. I wasn't saved in the church. I wasn't saved in the ministry of the church. I was saved as a result of my father's testimony and prayers and witness. And I had a Bible. And I read that Bible, realized I was lost, and Jesus accepted Christ as Savior And uh so I started getting involved in the church, and they would announce stuff like this. We're having a fellowship next Sunday after the morning service. We're having a fellowship. I thought I and I hadn't been in church since I was a kid. I thought I didn't know what a fellowship oh I'm gonna check that thing out. I'll see what's going on So I'd show up and every time they said we're having a fellowship, whether it was Saturday or Sunday after church, every time I showed up, they had fried chicken. So in my simple little drug demented mind affected mind, I thought, they're having fellowship. That means they're having fried chicken. And I thought the Greek for fellowship was fried chicken. So we're having fried chicken with Jesus. No, I didn't really think it exactly that way, but it was sort of that like that. So what is fellowship? What does that mean? I have fellowship with Jesus Christ. Well, like we always do, we want to go through a process and figure out what he means by fellowship. First thing we do is find out what does the word itself, what's the definition of the word. The definition I found for the word fellowship here is joint participation. Two people participating together. For a cause or in an endeavor or some sort of project. Another definition was intimate partnership. And I thought was interesting was the term fellowship, as used in scripture, nearly every time involves some sort of endeavor. Something that I'm working on or working towards, a project. Some sort of cause, maybe you could say that I'm operating with others in. We're working together for that cause. It's a little bit more, there's a little bit more substance to it than what we call fellowship today. We call fellowship today like I tried to illustrate getting together, eating food, talking about hunting or shopping or cabelaas or something like that. Oh, we had fellowship we and that's fine. That's a that's a shallow form of biblical fellowship, and it's good. Uh not nothing wrong with it. But when the Bible talks about fellowship, there's a little more substance to it than that. It's the idea of we have a cause here, we have a something that we need to accomplish. And we're working together. We're intimately partnering together to accomplish that. And so that's the idea behind the word. As a Christian, now I am living my life. If you know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, God saves us, He secures us for the intention That we live our lives in fellowship with Jesus Christ. In an intimate partnership, so to speak. With Jesus Christ. I like to put it this way, with Jesus Christ as an unseen partner in every part of my life. I'm in fellowship with Jesus Christ. Hebrews, let's turn there. We got a minute. Turn there with me to Hebrews chapter 13, the last chapter, the book of Hebrews. Um you're in Corinthians. You've got to go towards the back of your Bible here. Hebrews chapter 13. Hebrews 13 is a neat chapter. It's a lot of significant statements, terms taught in Hebrews thirteen. Hebrews chapter thirteen. I'm gonna begin reading in verse number five. We're not The last part of verse 5 is what I'm getting to, but we'll read the whole verse. Hebrews 13, verse 5. Notice what it says. Let your conversation be without covetousness. Now the term conversation has to do with more just speaking words. It's my lifestyle Let your conversation be without covetousness and be content with such things as you have. You know that statement right there would solve a lot of problems. Be content with such things as you have. But never that's another subject For he hath said, look at this: I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. So that we may boldly say, the Lord is my helper. And I will not fear what man shall do unto me. You know what he's saying here? He's saying, Jesus Christ, the Lord, is my helper. He's not going to leave me. He's not going to forsake me. He is my, could we say, partner? In this endeavor called life. We are in fellowship. He's not going to lead me. He's not going to forsake me. When I was first saved and went off, I went to Bible college pretty quickly after I first got saved And uh I worked this summer with Child Evangelism Fellowship. Some of you might be familiar with that ministry, children's ministry, reaching a very, I assume it still is at the time, it was very aggressive evangelistic children's ministry. And we would go into uh communities. I worked the summer there as um, I forget what they called, missionary, I guess. I I don't remember what the term was. But we worked in the summer And we would each week go into different neighborhoods and we'd canvas the neighborhood, we'd find someone that had a house and they would let us use their backyard. We'd gather all the kids in that community together and we'd do a what we called a backyard club. We taught Bible stories, we taught missionary stories, and um taught memory verse, taught them songs, and these are mostly unchurch kids, and we'd always give the gospel very clearly and invite young people to trust Christ as Savior. We saw scores and scores saved. And we're able to teach biblical principles. One of the things we always taught the kids, the children, when they would accept Jesus Christ as their Savior, we always taught them this little method of remembering that they were safe and secure, the Lord would never leave them. We'd have them take their hand. And we would assign to each finger a word from this phrase here in Hebrews 13, 5. For the Lord has said, I will never leave thee. And so we'd have them do that. Get your hand up. Jesus said, I will never leave thee. And we go through that, go through that, and they finally got that down. I said, now I'm going to change a little bit. Why don't you do it this way? Say it with me. And they'll go, I will never leave. And then the next one, instead of saying the Say your name. For instance, Jesus said, I will never leave Dennis So I'd say to the kids, all right, you all do that. So they get their hand out, so let's all do it together. They would go, I will never leave, and they would all say, Dennis. No. You don't say my name, you say your name. And so we go through that and we had a lot of fun. But that's a tremendous principle. That God is teaching us that we are in fellowship with Jesus Christ. We have an intimate relationship with Him. He's never going to leave us. We are continually in the presence of our unseen partner. How many folks here? Saved and you know it. Say amen. Let's do that. Alright? Here we go. Come on now. Wake up. Sorry to wake some of y'all up. Let's say it with me. Now don't say my name. Ready, here we go. Jesus said, I will never leave Dennis. Isn't that good? So the Lord says He saves us, He secures us. We cannot lose that relationship we have with the Lord. We cannot lose that salvation. He'll see us through until the day of the Lord. He does that because he wants us to live in fellowship with Jesus Christ, in an intimate partnership, and an unending presence of Jesus in my life and endeavoring to accomplish a cause. He will never leave me, he will never forsake thee. Take me. And so what does it mean? Come back to First Corinthians. Now I got to think of what does it mean? Let's let's see. Let's Let's dissect this matter of being in fellowship with Jesus Christ. I want to give you three thoughts about what it means to be in fellowship with Jesus Christ. Number one, it means we have a common interest. If I'm in fellowship with Jesus Christ, that means Jesus Christ and myself, we have a common interest. We have a mutual interest, you could say. In 1985, I had traveled the summer with neighborhood Bible time. I was entering my senior year of Bible college. After six years Almost. Five years. I was enter after five years. I was entering my senior year of Bible college. I was cramming four-year degree into little over five years. Very proud of me. I was very proud of myself and my diligence. But um I got back from Bible time and there was another um gal I had been dating a little bit and um She didn't know I was dating her, but uh we I was dating her. No. But um I got back and that had dissolved and that was obviously not the Lord's will And so I'm got back from I traveled in a neighborhood by the time I got back to school a couple weeks earlier. I was mowing grass. The school hired me on to do some yard work and stuff. I'm mowing grass in this one house, school housing, and this Girl comes out of the house and brings me a glass of iced tea. She was beautiful. So I thought, huh Some moan. I downed that and set it right up where she could see it and it was empty. So I set it right there. So I'm my thinking is she'll come out and bring me some more. So I'm mowing away. It's Tennessee, you know, it's hot August. I'm sweating. And I look up and a gal comes out that looks just like this first gal did, except she was like eight months pregnant I thought what happened? How can this be? And I said, you're not the one that just she goes, no, that's my sister. I said, Oh, okay. And that was my introduction to Kathy Schifflet. And so I took note of that. I said, uh, this pretty girl lives there. And uh going on. The next week, uh week or so later, I'm in the bus meeting. They had a large bus ministry they were in, um, I remember 42 buses. So there's like, you know, 400 people worked in the bus ministry Um something like that, maybe not quite that many, 200. But anyway, we had this big bus meeting. And I'm sitting there, I look across, and lo and behold There's that same gal sitting there in the bus ministry. I thought, one, she's pretty, two, she gave me iced tea. Three, she works in the bus ministry. I love the bus ministry. And so we're going on, and I just happen as we're going out, I just, if coincidence, I happen to go out the same door she did And so to make a long story short, that ultimately ends up with a grandbaby being in church today I found out that Kathy and I had some common interests. Um she was saved, I was saved. By the way, every Christian young person ought to only date and marry saved people. Ought not to date or marry unsaved people. He say, well, I'll date them and win them to the Lord That will not work. So anyway, she was saved, I was saved. That was common interest. We both knew the Lord is Savior. Found out she had uh committed her life, dedicated her life to serve her her whole life to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. I had come to the same point in my life that I was just whatever the capacity was I thought was going to teach School in a Christian school, but I was going to serve God with my whole life. So we had that common interest. She loved bus ministry and reaching children for Christ. I loved it. I loved it. Loved it. And so we had that common interest. And because we had that so many things in common, we began to have fellowship. And that fellowship developed into attraction, and that attraction developed into love and we married. We've been together all these 27, almost 28 years now. My point, what I'm trying to illustrate, is this. If I am in fellowship with someone, it means, among other things, that I have a common interest with that person. The Bible says that you and I, that God has saved us and He secures us for one of the reasons that we live our lives in fellowship with Jesus Christ. We have a common interest with Jesus Christ. In other words, when we get saved, God begins a lifelong process of changing my interests to correspond to the interests of Jesus Christ. He begins molding my desires to conform to the desires of Jesus Christ. You know what I found out after I got saved? Things that I could care less about before I got saved suddenly were very important to me. For instance, the Word of God. Bible meant nothing to me before. Now that I was saved, that's the most precious possession I had You know what God was doing? He was giving me common interests with Jesus Christ, who is the Word of God. See what I'm saying? He begins changing us. I don't know if you still have Philippians, Mark, but let me turn and read there if you want to. Philippians chapter 2 verse 13. It's a great, great passage. Philippians two verse thirteen. Paul says this again under the inspiration of God, for it is God that worketh in you. Now he's writing to save people. For it is God which worketh in you both to what will and to do of His good pleasure. You know what that verse is teaching? That when we know Jesus Christ as Savior, God begins a process of working in us and producing in us desires to do the will of God and uh and actually prompts us to actually do the will of God. He is molding us and changing us and making us that our desires, our interests conform to the interests of Jesus Christ. There's other passages we could give. 1 Corinthians 6, and we won't take time to turn there. I wanted to. But verses uh nine through eleven, I think it is, verse uh 1 Corinthians six, nine through eleven, he goes on a list of things that saved people do not do. And he gives a pretty detailed list there. He says, these people do not inherit the kingdom of God. You know, there's some things Christians just should not do. You understand that, right? And he goes down, these are things Christians do not do. But then he says this, and such were some of you, but you are washed. But you're cleansed. And he's saying basically this: this is the way you lived before you were saved. This is the way the lost people live. This is the way the world functions. But you've been saved, and God has washed you from that, and He has changed you. He has given you new interests. He has given you new desires. And those interests and those desires. now are the same interests and the same desires that Jesus Christ has. We now have a common interest with our Savior. We know what 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, right? If any man be in Christ, he is a New creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. What's he saying? God has changed us. Romans, I believe it's chapter 8, says that he is conforming us into the image of his Son. God's will for every Christian is to live my life with the common interests of Jesus Christ. And God works in our life, He chastens us, He molds us. Sometimes He has to take some things out of our lives So that my interests will be in conf uh common with Jesus Christ. Sometimes he has to add things, sometimes he has to change things. Sometimes he has to break things So that my so that I am in fellowship with Jesus Christ, we have a common interest. So what does it mean to have fellowship with Jesus Christ? It means we have a common interest. Jesus wants lost people to be saved. That's an interest of Jesus Christ. If I'm in fellowship with Jesus Christ, guess what? I want lost people to be saved too. You know what's a good sign when someone professes to trust Jesus Christ as Savior? You know what's a good sign? They immediately become concerned for others. Uh brother Ed was able to lead a fellow to the Lord uh Thursday morning, correct? One of the fellows and um had been in church here and uh first thing he said, what about my children? I told Ed, I said, that's a good sign. That guy meant business. He now has a common interest with Jesus Christ. Before, never gave a thought where his kids are going to spend eternity, heaven or hell. We'd care less But now he's saved. He's in fellowship with Jesus Christ. Now he's a common interest. Suddenly he's very concerned. See what I'm saying? Jesus wants people to be saved. If I'm in fellowship with Jesus Christ, if I'm when I'm saved, I'm in fellowship. Now suddenly there's a desire in my heart to see people saved. Jesus wants his people to live a pure life. You agree with that? Jesus Christ is holy. He's pure. He's good. He's without sin. He wants his people. You know what? Person gets saved, you know what they want to do? They want to live right. Somewhere down, now we all struggle with it, none of us live up to the ideal, but somewhere down inside the heart of every child of God, there is a desire to live right. There is a desire to do what is right. Tell you, I'm very concerned with someone that claims to be saved and has absolutely no desire to do right by God. Something's wrong. And doesn't necessarily mean they're living up to that. I know we all fail. But brother, down inside that heart there is uh there is a desire. Paul, we reference it fairly often in Romans chapter 7. Paul said, there's things I want to do and I don't do, and there's things I know I should do are right and I don't do them and there's things I know I shouldn't do are wrong and I do He said you know he said It kills me. I hate it that that's true in my life. Oh, wretched man that I am. You know what? He's in fellowship with Jesus Christ. Jesus wants him to live. Jesus' interest is for him to live a pure life. His interest was to live a pure life. Now he struggled, as we do. But brother, that desire's there. Jesus wants the lost to be saved. Jesus wants his people to live a pure life. Jesus wants us to live for the glory of God. Jesus said, everything I do, I do for the glory of my Father. You know, Christian, we're in fellowship with Jesus Christ. Something inside us wants to point to Christ. Wants to point to God. God gets all the glory. God gets all the glory. Bothers me and I have to watch out for this, we all do, have to watch out for this, but sometimes God will use us to do something, and there's a real danger sometimes. We're not careful. We'll want to take the credit for what God has done That ain't right. If God uses you or I to impact someone or advance the cause of Christ in some way, all the glory goes to him. Whether we eat or drink or whatsoever we do, we do it all to the glory of God. So, what's it mean to be in fellowship? I'm saved, Jesus has forgiven me all my sin. I'm born again. I'm a child of God. I'm safe. I'm secure. It's settled. I don't ever have to worry about it One of the reasons so I can be in fellowship with Jesus Christ. Well what's that mean? It means we have shared interests. We have a common interest. Number two, quickly, means we have a common inheritance. Romans 8. 17 says, and I gotta look all these verses up. I'll give it to you and write them down. Romans 8. 17 says that believers are joint heirs with Christ. What does it mean to be an heir of something? If I'm someone's heir, that means that whenever they pass away or whatever, whatever is theirs, will ultimately be what? Become mine. I will inherit it. Bible says we are joint heirs with Christ. What that is saying is that whatever is Jesus Christ is also mine. And there's a reverse side, and I'm not going to deal with it other than just touch on it, there's a reverse side to that. Whatever's mine is his. Now think about what is mine. What do I got? All I got is sin and wretched failure and nothing. Jesus took all that was mine to be his on the cross. That's something? We're joint heirs. He inherits what I have, which is nothing but sin and judgment. And he took that. Then when I believe in him, I inherit what he has. Which is glorious. I just put three things down that we inherit. Well, I know Jesus Christ as Savior. Jesus Father is now my Father. Isn't that good? Just now think about this. Just, how many people would agree with this statement? God cares for Jesus Christ. Sure he did. And see that in the gospels during his time here on earth. God took care of Jesus Christ. As a joint heir with Jesus Christ, because we have a common inheritance. Now we God his Father is my father. That tells me just like God cares for Jesus Christ, God will care for me. Now think about what that means. As much as God the Father loves Jesus Christ, God the Son, he loves me. As much as He cares for His Son, He cares for me. I have, listen to this, I have the same standing before God as the righteousness of Jesus Christ. The attention, the love, I am in Christ. Before God the Father. Brother, brother, the world can't match that with everything it has. Jesus' father is now my father. It means this. Jesus' future is now my future. I am as sure of its spending eternity with God as Jesus is sure of spending eternity with God. Somebody says, well, you know, you gotta live it or you're gonna lose it. The only way I could possibly lose my salvation is if Jesus Christ would lose his standing with God. And there ain't no way that's going to happen. I'm securing Christ. So Jesus Father is now my Father. We have a common inheritance His father's my father now. His future is my future now. I like this one. His fortune is now my fortune. I like uh Philippians 4. 19. But my God shall supply all your needs in Christ, according to his glory, in Christ Jesus. I think I've slaughtered that. My God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. You say, Oh, I've got so many needs. You don't have more needs than God's gut supplies. And in Christ, because I'm in fellowship with Jesus Christ, I have a common inheritance. What he inherits, I inherit. His father's my father, his future's my future, his fortunes are my fortunes. God will take care of us. Now my last thought is this. What does it mean to be in fellowship? It means I have a common interest, means I have a common inheritance, but it also means this: I have common intentions. In other words, Jesus' desires become our desires. Jesus wants me to be unashamed of him. He said very clearly, if you're ashamed of me, I'll be ashamed of you. I want you to, Paul said, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. God wants us to not be ashamed of. You know what I want? I don't want to be ashamed of Jesus Christ. I really don't. I think I'm talking to a lot of folks here. You feel the same way Now it's tough because this old world gives us a hard time. How many folks found that out? How many folks ever worked somewhere and people gave you you tried to be a Christian, you tried to be a testimony, tried to be a witness, and people absolutely gave you fits. Anybody know? I know what that's like. Working that meat pack and plant, good night. Hey, I tell you I got it in Bible college. Other students, some kids, I had roommates, just give me fits because I go soul winning when I have prayer time, personal devotions Listen, it's not easy. But I'm in fellowship with Jesus Christ. He's not ashamed of me. I don't want to be ashamed of him. That's why baptism is important. I think a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, first thing a person should do when they get saved, I believe the first thing they should do, they ought to get baptized. And just come out and out for Christ. I'm not ashamed. I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. I'm buried with him in baptism. I'm raised to walk in newness of life. I'm an out-and-out Christian for Christ. Amen And so I have a common we have common intentions. He wants me to be a witness, I want to be a witness. He wants me to be a faithful Christian, I want to be a faithful Christian. He wants me to be obedient to him I wanna be obedient to We are living in tough times. Anybody notice that? Anybody ever here, ever watch or read the news at all? I'm telling you, it's a mess. One of our leading politicians said, our nation is on its way to hell. I mean we've got unsaved people looking at the situation of our world and they're saying we are a nation on fire. And I tell you, I have to agree. I agree with what Brother Charlie Clark said yesterday in the teen rally. He said we are a mess, but our God is able to turn this thing around. But nevertheless, we are in troubling times. We've got diseases that didn't even exist fifty years ago. That we're struggling to deal with. And I'm not trying to be political here, but I'll simply say this. I don't think our leaders have a clue how to handle this. And so we've got that going on. We've got huge organizations, terroristic organizations. Now we've got beheadings in the United States of America. Whoever heard of that? I'm telling you, we are in a mess that diseases, we have these dangerous organ uh people, violent people. Overtaken huge portions of our planet. We have opposition and persecution is intensifying. And listen, you can play around with your Christianity if you want, but you're nuts. We've got to take this serious. We better take our walk with God seriously. We can just be little superficial Sunday go to morning Christians all we want. But that ain't gonna cut it. That's not gonna that's not gonna deal with the the stuff going on coming down in this world now. That's all I'm saying. And we better realize, listen, if Jesus Christ, if I'm saved, He saved me, He secured me, I'm saved. But I'm in fellowship with Jesus Christ. And he can and will see me through. I can't be playing games. This is for real. We live in wickedness, unbelievable wickedness on every hand. I saw a news thing, but they've got and I don't mean to end on on this. I uh you'll see what I'm saying here in a minute They got an interesting thing with little 8, 9, 10, 11-year-old girls dressed up real nice, dancing and singing, and using the most vile language you can ever imagine on the planet Earth. I thought, what in the world? My wife worked downtown for a while, and some of the little kids would come through there with head start. She'd say, little kids, three, four, five years old, using language That is the most filthy words you can possibly imagine. Just walk through, they don't even know what they're saying. Now here's my question. What is that generation going to be when they grow up? If that's where they're at now. How depraved. I'm telling you, we're in a mess. And we cannot play Christian anymore. Not if we're going to be anything for God. And we need to understand that he has saved us to be in fellowship with him. In all of this mess, our hope is in the faithfulness of God. And our fellowship with His Son Jesus Christ. I uh came across uh a an article. Oh, I hope I got it here. Yes. There's a young lady, Linda, true story. And she is a young woman. She was traveling alone On the highway between Alberta to White Horse Yukon. I don't know if that's the road you drove up there, Jerry. It's up through Canada. In the Outback. She had a rundown Honda Civic with high mileage just wore out. She had no idea what she was doing. They said normally it's only four-wheel drive trucks trying to do this. She left early, she drove all day, and she found a room in the mountains near a summit, and she asked them to wake her up at 5 a. m. in the morning. She's going to get a good start. She said the clerk looked at her very surprised that she would want to get up that early and hit the road. When she woke up early in the morning, there was such a heavy fog over that mountaintop she couldn't even pull out of the parking lot She decided to sit in the restaurant there and um kind of waited out. There were two truckers sitting there and she sat down and they got in a conversation. They asked her where she was going and she said to Whitehorse. And they said, in that little Honda Civic, she goes, yeah. She goes, they said, no way. You're not going to make it. This pass is dangerous in weather like this. She goes, well, I'm going to make it. I'm going to try. They said, well, and the one trucker said, and Joe, you'll appreciate this, one trucker said, well, we're just going to have to hug you then She drew back and said, There ain't no way you're touching me. She goes, No, not like that. He said, What we're gonna do is we're gonna put one truck in front of you. And we're going to put one truck behind you, and we will get you through the mountains. You just stay right in between of us. So they headed out. First truck pulled out. She pulled in behind. She followed the two little red dots in the fog ahead of her. She had the big truck with the lights behind her. And she rested secure going through those dangerous mountains that she was being hugged by those trucks. Now here's the point I'm trying to make. We live in a dangerous world. We can't play around. But we are hugged by Jesus Christ. We are in fellowship with him. There's not a day ahead of us that he ain't already there. There's not an issue in our past that he hasn't already dealt with. We are safe and secure in Jesus Christ, and if we will simply trust him, if we will simply rest in his promises. He says, I'll see you through. I'll see it through. Are you saved? Do you know for sure that God has forgiven you all your sin? And that when you die, you go to heaven. If there's one doubt there at all, you need to settle that. You need to make sure you've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. Those of us who are saved, if that's true, I know one thing is true about you. God is working in your life to conform us into his desires. And to be in fellowship with Him. That's the purpose of one of the purposes of our salvation. That we can be in fellowship with Him, that we can live our life in this old sinful, wicked, dangerous world secure. Walking with Jesus, pleasing Him with our life. And God will help us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord that you would help us to be aware of your presence in our life. God help us to take very seriously Our relationship with you. Lord, help us not to be foolish in this old wicked world, but to be wise. And we thank you, Lord. We rejoice in your great, great promises to us that you will never leave us, you will never forsake us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I know I'm safe, I know I'm saved, there's no doubt at all. And preacher, God's working in my life. I can sense him trying to conform my desires to be conformed to his desires. My will would be his will. And I see there's areas in my life, maybe you've I've resisted that, maybe you say I've resisted it, or for whatever reason, I know God's will for me is not what I'm doing, and I need to yield that. I need to let us have that common interest. And how we would say, Preacher, God is dealing with my heart. There's areas in my life that need to be yielded to the will of God. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, I know it. God's dealing with my heart about it. How about it? Up high. How about it? God bless you. Hands all around. Maybe there's some say, preacher, you know, I'm just kind of overwhelmed with my needs. I'm overwhelmed with my situations. I want to remind you, as a believer, we have a common inheritance. God's able to meet our needs. God will take care of us. Just trust Him. Put it in His hands. How many would say, preacher, I have some situations, circumstances overwhelming. This morning, by God's grace, I just want to trust them and understand that as sure as God took care of his son Jesus, he'll take care of me Is there any like that? But he uplift the hand. God bless you. Now what about this common interest or intentions? What is it God's wanting to use you to do? Is there someone that needs Christ? Is there someone that needs discipleship? Is there someone that needs a godly influence, a godly example? And God wants to use you. And you say, preacher, I know God is wanting to use me, and there's a specific Area, specific things God's prompting my heart. I want to have a common intention with the Lord. I want Him to use me in that area. I yield myself Is there any like that? I don't know if I made that clear. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, yes. I know God's wanting to use me in some areas. And I want to be yielded to him and let him have his way. Any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Number of hands Now, my word to you this morning is let's kneel it in order and say, God, here I am. Thank you for saving me. I yield myself to you. I want to live in fellowship with Jesus Christ. One last question, is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know. I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that I'm saved. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any like that? God bless you. We'll pray for you that God will help you. Father, bless us now as we go into invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.