When they s get that. Verse twelve, first Peter chapter four The Bible says, beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you. As though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering. That when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. Now I just want to tack on the first part of verse 14. He says this. But if ye be reproached for the name of Christ, now look at these next three words. If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, what's it say? Happy are ye. That's something. Looks like if we were writing this, we would say, if you be praised for the name of Christ, happy are ye. Or if you be lifted up and exalted for the name. But he says, if you be reproached, happy are ye. Would you agree with me? That's kind of the opposite of the way the world would look at it. And so I want to talk about these fiery trials that he mentions there in verse number 12. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for a good Lord's Day. And God, even though the weather's ugly and uh roads are a little slick and the numbers are down a bit today, but we still rejoice. And the privilege we have of assembling together and opening our Bibles, singing some praises to you, and opening our hearts and letting you speak to us and challenge us and prepare us for the coming week. I know, Lord, that the weather does not hinder your presence here. And so we ask that you would manifest your presence in a very clear way. That we would know we are in your presence. And that our hearts and our minds would be transformed and changed to be more like Christ. And Lord, as we look at this subject of fiery trials, persecution, I pray you'd prepare our hearts and minds. And Lord, strengthen our faith and our commitment to you, I ask. And Lord, I pray with all my heart That you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I yield my will to you, present my body anew, and pray you'd speak through me tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. This morning we looked at 2 Peter chapter 3. In fact, if you would, keep your place here and we looked at 2 Timothy. chapter 3. But if you would keep your place here in Peter. And I'd like for you to turn back over there just real quickly. 2 Timothy chapter 3. And uh we just touched on this, on the message this morning, but it kind uh Paul or Paul is Dealing with the same subject that Peter is here. And if you notice in 2 Timothy chapter 3 and verse number 12, notice what Paul, writing under the inspiration of God, He's writing to this young preacher, Timothy, who remember we said this morning, he mentored him, took him in under his arm, and taught him the things of God. And he makes this statement in verse number 12 2 Timothy 3, verse 12. Look what it says. Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Now that's pretty clear meaning there, right? We don't have to wonder what is he talking about. And the thing that catches my attention here Is that he says, all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution? There's no exemptions. There's nobody left out of this. What he's saying to Timothy and to you and I through the Word of God is that if we live godly, if we know the Lord is our Savior, and we live the life that God intends for us to live as a Christian We're going to take some heat from the world. We live in an ungodly world. We live in a world that does not share the values that God has. The world has a whole different perspective. And when you and I decide that we're going to live for God and we're going to do what this old book tells us to do, and we're going to do right, we're going against the grain. We're going up current And this world is going to push back, and this world is going to push against that. And Paul says there, he says, All that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. And like I said this morning I wonder if we're not getting persecution, if we're not getting some pushback and taking some heat from this old world because of our Christian life. I wonder how godly we're actually living Because he says all that live godly in Christ Jesus are going to suffer persecution to some extent. Now, you and I, in our day and age, in our country where we live, persecution is very minimal. Sometimes we get made fun of. Anybody anybody here ever have someone call you a name because you're a Christian? A Bible thumper? Oh yeah, there's old Deacon Randy, you know, or something like that I want to tell you, that's really not persecution in the biblical sense of the word. That might be harassment a little bit And so every Christian who lives for God can expect some heat from the world, from a godless world. It may be on the job Maybe in the workplace, and you're going to take a stand for Christ. You're going to do right. And maybe they're asking you to do something that violates Scripture, and you say, I'll not do that. You take your stand and there's some pushback. Maybe even just carrying a Bible to work or in school, maybe young people in school. You can expect if you're going to stand for God, particularly if you're in the public schools, if you stand for God, you might as well just mark it down. There's going to be some, there's going to be a certain element of the students and maybe even the faculty that's going to give you a hard time for being a Christian. Just plan on it. That's part of it. In the workplace, in the school, in the neighborhood, out in the community. We're going into track month here in just a week And we're going to start putting tracks out. And you just mark it down. Not everybody's going to jump up and down and clap their hands and say, thank you for giving me a track. You might get some names called. You might get some uh pushback from the world. You give the gospel out and you try and be a witness. Now, let me throw this out, and we're gonna talk about it again next week. You need we need to do this correctly, alright? We're going to be obnoxious or uh or uh you know unreasonable in giving out the word of God. We'll give some suggestions next week, but we get pushback. I tell you right now, I'm just planning on it. I'm going to get phone calls. People are going to call up and complain about us giving the word of God. Several years ago we had gone to Morgantown and we gave out two or three thousand tracks. Just put them on doors all over there. We had a great group of people up there and About 2 o'clock in the morning, my phone rang. Now I have the church phone forwards to my cell phone, so I try not to miss calls Two o'clock Sunday morning, we'd been up in Morgantown all day Saturday. Two o'clock Sunday morning, my phone rings. I woke up and I'm looking at it and I don't recognize the number and I'm thinking, I really don't want to answer that And so it rings and rings, and I'm just laying there wondering, should I answer or not? And before I answered it, it quit ringing. About three minutes later, I heard this little ding You know what that meant? There's a voicemail. So I said, all right, it must be something. So I answered it, and this was the voicemail. And uh you could tell it was a fellow and in the background there was loud music, you could hear people talking and laughing, it was like it sounded like a party or nightclub or something. And he called up and he said this. He goes, Ah, I got one of your literature on my door today. And uh he started reading the gospel tract to me. Now he's making fun. He's complaining and he's making fun about it. And he begins reading the tract to me on the voicemail And he gets down there about we're all yeah, we're all sinners, for all have sinned, and comes short of the glory of God, and there's a few comments in the track, and he reads them. Then it says, and the wages of sin is death And one day, it's something to this effect, I'm not quoting, and he's reading this to me, and he goes like this, and someday because of our sin, if we die in our sins, we'll be separated from God forever in hell. And it got quiet. Click. And you know what I think happened? I think he was making fun of us, and the old boy got under conviction when he realized he's in his sins. He dies that way, he's going to hell. Now I'd like to think the old boy got saved. I don't know. Never hurt anymore. It's all I ever got. But what I'm trying to say is this If we're going to live for God, if we're going to obey this old book, we might as well mark it down. This whole world's going to push back on that. This world's going to react to that sometimes. And that's what Paul is telling Timothy There's a certain element in our world that is always going to resist the gospel. There's a certain element in our world that is always going to find fault with the things of God. And they're going to criticize the Bible and they're going to hate our Savior. And they're going to criticize us and find fault with us and resist. The message we're been instructed instructed to take into the world. And what I'm trying to say is this. What the Bible tells us is this is normal. This is the way it always has been, that the world rejects the things of God. It always has been that way, and I'm telling you, it always will be that way All that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. Now we come back to Peter, if you would, and Peter is dressing this Same issue. And if you would, look at verse number 12 very closely. Now I want to point something out here, and then I'll give you a few three thoughts from this He says, beloved, verse 12, beloved, think it not strange concerning, now look at the wording here very carefully. Concerning the fiery trial. Now pay attention here, which is to try you. He says, think it not strange concerning this fiery trial, which is to try you. Now what does that sound like? Does that sound like it's past, present, or future tense? It's future tense Peter's writing to these believers, and we've emphasized this through our study, they're already under persecution. They've already been run out of their homes because of their faith in Christ. They've already lost their jobs. Many of them have been treated violently because of their commitment to Christ. And he's writing, and now he brings up this subject, there's a biery trial that is to try you. There's something coming. There's an event coming up that is going to be a fiery trial for you Now I got studied and I thought, what is he talking about? What's this future event they're facing? Well, I got looking 1 Peter was penned. Of course, Peter, you know Peter's not the author of 1 Peter, right? God's the author. Peter is the penman. And he penned this down under the inspiration of God approximately A. D. 64, about 64 years after Christ was born. A. D. 64. About that same time, if you go and look at the history books, a fire broke out in Rome. In what was called, and uh this is their the Latin name for it, Circus Maximus. Now, what the Circus Maximus was was like a Colosseum. Now get this. You could fit a hundred and fifty thousand people in Circus Maximus There in Rome. Um it was a large entertainment stadium. Anybody ever see s some old movies or whatever? You all see something about the old chariot races? Anybody ever read Ben Hur? There's old chariot races and they had the spikes sticking out the side of the wheels. You know, and they run up against the other and tears their wheel up and the guy goes, ah, goes flying. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I like that book. That Circus Maximus is where that took place, those old chariot races, and these huge sporting events and gladiator fights. And a fire broke out there. And the fire was so intense and so widespread, it burned for five days in Rome. It wiped out a huge part of the city of Rome. Anybody want to guess who the emperor was of Rome at that time? Nero. Nero. Now the rumors started to fly through Rome and throughout the Roman Empire that Nero had actually deliberately started that fire for political advantage. Now, I don't know all the particulars about it, why and how he would go about that, but that was the word going around, and it made Nero look bad. And it was hurting him politically and hurting his influence. And Nero was a very narcissistic, self-centered man. And he had zero morals and he had zero character and he had zero convictions about anything right or wrong. Anything goes with him. And so he started his own rumor. And he put word out that the Christians started that fire. The Christians were behind all of this. Now, again, if you study history a little bit, you find out that Christians were not real popular among the Roman population. They were considered this radical cult out there that were undermining their worship of the emperor. And so they were already disliked. And when this word got out that the Christians had done this. It began a period of some of the most intense, fiery persecution that the church has ever experienced. Peter's writing to these believers right about the time that this fire took place and this wave of violent persecution is coming upon the church. And Peter's writing to these believers who had already suffered. And he says, listen, there's a fiery trial. About to come upon you. I think Peter was referring to this wave of persecution coming. I think he saw it. It was already starting And he's trying to prepare the hearts and minds of these believers for what they were about to go through, the violence they were about to face. The abuse they were about to endure. He's trying to prepare them spiritually and mentally to be able to deal with this. Ancient Roman historian records how the Christians were treated. He says that at this point, after this fire, and after word got out that Christians had done this, the mockery of the Christians intensified tremendously. He said they would capture, they would capture the Christians, they would skin animals, and they would wrap the Christians in the skins of these dead animals. And they would leave them out, tie them up, you know, and wrap them up in this, and of course, uh vultures and wild beasts would come uh and go after the skins, thinking it's a dead carcass, while the Christians are tied up inside these skins. They would take areas for entertainment. They would take Christians and they would starve dogs and they'd beat the dogs till they turn mad. And they put them out for entertainment and they'd put these dogs loose out into an arena with the Christians out there. And this this historian, Tychus, is his name, he said, uh He said the dogs would literally pull the Christians limb from limb, just tear them apart and kill them. And it was entertainment for the Romans. They cheered. They enjoyed it. They thrived on it. They would, he says that at this period of time uh the Christians would uh uh many of them would be crucified, just like Christ. They'd put them out in the public and they'd have hundreds of them, they'd nail them to crosses. and let him die on a cross like the Lord Jesus. Peter is said to have been crucified. History tells us, legend tells us, that he refused to be crucified the way Jesus was cruci and he wanted to be crucified upside down because he considered himself not worthy to die the way his Savior died. This is all what's about to hit these believers. He also went on and said that they would take Christians, young and old. They of course they just go in and herd them in and take them captive. And they would grease them down. He said they would light them on fire, tie them to posts, cover them in grease, light that grease on fire, and they would use them for lanterns and light at night in their gardens. And down the streets of the city, burning these Christians alive, and that would be their light for the night. Look again at the verse, if you would. Peter writes to them and he says Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you. It's coming. I think that's what he's referring to. Would you agree with me? That's pretty intense persecution That's that's that to use um from my generation hippie language, that's pretty heavy stuff, man. If you and I if you and I knew that was coming to America If you and I knew that if we'd assemble together for church on a snowy day in March, That the authorities would show up and round us up and haul us off and treat us even remotely like this. How would we respond to that? That's what I asked myself as I'm studying this. If I knew that if I shared my faith with someone, or if I was seen with a Bible. That I would be risking being taken by authorities and treated this way and killed this way. How bold would I be with my faith? How outspoken would I be about my Savior Jesus Christ in an environment where there's a fiery trial? Peter's writing to them, and he's wanting them to be prepared mentally and spiritually to deal with this, to be faithful to the Lord. Regardless of the intensity of the persecution they would deal with. You and I got it pretty good, huh? You and I, we don't know what persecution is. We gripe about stuff. I was reading a CLA article this afternoon. They're talking about how we're losing liberties, and I agree, and I'm writing letters. I wrote letters two weeks ago. You know, we're doing what we can. I want to preserve our freedom. But what you and I experience as citizens of the United States and the freedom we have and the minimal persecution we face is not the norm, it's the exception. And throughout church history. And I tell you what, if nothing else, we want to fall on our knees every day and thank God for his freedoms and the goodness he has shown us. So Peter's writing to them, and he says, it's coming. The fire trial. You better, this is what you've got to do. This is the frame of mind you need to have. He gives them a threefold instruction here. Let me share it with you real quickly. Number one, and I already kind of touched on this, but he points out that fiery trials are the norm. Throughout church history, actually, throughout all of the history of God's people Persecution, trials, opposition to our faith, and our commitment to our Lord has been the norm for God's people. When we suffer for our faith, it's not an exception, it's the norm. When Christians are persecuted for their faith, it's not the exception, it's the norm. When God's people are rejected by the world and mocked by the world, it's not an exception. It's the norm. Look what he says there in verse 12: Beloved, think it not strange. Concerning the fiery trial. In other words, he's saying this: don't consider it something out of the ordinary. This is the way it is, this is the way it always has been. Throughout history, God's people have been persecuted. Here's the thing. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. How many folks here would would you would consider yourself, I ask this often, but you would consider yourself a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? How many people here like I consider myself a disciple, a follower of Jesus. I love him, I'm committed to him, I want to please him with my wife, I want to live for him. If that's the case, then I'm here to tell you tonight, you and I do not fit in this world. As a disciple of Jesus Christ, you and I have different values than this world has. You and I have different priorities than this world has. We have a whole different perspective, a whole different worldview than the world out there has about life, about God, about what's right and wrong. I tell you, you know the world's messed up. When a person that is going to hold one of the most influential positions in our country, the Supreme Court, and doesn't know what a woman is, you know our world is messed up. You and I don't fit in. We don't share their values. We don't see things the way they see it. We live by completely different principles. And the world pushes back against that. Keep your place here, if you would. Turn with me real quickly over to 1 John. That's back towards the back of your Bible. 1 John chapter number 3. Here he's referencing Cain and Abel. Would you agree with me? Cain and Abel had two different values. Anybody here familiar? Everyone familiar with Cain and Abel, right? They lived by two different values. They had two different priorities. They saw things two different ways. And look with me, if you would, at 1 John 3, and verse 12. 'Tis not as Cain, who was of that wicked one. Who's the wicked one? It's the devil. Cain was of the devil. Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him? Why'd he kill him? Because his own works were what? Evil. And his brothers, what? They didn't fit in. They didn't mesh. And Cain of the world and of the devil? Killed Abel. Killed Abel. Look at the next verse. 13. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you. Just don't be surprised by that. Don't think that's strange. That's the norm. If you would, come over very quickly, and I hope you kept your place in Peter. But come over to the Gospel of John. Jesus touched on this exact same subject. You say, oh, Jesus would never say that. Look at John 17. I'm sorry, John 15, and look with me if you would at verse 18. John chapter 15 and verse 18. This is from the lips of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. He says, verse 18, John 15, if the world hate you, Know that it hated me before it hated you. Don't think that's strange. The world hates you? Don't think that's strange. They hated me before they hated you. Look at the next verse If you were of the world, if you shared their values and their priorities and their principles, if you saw things the way the world saw it, the world would love his own. But Because you are not of the world. But I have chosen you out of the world. Therefore, the world what? Hated you. I'm just here to tell you tonight, we we're the world uh world's not going to be fans of ours We don't see eye to eye. We see things from God's perspective. We want to hold to God's values. We want to hold to the biblical priorities, and this world has completely opposite. And they hate us. They hate us. It's the norm. It's the norm. Come back to Peter if you would. You ought to stick, just stick something there at Peter. Come back to Peter if you would and look again at verse 12. Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you. Now look what he says at the end of the verse. As though some strange thing happened to you, happened unto you Fiery trials are not strange, unusual things that happen to the people of God. It's been happening since Cain and Abel. And you read through Revelation and the violence towards the people of God that's recorded and prophesied in Revelation. Always has been, always will be, till new heaven, new earth. Mark it down, plan on it. If you and I think that persecution is some strange thing and we're never going to deal with it, you've got a wrong perception of reality. But the interesting thing is at the end there he says, as though some strange thing, as some strange thing happened unto you. That implies to me that God's still in control. God's allowing this to happen to them. God is, this is part of God's plan for his people to suffer persecution. You say, what kind of God, what in the world kind of God would make it part of his plan that his people be persecuted? I'll tell you what kind of God, a God that knows what he's doing. A God that is all-wise, a God that we can trust even when it doesn't make sense to us. Don't consider it some strange thing that happens unto you. So the first thing he wants them to understand that what they're going through and what they're about to face Is the norm for God's people. Always has been, always will be. The second thing he wants them to understand is that they have to recognize that fiery trials have a purpose. Come with me if you would to verse number 12 again. Think it, beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial. Now look at the wording here, which is to what's the next word? Try you. That word try there has the idea of test, to prove. Little one aspect of the definition of that word is to develop you. And the whole idea behind what Peter is saying here is that persecution and pushback and mocking from the world and rejection or rejection by the world isn't just some random, meaningless Events and actions that take place to us. No, no, no. God has a plan and purpose in all of it. He could step in and intervene. He could step in and just wipe them out. He could step in and stop it. But he doesn't. He lets us go through it. Because he wants to try us. He wants to prove us. Get this? He wants to develop us. It's how we grow spiritually. It's how our faith takes root. It tests the strength of my confidence in God's goodness. When God allows the world to treat us that way. I tell you what, if this world loved us and lauded us and threw money at us, if this world praised us and did everything, you know where our faith would be? Our faith would be where? In the world. Oh, this is wonderful. The world loves me. But God allows us to go through this. He has a purpose, a plan, so that my faith is in God and I learn to trust him, even in the midst of difficulty and affliction and rejection. Fiery trials are part of our spiritual growth. Fiery trials, as unpleasant as they are, as difficult as they are to deal with, they're part of our spiritual development. They mature us, they strengthen our faith. I want to suggest to you the church was its strongest when it was facing the most intense persecution. When back in 19, I think it was 1988, I was youth pastor in Indianapolis. It was 88, 89, somewhere in that area. Maybe 1990 In that time frame, uh so the Soviet Union fell. Anybody remember that? USSR collapsed And they tore the wall down. Anybody, anybody old enough here to remember that, seeing that? I talked to a fellow the other day, said that um he had a piece of that wall And he was stationed in Germany at the time. He had a piece of that wall. He said he lost it. I said, you idiot, I would like to have that. My pastor that I was working under at the time was one of the first people to go into Russia behind the Iron Curtain as it was collapsing, one of the first American pastors, preachers, Christians. To get in there. And they held services with the underground church. I don't know if anybody recognized the name Georgie Vins He was a persecuted pastor, independent fundamental Baptist, spent half his life in prison and in horrific conditions behind Russia. When this thing collapsed, He brought some American pastors over, a handful of them. He wanted them to meet the Russian Christians that had been so persecuted so intensely. And killed and imprisoned in the gulag and the Siberian camps. He said, I met them He came back. He said, I saw the scars on their hands and on their faces, the price that they had paid for their faith in Christ. He said, I saw it firsthand And I I asked him, I said, well tell me about the churches. He said, he said, the thing that impressed me most About these believers who had been so persecuted, the thing that impressed me was the depth of their faith in God. The strength of their commitment to their savior. Do you know how Faith is deepened and commitment is strengthened. It's not by beds of ease and flowery roses. It's by opposition and persecution. And he said their complaint about the American churches, listen to this. He said their complaint about the American churches is how worldly we are and how shallow our commitment is. He said, I hung my head in shame. Persecution has a purpose. Persecution develops us. And it seems like the more intense that persecution is, the stronger the faith grows. I'm telling you, that early church was in persecuted and violently persecuted. And I tell you, they laid a strong foundation for the spread of the gospel around the world. And if everything would have been ease and and pleasure and uh uh luxury I doubt seriously the church would have been strong enough to reach the world with the gospel, to spread it all through Europe and Africa and around the world. So these fiery trials have a purpose. I thought about. Anybody remember? We've referenced this recently. Anybody remember Nate Saint and um uh Jim Elliott, the other five guys, Macaulay, and I forget the other fellow's names, five missionaries. Anybody remember were murdered by the Auca Indians? You say, oh, what a waste. That was a tragedy. Why in the world wouldn't God let that happen? You know what the result of that was? Thousands and thousands of missionaries around the world, men and women around the world, surrendered to the call of missions. And there was a surge of missionaries went out from our churches around the world in response to the murder of these five missionaries, and hundreds of thousands of people were reached with the gospel. Who would have never been reached had those five men been received and celebrated by the Auka Indians, but by their rejection and persecution and martyrdom? It produced a great wave of missionaries. What I'm trying to say is this. Peter is telling them there's a purpose for this. God can use this world's anger and this world's hatred and this world's rejection of us. God can use that to advance his cause and strengthen his people. A number of years ago I preached a message on homosexuality in the Bible. And boy, there was a kickback on that. Anybody remember that? Brother. And uh that was, I'll be honest with you, that was tough. I didn't enjoy that. But you know what I found out? People at CNN And MSNBC and these big news places, you know what I found out? They read that sermon and heard the gospel. They read what the Bible says. Now they took my statements and tried to destroy me, but they still read that. Isn't that something? God can take the hatred of this world. God can take the rejection of the truth by this world and use that to advance his cause. God has a plan and purpose. Number one, it's the norm. Listen, it's it's since Cain and Abel till the end of the millennium, God's people are going to suffer rejection. It's a plan and a purpose behind it. And last of all, end with this. He tells them, first of all, it's norm, no, second of all is a purpose. And then he says, number three, and this gets interesting, rejoice In fiery trials. Realize they're the norm, recognize they have a purpose, and rejoice on them when you face them. Look with me here at verse 13 Verse 12 he says, think it not strange, the fiery trial which is going to try you, as though some strange thing can happen to you. But look at the first two words of verse 13. What does it say? But rejoice. Inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be what? Glad. At his glad also with exceeding joy. Look at verse 14. If you be reproached for the name of Christ, look at the last three words. Happy are ye He uses four terms here. Rejoice, be glad, exceeding joy, happy are ye. That first rejoice there in verse 13 means to be in a constant state of intense rejoicing. You know, my thinking is they arrest me and throw me in jail and tie me up and they start beating me illegally, and my first thought is I'm calling David Gibbs, CLA. I'm gonna sue their pants off He says, no, no, no, no, no. You rejoice exceedingly, constantly. What? He says, be glad. It means excessive gladness. Over the top. Exceeding joy. Be excessively joyful. Happy are ye. It's like party time. That's what it sounds like. I'm thinking, Peter, what in the world are you talking about? What are you talking about? Why would I rejoice? Why would we be glad in this? He says there's two reasons. Number one, I'm a partaker of Christ's sufferings. I have the opportunity. To suffer like Jesus, my Savior, did. I have an opportunity to walk down the path of persecution that my Savior walked down. I can share in His sufferings. I can share in his rejection. I can be a part of his persecution. I can share in that. You know, that's a common thought throughout the New Testament. Philippians chapter 3 and verse 10, Paul said that I may uh know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings Paul said, Man, I want to know. I want to share in the sufferings of Christ. And he did. Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly, turn over the book of Acts, and I'm just about done. Turn with me, if you would, to Acts chapter number five. Every time I read this, it boggles my mind. Every time I read this, I'm convicted and challenged. Acts chapter 5, all the way to the end of the chapter. Now, these disciples, these early Christians, they're facing persecution intense. Thrown in jail, stoned, beaten, whipped, cannine tails, I mean you name it, they are under the gun. And look at verse 41 of Acts chapter 5. Look at the wording here. And they departed from the presence of the council. Look at this. Rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. Wow. Look at the next verse. And daily in the temple and in every house they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. It just fired them up even more. And they rejoiced. I'm counted worthy. To suffer shame for my Savior's name. We read about POWs in World War II or in uh well, World War II, but particularly Vietnam. And how in the prisons there, some of these fellows would get some thread, somehow get a needle, and they would knit together an American flag. And the North Vietnamese would find them and beat the daylights out of them and tear up their little flag. The next chance they had, they'd get another thread. They'd get another needle, and they'd knit together an American flag. And they said we're told they held their head high. And they gladly were beaten because of their loyalty to their country. And there's numerous accounts of this. And I thought, praise the Lord for that. I'm glad for loyalty to the country. But I've got something to be loyal to even greater than the United States of America, and that's my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And if this old world, if this old world wants to beat me, and this old world wants to imprison us And this whole world wants to violently persecute us for the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, so be it. But we love our Savior. And we love our God. Peter's writing to them, you rejoice. Unless you have the privilege and the honor and are counted worthy to suffer shame for the great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. One of the reasons they should rejoice is because they're partakers of Christ's suffering. And last of all They ought to rejoice because this is, maybe we can relate to this a little better, but we can rejoice because of the reward we receive in glory. Our faithfulness to the Lord and our treatment by the world does not go unnoticed by our God. And God keeps accurate records My Bible tells me that when those get, when we get to glory and we stood faithful to the Lord in the midst of rejection by a world, God honors that. And the glory that awaits us on the other side so far outweighs the persecution and the suffering we experience on this side, that the suffering and we experience on this side is reason to rejoice for what it prepares us for on the other side. Am I making sense? Let me show you a verse in Romans chapter 8. Real quickly, come over there. You're bearing with me tonight, but come with me over to Romans chapter 8. And Paul says this, and Paul knows what he was talking about. He was stoned left for dead. He was beaten imprisoned. I mean, you name it. And look what he says in Romans chapter 8 and in verse number 18. For I reckon, now that tells you Paul was a southerner. I reckon. Or West Virginia. For I reckon, look what he says That the sufferings of this present time, look at this, are not worthy to be compared to the glory which shall be revealed in us. You know what he's saying? Saying it's worth it. It's worth it. Listen, go ahead. Let him beat us. Let them imprison us. Let them hate us. Let them call us names, mock us, let them slam the doors in our face. Let them throw stuff at us. Let them accuse us of things that are lies. Let them lie about us. Tell you what, we got to have God in heaven that's not ignoring it. We walk through those gates and we get in the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ, and we're going to see the glory that awaits us. You know what we're going to say? It was worth it. It was worth every drop of blood that was shed. It was worth every lie that was thrown at me. It was worth it. The glory that shall be revealed. Peter's writing to him. He says, there's some fiery trials coming. They're coming. Just understand, that's the norm. It's always been that way. And he says, you need to trust God that he has a plan and a purpose. He's allowing it. It's going to strengthen us, make us stronger. We're going to understand things about the Lord we would have never understood had we not gone through it. And we can rejoice because someday it's going to be worth it all. It will be worth it. It will be worth it. In Numbers chapter 17 Israel was out in the wilderness, and uh there's no water It's just sand and desert, and they're thirsty and they're crying out to God for water. And if you study it, God told them, He gave them some strange instructions. He said, get you some shovels. You're going to dig some wells. He says, but before you start digging, and then while you're digging, I want you to sing. And the song they were to sing is spring up, oh well, spring up, oh well, and they had a little ditty. They were singing. Now there's no no evidence of any water anywhere, no nothing obvious. So by faith, they started digging and they started singing. And out of that barren, dry desert, and I think as the result of their faith And their rejoicing and their singing, a well sprung up. And God provided water for all that nation of Israel. And here's what I'm trying to end with. This whole world's persecution is like a desert, and we see the world treating us, and we're hurting. And I think what we need to do is understand God's got a purpose here, and I'm going to start singing in the midst of it. And I'm going to start rejoicing God. And as they're throwing their stuff at us, I'm going to sing glory to God. It's exactly what Paul and Silas did in the Philippian jail. They sang praises at night. So let's just do that. Say, preacher, are you saying there's intense persecution coming to believers in America? I don't know. I think it's a very, very real possibility. But whether it does or not, I think we ought to just stay faithful to God. And I think old Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to keep preaching that old book. And we ought to keep holding the standard high. And we ought to keep trying to win other people to Christ. And we ought to keep doing right And we ought to keep following the Lord and trusting God and let this world reject us and let this world mock us and let this world live in their perverse, demented sin that they live in And we'll do right. We'll trust God. And we'll win souls. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, stir us and help us to stay true to you. Help us this coming week, next seven days, to be faithful. Not hateful, not arrogant, but just humble, happy, holy Christians. Trusting you and serving you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I need stronger faith. Any like that? I preach this, I study this, preacher, I think, man, I need stronger faith. I mean people say, preacher, my commitment to the Lord needs to be deepened. Any like that? Any like that? Sure. But we need wisdom. We need compassion. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. Prepare us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing the invitation. How about an old altar as we