Alright, are you in Hebrew Revelation chapter 12? Our topic, I guess, or our theme for track month was a boxing theme. And the knockouts versus the sluggers. And I like boxing. I don't get to watch it very much, but uh I try to every chance I can. I always say this, I'll say it again, I think it's immoral, I think it's violent, it's horrible It's terrible, it should not happen, but until they outlaw it, I'm gonna watch everyone I can And so we took that theme. So I want to take that theme, and believe it or not, that theme is in the Bible. Paul references boxing in Corinthians where he says, I don't beat the air. He's talking about a boxer with the opponent. He's not just swinging around. He's out to hit the guy. He's out to knock him out. But I want you to notice in Revelation chapter number 12, I want to begin reading in verse 7. It says, and there was war in heaven. Michael and his angels fought against the dragon, and the dragon being the devil, Satan. Fought against the dragon, and the dragon fought and his angels. So you got this spiritual warfare going on here And prevailed not. I like that. I underlined that in my Bible. Satan the dragon and his angels prevailed not, neither was their place found anymore in heaven. And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent called the devil and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world. And he was cast into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him. And let me stop here. Say that's a future event that has not happened yet. Alright? And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now has come salvation and strength, and the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ, for the accuser of our brethren is cast down. Which accused them before our God day and night. Now look at verse 11. And they overcame him The brethren overcame him, the devil, by the blood of the lamb, and by the word of their testimony, and they loved not their lives unto death They overcame the devil. In this spiritual boxing match, the brethren overcame, knocked out If you would, the devil. Let's pray. I don't want to talk about that a little bit. Father in heaven, Lord, we had a wonderful time, and we just ask now as we look at this and we go forward now That you'd stir our hearts, give us boldness, fill us with your spirit. I pray your hand be upon our church in a mighty way to have a profound impact on this world And that the devil would be overcome in his effort to keep people lost. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I said, I like boxing. I studied a little bit. I'm certainly not an expert on it. There's others perhaps here that would know a whole lot more about the technique. But I enjoy watching it, and there's certain announcers that I really enjoy listening to because they explain things. You learn a lot. And one thing I've found there is so much in the sport of boxing that parallels the Christian life. Now this is one something I've learned in watching and over the years, enjoying it. One is a boxer has to do two things if he's going to be effective in the ring. One thing he has to do is he has to develop his own abilities, his own skills. That means getting up early, that means jumping rope, boxing, shadow boxing, going through all that, all the exercise, running Everything he has to do. He has to tone himself and prepare himself for that match. The parallel to that in our Christian life would be our walk with God. If we're going to have victory in our Christian life, we're going to knock out the devil. We've got to be spiritually toned. That means we've got to do what? What are some things that would require that Alright, that daily time with the Lord, we emphasize that so much. What else? Alright, being in prayer. Uh do you think uh do you ever notice boxers when they're up for a match that they watch their weight very carefully? So they're eating very very careful what they're eating. They're pushing away birthday cakes and cupcakes and chocolate fudge and Chocolate cakes with chocolate fudge on them and all that. And so the parallel to that would be I need to be very, very careful what I allow into my heart and mind. If I allow the filth of this world and questionable things coming in my heart and mind, I'm not going to be much shaped to be able to face uh the spiritual warfare we're in. So that's one part of it. The boxer uh preparing himself for that match physically. We have to prepare ourselves spiritually. We've got to know we're saved and I live in obedience to the Lord, walk with the Lord, faithful to the Lord, those things But there's another thing that a good boxer does before he goes in the match, at least when you get up to the professional levels, is that's this. You study your opponent And they will watch film after film after film watching that opponent. They're looking for a weak spot. They're looking for something he does repetitively if he's always doing this whenever he makes a jab then uh maybe his left hand is down or whatever oh there's a vulnerable spot and they will study that guy they will know him inside and out And what his tendency are are what his tendencies are and what he's uh prone to do so they can take advantage of that. And I want to do that a little bit tonight is is study just for a bit our opponent The devil, what do we know about him? And then I want to give you three knockout punches for the devil. Let me just give you a list of things about the devil. Number one, he is not in hell right now The devil is not in hell. You say, well, the devil's down in hell. No, he isn't. Peter tells us he's walking to and fro across the earth, seeking whom he may devour. And uh the devil is as real and he is loose on planet Earth. Now God is ultimately in control, but uh we are fooling ourselves and we're setting ourselves up for defeat if we think that the devil is not a very real Entity in our world today. Now I've often wondered, I've often asked myself, I wonder if I have ever encountered the devil himself There's only one devil. He's not omnipresent. He can't be everywhere at one time. He can only be at one place at a time, just like you and I. He's maybe more mobile than we are, but he's he's not omnipresent. And I've often wondered, have I or has our church ever had such a significant impact on the world that it caught the devil himself's attention? I don't know the answer to that. But I do know this. We've certainly caught the attention of some of his imps We've dealt with them. And if you've ever been involved in witnessing or soul winning in any way, effective way, you know for sure. If I didn't believe the Bible and I didn't believe anything else, and I went soul winning, I'd believe the devil was real just by what I've encountered. Soul winning And the opposition and the things that are so quote-unquote coincidental in obstructing someone from coming to Christ So the point number one is this. Our enemy, our opponent, is not in hell. He's here. He's very real, and he has his fallen angels. Number two, I put this down, Satan, our opponent, has access to heaven. We see that in Job. He presented himself before the Lord. We saw it here in the verse, here in verse number 10. We read, where he is called the accuser of the brethren. The accuser of the brand. So he has access to heaven. Satan has access to heaven. Now there's a day coming when that's going to end But as of right now, he has access to God's throne. Number next, I put down, the devil is tireless and unrelenting. I'm not against, don't misunderstand and don't read into what I'm about to say. I am not against vacations. I'm for them. I would like to take more if I could. But one thing I don't see anywhere in the Bible where the devil takes a vacation. I don't find anywhere in the Bible where the devil takes a nap. This guy is relentless. 24-7. He is opposed to the people of God 24-7. He is absolutely fighting the advancement of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so if there's anything I admire about the devil, I admire his tenacity, his persistence. He is unrelenting. Next, I put this down. He has thousands of years of experience. Anybody here been saved five years or more? Ten years or more? uh 25 years or more right here say Monday night at 1030 did everybody tell you about that um Monday night at 1030 it was 39 years ago And I bowed my head to trust in Christ. Anybody here 50 years or longer? So at the most, let's say we got 60, 65 years maybe the most of experience in dealing with our opponent He has thousands and thousands and thousands of years of dealing with us. Dealing with mankind. What I'm trying to say is this. We're not up against a dummy Not up against a rookie. Doesn't know what he's doing. The devil knows what he's doing. He's got lots of experience. In fact, I'd say he was pretty successful in his first ball. How did he? Pretty successful there. And so it's not to be taken lightly. He's we shouldn't take him flippantly. We need to understand he has lots of experience. The devil has a great commission. Devil has a great commission. What's our great commission? Go into All the world and preach the gospel. That's our Lord, our God, our creator, our Savior has given us that commission. Go into all the world and preach the gospel. What in the world is Satan's great commission? Acts 4. 11. Now we'll for sake of time we won't go there. I wanted to But uh Acts 4. 11, if you look it up, there the Pharisees tell the disciples they are not to teach or preach in Jesus' name anymore. Now our commission, great commission, is to go out and preach and teach the name of Christ, the gospel of Jesus Christ. Satan's great commission is don't Go out and teach and preach in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. I put this down. The devil has a ministry. The devil has a very effective ministry. Anybody know what that is? We read it in verse 10. He is what? The accuser of the brethren. He is very, very effective. I want to encourage you sometime you have some time in your work, you study in your Bible or whatever Get your concordance and look up that word accused or accused or those types of things. You know what you will never find. You will never find in the Bible You will never find a child of God accusing others. The only people recorded in the Bible accusing people of anything are the enemies of the gospel. The Pharisees The accused. Go through the book of Acts sometime. Look up the word accused. It's always the enemies of God. It's always the enemies of the gospel that are making accusations. So I want to be very very careful. I think we need to be very, very careful. When we start throwing accusations around, we need to stop and think, wait a minute, whose ministry am I involved in here? Is this the Lord's ministry to throw accusations at my spouse or my parents or my kids or others? Or is it Or whose ministry is this? Satan has a very effective ministry. Now here's the tragic thing about this ministry, accuser of the brethren. He doesn't have to make stuff up, does he? He's gonna accuse us of something. He doesn't make something up. Oh, don't he a sinner. Not making it up. Right His accusations are grounded in truth. And so he has a ministry of accusation. And then the last one I put here is he's very effective. Satan is very effective at what he does. Now, I said all that, and I always hesitate to try and exalt the devil too much. I don't want to give him too much credit, and I don't want to uh give him too much attention, but uh we do make a mistake if we underestimate the prowess of our enemy If a boxer comes up to a match, he's going to have about, he climbs into that, you ever notice it's called a ring, but it's square. Called the round, called the square circle is what they call it. So he gets in the ring. The reason they call it the ring is because the boxers go in a circle around when they're facing each other But anyway, when a boxer gets in that ring, he's a dumb bunny. He's in for a bad time if he underestimates the abilities of his opponent. I was watching just in the last, oh, it was probably been a week or two ago, they had a clip of this boxing site I go to, they had a clip of these guys that got in the ring and they were real arrogant and they're showing off, you know, and hot dogging it around. Every one of them got clobbered and ended up laying on the floor And so if we think we can just play around with the devil and underestimate them, we're going to get clobbered. We're knocked out. So having said all that about the devil One thing the Bible is very very clear about we can defeat him. You don't want it to be his victim victim. We don't have to be victims of the devil. We don't have to be defeated We can have clear, sound, unquestionable victory over our enemy. And that's where our text come in. If you would look at verse 11. It says, and they overcame him by the blood of the lamb. That's one punch. By the word of their testimony, that's another punch, and they love not their lives unto death. And I can look at that as the final uppercut. They knock out the devil with these three threefold punches here. Now this is what caught my attention. I was telling Brian, I was so excited about it, I couldn't wait to get up here. So I started preaching to Brian back there. He needed it. But that word overcame. Look at that in your Bible there. And they overcame him. And then he lists these three ways they overcame the devil. I got looking at that word overcome. They overcame him, and it has some pretty neat meanings. One of the obvious meanings, in fact, it's translated this way a few places throughout the Bible, is to conquer. They overcame him. They conquered him by these three methods. It has the idea of prevailing over him, to prevail. And the picture I got, and of course I've got this boxing theme in my mind, so I'm everything is looking through those glasses at boxing, but this is the picture I got as I was looking at definition The devil's laying on his back on the mat in the ring, and the believers are standing over him with their gloves in the air. They prevailed We were victorious. We conquered him. And then I got to this definition. It has this, to get the victory over They overcame him. They got the victory over him. And so I put there, I put in the margin of my notes I have here, they knocked him out. They knocked them out. And that's what we want to do. What are these three quote-unquote punches that the brethren used to overcome the devil, the dragon, to overcome Satan? How do they do that? Let me give them to you real quick. Number one, the precious blood of Jesus They overcame him with the precious blood of Jesus. And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb. The word blood is used 460, at least 460 times in the Bible. The blood, the blood, the blood. Somebody said if you cut the Bible, it'll bleed. Of course, that's not literal. But what they're saying is the blood of the Lamb, the blood, that the atoning blood of Christ is all through the Bible. Listen, a church makes a serious, serious mistake when they take songs about the blood out of their hymn books. And that's happened. A preacher makes a serious, serious mistake when he downplays or ignores or disregards the blood of Jesus. It is one of the ways we overcome the devil. Somebody, let's do this real quick. Somebody look up 1 John 1. 7. Go! See who finds it first. And somebody else look up Ephesians 1-7. 1 John 1. 7, Ephesians 1. 7. See who finds it first, you get a ribbon. Laura? Read that last phrase again, real loud. What does the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, do? Cleanses us from all sin. What is Satan's ministry? The accuser, the brethren, to accuse us before God of our sin. Oh, Dennis Leatherman, he thought that and he said this and he didn't do that and he uh he did that. And I stand there, uh he's right. I can't deny it, I'm a sinner. Then the blood of Jesus Christ is there, and the blood of Jesus Christ erases, cleanses all record of my sin, and that renders Satan's ministry ineffective. Satan stands before God and says, here's all the sins of Dennis Leatherman. They're true, they're documented, they're right there. And God says, I don't know what you're talking about. All I see is the cleansing blood of Jesus. I don't see any sin. There is a fountain filled with blood drawn from Emmanuel's veins. Sinners plunged beneath that flood are what? All their guilty stains. One of the ways we overcome the devil is through the blood of Jesus Christ by accepting Jesus Christ as our personal Savior and he cleanses our sin and he takes away Satan's ministry. Satan can his accusations though true are ineffective. Because the blood of Jesus Christ has cleansed us from all sin. Isn't that good? Ephesians. Damn. And whom we have redemption for the blood. We have redemption through his blood. I've been bought back from Satan's possession. I've been bought back from Satan's power by the blood of Jesus Christ. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. You know what that means? If that's true, that means God has cleansed us from all sin That God has no record of any wrongdoing, past, present, or future. That Satan has no effective ministry against us at all. He can accuse us all he wants and be as true as they possibly can. On God's side. The sins are cleansed. So one of the ways that Satan is punched, one of the threefold punches that Satan is knocked out is through the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. I was reading about a preacher, his name's Charles Barry. This was a preacher, get this, that did not believe the gospel. Say, what? No way. There's no preacher who doesn't believe the gospel. A lot of them around, I hate to say it. Some within our city limits. He was called to go visit a lady who was Deeply concerned about her mother. She said, My mother is dying. You please come and she said this, this is the way she worded it, come and get her in And she meant she needs to get saved before it's too late. So he was uh he understood what she meant, that she wanted words of comfort, that she would know that she's going to heaven and not to hell. And he was worried what to say because he doesn't believe the gospel. What is he going to tell somebody that's dying if you don't believe the gospel? He arrived at her bedside. This is what he told her. You have nothing to fear, ma'am. God is love. You have nothing to fear. You've lived a good life. You have nothing to fear. He noticed that that gave her no hope. In fact, she became desperate So the preacher realized that what he was saying to her was not helping at all. It was just empty, shallow words. And this woman is getting more and more fearful, and so he's getting desperate also to know what to say or do. And as he was beside her bed, he said he remembered a hymn that his mother sang to him when he was a small boy. And this was the hymn, and he began singing it to the lady. There is a fountain filled with blood, drawn from Emmanuel's veins. And sinners plunged beneath that flood, lose all their guilty stains. He noticed when he sang that refrain that the woman's face brightened And she found some hope in that song. And he started going back and he remembered the lessons he had heard as a child about Jesus taking our place. And dying for our sins and our place, shedding his blood, being buried and rising again. And he began sharing those with this woman. He said this. He said, in those moments the dying woman found peace by trusting Jesus as her Savior. He said, I presented the gospel to her and she got in. She got saved. That's not the end of the story. The next Sunday he's told his congregation about his experience. And he ended with this. Not only did it get her in But it got me in too. And old Charles Barry got saved. And he says, from now on, I'll preach Christ and him crucified. Isn't that something? How do you knock out the devil? By the blood of the lamb. By the blood of the lamb. Number two. I put this down. I notice this in the verse. Not just by the precious blood of Christ, but also by the powerful witness of the gospel. Powerful witness of the gospel. Look, they overcame him. What? How? By the blood of the Lamb? Boom! And by the word of their testimony, pow! The powerful witness of the gospel. A faithful, consistent, persistent witness of the gospel has a powerful, powerful impact. The word word there means what you think it would means to express words. Speech. One definition was this: the act of speaking. Another definition, a spoken truth. In fact, in Strong's it has this, a spoken truth or doctrine. The word of their testimony. What I'm trying to say is this, simply living a Christian lifestyle is not enough. Doesn't say they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb and by their Christian lifestyle. And in fact, he uses that word word purposely. It's the spoken word. It's speaking it. There's a teaching that's not as probably I don't hear about as much now as back several decades ago, but it was called lifestyle evangelism. Books were written, people were promoting it. Don't preach, don't give the gospel, don't speak, just live the life, and that'll draw people to Christ Well, if that was true, I know some Catholics that ought to be winning people to Christ. They live pretty good lives. I know some Mormons that live pretty moral, decent lives. Just living the life is not enough. We're not going to defeat the devil by keeping our mouth shut. We're going to defeat the devil by speaking out the gospel of Jesus Christ. There's a reason Jesus said, go into all the world and Preach the gospel. Proclaim it. Nobody understands they're a sinner and that Jesus died as their substitute, was buried, and rose again. They need to turn to him and trust him with their whole heart as their own personal Savior. Nobody knows that by watching how I live. It's a historical event that took place when Christ died, was buried, and rose again, and that truth must be proclaimed If we keep our mouth shut and we don't give out gospel tracts and we don't get that message out, we are getting beat up by the devil, but we can take it to the devil by proclaiming the gospel of Jesus Christ, giving these gospels out. Lifestyle is not enough. A little boy asked his mother, mother, why do you put cream on your face every night when you go to bed? She said, Sonny, because uh she said she said so I can look pretty. He said, well, it apparently doesn't work if you have to do it every night. I'm not sure whatever happened to that kid. But I'm telling you, just living it and not speaking it, living it without lipping it, isn't gonna work. It's gonna work. We've got to proclaim the gospel. And then let me give you the last one here. I got two P's here for this. I first one I put down was this passionate a passionate commitment to Jesus Then I put this down, persistent commitment to Jesus. Look at that last phrase. I tell you, if this isn't convicting, I don't know what is. If this doesn't challenge us, I don't know what does They loved not their lives unto what? Unto death. Wow. Wow. Now I'm asking myself this question along with you. How many of us How many of us would be willing to die for the advancement of the gospel? Would we? Suppose we announced at the beginning of track month, I got up and say there's been changes in our government, there's been changes in our society. We're going to give these gospel tracts out, we're going to give them boldly, we're going to give them compassionately. But there's a very very high probability that many, if not most of us, are going to be killed for doing it. I wonder how many tracks we'd get out. sobering isn't it? That's what's taking place here. These are people who the highest priority in their life was the commitment to Jesus Christ and the cause of the gospel. That was their highest priority. That was the most important thing to them. Nothing else in the world, even their own light. Um people remember, yeah I'm sure we do, the down in Florida just recently, that school shooting. Horrible, horrible And there's a fellow there that took a lot of heat, and I believe justly so. He's a policeman. Everybody know what I'm talking about? Or a sheriff? And I'll tell you, I I put myself in his shoes. I hope I'd do the right thing. He was scared, he was fearful, he wouldn't go in there and wouldn't protect those kids. His life was more important to him His well-being was more important to him than the well-being of the children in that school. Now I'm you know I want to be careful about passing judgment. I don't know all the facts. That's what it looks like Boy, we're all upset about that. I wonder how many of us. I wonder how many of us our schedule, our convenience. our comfort, our will, our agenda is more important than trying to reach people with the gospel. I'm preaching myself as much as anybody That last phrase and that verse absolutely challenges me. They love not their lives unto death. Brings me back to those dear Ugandan ladies. Little or no money. Yet their concern for other was so great they did what they all they had. That's how we're going to defeat the devil. He is all out 100%. Dep-hearted, convenient Christianity is not going to have an impact. We're not going to knock them out. Uh it's not going to happen. I read about, and I think I've used this before, but I read about a young fella began taking less uh there was a boy 10-year-old boy I think I've used this in a message before but ten year old boy he decided he was going to study judo But he had lost his left arm in a devastating car accident. So he began studying with an old Japanese judo master, and he was doing very well. But he couldn't understand why after three months of training, the Old Judo master only taught him one move. Just one move. That's all he would teach him. And the boy finally says, say, shouldn't I be learning some other moves here? All I have is just this one. And the master said, the teacher said, this is the only move you know, and it is the only one you'll ever need to know. So the boy didn't understand. He kept training. Several months went by. He took the boy to his first tournament. Surprisingly, the boy l easily won the first two matches. The third match proved to be much more difficult, but after some time his opponent became impatient and came charging in. The boy just used that one move that he knew and he won the match. He was amazed by this. He didn't understand it And finally he came to the final opponent. He was bigger, stronger, and more experienced than any others. The boy appeared to be overmatched. Concerned that the boy might get hurt, the referee called a timeout, was going to stop the match, but the master stepped in. He said, no, no, no, let him continue. He'll be fine. Alright, so they let the match resume. The opponent made a critical mistake, he dropped his guard, and instantly the boy moved to pin him. The boy won the match, won the tournament, was the champion. On the way home, the boy asked the teacher, how in the world did I win that with only one move? The teacher said, you won for two reasons. Number one, you've almost mastered one of the most difficult throws in all of Judah. You're almost a master of it, the most difficult one in all of Judah. And he said, number two, the only known defense for that move. Is for your opponent to grab your left arm And the point was this, the boy's biggest weakness was one of his greatest strengths. And you and I in this whole world and up to the devil, we may look like we are something weak. We only got one arm boxer against the devil devil of the universe. But I'm telling you, with Jesus Christ, our weakness becomes our strength. Because he fights for us. When we see the blooded Lamb, understand our sins are forgiven We give the word of our testimony and we are sold out to Jesus Christ. The devil cannot stand that. It will knock him out. Isn't that good? So I want to challenge us. Let's get ourselves in shape spiritually, stay in shape spiritually. And let's understand our opponent and let's use these three things. When he starts throwing accusations, wait a minute, the blood of Jesus Christ cleanse me from all in sin. Get out there and start proclaiming the Word of God and be so committed to Jesus Christ, nothing else in this world is more important than it. And that's the threefold punch to the devil. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord that you would challenge us through this passage here. I'm so grateful for these Tribulational saints, I believe they are, and their and their commitment and how they overcame the devil. I pray we can in our own personal lives and as a church in the coming months and years In Jesus' name. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I want to give good, strong attention to my walk with God? Any like that? I want to be careful. I need to give more attention. I need to work on that. It's an ongoing lifelong. God bless you. How many would say, I want to be bolder in my witness? Month was a good month. We got a lot of tracks out, but let's look forward. I want to be bold. I want to knock the devil out. God bless you. Father, you I saw hands. You know our hearts. And so stir us, we pray, and help us. In Jesus' name. Amen.