Play a little game here to get things started. I'm gonna give you three words and you have to try and figure out what these three words have in common. Three words, and then you tell me what they have in common. Here's the first word. Keys. Keys, like card keys. The second word is wallet. You know the thing that has money in sometimes. Keys, wallet, third word is this, mind. Our mind. What do those three things, keys, wallet, and mind, have in common? Something we lose. Of those three, it's my mind that I miss the most Luke chapter 15 is the lost and found chapter of the Bible. We have a lost sheep that's found, we have a lost coin that's found, and we have a lost son in a sense. that is found. Now last week we kind of introduced this chapter as we add a message on the first two verses. And I just want to touch on them if you would notice verse number one And this verse 1 and 2 is what sets up these trinit this trinity of parables. The lost sheep, the lost coin, the lost sun. Verse 1 and 2 tells us why Jesus gave these parables. Notice Then drew near then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners. I mean, these are the misfits of society. These are the outcasts. This is the This is the bottom rung in society. People are wicked, sinful, deceitful, dishonest, hated. They're attracted and they come to hear Jesus. Then look at verse 2 And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, here it is, this man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. And as a result of that statement, verse 3, he spake this parable unto him. Then he gives a series of these three parables. Jesus was being criticized. For receiving and associating with sinners. I don't know about you, but I am glad that Jesus received sinners Because if he didn't receive sinners, I would not be received by the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm glad that Jesus associates with sinners, because if he didn't associate with sinners, there's not one person that Jesus would associate himself with. These Pharisees had nothing good to say about Jesus Christ. You study the gospels very carefully. Now, one time did they see anything positive, anything good? Their whole mindset was to criticize, condemn, and put down, and not just Jesus, but even Jesus' disciples, even the people that came to see Jesus. They could find no good. They were just obsessed. They were eat up with pointing out the faults of others, with putting down others, with condemning others. And Jesus responds to that, as we said, with these three parables, these three stories of sheep that got lost, and how the shepherd Risks his own life, does something he would not do for pleasure, and goes out through the night and finds that sheep and brings it back into the fold. Of course there's great rejoicing. A woman that loses a coin, great value, and sweeps a house and cleans until she finds it, then there's great rejoicing. And then the son that goes away and is lost out in the world And the Father prays and watches and waits until that son comes back. And he says, My son was lost and now is found. And Jesus is responding to this mentality That somehow that the Pharisees had, that somehow they were better than others, that somehow they were above others, somehow they were holier than others, and they had in their minds the right and the justification to condemn and tear down others. And Jesus responds to that. And we here we have, I believe, in these three parables the heart of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now I want to give you three thoughts this morning. I want to try and be brief and uh give these and uh I trust they're helpful. Actually the introduction to the message I wanted to preach But I'm just going to give this to you. I want us to notice, first of all, the purpose for our Lord's coming. The purpose for our Lord's coming. Now, when I say the Lord's coming, I'm talking about the first time. When Jesus was born in a manger and he came what we call his first advent. Why did Jesus come to earth? Why did he leave his throne in heaven? Why did he leave the glory and uh of heaven and the worship of the angels and the atmosphere of the presence of Almighty God. Why did he leave that, take on the form of a man, and live that air? I'll tell you why. It's found in Luke chapter 19 You would. And we're going to use our Bibles a little bit here in the next few moments, so keep them handy. Turn with me to Luke chapter 19. We're in chapter 15, four more chapters back. And notice with me verse number 10. Now I don't know if you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible and passages in your Bible, but I highly recommend That Luke chapter 19 and verse number 10 be underlined in your Bible. Notice what the Bible says. Why did Jesus come? For the Son of Man has come to what Seek and to save that which was lost. And uh here we have the reason the Lord Jesus Christ gave. He came to find lost people, to find sinners The very people that the Pharisees were rejecting, Jesus came looking for them, seeking for them, so that they could be found, so that they could be saved, saved from sin. Saved from God's judgment, saved from eternity, separated from God in hell. That is the purpose of the Lord Jesus Christ's coming Um, how many people here ever been to a doctor's office? Anybody here ever been to a doctor's office? How many people avoid the doctor's office at all costs? How many people would rather die than to go to the doctor's office? Yeah, some of you are going to too. I was at a doctor's office recently. You won't believe this A doctor's office. A doctor's office of old place. You know what that? It was full of sick people. What in the world? A doctor is hell. A doctor is life, doctor is hell, and all these sick people are there. How many people agree with me? You kind of expect sick people to be at a doctor's office, right? What is Jesus? Jesus is a savior. What would you expect to find around a savior? People who need saving. You have a doctor who administers health, at least in most cases. Doctor and Minister's health, you would expect people to be there who need help, who need that medication, need that care, need that help. And so these Pharisees are completely off base. When they're condemning Jesus for associating and receiving sinners. That was the whole purpose he came for. To save sinners, to find people who are under the judgment of God, who if they die in their sins are going to be separated from God for all eternity Who are empty in their heart, there's no they're without God, Ephesians tells us without God, and without hope in the world, He is the solution, He is the answer, it's the whole purpose of His coming was to seek and to shade that which is lost. I think it's interesting in our parable back here and uh uh that this uh shepherd, you notice uh in uh verse number four. Uh we don't we're not giving the details how this all played out. And by the way, I'm not convinced that this is a made-up story. I think this is probably an event that actually happened Jesus, knowing all things and takes this event and uses it, presents it as what we call a parable. But nevertheless, this shepherd at the end of the day comes across, he's got a hundred sheep We're told that um uh in in my reading, I was told that uh a shepherd at this time in this part of the world Having a hundred sheep, that is not a huge flock. This was not necessarily a very wealthy man. This is not necessarily somebody that was a uh a great it was of modest means someone ahead a hundred sheep so with one sheep missing just from uh economic standpoint is pretty significant This little sheep was valuable to this shepherd. It's not just something I can just mark it off as a loss in business and just go on. No, no, no. He says he realizes the sheep is missing. And here's the point I want to make here at this point. He does not condemn that sheep for being lost. Bob doesn't say he gets there and one sheep he's a ninety and nine, one sheep's missing, and he says, that stinking sheep I can't stand that sheep. He's bad. He's naughty. He doesn't condemn the sheep. Here's the other thing I notice. He doesn't forsake the sheep. Then say, oh well, too bad. He made that decision. That sheep decided not to follow us back. He decided to go out there and be in the wilderness. And uh tough luck for him, he's got a fend for himself No, Lord doesn't do either of that. The shepherd doesn't do either of that. What's he do? He values that sheep. In fact The whole purpose he's leaving the sheephold. The whole reason he leaves his home at night and goes out into a very unpleasant, uh, unfriendly atmosphere, the whole reason he does that is to seek and to save that sheep that is missing. And that is an absolute beautiful picture. Of what our Savior Jesus Christ did in coming to earth the first time. I'm glad that up in heaven he did not look down and see Dennis Leatherman and say, listen He made the decisions he made. He decided to live his life that way. He decided to violate my law and break my commands and be self-centered and engaged in sin He made their decisions. He can live with it and he can die with it. I'm glad Jesus didn't say that. I'm glad he decided, no, I'm going to go down into an uh hostile environment Where they're going to condemn me, they're going to ridicule me, they're going to mock me, they're going to crucify me, and I will endure the cross so that my people can be saved. Isn't that a wonderful truth? I'm so glad uh Jesus is our Savior. So the whole purpose for Jesus Christ coming to earth Coming the first time was to seek and to save those who are lost. But my second thought is this. I want us to notice not just the purpose of the Lord's coming the first time, but I want us to notice the passion Of our Lord's ministry while he was here. The passion. What was the passion of our Lord's ministry? to seek and to save that which was lost. Now, you got your Bibles there? How many people brought your Bible to church today? Raise your hand. Got your Bible? Look at that. We got them. We might as well use them, huh? Let's go with me, if you would, to Matthew chapter 9. First gospel in the New Testament, Matthew chapter 9, and we're going to just go through a few of these here real quick. Matthew 9. And I want you to turn to him because I want you to see them. I'll encourage you maybe highlight some of these passages in your Bible. Matthew chapter 9. I want to begin reading in verse number 35. Now we're talking about the passion of our Lord's ministry while he was here on earth to seek and to save that which is lost. That which drove him, that which was his heart while he was here. Look at verse 35, Matthew 9. Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in the s in their synagogues preaching the gospel of the kingdom and healing every sickness and every disease among the people. Did you notice? He's not just sitting in Bethlehem waiting for sinners to come to him. What's he doing? He's going out to them. He's going out into the villages and the cities and the towns. He's going out into where the people are And going after him. Now look at verse number 36. But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with what? Compassion on them. Why? Because they were fainted, look at this, and were scattered abroad as what? Sheep having no shepherd. Wow, there's the picture of Luke chapter 15, that lost sheep. It's scattered abroad. The shepherd, it doesn't have its shepherd, it needs it. And here we're told that Jesus was moved with compassion. His very heart wasn't to condemn the sinner, wasn't repulsed by the sinners, wasn't to mock the sinner, wasn't to uh reject the sinners. That was the that was the the purpose of the Pharisees. That was their mindset. But our Savior's mindset was compassion. Turn with me to chapter 14 Matthew chapter 14 and verse number 14. Matthew 14 and verse number 14. And it says, verse 14, and Jesus went forth and saw a great multitude. So he's looking out and he sees all these people are following. And he was moved with what? Compassion toward them, and he healed their sick. Jesus' heart was for people. Jesus' heart was for folks that had needs, people who had an emptiness in their heart, people who had sin in their lives, people who had messed up. People who were without God and without hope in the word. And his heart was stirred for them. Now, for sake of time, you can just jot this down. Mark chapter 1, verse 41. Mark chapter 6, verse 34. Actually, 14 times. In these four gospels, the Bible says specifically that Jesus had compassion. on the multitudes. Now, what does it mean to have compassion? What does it mean to have compassion? The word itself simply means this. And it's kind of really, to be honest with you, I hadn't given this much thought before, I don't guess But it's kind of a tough word to defy with words. We kind of know what it means. We know what that means feeling is to have compassion of somebody. But how do you put it in words? I'm going to try. This compassion is to have a tender, loving pity for someone, having compassion on them. But it's more than just pity. Pity in and of itself is pretty shallow. Do you agree with me? Oh, you poor little thing. You know, that only goes so far. Compassion is having a tender loving pity for, but uh uh a tender loving care for some for them. Um uh a tender concern For the well-being of somebody who is unable to care for their own well-being. Compassion His heart went out to them. His heart went out to them to such a degree that it stirred him to give of himself. That, of course, applies to the laws. God's people, we ought to have compassion on unsaved people Amen. Let's have compassion on unsaved people. We come across someone that doesn't know Christ, and w we're not being judgmental, but obviously they don't know Christ. They're unsaved. They need Christ. Our heart ought to go out to them. Listen, it's very important. No Christian ought to condemn a lost person. They're already condemned. John tells us. They're already under the judgment of God. Our heart ought to go out to them to know Christ that they can find what we've had. I was reading some, it's been some time ago a book, and the guy made this statement He said soul winning is simply one beggar telling another beggar where to find food. Isn't that good? One sinner telling another sinner where to go to find forgiveness. And Jesus had compassion on the unsaved. Jesus' heart went out to them. And you and I, as a child of God, we ought to have compassion on those that are without Christ. Our heart ought to go out to them. Uh sometimes we get frustrated, especially if that unsafe person's living wicked and their actions affect me Oh, we get frustrated. Ah! We need to stop and remember, wait a minute, Jesus Christ loves that person very dearly. God wants them to be saved. What they need is Jesus Christ. What they need is new life, a new heart, eternal life. And so Jesus had compassion on loss. Let me just throw this in. We ought to have compassion on loss. Let me throw this in We ought to have compassion on one another as Christians also. How many people here have attained you're already everything that God wants you to be, your exact perfect Christian You have no room for spiritual growth at all whatsoever. Anybody here? I'm glad nobody raised their hand. I was Well I was saying that I was thinking, what are you gonna say if somebody raised their hand? We haven't arrived, have we? And that person you're fr that other Christian you're frustrated with, I got news for you. They haven't arrived either. In fact, there might be a good chance they're a little bit farther along than you are. So we need to be very, very careful about that. God has compassion on that person you're angry at, they're such a sinner. Yeah. Don't forget this: God loves them. That's who he came for. And so the compassion of it. I want to make a statement. And if you don't get anything else, if you leave here in a few minutes, a few hours, a few minutes, you leave here in a little bit. I hope you take this one thing with you. Please. Our God, the one that created us, and then The one true and living God, that God, loves you and me intensely. Intensely. He cares about us. You say, preacher, I don't think anybody in this world cares about me. You are wrong. The very God that made you loves you dearly, cares deeply for you To the extent that he would leave heaven and suffer hell on the cross so that you and I Can be forgiven and have eternal life and spend eternity with Him. What a Savior. What a Savior. The passion of our Lord's ministry was to seek and to save that which was lost. God loves you dearly. Our Creator loves us and cares deeply for our well-being. Got your Bible there? Let me show you a few verses. You're gonna like these, I think. Jeremiah chapter 31 Jeremiah chapter 31. Go back there in the Old Testament. Psalms, Proverbs, Song of Solomon, Ecclesiastes, Song of Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah. Right after Jeremiah. Right after uh Jeremiah is right after Isaiah. Chapter 31. Chapter 31 is right after chapter 30. That's for the deacons. I gotta quit. I gotta live with those guys. I can't be teasing them all the time. Jeremiah chapter 31, look at verse 3. Are you there? If you're not there yet, just look intelligently at your Bible. I love this verse. I love it. The Lord hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Look at this. This is the Lord speaking. Yea I have loved thee with an everlasting love. Therefore, with loving kindness have I drawn thee. No one in this world loves you and I to the extent that God loves us. Nobody can say I've loved you with an everlasting love. Nobody but God can say that. If something's everlasting, how long does it last? Forever. How many people found out that sometimes people change their minds? I mean hourly sometimes. Sometimes you think somebody that was on board with you a couple days later you find out they're not. Everlasting, it's never going to change. I'm telling you, God will never love you more than he loves you now. He will never love you less than he loves you now. He loves us completely, eternally I like this thought. I've loved thee with an everlasting love. If something is everlasting, it means it never ends. It lasts forever. But it also means this: it never had a beginning. God has always loved you and I. He has always cared deeply for us. There is never a point in there has never been and never will be a point in your life or my life where we cannot uh uh where we can honestly say no one loves me. That has never ever been true and that will never ever be true because God in heaven loves you and me with an everlasting love Nobody else in this world might love me, but I've got a Savior and a God, a creator that loves me intensely. That's worth the price of admission right there. Take your Bible. Well, you probably don't even have to. John chapter 3 verse 16. Let's say that verse together. Ready? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That first phrase is intense. For God so love the world. That he gave his only begotten Son. Jeremiah 33, 3 Tells me, uh expresses to me a love that no one else can express to me. No one else can or will love you and I to the extent of Jeremiah 33. 1. But John 3. 16, no one has ever expressed love to you and I the way that God has expressed love to us. No one else died and suffered hell for you and I. No one else was willing to pay the price that Jesus Christ paid just so we can be with him. You say, well, I got somebody, you know, I met someone, I really love him, I like I I like to be with her, I like to be with him. What extent would you be willing to go? To make sure that they you can be with that person. Some people go a long way. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ went to hell. Suffered hell, I should say. So that you and I can be with him. That where he is, there he wants us to be also Man a lot. Thank God for a Savior that was willing to do that. Now I do want you to turn to this verse, Ephesians. Would you turn over there? This is an amazing verse. Ephesians chapter 3 I tell you, there's some things, some truths in the Bible I really don't enjoy preaching on, but I I need to preach on them because it's my responsibility. But there are some subjects in the Bible I relish preaching on, and the love of God and forgiveness of sins is one of those. The passion of our Lord's ministry is to seek and to save the lords. Look at Ephesians chapter 3 and verse number 19. Let's start out in verse eighteen. Let's start verse seventeen. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. Look at this. That ye, being rooted and grounded in love, May be able to comprehend with all saints, look at this, what is the breadth, length, depth, and height, and to know the love of Christ. He says, I'm praying. He's ready to church at Ephesus. He says, I'm praying you guys understand that you know, you comprehend how deep, how high, how wide, how long God's love is for you. And then as he's saying this, of course, all under the inspiration of God, then he makes this statement in verse 19, that you might know the that to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge. What? He says, I'm praying that you will be able to comprehend, that you will know the love of Christ, the love that is beyond the ability to know. In other words, now I pray you comprehend something that's incomprehensible. It is so huge, it is so immense, it is so intense. It is so grand. It is so awesome. I want you to know God's love for you, but it passes knowledge. We don't have the capabilities of comprehending the level of God's love for us. Sometimes we meet someone or we're in a situation and we'll make a statement like this. Hopefully we've all at some point in our life been able to make a statement like this I've never felt as loved as I feel when loved by you. That sounds like the words to a song. Somebody write that down. I'll come up with a song for that or um do you know what I'm saying? Oh I never felt as loved as I do when when you love me. Wait a minute. There's nobody in this earth can love us to the intensity that God loves us. Nobody cares about us. In fact, his love, his care, his compassion for us is beyond our ability to comprehend. It's not beyond God's ability to express It's beyond our ability to comprehend. I was reading this week, this was back centuries ago, a preacher was preaching And in the morning, this was before electricity and everything, and in the morning he announced this evening service, I'm going to preach on the love of Christ. And so the folks came out, and of course uh it was dark. They had candles in the in the service there, and he had a large painting of the Jesus hanging on the cross. And he had all the candles blown out. And this was his sermon. He took one candle and he took it over and he held it up by the crown of thorns on Jesus' head and he just held it there and people looked. He said, I'm preaching on the love of Christ. Then he brought it down and he showed his face beaten, beard plucked from his face, and he held it there. Then he brought it out to his hands, pierced with the nails, and he just held it there. They say about this time you could hear out in the darkness of the congregation, he started hearing sniffling. Started hearing people starting to weep. He said, I'm preaching on the love of Christ. He held it down to the side where the spirit was, the painting had the spirit pierced up into his side, into his heart. And the weeping became more pointed. He held it down to his feet and the blood stain running down his legs and his pierced feet and the blood stained ground And they said, by the time he got to the last part, all he ever said was, I'm preaching on the love of Christ. And by the time he got to that, they said the place was filled with people sobbing and and and humbled before God. That Jesus Christ would love them enough to suffer like that. And then you add in on that physical suffering, you factor in the fact he took the judgment of God Upon his own soul for your sin and my sin. What am I saying? I'm saying this: the passion of Jesus Christ's ministry is to seek and to save that which was lost. It's his whole purpose for coming. There will always be people who are willing to say and do things to hurt us. There will always be people who will be willing to say and do things to put us down. To accuse us and mock us, there will always be people out there. However, God in heaven, our Creator, loves us dearly. And he cares for us deeply. And when I understand how much God loves me and how much Jesus Christ cares about me, all those words of hateful people Cannot shake me when I know that my God loves me. Does that make sense? Follow what I'm saying? Um God is actively working on our behalf. To make us into the people he intends for us to be. He loves us. And when we understand that, we will never fear to trust him. We will never hesitate to obey him. When we understand how much he loves us and how deeply he cares us. Can I be a little personal with you here for a moment? I'll tell you one of the hardest issues I had to deal with when going into the ministry, and even this day I hope it doesn't bother me as much as it used to, but one of the hardest issues I had to deal with Was when folks would make accusations, or you're preaching and you're trying your best to try and serve God and lead people, and people reject you I tell you, that would just tear me up, and I'd go days and sometimes weeks with little sleep and just so bothered and stressed by that. And God began teaching me something. I learned that in spite of what people meant, and you know, sometimes they might have a point. I thought it was wrong once, but I was mistaken. And um But I I I learned something. When I understand that God in heaven loves me and cares about me deeply, those things don't shake me nearly as much. Man may reject me, man may accuse me, but I've got a God in heaven. I have a Savior that loves me dearly. And receives sinners and associates with them. And many of you, no doubt, know exactly what I'm talking about. Do not, here's a statement I want to give you: do not allow Satan. To poison your heart. Do not allow Satan to poison your mind with doubts about the love of God for you. Don't let that happen. I've had people and many times it's been younger people have made a statement like this. Well, I just don't think God loves me Now I understand I want to be patient and kind, but wait a minute. What more does God have to do to prove to you he loves you? Are you calling God a liar? Are you saying that Jesus suffered on that cross, suffered hell on that cross, and then you dare to suggest he does not love you? Wait a minute, what more do you demand? What more do you expect from your God? The passion of our Lord is to seek and to save that which was lost. The weeks leading up to the night that I trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, there was a truth that gripped my heart, and it was this. That God genuinely cared about me. The sinful wretch that I was, this messed up teenage boy that I had turned into, this horrendous person that I had become, that God genuinely cared about me And that he, if I would trust Jesus as my personal Savior, He would take me as I was, and He could change me and take that which was wrong in my life, and He can make it right. What a savior. I don't know where you're at this morning. If you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal savior, I'm here to tell you. Jesus Christ loves you so much. He wants to come in your life. He wants to take that which is wrong and make it right. He wants to take your sin and cleanse it and give you new life in Christ. He loves you dearly. That's the passion of our Savior. If you're here this morning and you're already saved, you trust in Christ the Savior. And maybe you're wandered away and you're out of fellowship with God. Maybe you're just under a burden. Maybe you're just discouraged and you're wondering, you know, who in this world loves you? I'm here to remind you Jesus Christ loves you dearly and he can take wherever you're at, even as a Christian, and he can change things and make that which is wrong and make it right. And he can make those trials you're going through and out of it make you a stronger, better, happier Christian. I was thinking this morning, I was getting ready running around here like a chicken with my head cut off. I mean like a chicken with its head cut off. I was just running around. And I got thinking about Joseph Remember when Joseph's brothers turned on him? I don't think you remember the story of Joseph. His brothers turned on him. Did they have any justification for that? None whatsoever. Joseph was above reproach. They turned on him, and then through a series of events, Joseph is number two in Egypt, and they're coming, the brothers are coming, Daddy dies, Jacob dies, and those brothers are scared to death. And they lie some more. They come and say, Daddy, before he died, said that you're supposed to forgive us for everything we did. Well, Daddy never said that. And Joseph, what does he do? He begins weeping And he makes a profound statement. He says, You meant this for evil. But God meant it for good. You know what he was saying? He's saying there's nothing in this world you can do to override the goodness and compassion and power of God. You can be as rude and you can be as unjust and you can be as wicked and condemning as you want. You cannot Overrule and quench God's plan and purpose and passion for me or anyone else Isn't that good? That's worth come to church for right there. This is better preaching than your amen, and I'll tell you that right now There's a day coming when Jesus is going to come. He's going to judge the world. He sure enough will. Hey, you mark it down. There's a day coming. Jesus coming back. Judgment's going to come down. But until that day, until that day, our Lord's passion is to seek and to save the lost. To restore sinners, to heal those who are broken by sin. That's the Lord's passion. I want to say a word. Today's the day of salvation. You're here this morning, you're not saved, you better trust Christ today. Don't you push that off? There's a day coming, judgment's coming. But now you and I have the opportunity to know Christ as Savior. My last thought is this, and I'll end with this. First of all, the purpose for Christ's coming is to seek and to save the lost. Second of all, the passion of Christ's ministry is to seek and to save the lost. And thirdly, and end with this, the plan for God's people. is to seek and to save the lost. That's his plan for us, those of us who are saved. For Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, why are we here? Why did God start this church? Why is this established? I'll tell you why. To seek and to save that which was lost. Listen to John chapter 20 and verse 21. He says, Jesus says this, as the Father hath sent me, even so send I you. Why did the Father send Jesus to earth? To seek and to save that which was lost. As he has sent me, even so send I you. That little word as there has the idea for the same purpose of God's plan for saved sinners is to find unsaved sinners and bring them to Christ so they can be saved To go out to the highways and hedges and find the lost and bring them to Jesus Christ, not to Not to pack the pews, not to add to the church membership, but to bring people to Jesus. That is our purpose. That is our purpose God's plan for saved sinners is to find unsaved sinners and bring them to Christ so they can be saved. The greatest deed in the world, the greatest deed in the world. is to find some lost sinner and introduce him to Jesus Christ, the Savior of sinners. Every single one of us can and must learn to do that. We must learn to value people the way God values people. Read this statement just recently. My last breath on earth. After my last breath on earth I will never again be able to tell a lost man about Jesus Christ. Think about that. When I take my last breath on earth as a believer and I go off into heaven, I will never, ever again have the opportunity to present a lost man with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Isn't that something? If I'm going to share Christ with others, I need to do it now. Now Because when I get to heaven, I'll no longer be able to reach lost people for Christ. That had an impact on me. No Christian, not one of us, how many folks here are saying you know it? Say amen. Not one of us is ever going to be judged by God for being too concerned about the lost. Not one of us is ever going to be judged by God for being too burdened to win unsaved people to Christ. We're never going to be judged by God for being too compassionate to sinners. We're never going to be judged by God for being too kind and too forgiving and too patient. We're not going to be judged by God for that. You know what we'll be judged by God for as Christians? For being unconcerned. For being impatient and unkind and judgmental and accusing. The purpose, God's plan for you and I as God's people, is to seek and to save the lost. Bring them to Christ. Bring them to Christ. We're all familiar with the Titanic. Been reading about that lately. That's a fascinating that's a fascinating tragedy. I mean there's so much about it that's just captivating. As tragic as it is I read this week that when the ship went down, there was 20 lifeboats, and many of you have heard this no doubt, but there was 20 lifeboats that had been launched. Those twenty lifeboats, every one of them, were only half full. The one statement I was reading that the people in the lifeboats, they use this word. This is not my word. They use this word. The people in the lifeboats were comfortable. There was enough room, I mean, under the circumstances, they were comfortable. There's plenty of room. They were not uncomfortable in in the setting. Twenty light boats When it was all said and done, over 1,500 people drowned. Of those 20 lifeboats, only half full, everybody's fine and comfortable. They're going to be okay. One came back to try and help people who were in the water and rescue them. One of the lifeboats was willing To sacrifice their comfort so that others could be saved and live. I read that. Please be patient with me, but I could not help but think, how many churches How many Christians all around us are people without Christ dying and facing eternity separated from God? And how many of us are willing to sacrifice our comfort so that we can go and reach some others? So that we can go and see someone else get in the lifeboat, so to speak, and be saved from eternity in hell. That's our purpose. That's why, that's the plan God has given for His people To seek and to save that which is lost. Seek and to save that which is lost. Number one, make sure of your own salvation. If you're here this morning, you're not saved, you better settle it. You need to settle that today. I implore you Trust Christ today. Number two, if you are saved, get as close to God as you possibly can. Humble yourself before the Lord. Let Him have His way. Trust him and obey him in every area of our life. Let God have his way. Establish a credible testimony to this whole world, what Christ can do. And number three, let's give ourselves to reaching others with the gospel. Let's give ourselves to reaching others with the gospel. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would challenge us and bless us. I pray, Father, that's Our hearts would be stirred, and we could see how much you love us and others and how much you care for us as sinners. And I pray, dear Lord, you'd stir our hearts. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved, I know I'm saved, but there's some areas of my life as a Christian I really need to get in tune with the Lord. There's some areas I know I'm not as close to the Lord as I ought to. And we could go down a list. But no doubt the Lord's already dealing with your heart, and you know what they are. You say, Preacher, this morning, I really want to be as right with God as humanly possible. I want to be as close to the Lord. These areas where I'm struggling, I just want to learn to trust God. How many by the uplifted hand would say, Preacher, pray for me? There are areas in my Christian life I really need to get close to the Lord. Some areas I really need to make right. God bless you, hands all around And no doubt these are very specific areas that the Holy Spirit is dealing with your heart about. And I want to encourage you before you leave this morning, let the Lord have his way. Do business with God. Get those areas back in line, get them tuned in the way they ought to be. Establish a credible testimony to this old simple world as to how good God is and and what he's like. How many this morning you're saved, you know it, and you say, Preacher, I'm not as involved in reaching the lost uh for Christ as I ought to be. I know my my heart I want to be, but I'm just not And by God's grace, I don't want to be like those nineteen lifeboats that were unwilling to be uncomfortable to help others. I want to be like that one that came back And I want to be a Christian that is willing to discomfort myself so that others can come to Christ and see them saved. Now how that plays out, whether it's going to a foreign field to be a missionary, whether it's Taking gospel tracts locally here, getting involved in the soul-winning ministry church. However that plays out, you say, preacher, that's my heart. I want to be that one That one lifeboat that comes back. How about it? Any like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you. If just those that raised our hands would take this seriously, what an impact that would have on thousands and thousands of people One last question. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? And you don't want to go to hell. Trust me. Trust me. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I need Jesus Christ to be my Savior so I can know for sure I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Is there anybody like that of the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. How about it? Any at all? Any at all. Father in heaven, you know our hearts. I saw a bunch of hands. I pray now, as we have the invitation, you'd help your people find a place, old-fashioned altar, and just do business with you and make decisions to live for you and serve you and reach others with the love of God. Bless our invitation we ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's