As a sermon as much as just a kind of a lesson that I've been taught. Half of this isn't original with me. Some of it is, some of it isn't. But uh it was a blessing to me and I wanted to share it. I know uh Miss Becky's already heard half of it, so she'll find that out in a little bit. So but I know we've that she said it's been a help to her, so I'm hoping if it's been a help to us Maybe it'll be a help to somebody else. Uh tonight. Some people were asking me if I was thirsty, what the water was for, and what the rocks were for, or potatoes. I told them I was gonna throw them at the Bowser kids if they didn't be quiet So they're gonna be on their best behavior back there tonight. Then I'm gonna try to illustrate something for you in a little bit towards the end. All these visuals the last couple months inspired Pastor and I guess inspired me a little bit too. We're going to try. I don't know how it's going to work. It might not work. We'll see. But anyway, the title of my message is really twofold. The first one's kind of What is Ministry? And the second is How to Find Balance in Ministry. We'll look at that in a while. I probably better get that point so I can use it later. I know we usually don't use the PowerPoint on Wednesday nights either, so you'll have to bear with me tonight a little bit. What is ministry? Pastor has a way of pastors have a way of uh sometimes asking thought-provoking questions. I don't know if any of the other deacons and trustee remember, but in one of our meetings several months back, Pastor asked the question for our devotions, what is ministry? Um sometimes I know what everything is, but when I'm asked to define it, I struggle with defining it. Then all of a sudden it becomes a challenge and you really got to think about what what is we we call we we talk about having ministries and bus ministries and youth ministries and being a part of the ministry spiritually speaking. But uh he asked us a question and I I thought a lot about it, it really helped me. So uh it's class participation tonight. So help me out if you would. I'm going to ask you the question. Same question. Someone help me out. What is ministry? Spiritually speaking, what is the ministry? Who wasn't at the meeting and remembers what Pastor said Ed forgets anyway, so you can answer Ed. Any someone's gotta help me out. Okay? Something we do for the Lord Okay. Alright. Well I went around the table it came to me. I was thinking, uh what what is ministry? And I I just I I kinda said what Ellen said. Um You know, my my definition of ministry was whatever the Lord's will for my life is, whatever He has called me to do at the church, fulfilling that. You know, that that's the ministry. And that may be my ministry, but It Pastor really pushed us to what is the ministry. And uh I I thought it was was really interesting what what he what we came up with. So we're gonna look at that. Um tonight. Um when I was thinking about w where do I go? Um well first of all, do we all have the same ministry? Ultimately. Ultimately. Okay. Ultimately we all have the same ministry. And that's where I'm kinda going with this. Ultimately, if we're saved, if we've accepted Christ as our Savior, we all have the same ministry if we're saved. Now We use various tools and various um you know resources, gifts and that kind of thing to carry out um our ministries. But if we're saved, we all Are in the in the same ministry. Sometimes we think of the ministry as if someone's in the ministry, we think of the pastor. He's the only one in the ministry. But really, it's any child of the Lord is in the ministry. Uh let's look at Acts. I was thinking uh you know, where where do I go to to see, you know, and I thought I was thinking who who in the Bible fulfilled the ministry? If anyone in the Bible fulfilled the ministry of Christ, who was it? Paul. Paul. So I thought, well, let's go look at Paul. So I went to Acts 9. Acts 9 is the conversion, which was of Saul at that time. The conversion of Saul, and I wanted to see what happened to Saul After he accepted Christ as Savior. So uh we'll go to Acts 9, 17. We'll start there in 17. We all know the story Saul was uh Persecuting the Christians, the Lord appeared to him, struck him blind, sent him to the city, sent someone to the city to to uh Ananias to uh to talk to him. And here we find that we're here with Ananias. Paul was being filled with the Spirit. Acts 9, 17. And Ananias went his way and entered into the house, and putting his hands on him, said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee. in the way as thou camest, hast sent me that thou mayest receive thy sight and be filled with the Holy Ghost. And immediately there fell from his eyes, as it had been scales, And he received sight forthwith, and arose and was baptized. And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then Paul Cert Then was Paul certain days with the disciples which were in Damascus, and straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues. That is That he is the Son of God. So what happened when Paul got saved? First thing that happened to Paul when he got saved? A baptized. A baptize. So what's this what's the next thing he did? After he ate. What's the next thing he did? You can talk to me tonight. We're we're a casual tonight. What's it say? First thing. Paul got s Paul Paul got saved and baptized. First thing he did. Paul was in the ministry. Right off the bat. The ministry is preaching Christ. And that's the first thing that we saw Paul doing. Straight away he preached Christ in the synagogue, that he is the Son of God. Basically, after through our uh Devotional time there in the meeting, we came up with that the ministry, if you boil it down to what is the ministry, it's the gospel of Jesus Christ. And uh proclaiming Proclaim in the gospel of Jesus Christ to the world. So that is our ministry as a whole. Flip over to 1 Corinthians 15, 14. First Corinthians fifteen, fourteen, we find uh an explanation of what the ministry is. We'll read start in verse uh verses one, 1 Corinthians 15, 1 through 4. Moreover, brethren, this is Paul again, moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received And wherein ye stand, by which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received How that Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That's the gospel. And too often these days that that's not the gospel being preached, but that is the gospel, the death, burial, resurrection of Christ. And that is that is the ministry that that has been given to us as as uh Christians is to preach the gospel and to tell the gospel to the world. The moment we're saved, no matter what age we are, we spread the gospel. Now we get into kind of the the other part of If we look at the ministry as is what it is as a whole, and then we look at we we have lots of ministries in the church, right I thought about asking you to name 'em, but I probably have to get a couple of sheets of paper. 'Cause they're they're extensive. There's all kinds of my Pastor my Uncle Dana um did this in one of his messages one time and he was reading down. They they made up a list because you know sometimes people can't find anything to do in the church. You know, there's nothing to do. They don't they're not gifted in any ways. We don't there's nothing I can do in the church. So they started to list uh list things that they could do. And it it was a very extensive list. And uh if one thing pastor is good at, it's finding something that all of us can do. But uh there's always something we can do And uh we're gonna talk about that. But I thought I I listed some tools we use and if I miss someone here that that's doing something that's I I'm human, okay? But uh I tried to get get as many as I could. Tools we use in in our our ministries with the cur with the Lord here. Um number one I came up with is uh we use buses Right? We all have the same ministry. We use buses. Uh Jerry left. I don't know where Jerry went. He must have had to go. But uh Jerry uses a mower. Right? Uses the mower out front. We use our voices Um we use brooms and dustpans. Um this is a good one. We use diapers and wipes. Right? You guys are thinking these aren't ministries. Alright, we'll see. Um Smiles. Smiles is a big one. Um there's all kinds of different minutes. We have Ushers. Uh officers in the church, pastors, nursery, teachers, groundskeepers, choir, cleaning, counting money. Putting bulletins together, stamping tracks, preparing meals, visitation, nursing home ministry, juvenile ministry, on on and on secretaries, piano players, just on down the line, right? All kinds of all kinds of tools that that we use uh in the ministry. Um and and you know too often I think we uh we look at what we're doing and uh we think well So you know, what what I'm doing is insignificant. Has no it really has no bearing on on on the get on spreading the gospel, seeing people get saved, because that's the ultimate goal. But Uh I don't have the reference, but you know, without the without the hand or without the foot or without you know, your body can't function properly. The body of Christ can't function properly without all of these these different things. No ministry is insignificant. Everything done for the Lord uh collectively is used to spread the gospel. No matter no matter what it is or uh what we do. You know, um sometimes uh you know we think uh think about the ushers, other than being there for the pastor to make fun of. They serve a vital role. I mean we sometimes we think the usherers you know what do they do? They just take up the offering, right? Anyone can do that. Evan can take up the offering, right Evan? Right. But anybody can take a you know the the first person that a visitor sees when they walk in the front door? First what's the first impression that a a visitor gets when they come in the front door of our church? Hopefully they see an usher out there greeting them And that that's one thing I told tell the ushers that um you know the fur the very the first impression sometimes that that a person gets when they walk in that door is is is so important. You know, and sometimes we we minimize the the roles of of uh of what of the ministries of the church. Um Nursery's a big one. I'm not gonna go down through all the list. But uh you know you know uh I forget who tell it might have been Dr. Heatwall. Um But one thing w one of the I think the biggest one of the biggest things that decid is the deciding factor, especially for a couple who has a young child of nursery age, or whether or not they come to your church, is the nursery. If if your nursery is Ed Ed will vouch for this one, right, Ed If your nursery is is is well managed and everything. That that that's huge. You know? And and basically what I'm saying this is that all these things, no matter how insignificant we think they are, collectively um all come down to spreading the gospel. Without the nursery, we can't reach those people. You know? Without without all these other things, we can't reach them. Um I'm really moving along tonight. We might have extra time. Of course I haven't got to the water and rocks yet. Um So the ministry. That's just what I want to that that uh it really stuck with me. I think about it a lot. You know, just a little devotion that Pastor gave us. What is the ministry? And and to really boil it down in my mind that it's not, that it's more than, you know just going up there and singing in the choir. It's it's more than than working in the nursery or or greeting someone at the door passing out bulletins. But and we'll talk about this a little bit, I think. All of these things um all come together to to get the gospel out in some form. God has given everyone a gift and a job to do it. If you're here and you don't have a ministry, you need to get one. I'll just say that. Alright, I'm going to get into my second. I've got three phases tonight. I'm going into phase two Um, which is finding balance in ministry. I put it up there so you can see it. I don't have to pass out stuff so you can read it. And a lot of times people can't hear me, so at least they can see what I'm saying Everyone hear me tonight? All right. Alright. My second one. Um this is one Miss Becky should be familiar with because she remembers um We're out at Milford, uh was it last year? Did we take this last year? They had a class. When you get to Milf out there to the loving and leading conference, you go in and you get your notebook and you go in and sit down. Um sometimes it's a little overwhelming the first time you go. But uh you get a notebook and there's eighty different classes you can take. You only get to take Ten of them or twelve of them or something. So yeah, that's a lot of choices. So you go through there and you see well when I saw this one, finding balance in ministry, I thought, I gotta take that. I gotta take it. I I I will admit before we go any farther that I have failed at implementing it. But and it this doesn't only work s spiritually. Um some of these principles I think you could apply to you can apply them spiritually to our s our ministry. You can apply them to your everyday life and they'll work either way. But I asked myself some questions here getting started. I'll ask you these. You can shake your hand or say yes or no, head or yes or no or whatever Do you ever get bogged down in your ministry? I'm shaking my head. Yes. I do. You ever get depressed a little bit, sometimes, a little overwhelmed maybe. Uh you ever feel like giving up? I ha I have. I I think I gave testimony just around Christmas I was ready to give up. Um do you ever feel that you were too busy? And there is not enough time in the day to do everything. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Okay. One one of the reasons I think that, you know, sometimes you see people that they were really active in the minute, active in church and And things and maybe they've kind of fizzled off, they're not doing anything. I think sometimes the reason that happens is for those reasons we don't we don't we're not balanced in our ministry. And um You know, we we let we let those things get wear us down, wear us down, wear us down. We don't do anything about it, and eventually you just you just give up. Yeah, burn out. Um so this class kind of when we took it out there kind of really appealed to me. Um So I'm gonna I'm gonna go over that. I'm gonna I'm gonna try to go down through these pretty quickly. Um these are just some um some ideas little advanced. Finding balance in ministry, how can I remain balanced? I'll pull out my paper, that might want to keep looking back there. This stuff helped me. I don't know, hopefully it'll help somebody here. Number one. Real can you read that? It's kind of small. I wanted to fit it all in one sheet. Realize who has assigned you the responsibility. Your responsibilities are a gift from God. Realize who is re who has assigned you the responsibilities. Um that helps a lot. When we think about, you know, sometimes we think, well Pastor gave me that to do. No, Pastor didn't do that. Pastor didn't give us that to do. Um God has given us what what we have to do. He's given us those things uh to do. Number two, realize who is equipping you to fulfill your responsibility. I think about this. Sometimes we go out on visitation. It's kind of intimidating sometimes. Pastor talks about anyone that's been out on visitation knows sometimes you're you're you're you're afraid to go out and do it, you know, no matter how long you've been doing it. Um sometimes it it's difficult. And uh Pastor said something that's always stuck with me. Um you're you remember that you're not out there by yourself, right? I mean you have your po partner, your silent partner Supposed to be silent. Not always silent, but sometimes it's silent. Anyway. You have your silent partner, and uh but you have the Lord, right? The Holy Spirit of God is with us. No matter what we're doing. In our in our ministries, what God has given us to do. Uh God has given us if if He's called if we're doing what He wants us to do. And he's given us something to do for him, then he'll equip us to do it. Um that's encouraging to me. Number three, realize the magnitude of your responsibility. I touched on this already. You know, none of it no matter what we do It is uh it it nothing's insignificant. It's all vitally important. No matter no matter what your job is here, it's important. Um Eric helped me out with something uh on visitation a few weeks ago. Uh we're building a house for uh uh two people down at the lake. And it's it's it's been a very challenging job. I won't go into it the reasons why it's challenging, but it's been very difficult for me. And uh Eric told me one day, he said, just just pretend like you're doing it for the like you're building a house for the Lord. You know, forget about everything else that's going on. Do the best you can, get through it. And uh that that helped me Um I don't know where I was going with that. But realize the magnitude of the responsibility. Everything's important that that's done. Number four, this is a good one. Understand everyone's busy. Not go through life thinking that you're the only one who is struggling to balance time. Um I uh I f I uh I'm guilty of this. I think I'm the only one that's that's busy and I'm the only one that's got stuff going on, and I'm the only one that's got troubles and and things like that. But you don't have to look usually you don't have to look very far at all to find somebody who's got it worse. Worse than you do. Right? I mean I'm not I'm not downplaying the the problems that that we have but usually you can find someone who who has it tougher and um everyone's busy. Everyone and and these days and maybe it's just me but Man, uh there's so much that's after our time, after our kids' time. There's so much. Um The rest of them are kind of for the for the family, so that these could apply and they may not apply. Number five is teacher family. That you can serve the Lord together. That's important. Sometimes sometimes our ministries come between our families. They can get in there and the devil can use those things. and uh to to get in in between uh the the families. Um but if we teach our our kids and our family that we can we can do things together. We can serve we can have fun. You know sometimes we forget we can have fun at at church and in what we're doing for the Lord. It it can it can be fun. Uh teach your family that you can serve together. Number six. Create ministry memories with your family. Some of the fondest memories that I have of of my childhood and of my mom and dad or back when we were in uh church and in the Christian school and and things like that, you know, no matter what it was. I didn't realize it of course till later in life, but N now the the memories that the good memories a lot of them were of those times. And uh serving serving the Lord with with mom and dad and doing things. Um, you know, whether it was mowing the grass at the church or whatever. Um Create ministry memories. Number seven, create celebrate the benefits of the ministry. Number eight, do not allow your family to feel second place. Uh the family, which we're going to talk about here in a second, is uh is Probably uh most important after after the Lord, after your relationship with the Lord, I would say your family is is is right next in line. You don't want your family to feel second place. But at the same time, this is where it comes into balancing. You don't want your family to feel that your ministry and what you do for the Lord is second place So there's a balance there. Number ten, keep the vision before your family. Um On to phase three. Um but that helped me. Uh it really did. Um just remembering especially um that it's not me. God gave me what he's given me to do and given us all what we give us to do and he's he's given us what we need to uh to get it done. Sorry, I'm a little unorganized tonight. Alright, now I'm gonna do my visual and then we're gonna pray, which is the most important thing. Um yeah. All right. So how do how can we uh how can we balance everything we have to do? First of all I'll tell you what I can everybody can you see sort of what I got here? I got an empty picture, represents How many hours? How many hours is in the week period? Minus sleep. How many hours do you sleep a day? Seven average? Supposed to do eight. Six. Let's go well how many do you sleep a day, Ed? Alright, let's go with seven. So what this represents uh a hundred and nineteen hours One week minus sleep. Okay? Um this I'm not gonna pick up is a full bucket. This represents A bunch of stuff that you have that you have to do. A bunch of stuff you had you had to do. It's different for everybody. And then we have uh five rocks, very various sizes. Rocks. I don't need this anymore. I can get rid of that. I got five rocks. Those rocks remember what they represent? Those rocks represent uh things that you absolutely have to do throughout the week. You have to do those things in order if you're gonna if you're gonna be balanced in in your life and in your medicine. Like I say you can use this Spiritually speaking, you can use this in your everyday life. But our our our walk with the Lord and spiritually speaking is a huge part of our lives. It should be. So that's in there. Alright, so you gotta get all this into hundred and nineteen hours. Can you get it all in there? It's not a magic trick or a gospel illusion. It's not an illusion. Can we get all that in there? Can we? Can I get can I get user off? This full pitcher of water into this picture which is the exact same size as that picture. Yeah. Can't get it in there, right? So what do we do Alright. This is what we do. Like I say, I've failed in implementing this, but I think it helped you. Just the principle. Um So it you're this varies from individual to individual, but I'm just going to tell you how how and like it this part is not original with me. This part was was done by a guy down there, uh Chad Braille, I think his name is. One of the administ the administrative pastor there at First Baptist down at Milford. Um number one. So we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna identify these five things uh uh Who's the guy that did the speaking down there a couple years ago? Dr. Gibbs. He said uh he said he was dangerous going to the the store Because uh if he went to the store he came back w it would be with like I what I would come back with if I went to the store. Cookies and ice cream and that kind of stuff. You don't need the other stuff And uh he said his wife always told him, go to the store, have fun, get what you want, but you have to bring back certain those must-have items. Those rocks represent the must-have must-do things throughout the week. Number one role, and this is important, this is something I think we forget. And maybe some people remember it too much. What they call it was sharpening the saw. What happens to a saw of any kind if you don't sharpen it? It's dull. Right, done done doesn't function real well. So they call it sharpening the saw. Sharpening the saw is doing something, making sure that there's some time in the week for you. There's something that you like. Now I wouldn't put that on the I wouldn't I wouldn't make that a huge rock. We'll go with a mid-size rock with that. I'm gonna put that in here. I'll wash this before you drink out of it. So you gotta do something. Sometimes we we get we we don't do anything that we enjoy. We don't take any time for ourselves. This isn't the most important thing on the list, but it's something that that you need to do. I like to hunt. Some people you know I like to hunt and fish and do things like that. You know how many times I went fishing last year? I remote or just realized this a while ago. I didn't get one time last year You know, not one time. Um you don't want this kind of stuff to take over. There's nothing wrong with it. But hunt fish, hike, uh shopping, whatever you like to do. Yeah, I don't I don't know. Everyone likes to do different stuff. But find make sure there's there's a scheduled time to do something. Um And I'm going to give you these. I'm not going to put them in any order, I don't think. They may they may fall into order. A second rock for me and for for people that are saved should be Um our time with the Lord, right? Um our our daily Bible reading and uh prayer time and those types of things, right? Right? That i if you you have to have that, right? If we're gonna if we're gonna be balanced spiritually speaking, right? Stop being on an error, because not that. Um so let's pick out a rock. Uh let's see let's get one of these big ones bigger ones. We'll put that big one in here. Alright. So we got that. We got something for ourselves. We make sure there's time to read our Bibles and to pray and those types of things. Then I'm gonna do uh I'm gonna pick one um and then this will be is is the church. Um what's your what's your ministry or ministries uh in the church? Um you teach Sunday school or or bus route, bus workers or clean the church or whatever you do. Um, you know, th th those all those things uh that we do, visitation, all those things, that that should be a big part of our life. Um, you know, a lot of times we we put other other stuff in place of that, right? But that sh and and if we if we do that and we say that I'm I'm I'm I'm gonna do that no matter what else. I'm gonna do that. So I'm gonna use this big rock. I mean I'll have room for anything We have two bigger rocks. I forgot my rocks tonight. I was down at the park uh getting the field ready for Austin's game tonight. And I told Jackie I forgot my rocks, so I ran over to the river and some rocks. That's where I got my rocks. Um All right, so what do we got? Something for ourselves, we got our time with the Lord, our our our responsibilities to the Lord and the church. Um not everybody has this this to do, but me, this is a big rock for me. Anyone think of something some give me a rock. We'll see if see what we're thinking of. Anybody's thinking out there Anybody got what's something do you have what's something you have to do? Sexual location. Right. Work. Some of us have to work. Some people have to work. I mean you work uh yeah whatever how many hours. I messed up. I messed up on my big rock. Anyway, I'll use this one. Let's let's do a small rock for work. Drop the smaller rock in there for work. Alright. So I got one more rock to go. Anybody anybody guess what my last what am I missing? Any bills? Oh that'd be a good one. That's uh that's not the one I have. Anybody Family. Family is a big rock that what what do we do with our family sometimes a lot of times. We push 'em we push 'em off to the side, right? Put 'em on the but if we have time. Family's gotta go in there. If we're gonna be what we need to be, balance and all that family's gotta go in. So there's my rocks. Those are things I have to do. But this is all the stuff that's all the other stuff I gotta do. You know I gotta I gotta I got a big pile of wood behind my house. I gotta get that in. But do I have to get it in right now? Or can it wait. So so what do we do? We take everything else. We got that we have to do that. We have all that stuff So what do we do? What should we do? We look at everything we have, we we we prioritize it, right? Make a list of what we have to do, the things prior and and list of priority and uh How we're gonna do that. I want to make sure I don't miss anything here. That's one thing I said. I already kind of alluded to that. We don't we don't want to we don't want to pour all the water in and then take a little water out. We don't want to rearrange this stuff around this stuff. We want this to be first and then So now if I can do it thought spilling the water, I'm gonna take all this stuff after I prioritized it. You can get a lot of it in there, more than you would think, right? It's not all gonna go in though. That's pretty good there, right? That's not bad. So we got all that stuff, we prioritize it, we put it in there. Now, this is a caution. Anybody think of what sometimes we might look at that and we might tend to want to do I'm not gonna dig down in there to get my look my uh well, let's call this my Bible reading time and my prayer time. Sometimes we think, uh, I'm gonna do that, I'm gonna take this out, I'm gonna pour some more in there Put something else in there, right? That's something we gotta make sure that we don't do. That's why those things we have to do them. And I struggle with this. I don't know if anybody else struggles with it, but I have a hard time with it. Um That's my uh that's my visual. That that's how that's a good way to balance not easy, it's not gonna be easy, but that's a good way to to look at our lives and what we have to do for the Lord and and prioritize and make sure we're doing the things that we need to do. I told it might have been Jennifer tonight. There's one another reason why we didn't have a special tonight, 'cause I didn't make a schedule. That's a responsibility. I'm supposed to have a choir schedule. It should have been two weeks ago. I still have a choir schedule, right? That should have been in there. I took it out. I threw it I put something else in there. Probably something stupid I didn't need to do. Right? We all do it. But uh I don't know. That it helped me. I need to do better at it. I thought it might be uh maybe just get it maybe just thought provoking a little bit. And it might it might be different. One thing I didn't say back there is you know the size of those rocks vary. For uh for uh say Eric and Jodia, family they g they have a bigger family, right? Big uh family might be a bigger rock for them. Uh you know, maybe for someone else they only have one child, or maybe their child or their kids are all grown up and out of the house. So that's a little smaller. And you know, things it's it's different for everyone, but the principle is uh is still the same. I'm gonna quit because I'm at this point I'm just gonna start rambling uh rambling on. But I I think we finding balance is is something something that we can do, but it's something that that we need to be intentional about and actually sit down and and do it, which is where I I struggle. Um that's all I have. So let's just uh let's close here with prayer. Jennifer will come up and play for us. Father, we thank you, uh thank you for another day you've given to us. And uh Lord, uh we thank you for for the the ministry that you've given us of of spreading the gospel, Lord, and uh the the various uh ways and and uh abilities that you give us to do that, Lord. And and we just pray that I pray, Lord, that you would help us to uh to uh remember Lord that you're the most important thing and serving you is is to be important in our life. And uh A lot of other things that aren't necessarily wrong, Lord, but sometimes they take priority uh over what what we should be doing. We just pray I pray Lord that you would help help me and help us, Lord, uh to uh To what to do better in NS area if we struggle, and that we pray in Jesus' name. Let's all stand