Take your Bibles turn to Job chapter twenty three. Job twenty three. Appreciate our church so much. You guys I tell I get out and meet with other preachers. I say, man, our church just treats us like Kings and Queens and uh we really appreciate so much. Appreciate your love for my wife. Ray and Bubba Were two Baptist deacons in West Virginia And they were standing at the base of a flagpole, their mouth open, looking up at it, like they were bewildered. A blond pastor's wife walked by and asked them what they're doing. They said, the pastor wants us to find the height of this flagpole, Bubba said, but we don't have a ladder. So the pastor's wife reaches in her purse, takes out a wrench, loosens a few bolts, and lays the pole down She reaches back into her purse, pulls out a measuring tape, measures it out, and announces 18 feet six inches. She walked away. One of the Baptist deacons, Ray, stood there, shook his head and laughed. Ain't that just like a woman? We ask for the height and she gives us the width. So I thought if it'd be in Pastor's Wife Sunday it would be revenge of the Pastor's Wife joke If you wouldn't notice with me, chapter 23 of Job and verse number 3. Job's speaking here under the inspiration of God, and he says, Oh, that I knew where I might find him. that I might come even to his seat. I would order my cause before him and fill my mouth with arguments I want to speak this morning on finding God. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, I thank you, Lord, for my wife. And God, what a help she has been over these years. Lord, I believe only eternity will reveal the influence she's had. I pray now, Father, as we look into your word that you would Stir all of our hearts and challenge us and our walk with you. Lord, in our service and our influence in this world for the gospel and for truth's sake. Lord, I just feel so uh I recognize, Lord, just the inadequacy I have in and of myself of having to have anything to offer of eternal or spiritual value. And so God, again this hour, with all my heart, with all my ability, I yield my will to you to yours I present my body anew. I ask, Father, you please fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, I ask that you would again this hour speak through me to hearts and help us, Lord. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. I am fascinated by the book of Job. I'm at that point in my daily devotions reading through the book. And there's just so many things here. I think most of us are familiar with Job's experience and what's recorded in the book here, at least the general idea. And I believe it's safe to say that very few people in history have had the godly testimony that Job had. If you would, keep your place here in chapter 23. Come to the beginning of the book. And I just want to notice a few things about this fellow named Job. Job chapter 1, if you would notice with me verse number 1 of Job chapter 1, he says, There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job. Now listen to the statement about it. That man was perfect and upright, one that feared God and eschewed evil. Now let me just stop there for a moment. When the Bible says that Job was perfect and upright It does not mean that Job was sinless. God is not saying here that Job had no flaws. That Job was perfect in the sense that he was not lacking in any way. In fact, if you read through the book of Job, you find that he was not sinless. And he did have his faults, and they came out in various statements he made in uh different w uh aspects of the story here When God says that Job was perfect and upright, what God is saying here was Job was as full of a Christian as he could be. Now, we understand he wasn't Christian in the New Testament sense of the word, but what God was saying, he was as godly as it was humanly possible to be. He was as obedient to the Lord as it was humanly possible. He was perfect. He had reached his potential spiritually. That's quite a statement to be made of a man. In the New Testament, you and I are instructed by God to be perfect, even as our Heavenly Father is perfect Now it's not saying we should be as sinless as God is. We can never be anything as much as God is. But just as God is everything He can possibly be, you and I, as believers, are to be all that we can possibly be for the Lord. So, what a powerful testimony is given to us of this man, Job. That man was perfect and upright. One that feared God and eschewed evil. Now we don't use that word eschewed too much. It simply means he despised it. He stayed away from it. If it was evil, he didn't want anything to do with it. He avoided it. He eschewed it. Well, we could use some of that in our Christianity today. The sad fact is in our Christianity today, uh of all ages, we have Christians who don't know who do not eschew evil. They're attracted to it. They love it. They celebrate it. And what a sad day it is we live. What a testimony. Goes on verse 2 and says, There were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance was seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels. five hundred yoke of oxen, five hundred sheasses, and a very great household, so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East Now I believe when God says he was the greatest of all the men of East, there's a lot of things that could be fall under that category, the greatest, his leadership, his influence. But I think the context here is talking about his wealth. He was the wealthiest man in all of that part of the country. He was a rich man, but he was godly. His sons went and feasted, verse 4 says, in their houses, every one his day, and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and drink with them. It tells me he did pretty good with his family. They enjoyed each other. They got along. Loved each other Verse 5 And it was so that when the days of their feasting were gone about that Job sent and sacred sanctified them. And look at this, and rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually. You know what that tells me? Job was very much concerned about the spiritual condition of his children. He prayed and committed himself for his children. I tell you what, I wouldn't give you two cents for a daddy who didn't pray for his children. That's pitiful. A daddy that wasn't concerned about the spiritual well being of his children, a daddy that was more concerned about money and pleasure and things and himself than he is about his children standing with God. What a sorry testimony of fatherhood. A daddy that doesn't care about the spiritual well-being. Can I tell you something that's sad? We get out and knock on doors throughout the week and People come to the door and I say something like this, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And if it's a man answering the door, you know what so often, you know what they say Let me go get the wife. Oh, you're from the church? Let me get the wife. You know, that doesn't impress me. I don't even I don't talk about God religion. Job wasn't that way. He was burdened for the spiritual condition of his children. And he didn't presume to think that he was such a great man of God that his children couldn't go astray. Says there, he recognizes the very possibility. My children may make some bad decisions. My children may make some uh sinful do some sinful things. I've got to pray for them I've got to seek God on their behalf and pray for their spiritual well-being. I made the statement, very few people in history have had the Christian testimony Job had. Come with me if you would to verse 8. Here is God. This is the record of a conversation God is having with Satan. Interesting. And the Lord said unto Satan, you know, I don't know, you don't think too often about God and Satan engaging in conversation. But here it is. Hast thou considered my servant Job? That there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Wow, God says that about Job to none other than Satan. Now, we talked about this Wednesday night and the Wednesday night before, and we've made reference to it in sermons over the years. What is Satan's primary ministry, so to speak? The accuser of the brethren, Revelation 12. That is his ministry. Accusing the brethren. So here you have God, Satan is in God's presence, and they're engaged in a conversation. And by the way, there's no reason to think this didn't literally happen. So God says to Satan, have you, Satan considered my servant Job. He's saying this. Have you given thought to him? Have you thought him through? Have you paid attention to him? Are you aware of his situation, his condition? That's a challenge. Have you considered it? And then God says this about Job. There's none like him in all the earth. A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and that sheweth evil. Listen, if anybody on earth would have known that what God said about Job was not true, it would have been Satan. That was his whole business is finding fault with people. That was his whole that was his whole existence is to tear people down and accuse them and point out their failures and and uh show how how less than perfect they are. That's Satan's whole thing And notice Satan's response. He doesn't say, oh, he ain't that great. Notice what Satan says. Satan answered the Lord, verse 9 and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Satan does not challenge God's assessment of Job. In fact, Satan is agreeing with God that that is his testimony. Would you agree with me on that? Now, Satan is a trying to assign ungodly motives To Job's testimony. He said, Oh yeah, he's doing it for what he gets out of it. But he doesn't challenge the fact that that was a true assessment of Job's spiritual condition. What a man! I find nobody else in Scripture that has this testimony that Job has. Look, if you would with me at verse 21 of chapter 1. He loses his family, he loses his possessions, his children are killed, his possessions are taken, uh other property is d destroyed by fire. And look at verse 20. And Job arose after all this loss. Physically he's fine, but he's lost his wealth, he's lost his children. Doing a funeral this afternoon for a fa for a young man that died out outside the church. And I was with the family, and what a loss it is to lose a child The boy was 26. How devastating that is to parents. I think it's harder, perhaps, for a parent to bury a child than for a child to bury a parent. Job buried ten. Every one of them is gone He went from having ten children at the beginning of the day to having ten graves at the end of the day. How would you respond? What would your attitude be? Look what it says. Verse 20. Job arose, rent his mantle, shaved his head, fell down upon the ground. And what? Worshiped. What does it mean to worship? To worship God is not going through some ceremony or some ritual. To worship God is simply this. to recognize God's authority in my life and submitting to that authority by trusting Him and obeying Him Now Job worships and listen to the expression of that worship in verse 20. And he said Naked came I out of my mother's womb. Naked shall return thither. Look, he recognizes the Lord's authority. The Lord gave, the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Verse twenty two. In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. What a testimony. I am ashamed to think of how I would have responded had I been in Job's situation. I would like to think I would respond like Job did, but I know me pretty well. I'm afraid I wouldn't have lived up to Job's example But it gets worse, his situation. You get to chapter 2, and notice verse 3. Here we have God and Satan engaged in another conversation. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? That there's none like him in the earth. A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Now God adds on to his testimony. I want you to notice something here. The trial of Job's faith enhanced his testimony, did not hurt it. In chapter 2, God's assessment of Job is greater than it was in chapter 1 after he went through this unbelievable heartache and loss. Look what God says. A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil, and still he holdeth fast his integrity, though thou movest me against him to destroy him without cause. God's assessment just gets greater. The more he's tried, the better his testimony is. Boy, how often we fail in that. Something, somebody takes something from us or some harm comes out of our control. And we get angry. Huh? We'll get bitter. God. Not Job. Look at verse ten with me God allows Satan to touch his body. He says you can do whatever you want to his body, only don't take his life. I think there's some interesting, just as an aside here, there's an interesting observation to be made about Satan. And his attitude and actions towards us. Do you notice in chapter 1 when God said, You can do anything you want to Job except don't touch his body, What did Satan do to Job? Made him richer and happier and enhanced his life and just made everything wonderful. No, it didn't. He cut him down, cut him down, cut him down, and he took it as far as he could possibly go up to the point where God had forbidden him to cross. Now God says, all right, you think he still motives are still wrong. You can touch his body, do whatever you want to his body, but you cannot take his life. And Satan destroys his body to the very verge of death. That should tell us a little bit of something about Satan's attitude towards us. And what Satan would do to you and I, if God would allow him to do whatever he wants. Hey listen, before you get too enamored with the world's music and the ungodliness and the movies, and before you get too caught up in lying and cheating and stealing and getting in with the devil's mentality. You better stop for a moment and think about, if it would not be for God's mercy and grace, in holding Satan back, what he would do to you. So Satan has a heyday with Job, and he afflicts his body in unimaginable ways. And look with me if you would at verse 10. Well, let's look at verse 9. This is part of the affliction, I think. Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die. You know what Mrs. Job was saying? She was saying, why don't you just give up on this God stuff? Just quit. You and your godliness and oh we gotta do right. I've had it. Just curse God and let Him kill you. To me, that would probably be one of the most painful things of all Job went through. For his wife to turn on him like that. How does he respond? Cursed his wife and cursed God and No. Look what he says. He said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. A mild rebuke. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips. I submit to you again the statement I made at the beginning of the message. Very few people in history have had the testimony that Job has had. What an amazing man. Now, as pastor and in years before I became here in the ministry, I've had opportunity to counsel with people about different things and whatnot And it's amazing to me when you sit down with someone how wonderful Christians they present themselves to be. Now I've heard some people over the years present themselves. It sounded like I was talking to Job And it's especially if someone else is mistreating them. It's amazing how fantastic Christians they are. You know, it's it's it's almost gotten the point where it's fun I've heard some preachers over the years present themselves, you'd think they had the righteousness of Job. You know. Now the nice thing about being a preacher, you can always be the hero in all the stories, you know. That's kind of fun But it's very easy to think more highly of ourselves than what we really are. And it's very easy to deceive ourselves into thinking that we're better Christians than what we really are. And trials and adversity pull down that facade. And heartache and disappointment and Being treated unfairly have ways of shattering that disillusionment And we evaluate our response, and we realize I wasn't nearly the Christian I thought I was. But Job stands the test. He maintains his integrity. He maintains a testimony of a man who worshiped God. Who recognized that God had total unhindered authority over his life? God could do with him whatever God chose to do with him, and he would trust God and he would rejoice. And God's dealings with it. Very few people in history have had the testimony that Job had. On the other hand, very few people in history have had the suffering that Job had. In fact, the more I study it, I made this statement before, I know I have, but the more I study it, I'm coming to the idea that perhaps there's only one other man in Scripture that suffered more than Job. And that being the Lord Jesus Christ, Jesus suffered in ways we will never comprehend. Jesus Christ, not just we're not just talking about his physical suffering, as horrendous as that was, as horrific as that is. What the Lord suffered physically, we will never comprehend the spiritual suffering what Jesus Christ went through. In fact, a person spending eternity in hell will never know the full price Jesus paid on that cross. Because when Jesus was finished paying the price for sin, he cried out, It is finished. It's paid in full. It's done. Nobody in hell will ever be able to say, all right, it's finished. I've paid my dues. No, in hell it goes on forever and ever and ever. So the sufferings of the Lord Jesus Christ will never be comprehended by mankind. Not even those in hell will suffer the full degree that Jesus did. And yet I notice a difference between Job's sufferings and the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, Jesus were of much deeper and spiritual nature. I got studying this. We like to say that Jesus, we like to think that Jesus was forsaken by all. Right? Nobody stood but the Lord Jesus Christ. We say that. But that's not exactly true. There was one man that stood up for the Lord Jesus Christ. Wasn't any of his disciples. It wasn't any of the centurions, the soldiers around him. It wasn't any of the Pharisees. It was a man nailed to the cross beside him. That cried out in the face of everyone, this man has done nothing amiss. A thief stood up for the Lord Jesus Christ when the disciples fled, denied him, betrayed him. Isn't that something? I read the story of Job. Nobody stands with them. Nobody steps up to the plate for Job and says, wait a minute. We don't know why he's gone through this. He's not done anything wrong. There's no reason to suspect that he's suffering because of evil. His own wife turned against him. He's alone. Now I'm not suggesting in any way, shape, or form that Job suffered a greater ways than Jesus. We know that's not the case. But I am trying to point out the fact that he was completely abandoned. Sometimes, not sometimes, it's true, it is easier. We have a tendency to be stronger when we have someone standing with us. That's why it's a good thing to go out soul-winning two by two. It's just a little more confidence. Hey, it's easier to take a stand for the Lord at work when you've got another believer there with you. You can stand together, right or wrong, in the family, in the neighborhood. Job was alone Throughout his trial, the testimony he had and this unbelievable suffering he went through, throughout his trial, we have to admit Job's faith was shaken You read the 40 chapters after chapter 2 up to chapter 42. His faith was shaken. He asked a question repeatedly. The Bible term is wherefore, wherefore, wherefore. We use the word why. He recognized God's authority. He accepted that God had the right to do with him what God chose to do. But his faith was rattled. And he asked, Why are you doing this, God? What is the purpose behind all this? What are you trying to accomplish? And it's important to understand that Job did not what Job was not aware of the argument between God and Satan. He had no idea that was taking place. I would think that if he knew that God was trying to prove to Satan That Job's testimony, his faith was for real, I think it would have been a motivation. Oh, okay, now I understand. Good. I'll dig in and I'll be strong. But he didn't know that. And so his faith was shaken, it was rattled, but here's the thing: his faith never failed. Sometimes we ask why. I'm going to speak on that this afternoon a little bit. Why does God take a 26-year-old son? Why does God allow a 16-year-old girl to be killed in a car wreck? Why does God take a healthy young man sick and a few days he's gone? That's one question we can't answer. There's nothing wrong with asking that. Job did. Read the book of Psalms. David asks it over and over again. Saul's chasing David all over the wilderness, trying to kill him. David says, why? Why? A, none less than the Lord Jesus Christ asked why. Hanging on the cross, he said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? So when trials come in our life and persecution and disappointments and people are unfair to us or unkind to us. Sometimes our faith may be rattled, sometimes our faith may be shaken a little bit, and we're tempted to ask, why is this happening? Why did God allow this? But we must never allow our faith to fail. Job's faith held true, and God honored Job. And my favorite chapter of the book of Job is chapter 42, where God blesses Job with double of all that he started with. God honors those who trust him. God blesses those who worship him, who bow themselves before him, recognizing his authority to do with me and my possessions, to use me however you see fit, and I'll trust you and obey you. God honors that. You're saying, preacher, if I stay faithful to God, he's going to give me lots of houses and possessions. He may or he may not. God's blessings do not always mean physical possessions. We have a different idea of what it means to be blessed than what God does. And in fact, physical possessions, houses and lands could possibly be a curse rather than a blessing for some people. But God blesses faith. God honors those who will trust him and obey him. And I like this: Satan lost the bed. He said, God was betting? No. But God had confidence in a man. Satan doubted the man. God was proven true, as he always is. One of the neat things about the book of Job, the story of Job, is God's faith in a man. God believed, of course being all-knowing, but God believed that Job would stay true. And God had confidence in a man. God had faith in a man. And to Job's credit, his faith stood. Through his trial, well, everybody ought to take time, once a year at least, and read through the book of Job. Through this trial, Job made some profound statements. Job learned some things in this trial that are very, very profound. I have in my Bible through the book of Job, I have a number of passages underscored. Some highlighted with a red pen where Job would make a statement. He would make an observation about life or about God that I do not believe he would have learned had he not gone through the trial. If we trust God through trials, we'll learn some wonderful truths. I think in trials we can learn things about God we would not have learned any other way. And I'll tell you what's sad, and as pastor I see it occasionally, where somebody will go through a trial, God, for whatever reason Known only to him, he allows them to go through a hard trial, to be mistreated somehow, to be misunderstood, to be disappointed. God allows them to go through that And rather than allowing God to accomplish the purpose for what he's letting them go through and letting God teach them some things and letting them Grow and their faith strengthen and mature. They get bitter and angry at God and they walk away from God and they lose every opportunity that God has given them to grow and develop and be stronger Christians I may be speaking to someone this morning. This morning your heart's broken. I may be speaking to someone this morning, and you're bitter. Life has not treated you the way you thought you should be. Someone has said, or people have said and done things that you don't think they should have said or done. This morning you're disappointed, you're bitter, you're angry. I'm telling you, you're missing something God's trying to teach you. You're in a position where you have an opportunity to learn of God, to find some direction in life, to develop your faith and grow and have a stronger testimony. Job learned things through his trial. His friends were absolutely horrendous. In fact, I don't even want to use the term friend. They just trashed him for 30 chapters plus. Trashed him in the midst of all this. In trials we learn things about God we would not have learned any other way. In Job 23, where our text is this morning, Job makes a significant statement. He is old that I knew where I might find him, that I might come even to his seat. In Job's trial, in his mind he had gotten the idea that God had hidden himself from him. Now, God had hidden from Job the purpose of his trial, but God had not hidden himself from Job. And Job, at this point, his faith is, as I said, rattled. And he's getting into his mind this idea that God has abandoned me. That God has forsaken me. And something, and with that idea in mind His heart cries out, I've got to find God. Now, question: Had God forsaken Job? No. We find that out at the end. He was with him the whole time. God was right there. God was, God had, there was bigger things at stake here than Job's comfort. There was the issue of the goodness of God and Satan and all of that going on. But Job had got in his mind that God had withdrawn himself, that God had abandoned him, and something in his heart cried out, I need God. Oh, I've got to find him. I cannot live my life. Even if it's nothing but physical pain and heartache, I cannot live my life without God. There is in the heart of every man, woman, and child a longing for God. God has created us that way. People have worded it different ways. Sometimes it says like this, there is a God-shaped vacuum in the soul of every being. We talk about this in our institute and make reference to this various times. In every society of man known to man, something is worshipped. They have never discovered in Darkest Africa, Iranjai, Papua New Guinea, the Aborigines of Australia, they have never discovered a society where something is not worshipped. Because in the very heart and soul of man is a longing for God, is a need. For a God that is bigger than me, that is real, that is true, that is powerful, that is good. Now, ignorance of the true God produces a worship of false gods, but nevertheless, there's a longing for God. And Job thought God had abandoned him. He got it in his head. He said, I need to find God. I need to find God. It's interesting, he doesn't say, oh, that I knew, oh, that I could get my children back. Let me ask you a question: Do you think Job wanted his children back? Absolutely. He loved them dearly. We saw that. But there was a need in his heart and life greater than the need of the fellowship of his children. He didn't say, oh, but I had my possessions back. No doubt he would love to have had his possessions back, but there was a need in his heart and soul greater than another person or possessions could meet. It was a need that only God could meet Oh, that I might find him. Job believed that God could be found. That is very important. We need to communicate to our world there is a God and he can be found. You can know him. Agnosticism, how many people are familiar with that term? Anybody ever heard that term? Gnostics or Gnosticism? An agnostic, you'll hear people in the news or whatever every now and then say, oh, I'm an agnostic. It's supposed to imply great intelligence. An agnostic says this: I believe there might be a God, but you can't really know. You can't know them and you can't really know whether there's a God or not. An agnostic means to be without knowledge. So when a person says I'm an agnostic, they're saying I'm stupid. No, I you don't know. I can't know. Hey, the fact of the matter is you can know God. In fact, there's evidence all around us. Of a God. When people say, I don't see any God, it's because they're closing their eyes. I don't see any proof there's a God. You know why? Because they don't want to see it. God can be known. Oh, that I might find him. Hey, there is a God, and he can be known. The fact is There's a God and he can be found, but the problem with many, many people is they have preconceived ideas of what God is like. And when God doesn't match their preconceived ideas, then they reject Him. Sometimes our preconceived ideas blind us to God. We imagine God to be one way and in reality he's another way. We imagine God will act in one way and in reality acts in a different way, and we never see Him That's where bitterness comes in. That's where people get angry at everybody and everything. God is working in their life But they don't God's not working the way they think He should be working. Therefore they get bitter and angry and uh they fail to see what God's trying to do in their life. And so our preconceived ideas of how God's going to treat us and what God's going to allow in my life and not allow in my life, we have these preconceived ideas And when it doesn't happen the way we think it should be, when God operates outside our realm of understanding, then we fail to see God's hand in all of it. Or any of it. Our preconceived ideas of how God works blind us to God working in our lives. Sometimes our circumstances blind us to God. All we see is the issues around us, and we fail to see God behind it. And sometimes sin blinds us to God. Isaiah 59 in verse 2, the Lord says, your sins have separated you from your God. This obedience to God is a horrendous thing. I am convinced that we are living in an age of Christianity where the sinfulness of sin is no longer recognized. Where obeying God is simply an option that I have with little or no consequences. But the reality is when we choose to disobey God. However insignificant you may think it is, when we choose to disobey God, we are separating ourselves from the very God that we desperately need. Now I'm not saying a saved person loses their salvation. We know that's not the case. But I am saying this A saved person loses the fellowship and blessing and direction and protection of God in their life So many illustrations of that. My wife and I were talking about Bathsheba the other day. What a tragic story. Bathsheba disobeyed God along with David, and understand I'm not picking sides here. Takes two to tango. Takes two people to commit adultery. Thing is, God didn't kill Bathsheba. God killed uh well allowed her husband to be killed and her baby to be killed I don't know about you, but that to me would be more horrific than me being killed. Lose my spouse and my child. And her disobedience to God cost her dearly. As did David. And sometimes we fail to see God because we're disobeying God in some way, and that sin has hidden him from us. We think I gotta find God. So many aspects here, what's involved? Job says, Oh, that I might know where I might find him. The implication is he was willing to go anywhere or do anything to find where God was. And the fact of the matter is, God was with him the whole time. And later on, God reveals that to him and he sees that. But this is my statement this morning. I have no doubt I'm talking to some people who have had some disappointments in life, you've had some trials, you've had some loss, none of us to the degree that Job has, but we've had them. Right or wrong? And let's not allow ourselves to get the frame of mind that Job was struggling with here, where God has somehow abandoned me. No, let's search our hearts, let's get rid of sin. Let's Recognize God's authority in our life. Let's submit to that authority. Let's trust Him and obey Him. And you know what? We're going to find that God is in that thing with us through all of it We're not alone. We're not abandoned. How many people recognize the name Ted Turner? The big moguls, cable news, television mogul out of Atlanta. I just found this out recently. Ted Turner, earlier in his life, identified himself as a Christian. He claimed to believe the Bible. He claimed to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, the genuineness of any salvation he may have had is highly suspect, to say the least. But his sister got very sick. And his sister died a slow, painful death. And rather than seeing God's hand, rather than recognizing God's authority, Ted Turner turned against God. And he became bitter. And I think over the years we've heard some of his rantings against Christianity, his mockery of the Ten Commandments. is ridicule of a God that is alive and active and working in our lives. So here you have two men. Job Suffered like no other person apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, perhaps, has ever suffered. And yet he retains his integrity, he trusts God, and God blesses him. You have another man who really doesn't suffer other than a disappointment and heartache and the loss of a sister, which is very real. Don't misunderstand. But rather than trusting God, rather than seeing God's hand in it, he becomes very bitter. He becomes very angry, and he becomes a negative influence for all that is good. Now where are you at? You're not Job, I'm not Job, you're not Ted Turner, I'm not Ted Turner. We are who we are. But life is real. And these issues come up in life, and how we respond to them is going to determine whether we see God in it, whether we find God's hand in this. Or whether our hearts get hard, we get miserable, get self-centered, how do we respond? Job worshiped God Recognized God's authority, submitted it to him, trusted God, obeyed him, and what a testimony. Father, bless us, Lord, help us. In the times of trial and heartache, help us to trust you, Lord. Help us to see how desperately we need you in our lives. Help us, Lord, not to go to the things of the world to try and fulfill that vacuum. Lord, help us come to you. Confessing our sins, surrendering ourselves, and letting your will be done. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher? God has allowed some things in my life that have not been pleasant. God has allowed some disappointments. God has allowed some things that just won't have hurt. But I'm going to trust God. And by His grace, preacher, I appreciate if you'd pray with me. God will help me to trust Him, recognize His hand in this, and let Him teach me and help me grow and be stronger. Through this trial. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray with me. God bless you, hands all around. It is impossible to have a trial-free life It's impossible. And we can trust God and obey Him, or we can get hard and take it in our own hands. My plea is to trust God. Put aside the bitter. Put aside the anger. Put aside the hardness and say, Lord, I just worship you. I'm going to trust you. I'll rejoice. And what you're doing in my life. Is there someone here this morning who said, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? Jesus suffered so much so that you could escape hell and go to heaven. And this morning, the offer of forgiveness of sins and a home in heaven is freely offered by the Lord Jesus Christ to simply receive and take as your own through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Is there any of you this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that God has saved me and I have a home in heaven. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me in this matter. Father, bless our invitation time now. You know our hearts. Have your way in our lives. Help us, Lord. Holy Spirit, help us. To surrender all, submit all to you, and let you accomplish things in our lives. In Jesus' name. Let's