Like the woman at the well, I was seeking For things that could not pass me by. And then I heard my circle speaking Draw from my well that never shall run dry Fill my cup line I lift it off, come and clutch the thrusting of my soul Brad of it till I want no more. See my cup, see it off and make me whole There are millions in this world who are craving the pleasures, earthly things before. But none can match the wondrous treasure that I find in Jesus Christ my Lord. Feel my cupboard, I lift it up, come and quench this thrusting of my soul Brad of me till I want no more. Fill my cup, fill it off and make me hold. So my brother, if the things this world gave you Leave hungers that won't pass away. My blessed Lord will come and save you If you kneel to him, and humble pray, fill my cartline. I lifted up one call my quest is bursting on my thoughts But I mean I want no more. Feel my cup, feel it on and make me whole Good job. If you want to take your Bibles, turn back to Psalms I'm sorry, Proverbs Jeremiah. Just anywhere it's all good. Prover Jeremiah Twenty-four I told Sunny School I feel like it's been a long time since I've been out of the pulpit not preaching and uh the reason I feel that way because it has been a long time And uh last week Brother Hummel was with us a week before I was away. And so uh it's good to be back behind the pulpit. And uh I think Chester and Ed are running for office or something. If they get up in the middle of service or walk around shaking hands, just don't pay them any mind. How many people heard how many people have heard of the avian bird flu? Anybody heard of that? How many people have heard of swine flu? How many people have no idea what the difference is Bird flu, swine flu. The difference between bird flu and swine flu is for bird flu you need tweatments and for swine flu you need ointment. So That was from Dr. Sandy Schofield. Jeremiah chapter twenty-three and verse number twenty-nine. The Lord says Is not my word like a ham like a fire, saith the Lord, and like a hammer that breaketh the rock in pieces? We used this verse several weeks ago in Bible Institute. We're studying the scriptures. And in preparation for that, I've taught that class a number of times, but in preparation for it, boy, that verse just stuck out in my mind. It's not my word like a fire, saith the Lord, and like a hammer. Then a week or so ago, as reading through my personal daily devotions. And that day's reading, like I said, it was a week or two ago, and that day's reading was Jeremiah 23, 29, and I read again, Is not my word like a fire, saith the Lord, and like a hammer. That verse was on my heart that day and following days. And so I felt perhaps that was the Lord directing to bring a message this morning on the fire and the hammer of God's word. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, uh we are grateful for the Bible and Lord, as we read through your word so often, God, you bring verses Just seem to stand out and uh grip our heart and our minds and have a special impact in our lives. Lord, this has been true for me recently with this verse. So I pray That you would use this passage and speak through me to challenge all of our hearts concerning the Word of God. God, I of my own mind My own abilities, my own reasoning. God, I have nothing to offer anyone of eternal or spiritual value. So God, it has to be you this morning And I readily acknowledge that. With that in mind, Father, once again, this hour, I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew. And I ask, Father, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me. The words said, the gestures The inflection in the words. God, you would use all of that. I pray you'd open our hearts and our minds to what your will is for our lives. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. You study the background of the book of Jeremiah, and you find that the nation of Israel was in extreme crises. They were in a spiritual crisis. For many years they had been abandoning the worship of the true God. They have been getting as a nation, they had been getting farther and farther and farther away from the truth As a nation, they were drifting into apostasy. Well, drifting is not a good word. At this point in their experience, they're a locomotive going full speed. They are running to apostasy. They are running to wickedness. So they're in spiritual crises. God's word was no longer an authority in their minds. We spoke in Sunday school about uh points in Israel's history when God described it as every man did that which was right where? In his own eyes. And Israel was in that condition. They worshiped the God they thought would please them. They worshiped God the way they wanted to. And they were in a spiritual crisis. Not only were they in a spiritual crisis as a nation, but they were in a moral crisis Anytime man gets away from God, his morals go down. You mark. You find any nation, you find any society. Where the Word of God is net not recognized as authority, or the Word of God is neglected or pushed aside, and you find a society whose morals are going down, down, down Now, am I right or wrong? We see that in America today. America's morals are absolutely in the cesspool. And it's not coincidental that forty years ago we took the Bible out of our schools. It's not coincidental that the Word of God is no longer recognized as authority in our country. And it's getting progressively worse. That's the way it was for Israel. By the way, let me bring this home and make application. For you and I, as individuals. If we get in our heads, now we would never say this, but it works itself out in our actions. If we ever get in our heads. That's what God says is not binding on my life. What God's word tells me Has no authority over. I can choose whether I'm going to obey or disobey God's word. If we get into our mind, and again, we don't say this, but this is how it works out, I will pick and choose. What parts of God's word I'm going to obey, and I'll just ignore the other parts. When we get to that condition, we are opening ourselves up to end up doing moral thing, immoral things we never dreamed. we would have done. You say, oh uh boy watch out for this. I would never do that. You better take heed you who think you stand We get to the point where we start, we fail to recognize God's authority in our lives. Before we know it, we'll end up in situations, conditions, and doing things we never dreamed we would do. I'm telling you, the founders of our country never dreamed America would have sodomites marching in the streets The founders of our country never dreamed we would have sodomites holding positions of authority as representatives in the federal government Never dreamed that 53 million babies in the wombs of their mothers would be murdered. Never dreamed of that And the farther we as a nation get from the authority of God's word, the farther into the cesspool of immorality we go. That's what was true with Israel. There was a spiritual crisis, there was a moral crisis, but there also, and we don't think of this too much, but if you study it carefully, we find that Israel was in a military crisis. You read their history at this point in time in Jeremiah chapter 23. They had not won a war in a long, long time. Their military had deteriorated. Their national security was at its highest risk it had ever been. In fact, the enemies of Israel had surrounded them. And you read on just a few chapters later, and Israel as a nation collapsed. Under the invasion of Assyrian Babylon. And they're on the brink of national destruction. We see parallels with the United States of America. And so things were changing for Israel. The nation that Israel once was, they were no longer, and things were about to change even more drastically. Things were changing. It was a time of confusion for the nation of Israel. People were scared. You read these chapters through this portion of Jeremiah. People were scared. The Israelites, the citizens of this country, they didn't know what direction they were going. They didn't know if they would have their jobs or their homes or even their families. In the future months, we live in some spiritually troubling times We do not know which direction our country is going to go. Am I right or wrong? We do not know that uh uh in fact the country we live in now is not the country you and I grew up in. It's different. And the country that our children grow up in, you and I may never recognize. It's troubling times. The churches. The churches. Of various denominations, when we were small, would never have dreamed they'd be doing and be in the condition they are today. Brother Fox, when he was with us, said he was traveling and there was a fellow beside him drinking uh alcoholic beverages and and using foul language and Brother Fox got witnessing to him And uh I don't remember what he said. It may have been next last Sunday morning, but he made reference this fella. And he got witnessing to him. The fellow said, I've been seeking for God. You remember him telling this story? I've been seeking for God. I've been to ten different churches in the last several months. And he asked this question to Brother Fox. He said, What's the deal with the rock and roll music in your churches? Here's an unsafe person noticing the change, spiritual, religious change taking place. That's what's going on in Israel. There were things taking place in the temple of God that they never dreamed would have taken place. There was prophets saying and doing things that Israel would have never dreamed they were doing. It was a time of transition, a time of cran uh of uh confusion, and one of the primary reasons That Israel was changing so much was the rise of what the Bible calls false prophets. Men who claimed to speak for God. Men who would stand up before the congregation. And declare themselves to be preaching God's word. They claim that they were sent by God When in reality God had never sent them. In reality, they were preaching messages of their own making. They were preaching their own ideas and their own theories. And verse number 28 talks about they were preaching their dreams. They were very elegant. They could bring the house down, so to speak. They were very poetic. They were very witty. They could attract great crowds. They could stir the emotions. They could fire people up. But their message was not of God. Their message was man-centered and was based on their own imaginations. They were not declaring God's word. These false prophets grieved Jeremiah deeply. If you would, in chapter 23 of Jeremiah, come back to verse number 9, and Jeremiah expresses His concern. Notice in verse 9, he says, My heart within me is broken. Why? Because of the prophets, the false prophets. All my bones shake. I am like a drunken man and like a man whom wine hath overcome because of the Lord and because of the words of his holiness. For the land is full of adulterers. For because of swearing the land mourneth, the pleasant places of the wilderness are dried up, their course is evil, and their force is not right For both prophet and priest are profane. Yea, in my house have I found their wickedness, saith the Lord. Isaiah is disturbed for two reasons. One because of the corrupting effect these false prophets had on the people As I said at the beginning of the message, you cannot get away from the authority of God's word and maintain moral purity. The farther we get from the Bible, the more immoral we as individuals and we as a society will become. And Jeremiah's heart was grieved. He heard these prophets preaching, he saw the great crowds, and he listened to their message, and he determined their message was not of God. And they saw the effects on the people. Adultery, wickedness, profanity. Characterize the people of God who were sitting under these false prophets who were not declaring the word of God. Now listen, I feel strongly the Bible is very clear, every Christian should spend time daily in the Word of God. Right or wrong? Now listen, you start to neglect that. You start getting away from God's word, you'll find yourself saying and doing and thinking things you never dreamed you would. And that was what was happening to Israel as a nation. Profanity, wickedness, adultery. All because they had gotten away from the Word of God. Jeremiah was grieved when he looked at the people of Israel, his people, the people of God. And they had rejected the authority of God's word. They had submitted themselves to these false prophets, preaching their own messages, and immorality just saturated. Society. But he was grieved for another reason, not just because of the effect that the absence of God's word had on the people, but also because he knew the coming jud there was a coming judgment of God. He knew there is no way God's people can neglect and disobey and reject God's word and not pay a heavy price. He knew judgment was coming. Judgment was coming on the people of God. Because of their neglect and rejection of God's word. To neglect or reject God's word brings corrupt living and it brings certain judgment. To know what God says, they were taught from children what was right and what was wrong. They were taught from childhood the word of God and the holiness of God. They were taught what God expects from his people. And as a nation and as individuals, they rejected that. They say, I'll not have this man rule over me. We'll not submit to the word of God. And to do so, to deliberately reject or refuse God's word, is certain to bring God's judgment on an individual or on a society. Now, the sad fact of the matter is, we live in a world today where in Christian circles the message of the judgment of God is so rare. That when it is preached, people laugh at it. People mock at it. Jonathan Edwards was a great preacher in New England in the late 1700s. He was not an elegant speaker. In fact, he was nearly blind. Of course, they didn't have electricity, so all they had was candlelight. Though he was not eloquent, though he was not poetic, though he was not dynamic in his delivery, Jonathan Edwards was a preacher of the Word of God. Unashamedly, he preached God's word as it was. And God began moving. And one night, as far as I can tell from the history books and study it, it wasn't necessarily a significant meeting It wasn't what we would call revival type meeting, just a regular, as far as I can tell, it was pretty much just a regular service, I believe it was a Sunday evening service Stark, a little candlelight throughout the church, and Jonathan Edwards read his message, didn't preach it, read it, almost blind, with it up to his face like this By candlelight, he read Sinners in the hands of an angry God. And rather than mocking it, rather than ignoring it and just walking out God's people trembled, trembled under the authority of God's word. You don't hear that today too much. You don't hear that in even what we would call our good fundamental independent Baptist churches too much. And I'm afraid. I'm afraid That even in our good churches, we are following the road that Israel followed And we want our ears tickled, and we want our our imagination stirred, and we don't want to hear from God. We don't want to hear of judgment and righteousness and holiness. We don't want any talk of obedience and submission Jeremiah's heart was stirred. He's brokenhearted over his nation, his people, God's people. Look with me if you would at verse 28. He says, under the inspiration of God, the prophet that hath a dream, let him tell his dream. And he that hath my word, God's word, let him speak my word faithfully Now what is he talking about here? What is God saying through Jeremiah? He's saying, listen. You folks, and you have your dreams, you have your ideas, you have your theories, all you've got it all figured out Go ahead and say your dream. Go ahead and espouse your theories. Give your opinions all you want. But he says, He that has my word. You declare my word. And at the last phrase of that verse, he explains what he's talking about. Look what he says. I have your attention, young people. I have your attention. Look what he says. What is the chaff to the wheat? And the answer to that question, I guess you have to be a little farmer in you a little bit to know what that is. The answer to the question, what is the chaff to the wheat? The answer is what? It's nothing. Chaff is just the little outer shell of the wheat grain. And you beat that thing and you and you widow that out and you you get rid of the chaff. The chaff is nothing. The chaff is waste. The wheat is where the substance is. The wheat is where the value is. The wheat is that which makes a difference. And he says, your dreams, your ideas, your theories, your opinions, that's all you've got, and that's all you can say. But he says, if you've got my word, then you've got the wheat. Your theories and ideas and dreams, it's all just chat. It's meaningless. It's meaningless. It's of no value. It's of no benefit. You don't know how many times as pastor people will say something like this to me. And I understand it's not always in a wrong context, but people say something like this. Well, I think Well my opinion is. Now I respect that and if I want your opinion, I'll ask for it. That was a joke. Um but um But the fact of the matter is what you think and what I think really is insignificant is what God says. Dreams and opinions, it's chaff. What does God say? And that brings us to our text here. What is the chaff to the wheat? Said the Lord. The answer is nothing. What is the dream to the word of God? What is the opinion, the thought, man's thought to the word of God? The answer is nothing. Then God, God describes his word. And look what he says. Is not my word like a fire? And God says that his word, he's suggesting here, his word is not suggesting, he's telling us, his word is like a fire. Now the question came to my mind: how is God's word like a fire? Well, I think it's interesting, he doesn't say that sermons about my word are like a fire. He says, my word is like a fire. He doesn't say books about my word or like a fire. He doesn't say poems or stories about my word or like a fire. Hey, listen. We need sermons on the Word of God. We I like books about the Word of God. I like to hear stories from and about the Word of God. But it is not what we do with the Word of God that makes it fire. God's Word is fire. It's like a fire. Now, what does that mean? Well, I thought of several things that fire does, that God's Word does And one of them is God's word, like fire, brings comfort and relaxation. I don't know about you, I like to, uh you know, and I can if it's cool out or whatever, sit down around a fire and warm myself. Anybody enjoy that? In fact, uh, we bought this past year a little fire pit down at the hardware store and we put on our back deck and we have burn I burn that thing all the time. I love to sit out there around that fire It's just something about sitting around the fire. If you're a pyromaniac, it helps a little bit too, but um there's something about sitting around a fire that is just relaxing I asked my wife, I'll have an evening, I'll sit back there sometimes an hour or two at a time. I just like to sit around the fire and watch it burn. And we get it burning fifteen, twenty feet in the sky, and it's so relaxing But am I right or wrong? Get around a fire brings comfort. Uh several years ago my son, oldest son, was out in Colorado outfitting and working with a Christian outfitter and and uh you remember some of you uh had opportunity to go out. He paid my way, praise the Lord. Well part of it. But um And was able to go out there and Dr. Williams and Brother Cumberland from over in Kingwood. We went over and went hunting. We stayed up in the mountains in a tent and went hunting for elk. Didn't get a thing, but um we went hunting for elk And in the Rocky Mountains in October is pretty cool. In fact, it got pretty cold. And we'd be out all day in the cold and we'd come back to the tents. We're about three miles up in the mountains. No electricity, done, just the tents. And boy, I tell you, it was nice to come back and there'd be a fire burning there. We were cold and tired. And boy, we pull ourselves up around that fire, and just something about it just warms your bones And you felt safe. You felt warm. I tell you, that's what God's word is like. We live in a cold world, don't we? Cold world. Hard world. I tell you, it's awfully nice as a child of God to be able to come home or get up of a morning or sit down of an evening and open God's word, and boy, it just warms your heart. Can I get a witness? Just warms your heart. Like you, I have been through some tough times in my life. Everybody has. Times when our hearts were broke. Times maybe we were just scared and we didn't know what was going to happen. I tell you, those times, and by the way, for me, the hardest times have been since I've been saved. Salvation doesn't shelter us from heartache and difficulty. But I tell you, the Lord knows difficult times when heart was broken and people disappointed. Sure, it's been nice to come to God's Word and open it up and have my heart warmed and God warm uh warmed and God remind me that He's still in control That I can trust him. That he'll deal with my enemies and I just wait on him and just relax. It's going to be alright. One of my favorite books to go through to in difficult times, the book of Psalms. And there you find David and others who went through hard times writing what God was doing for them and what a blessing it is. You're here this morning, and you feel the coldness of this unbelieving world. You're here this morning, you say, preacher, I feel like the the coldness of this sinful world is getting in my bones. I tell you what, God's word is like a fire. You can come around there, and God will stir your heart, and God will encourage you and comfort you through his word. People will ask me sometimes, you know, for counsel and for encouragement and whatnot. And I try to say things, but you know what I found? God's word can do far more for someone than anything I could ever do. He says, my words like a fire. Those prophets, they had their dreams and their opinions and their witty little stories, and look what it's doing. The nation is falling into the depths of immorality. Your security is gone. He says, Why don't you take the wheat of my word? It's like a fire. It'll stir your heart. It'll warm your heart. We live in difficult days in our country. I don't know, like you, I don't know which direction our country But I'm glad one thing, we've got a fire in God's word that we can gather around, and regardless of what the weather is in pol politics and religion, we can warm ourselves around the Word of God. He says my word is like a fire. Like a fire. He said a fire warms us and relaxes and comforts us. Another thing a fire does, I found that a fire brings reaction. It produces activity. And this is what I mean by that. Let's come back to our back deck. And I've got a five-foot flames. It's just comforting. And inevitably I don't have a chainsaw yet, and so I just gotta kinda get the logs I can. And some of those logs are like twice the length of that fire pit. You know, it's quite a scene. You really should come and see it sometime. As my way. And I'll lay those things on there and I'll feel well I'll put it here and when it burns down then I'll shift it over as it burns, you know what I'm talking about Sometimes phone rings. That thing's burn away. I said, all right, I gotta keep an eye on that. I don't know if this that ends burned up, I'll move it over. Phone rings, I get in and get talking. I forget about that law And I walk out and that thing falls off. I know you are thinking, that preacher's gonna burn down the parsonage Inevitably I come out there and say, oh no, man, that thing fell out. Dumb me. Grab the thing. Ah. You know what I found out? You touch fire, you get a reaction. I never yet have touched a hot coal and just said, hmm, that's hot. You react to it. You know what I found? I found God's word brings a reaction It burns man's sin. It burns man's pride. You know what I think? Now there's various reasons, no doubt, and I've got to accept responsibility for much of it, I'm sure. But I think sometimes people don't come around to the church house because they get burned by the Word of God. I think sometimes and again I'm I need uh no doubt I need to repair much of the responsibility here, but I think sometimes people don't like the preacher because not so much that he's so unlikable, though that may be a factor, but I think sometimes it's Because of the message, the word of God that's preached. And it burns their pride. And they love their sin. And when this judgment is preached or the holiness of God, the word of God is declared. I don't want nothing to do with that I've told you a number of times about the fellow whose son was riding our bus. And he lived out towards Paul's area somewhere, out that direction, 560. And so then we started visiting him and and uh he I guess they lived in town, he rode the bus, then they moved out there. Anyway, he was bringing his son several times for a month or two Sunday mornings was it. They'd come and they'd sit in church. And all of a sudden he stopped coming. And we had visited him a number of times. And uh we had some folks out visiting that area and said, Why do they swing by and check on this fellow Hadn't been out for a little while. Just you're out in that area visiting, check on in. So they did. And they came back. And I said, how'd it go? They said, uh, he told us he ain't never coming back to church here again And um I said, did he say why? They said yeah. He said, because every time you go there, all you ever hear is, you gotta get saved, you gotta get saved, you gotta get saved says you guys come out here and visit me and all I hear is you gotta get saved you gotta get saved all it ever is is you gotta get saved you know what the problem is The Bible preaches you need to get saved. And he was saved. And so he never came back. God's word burns And by the way, if you're here this morning, the Bible does say, except a man be born again, he shall not enter the kingdom of heaven. That's not my word. That's not this church's word. That's not somebody's dream. That's the word of God. So the word of God brings comfort to those who will gather around it, but it also sometimes burns. And uh brings a reaction. There was a lady a number of years ago who came to church, trusted Christ. It wasn't that long ago. She said she didn't have a Bible. She came a time or two. We gave her a Bible. We had boxes of them. We gave her a Bible, put her name in it. Said, read your Bible every day, bring it to church. She didn't live far from here. About a week later, one of the ladies from her church was visiting her. She goes, Oh, by the way, I want to give this Bible back. I don't like it. She didn't come anymore. She gave the Bible back. She didn't like it. I thought I heard When she gave it back. You know, I think what's happening is burning. She read the Bible, it condemned her lifestyle and she didn't want that. You know, the interesting thing is, you read through the book of Acts When Paul would come to a town, he would declare the Word of God, and one of two things would happen. Either revival broke out or a riot broke out. He either left with a church in place or he got run out of town after being in jail. But whatever the case was, every time Paul preached the word of God, there was a reaction. God's word is like a fire. It comforts. It brings reaction. Another aspect of fire is fire will melt things. In fact, you can melt steel with fire. And God's word can melt a hard heart Now, I'm talking a lot of folks, you'll be able to relate to what I'm saying. You could testify to the same thing. Before I was saved, my heart was hard. Does anybody here know what I'm talking about? Just hard. I didn't want nothing to do with church. I didn't want nothing to do with God. I didn't want nothing to do with anybody that had anything to do with church or God I was living my life, I was doing it my way, I had been hurt by some people, and I didn't want to hear about it My daddy, when I was young, early, mid-teens, he'd take me to church. And the preacher of the church at that time was faithful preacher of God's word. Amen. And he'd give an invitation. I remember it like it was last week. It was a large church, and it was I sat in the back area here about where Clark is. I sat back there, that's where we sat. That preacher would give the invitation, we'd all stand, and he'd say over and over again, you need to come and be saved. You need to trust Christ as Savior. I'm a 14-year-old punk. You've heard the story, holding on the pew. You know what was happening? God, the heat of God's word was being applied to my heart. And I'd hold on and hold on. Then I quit going. Got old enough, right? Didn't have to do it, and I quit going. 15, 16 years old, I just quit. Daddy couldn't drag me there. And then my father would write me letters, leave them on the dresser. Son, I love you. You need Christ. I'm praying for you. God killed me. He lead tracks around, soar the Lord. Look at that man. You know what's happening? God was melding that hard to heart. I was 18 years old. My daddy wrote me about a five-page letter. He poured his heart out. I had that letter for years. I tell you what, that started melting. Here's another thing that got to me. I think it was the Mennonites did this actually, but around that area they had these big billboards and they had Bible verses on them. Just various random Bible verses. Big billboards. And about this time, my 18th year leading up to my 19th birthday, I'd drive down the road and I'd see that verse. And it would kill me. You know what was happening? The fire of God's word was melting, melting a hard heart Maybe you're here this morning. And you're here because you have to be. Maybe you're a young person. And your parents bring you to church kicking and screaming. I'm here to tell you, your cold hard heart isn't any match for the Word of God. God's word can melt that unbelief and that self-will. The fire of God's word. It melts. There is not a sin that the devil can come up with. that the fire of God's word cannot melt that sin. I like Psalm 119 verse 9. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking what? Heed according to thy word. There's not a thought in hell, there's not a sin, there's not an activity that this world or the devil can come up with that can stand the heat of the Word of God. And there's nothing wrong with America that a good dose of Bible preaching, a good dose of the Word of God couldn't turn this country around. The fire of God's word melts the hard heart. That's why I've always said all the years, yeah. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. Honey folks here, since you've been saved to just a little degree, at some point since you've been saved, you've been in a backslidden state. Not as many amens there. We all have, right or wrong? You're the you're the first in the history of mankind if you haven't been backslidden at any point since you've been saved. Some of y'all are right now, pretty The fact of the matter is, when we do get in a vaccinated state, you know what we should do? Keep right on reading the Bible, keep right on going to church. The dumbest thing you can do when you get out of fellowship with God, the dumbest thing you can do is stop reading your Bible, stop coming to church. You say, I shouldn't go to church if I'm backslidden. That's what church is for. Get under the word of God. Get your nose in the heat of God's word, and God will burn that sin, and God will draw you back to Himself. David prayed over and over and over through the book of Psalms. Turn me, O God, turn my heart, O God. You know what he was saying? I'm not right. My heart is cold. I've drifted away. God, I need you to bring me back. And the way he does that is through his word. So God says, my word is like a fire. Then he says. My word is like a hammer. Now I know what you're thinking. If he preaches as long on the hammer part as he did on the fire part, we're going to be here until this afternoon. But I'm not going to. The word hammer is used three times in the Bible. It means that word hammer there in verse 29, is not my word like a fire, say the Lord, and like a hammer? That word hammer there literally means to pound. Not once, but pound. My word is like a pounding. In Isaiah 41:7 the word hammer is used and he talks about the uh workmen using the hammer to smooth iron. The phrase is smooth it with a hammer. I never heard of anybody smoothing out some type of metal just hitting it one time. Doesn't happen. You're gonna smooth out s anybody here ever been to an old timey blacksmith shop or anything? Did you ever see that? How many people ever saw 'em get it hit at one time? Well, that's done Doesn't happen, does it? What does he do? He pounds it and pounds it and pounds it and pounds it. And all the three times throughout the Bible the word hammer is used. It refers most of two of the three times, it's referring to a pounding. Now there is a different tool. In the Bible mention it's called a hammer. It's a different Hebrew word. And that refers to a wooden mallet type thing. Now, a wooden mallet type is different than a pounding hammer type. A wooden mallet you would use to hit pound in a wooden stake. The problem with a wooden mallet is that wood gives. Over uh it can chip away, it can break, you can hit something harder than the wooden mallet and break the wooden mallet. But this hammer talking about here is steel. And it doesn't give. And it when you hammer, you pound with this hammer here referred to, whatever's being pounded is what gives in. It is a powerful tool. It is a tool that is used over and over and over and over. Now some have suggested by using the term hammer here that God is telling us how we're supposed to use his word. My word is like a hammer that breaketh the rock in pieces. To use a hammer, and I was sharing this, I guess it was it in Deacon Devotions, I think I was talking about this. We got some builders in our church and they're very good. But I have yet to see a builder. Maybe there's somebody who can do that, but you're going to hammer in drywall nail and you just hit it once and it's good Alright, I've never seen is there is that possible? Can anybody do that? Ed, you can do that? Hey, Ed can do that. You know, you're hammering a two by four. You've got to hit that thing, you hit that thing. Here's the thing about a hammer, and I I hope you guys don't take offense. Ronnie's not he's down with kids, so I don't have to worry about him. But you don't have to be highly educated to use a hammer. Am I right? I don't know of any universities that provide a doctor's degree in hammering What do you need to use a hammer? You need strength, right? You need a little bit of eye-hand coordination, or you'll have swelled up fingers. But the most all you need is you need experience. Right? You just use that thing. It's like riding bike. The more you use it, the better you get at it You can read and study all you want about hammering, but you're not going to learn much of it until you get out there and start doing it. And God's word is like a hammer. You don't have, and now you ought to study the Bible and you ought to know a little bit about your hammer, but you don't have to be a genius to use the Bible. All you gotta do is take what God's word. You don't have to decorate it up. You don't have to be ornate. Just take God's word. And And give it out, and give it out, and give it out, and give it out, and it will have an effect for sixteen years. My wife and I and the folks of this church have rallied together and we have given out God's word and given out God's word and we have pounded Garrett County and pounded Garrett County. with gospel tracts, with gospel literature, with radio broadcasts, with revival meetings, with advertisements in the paper, the Word of God pounding, pounding, pounding, pounding. That is how you use the Bible. How many folks here? First time you heard the gospel, you got saved. Is there anybody? Very first time you heard the gospel, you got saved. Never heard it before, heard it the first time, got saved Two people. How many folks heard it over and over and over and over and over and over and over again? Finally it had an effect. How many folks like that? That's how the Bible works You say, Brother, I preacher, I got a brother. I don't think he'll ever get saved. His heart is so hard. You know what you do? You keep giving him the word of God Keep giving them the word of God. You say our community is so cold, they're so indifferent, then keep on giving them the word of God. Keep on giving them the word of God. I did a funeral, it's been a while ago, with another preacher of a fairly liberal church. And I had a partner at the funeral and asked him, and we got talking, and he says, you know, the people in my church are so hard, they don't even respond to spiritual things. You know what my thought was? Go to preach the Bible. Just keep preaching the Bible. It'll break it down. I feel bad for liberal church pastors. Think about it. How many people ever notice sometimes people have a hard time getting along? Anybody notice that? That's true. Across the board. Uh in liberal churches and in fundamental churches. Right? Some folks, doesn't matter what you do, they're not going to get along with anybody. But I got to think about liberal pastors. I feel sorry for them. The one I did this film man the guy was just mad all the time. He just looked mad all the time. I thought that poor guy. Now think about it. He doesn't preach the Bible. So he's trying to get these unsaved people to get along. But he doesn't have the hammer of God's word to do anything, and he doesn't have the Holy Spirit to convict anybody about anything. If they're going to get along, it's all up to him. You follow what I'm saying? Thank God I'm a pastor of a Bible-preaching church. If y'all get out of whack, I'll preach the Bible, the Holy Spirit will do a work. It's not up to me, it's up to God. I've got it easy. I think. But uh the hammer of God's word. When you use a hammer you exert energy. You hit that nail hard, you hit that rock hard, and you just do it over and over and over. Acts 14. 1, the Bible says they so spake In other words, they kept preaching it and preaching it with energy and enthusiasm, and it had a powerful effect. When we were in Dublin the other week with Daniel, we went into uh King's University, the biggest college in this country. And they had in there the book of Kells. Anybody ever hear the book of Kells? It was Matthew, Mark, and Luke. That were written by hand in uh over 800 years ago. It was the oldest man-made thing my eyes have ever laid on I think it might have been like twelve hundred years old. It was back in it was in the eight hundreds is when it was, so however long ago that was. What is it? 1,200 years ago. And it was so ornate. And it was designs and all of that. And I got looking at it, and nobody could read a word it said. It was as fancy as could be. You had to pay some money to go in and look at it. You know what it did? What good it did? Nothing. It's like putting a hammer on a display. It just sits there. It doesn't do a thing. You need to do you need to take that out. Doesn't matter how fancy it is, it doesn't matter what the cover looks like. Just get it out and start hammering. When using a hammer, you just keep on pounding. Keep on pounding. But here's the thing, as I've finished up studying this, I got thinking, you know, it's not so much what we do with the Bible. It's not us hammering. And I feel like we've been pounding away here in Oakwood. But I got thinking about it. That's not what God's saying. God's saying it isn't you using my word that makes it a hammer. My word is a hammer. You know what that tells me? That if I can get God's word in someone's ears, then that word starts pounding away. I don't know how many times I've people and I've experienced it myself. I'll read a verse, somebody will preach on a verse, and boy, that thought gets in my head, down in my heart, and boy, it just keeps coming back and coming back. And just eating at me and eating at me and eating at me and eating at me until I get that thing right. I've told you about 2 Corinthians 4. 18. We look not at the things which are sick Boy that verse got in my mind before I was saved. And God hammered me with that, and hammered me with that, and hammered me with that Until I finally submitted and said, Lord, I'll trust you as Savior. Give out God's word. It'll do the hammering. I would venture to say there's some people I'm talking to right now. Right now, you're looking at me. And there's a truth from God's word is eaten at you. You know your life doesn't line up with it. And you know there's things where God says this and you're over here and God's been pounding away at you and pounding away at you and pounding away at you And I'm here to tell you, God's not going to stop till either you get it right or he has to deal with you. That's what he's telling Israel. Judgment's coming. You've neglected my word. You've rejected my word. You've got your own dreams, your own ideas. But I'm reminding you, my word is like a fire, my word is like a hammer, it is going to pound and pound and pound, it is going to burn and burn and burn at your soul. Until either you get right or I step in. I believe that's God's word to America. That may be God's word to some of us here this morning Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd help us, Lord, to submit to your word. Help us to understand the power of the Word of God. Help us, Father, to submit ourselves to your word. And then Lord help us to be faithful in giving it out and trusting you and your word to bear fruit in the hearts and lives of people. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed this morning, let me talk to the Christians for a moment. You're here this morning and the Word of God's been dealing, God's been dealing with your heart God's been dealing with your heart about some areas that you've just hardened up about. You say, I'm not going to do that. I am not going to submit to that. This morning, God's reminding you, I'm not letting up. God said, I'm not going to stop burning. I'm not going to stop pounding. And you say, preacher, this morning, there's some areas that I need to submit to the Word of God. He's been dealing with me. I know they're not right. I know I'm out of tune. And I want to submit to God. I want his will to be done in these areas. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. There are some areas that God is dealing with me And I need to submit. I need to make that right. God bless you, hands all around. A lot of hands. Oh. Don't don't resist it. Don't say no to God. Don't keep on hardening your heart. God's word just keeps coming down and coming down and coming down. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I just feel the coldness of the world creeping in. And just a sense of discouragement, a sense of sense of spiritual coldness has gotten in my spiritual bones. You say, preacher, I need to gather around God's word. I need to get in and start reading it and accepting it and letting God bring life back to my heart. I need revival. You say, preacher, by God's grace, I want to start reading my Bible. I want God to warm my bones. With his word. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I just feel that spiritual coldness, spiritual discouragement. Say, preacher, I need to get back in the Bible. I need to let God speak to my heart and warm my heart Are there some here this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die? So I don't want to go to hell. I want to know for sure I'm going to heaven. You say, Preacher, pray for me. I want to know from the Bible that my Sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know for sure I'm going to heaven. From the Bible How about it? Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time now. I pray you'd stir our hearts. Help us, Lord, to humble ourselves and speak