Bibles this morning and I'll try to be as brief as I can 'cause my stomach is growling and uh so I I'm gonna preach eighty five miles an hour with gust up to a hundred and thirty if a southerner can do that, I don't know. But uh yeah, I heard a amen. Praise the Lord. Uh turn your Bibles to Genesis chapter number forty-five this morning. Genesis chapter number forty-five And I still have a heart for revival. I believe uh before the Lord returns that he can send revival to this nation, to the churches It's going to start with individuals though. It's going to start with families. It's going to start with individual churches and then it'll spread. Uh but I don't put any limits on God. I've heard the naysayer say, no, God's not going to send a great revival in our day. That those are fatalists. Amen. I don't want to be a fatalist. I want to be alive. I want to be revived. Uh praise the Lord. So uh before I read the scripture this morning, I want to give you some background uh to what is taking place here. This is the first mention. I love the law of first mention. Whenever you see the word revive, revive, revival, any form of that word, it is first mentioned here in chapter number 45 of Genesis. That doesn't mean that revival didn't take place in somebody's heart before that time, but it's the first place I see the word in all scripture Uh so I want to talk about the first mention of revival in the Old Testament. And uh uh it it's a dramatic emotional time, uh this place uh uh this thing that took place Uh uh the background, I'll give you the background. Uh we're going to be talking about Jacob and Joseph. Joseph is the son of Jacob. Uh Jacob, whenever you study uh about Jacob's life, there are three R's that come to my mind. uh in the life of Jacob. The first R uh is reap re you reap what you sow You reap later than you sow, and you reap more than you sow. It depends on what we sow as to what we're going to reap. I want to sow good things so I will reap a great harvest of good things. But there are so many people today they are uh sowing their wild oats, we say. Uh they're sowing things that are going to come up later on. Some people will live a rough life and sow to the flesh and they'll sow uh wicked things and then they'll pray for crop failure. That doesn't happen. It always comes up and it always comes up more. You put one kernel of corn in the ground and and then more than one kernel is going to come up Uh it's gonna uh be a stalk of corn and then a field of corn. Uh so uh uh we think about the word reap. You know, Jacob uh sowed to his flesh. He he lied to his dad. And then he had at least ten out of his twelve children lied to him. He reached more through being deceptive than he sowed. Then the second R that I think about when I think about Jacob Is revival. Revival. Jacob had more places of revival, more revival moments in his life than any other person, I believe in the Bible. He had more revival experiences that took place in his life. One of his revival moments, his name was changed. It was changed from Jacob, subplanner uh deceitful worker, uh uh a trickster, it was changed to Israel, his spiritual name. Israel means a prince with God And and so that was one of the revival times in his life. Uh so uh if you study Jacob, you're gonna study revival. If you study Jacob, you're gonna so uh see the uh the sowing and the reaping take place in his life. As a matter of fact, in in this service in Genesis forty five, when we get to it, we'll find the very first time in the Bible that revive any form of the word revival is mentioned. Uh so uh in review we got reaping number one, revival number two, the third R that we think about when we think about Jacob You can't study the life of Jacob without this R. Outside of those revival times with Jacob, uh with his God Uh as as he as God spoke to him and he served God and he was led of God, there was nobody more important to Jacob than Rachel Then Rachel, you've got to understand that there's a lot of things went on in that family. Things that God winked at. We don't live that way Uh uh today the way they live back then, they had several wives and and and all these things took place. That was not God's plan for the family Uh uh but uh you won't find anybody more important, more loved uh uh by Jacob than Rachel. So we've got to understand uh their relationship to understand Jacob's life Think about this. A man works for seven years for a wife. It took me five years to convince Vicky to marry me. Five long treacherous years is like I went out into the field and I found that treasure a great price And she got the field. I got the treasure. She got the field. Amen. But it took five long years. But can you imagine working seven years Uh because your love it was love at first sight. And that love was strong. Only to find out whenever uh they he got married the next morning he woke up and it was Leah You talk about uh uh something different happening. That's why in weddings today Uh the the bride and her dad walks down the aisle and the dad gives the bride away and and uh the the groom comes comes down and takes her hand in his and he lifts that veil to make sure he gets the right one. Amen. Amen. weddings here today. Uh so so you want to make sure you got the right one. Amen. But that was not what he was expecting. It was like going to McDonald's sometimes and and you get a Sprite. You order Sprite And you take that first sip and they messed up the water. They ever gave you water or they were out of Sprite syrup and you just got I mean it was it was a big turn off right there. Uh so he works another seven years for Rachel. Now we're going to look at the most uh uh dramatic, emotional revival in the Old Testament. But in order to understand that, you have to understand Jacob's relationship with Rachel. There was never another human being Jacob loved more than Rachel. Now Leah keeps having the children. And Rachel can't have any kids. She throws in her her handmaid, her concubine, uh, you know, like that's gonna help things along. Uh so now you got two women having kids and they f and then finally Rachel has a boy And his name is Joseph. Well you can imagine Joseph is the favored child. That's not the way we do it in our families. That's not the way to have a Christian family is to show favoritism to one child. God multiplies the love. Uh uh w the more you have, the more he multiplies that love. Uh you don't favor one over the other. They all have their own gifts, their own talents, they all have uh the the blessings of God upon them. Uh so we love 'em all. Amen. Uh but you gotta understand this was a dysfunctional family and and uh uh So Rachel has Joseph. So you can imagine Joseph is the favored child because Rachel is the favored wife Love at first sight right there. So now Joseph's the favorite child and all that dysfunctional family is coming out of Jacob's love for Rachel. Then boy does things change on Jacob You reap what you sow, Jacob. You reap later than you sow, Jacob, and you reap more than you sow, Jacob Rachel gets pregnant again, and Rachel has another son. But in the birth of that son, Benoit, or Benjamin, Rachel dies. Whoa, now you have one grieving father, one grieving husband there at that funeral Now, the only connection that Jacob has to Rachel, his favorite wife, the love of his wife, his first love. It's Joseph and Benjamin. You've got to understand that to get the rest of the message here this morning. We've got to understand this. His love, the love this man had for Rachel. Rachel is gone. It's all Joseph and Benjamin now. By the way, we're going to be in Genesis 45 this morning, but if you would look quickly back to Genesis chapter number 37 for just a moment. Genesis chapter number thirty-seven. I thought this was interesting right here in the story of Jacob and Joseph. Because we know what the boys did to Joseph out of their jealousy. They sold him into slavery to the Midianites. Uh they bring back the coat, they tear it, they dip it in goat's blood. I wonder where they got that idea at. Might have come from their father, Jacob. Whenever he was deceitful to his dad Isaac, and they killed a goat and put the skins on the back of his neck and on his arm so he'd tend to be uh pretend to be Esau They dip it in goat's blood, they they show it to their dad, and he's already uh Jacob's already taken uh the the birthright from Esau. Now he gets the blessing from him. So now we're back in this and and we see how he's starting to reap That sewing that he did earlier. So when they bring back now, this is this is a very important verse uh for what we're going to see in this message. When they bring back the coat that's ripped and got the blood on it I wonder if you've ever noticed chapter 37, verse number 33. This is talking about Jacob, it says, and he knew it. And said, It is my son's coat. An evil beast hath devoured him. Joseph is, look at those next two words, without doubt, rent in pieces. Let me ask you a question this morning. Was Joseph dead? No. But as far as Jacob was concerned, he was without doubt. uh dead. He knew that his son had been ripped apart by beasts or or something else had befallen him, but it was no good. He was dead, and there was nothing he could do to bring him back. That was Jacob's thinking Let me ask you something. Let me tell you something this morning. Let me share something with you. Things are not always the way they seem to be. Let me stop right here. I'm I'm fifty-seven years old, and I've seen more changes in this nation. In families, in churches, in the last ten years, than I have my whole life put together Some of you are sitting here this morning saying, America is done. America has had it. America is going down. And you've got a lot of evidence to prove your point. But let me tell you, things are not what they seem to be. I've still got hope. I've still got hope that God's going to do a mighty work, that He's not going to leave His remnants all over this nation alone, that he is still going to work through them because of the evidence that I've heard just recently on Friday, three more souls saved. Uh Saturday evening, another dear lady gets saved God is still saving souls. God is still working in lives and he's still working in hearts and he can still revive a nation that is heading in the wrong direction Just like the rivers of water, he's able to turn the king's head. He's able to turn his heart any way he chooses. You some of you may be in here with all kinds of sorrows in your heart, with pain. All different things going on in your life right now, and you might be saying, well, my family's gone. It's over. My job is gone. Let me say God's not done yet, folks. God, I don't think, is done with America yet. I've got that hope. Jacob said, without a doubt, Joseph is dead. But Joseph was not dead. But by everything that he saw, he was never going to see his son Joseph again. I just thought that was interesting there. that he said it was without doubt. Now we go to Genesis 45. Uh over here we'll read in just a moment, but uh now what you've got is Rachel is dead, and as far as Jacob knows, Joseph is dead. So what now does Joseph have? uh to link him to his favorite wife, the love of his wife Rachel. It's all Benjamin now. Benjamin is the last one. He is all that's left Now there's this guy in Egypt that says, if you're coming back, they've been down to get food and they bring it back, they bring the grain back to their father and Simeon is left behind and has to be a prisoner because they were taken in as spies. But there's this man down in Egypt, this guy that says, if you're coming back for any more food, you've got to bring your youngest brother Benjamin, you've got to bring him back with you. Uh now this this man was Joseph. He hadn't revealed himself to his brethren yet, and as far as they know, our slave brother has probably died in Egypt by now. Little did they realize he was the second most powerful person in all the world. Not just Not just Egypt. Egypt was the superpower of the day. He was the second most powerful man in all the world in that time. And he says, do not come back without your youngest brother. Now I think some of them were probably scratching their heads and thinking, this is just weird. Our youngest brother? What? What difference is that going to make if we bring our youngest brother? So, but nonetheless, um they go to their dad and and And uh they tell dad, said the next time we go to get grain, we are going to have to take our younger brother Benjamin with us. We're not going to get any more to eat unless our younger brother Benjamin is with us And I believe that Jacob said probably in the Southern Hebrew, that ain't happening. You're not taking the strength of the son of my right arm. You're not going to take him. That's not going to happen. I cannot, I've lost Joseph, I lost Rachel. I'm not losing another son. So the famine continues. It goes on for those seven years. They wait a little longer in the family and they're all going to die. Benjamin's going to die too. There's no food. And they go back to Dad and they say, Dad, we have to take Benjamin I don't think any of us can fully understand this. We're not in that situation. But I don't think any of us can truly understand. He is getting ready to send his lastborn Benjamin. uh with uh with these brothers and the the the last link that he has with Rachel You have to understand that. Now Jacob knowing his sons is going to put them in trust with the only thing left that connects him to Rachel. Every day they're gone, you know Jacob is up and he's And he's an old man walking back and forth in the tent, and he's saying, Oh God of Abraham, God of Isaac, and my God too, please look after Benjamin. Please let him come back Please don't let any mischief fall upon him. Please keep him alive. Please, Lord. Please, God of my fathers, bring Benjamin back. That's all I ask. That's all I'm uh I'm asking for Well, folks, Benjamin comes back. But something else comes back too, the news that Joseph is alive. And I believe when Jacob hears that Joseph is alive, there's only one other event in all the Bible that's greater than that. It happened early on a Sunday morning. Mary goes down to the tomb, and she sees the tomb empty, and she's weeping. They asked her said, Woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? And then she supposedly sees the gardener. The gardener comes around. And says the same thing, says, woman, why weepest thou? Whom seekest thou? She says, Sir, if you've taken him away, please, please tell me where they've taken him so we can so we can get him. He says, Mary, the greatest news that you will ever hear in all the New Testament, all the Bible, all put together. She said, Master. She said, Rabboni, which is to say master. She knew that it was Jesus that was saying, she recognized the voice That moment in the Bible where she realizes that Jesus has conquered death and the grave and he's alive again, that is the greatest news that's ever taken place. When Jesus Christ was known that He conquered death But I'll tell you in the Old Testament, I don't think there's a more dramatic moment than when Jacob finds out that Joseph is alive. I think personally, humanly, Joseph is the greatest picture of Jesus Christ in the Old Testament. I know we've got all the symbolism in the tabernacle and in the temple. And everything. All that points to Jesus Christ, his coming, uh his future kingdom that's coming. And all those things. I believe those are uh that's great symbo uh symbolic of Jesus Christ But as far as humanly speaking, there's not a greater person that uh that has the character and and lives uh a life like Jesus Christ than Joseph So we're not going to really look at Joseph this morning. We're going to look at Jesus. I want to encourage you with one of the most beautiful types and pictures you'll find anywhere in the Bible. How many of you have ever had a bad day? I have to take my glasses because I can't see you. I've had a bad day before. I've had a bad day where it just keeps keeps on more bad news coming. More bad news. To the point where if somebody came in and said I I say, are you going to bring any more bad news? They say, well, I was going to don't tell me I'm going to die if I hear any more bad news. Anybody had a day like that? I've had days like that before Let me tell you about a day I've never had. A day where if somebody came up to me and said And I say to them, are you going to tell me any more good news? I can't tell I've never had a day like that. I had a great day the day I got saved. Oh, heaven came down, glory filled my soul. And and and it just seemed like everything was right with the world. And I wanted to tell people about Jesus Christ. That was a great day Uh but it's just one piece of good news. I received the gospel of Jesus Christ, but I've never had a day where I had to say something to somebody, just stop. I can't take any more good news. Let me tell you, Jacob had a day like that He had a a good day one day, and we're gonna look at that this morning. He was going to have a heart attack, the Bible says. We're getting ready to look at the scripture. He told his boys, Don't say anything more, because if you do, I'm going to die. I can't handle all the good news I tell you this is a dramatic moment we're going to look at right now. Genesis 45, verse 24. And following Genesis forty five, verse twenty-four, it says, So he sent his brethren away, and they departed, and he said unto them, See that you fall not out by the way. I think Joseph still, even though he had been gone years, he still knew his brothers. So don't fall out by the way. And they went up out of Egypt and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father. And told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not. And they told him all the words of Joseph which he had said unto them. And when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him The spirit of Jacob, their father, revived. It revived. There's that word. The first mention of any form of the word revival revived right there in verse number 27. The first revival in the Bible. When did it come? When he realized that his son was alive. He he said, Thy son's alive, he's governor over all the land of Egypt. Jacob's heart fainted. It's like he had a heart attack. He he just went out. He said, I can't take any more I can't take this good news and they told him all the words of Joseph. So the conversations that they had had with their brother Joseph in Egypt They relayed them to him, which he had said unto them, and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, his spirit of Jacob their father revived. Look at the very next verse right there. And Israel. Folks, he just went from Jacob to Israel. He just had revival, one of those personal revivals in his life. He went from supplanters. Deceiver, uh trickster. He went from that to his spiritual name, Israel, the prince with God. He just had personal revival in his life right there, and Israel said, It is enough Joseph, my son, is yet alive. I will go and see him before I die. The first revival in the Bible. Let me ask you one more time, when did it come? When he realized Joseph was alive. Let me tell you, when revival will come to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, when revival will come to Oakland, Maryland, when revival will come to the state of Maryland, when revival will come to this nation, when it'll come to Denton, North Carolina, which all had enough students that was bigger than my whole class. Amen. In Denton, North Carolina When revival comes, I'll tell you when revival comes is when we get a fresh look that our Savior Jesus Christ is alive this morning. When he is alive, when we remember back to that day when we came to an old-fashioned altar and received Jesus Christ as our Lord and Savior. That's when revival will take when we'll go back to Calvary and look and see the great things that He has done in our lives, the blessings he's bestowed Yes, we can get cold and calloused on him, but it's time to come back to Calvary. It's time to come back to the cross and thank God and get a revival in our hearts so we can go out those doors that says you are now entering the mission field That's when revival will take place in our lives. He just went from Jacob to Israel. He just had revival. He just woke up and realized that the Son is alive. Father, before we go any farther, Lord, I pray that you'll do a work in people's hearts this morning. I pray that you'll give us a revival of who Jesus Christ is. Uh uh we're it's easy for us to get caught up in the things of the world, the things of this life and the cares of this life. But Lord give us a revival this morning And every heart here of Jesus Christ again, that he's alive. And if we came in like Jacob this morning, help us to leave these doors here in just a few minutes as Israel. Lord, we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen Picture if you can this scene real quickly. Jacob walking back and forth in his tent. He said, Oh Elohim, Jehovah, oh Lord God, please bring back Benjamin. Please bring him back to safely. Bring him back into my tent. Bring him back. He's the only thing that I've got left. He's the only thing uh that means anything to me now Because of the loss of Joseph and Rachel. I've lost Rachel. I've lost Joseph. I can't lose Benjamin. God please allow Benjamin to come back. And one day one of the servants comes through and in, Jacob, Jacob, Jacob in the Hebrew, they're coming back, they're coming back, and they've got wagons. They're coming. They're coming. Oh Lord, please let Benjamin be there. May Benjamin be alive. That's all I'm hoping for. He's just hoping Benjamin comes back. Now I don't know who the first person was to come in through the tent perhaps to speak to to Jacob, and most likely Jacob wasn't in the tent. He was probably outside just welcoming them all in But if you could picture with me just a moment, Jacob in his tent, walking back and forth, an old man now, and and the first one that comes in, uh I I don't know who it would have been, maybe Reuben, his oldest son Because Reuben has been feeling bad about this thing the whole time, so maybe he's the first one. Reuben runs in. Abba, Abba, Jacob Jacob says, Reuben, tell me Benjamin's okay. Benjamin is with us. He's with me. But let me tell you what else. Oh, thank you, dear God. Benjamin's alive. Dad, Dad. Let me tell you what else. Not only is Benjamin living, but Joseph is living. Jacob said, no, what what are you saying? Joseph's not living. Here's his coat, the coat He says, I know about that. Dad, we'll explain that to you later at a later time. But just trust me, Joseph is alive. Dad, he's living. Joseph is alive You know some of the saddest news whenever we watch conservative uh news, if you can believe a lot of that, is when someone has given their life for their country The saddest news in a church is when some dear saint of God has left the pew and gone home, graduated to glory, to be with him. That's some sad news. It's something you can't get over It's something that pains your heart. That's all you think about day and night. But give your heart, uh give it over to the Lord. Just let him help you with that Uh and remember uh what it says in First Corinthians chapter number fifteen and verse uh number fifty-five following. It says, Oh death, where is thy thing? O grave, where is thy victory? The sin of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Folks, do you understand we serve a risen Savior this morning A risen Savior. We're not talking about Hinduism or Buddhism or Muslim. They need the Lord. Amen. Jesus is the only way. The grave of our leader is empty. He's alive. And if he can conquer death, he can conquer anything that we face this year. He can face anything that's going to happen tomorrow that we don't know about yet. He can face anything that comes our way in our lives from here on out. How many believe Jesus Christ rose from the dead? Amen. Amen If Christ conquered death, he can handle anything that we've got to face. Yeah, God rose from the dead. I believe it. Yes, I believe God rose from the dead. I believe Jesus Christ rose from the dead, but I can't conquer my anger. Really? You can't conquer your air? He conquered the brave. What it is, is we're too tied in on ourselves. We're selfish people by nature. It's a me first society. But what we got to do is give it over to the Lord. The Lord will help us if we have an anger problem. He can help us with that. Yeah, yeah, i I I I believe Christ conquered death, but I don't think I can be a better person, really Yes, you can be a better person if you give it over to the Lord. Just trust him. Stay in his word. Stay on your knees in prayer. Keep him ever before you and your family. If we serve a living Savior that conquered the grave, there'll be nothing that'll happen in our lives that God cannot conquer. Let me tell you, he's a living Savior this morning. I think Simeon is the next to walk in. Now Simeon is the brother that had to stay in the prison because they were taken for spies And he had to stay this whole time till the second time they went to get food there in Egypt, because this guy was the governor over the whole thing. So because of that, Simeon couldn't go back home. He had to wait in the prison. I think he's the next one to see his dad Dad, Dad, I've a you're not going to believe this. Old Simeon, it's so good to see you. It's been a long time. I'm glad you're back home. It's so good to see you. Dad, you're not going to believe this about Joseph Oh, I heard, I heard, uh, he's alive. Reuben just told me that not only is he living, he's the Lord He's the Lord. He's the Lord over everything. He rules over everything. What he says gets done. He's Lord over all. You say, well, he called him a governor over here in verse number 26. Well, if you back up to verse 8, it says, so now it was not you that sent me hither. But God, and He hath made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. Can I tell you, Jesus is not only living, he's still Lord He's still on the throne of God. He is at the right hand of God the Father, making intercession for us. He's praying for us. Jesus Christ is still Lord. I think sometimes we go through our daily life and we don't sense it Everything's out of control. No, it's not. Not only is he the living Savior, he's the Lord. He rules over everything Then perhaps Judah is the next to come in. Judah was the worst guy that sold Joseph into the Midianites. He's the most wicked. He was the most guilty of putting Joseph into slavery. It's all Judah. By the way, it's out of the tribe of Judah that the Messiah came. Amen. So Judah needs to get some things right And I believe he does. Judah is the one who stands up and says to Joseph, not knowing it's his brother, and says, Sir, you've got to let my brother Benjamin go back to our dad, or our dad'll die. He was willing to take Benjamin's place. I'm the one to blame. Let me stay. I think Judah feels really bad about what he did to Joseph. Judah comes in and says, Dad, Dad, you're not going to believe this. Oh Judah, come here, come here. I heard, I heard Joseph is alive. Yes, Dad, uh Joseph is living, but I know Simeon, I know Simeon uh Simeon told me he's Lord I know, Simeon. Uh he's told me all about. He's Lord over everything in Egypt. He's he's running everything. Dad, not only is he living, not only is he lord of everything, he loves us, Dad And he's forgiven us. I think that's in that part verse 27. And they told him all the words of Joseph. That he forgave them. He fell on their neck and kissed them and forgave them for what they did Say, God meant it uh Satan meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. He loves us, Dad, in spite of what we did to him. He's forgiven us and he loves us. I don't know where your heart is here this morning. Or what you did in the past, but Jesus loves you. And He's forgiven. Romans 5. 8 says, Well, how can He forgive me? An awful sin and the things I've done. You don't know the things that I've done How can he be so forgiven? How can he love me, somebody that has drugged his name through the mud? How can he love me Romans 5. 8 says, But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. He died for us. He loves us. He forgives us Doesn't matter how I might mess up, but Jesus is living. Jesus is Lord and Jesus loves me and Jesus loves you this morning. I think that that was part of that in verse 27. They told him all the words of Joseph. Joseph forgave us. Joseph loves us. I think about that time Levi comes in. He's the priestly tribe. I think he's a big guy, round. And he comes in, he's got this deep booming voice. He says, Daddy! Daddy, you're not gonna believe this. You didn't know that he was from New Jersey, but he says, Dad, you're not gonna believe this. You're not gonna believe this Jacob says, I heard. Joseph is living. He's Lord. He loves us. Dad, not only is he living, not only is he lord over all the land there, not only does he love us and forgive us. Dad, he's longing for us to come and live with him. He's longing for us. Look at those wagons out there. He's prepared a place for us in the land of Goshen. It's the best land of uh of all Egypt. And it's all for us. Daddy, he's longing for us. I think about Jesus in the upper room with his disciples He says, let not your heart be troubled. Ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. If it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am, there you may be also Thomas said, We know not where you're going. How can we know the way? Jesus said, I am the way, the truth and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. He's preparing a place for us, Dad. I don't know what'll happen tomorrow. I don't know what will happen next week, but I know the Lord is preparing a place for us, and we'll be with him forever. This is not the end. Just one more. I'm not going through all 12 of them. Amen. Benjamin comes in. Benjamin comes in. Well, Brother Miller, I think he was the youngest. He would have outrun all of them. He would have been in first. No, no, no, no, no. Benjamin can barely move. He's got five. sets suits of garments on. His pockets are full of silver. It has slowed him down because of what Joseph gave him. He looks like the abominable snowman coming in there. He said, Daddy, Daddy Benjamin, my son, come here. Dad, you're not going to believe this about Joseph. I know, I know, Reuben said he's living. Uh Simeon said he's Lord. Judah says he loves us. Yes, but Dad, I know Levi said he's longing for us. Yes, but Dad, not only is he living, not only is he Lord Not only does he love us, not only is he longing for us, Dad, He's loaded. He's loaded. He owns the cattle on a thousand heels. He's got it all, Dad. My brother owns it all. Yes, we're joint heirs with Christ. Whatever he has, we have. My brother is loaded. Let me tell you something. There's a lot of prayer requests We had prayer requests last night as we came over to pray. I know this is a church, you've got a prayer request, you've got prayer list. God said, Come on, bring them to me Bring them to me. I'm the only one that can do anything about them anyway. Just ask, seek, knock. You gotta come to me. And then after that All that takes place when Joseph had seen as sent to carry him the spirit of Jacob, their father, revived, and Israel said, It is enough. Jacob becomes Israel. When he realized Joseph is alive, tomorrow's another day We're not dealing with Joseph this morning. We're dealing with Jesus Christ. Today starts a new week Some of you work tomorrow, some of you go shopping, some of you got other tasks you got to do working around the house, but let me tell you, we go with a risen Savior. Who is Lord of all. He loves us. And one day we're going to spend eternity with him. But until then, just know that Jesus is loaded. With all spiritual blessings for us. Ephesians 1. 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. I think that's the most dramatic and powerful event that took place in the Old Testament when Jacob realizes that Joseph is alive. Do you realize Jesus is alive this morning? He wants to revive you. I've given my whole heart to him. I've given my life, my eternal life, my eternal destiny depends on my relationship with Jesus Christ this morning. Do you have that relationship? All heads bowed, all eyes closed this morning as pastor comes.