Matthew chapter 6, verse number 33 is going to be our primary text this morning. Matthew 6, 33, a familiar passage, no doubt, for many of us. Maybe you have it memorized. I'd like for us to read this together in unison, if you would, Matthew chapter 6, verse 33, all together. Ready? But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. He says, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. I've entitled the message, First Things First. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Father, we thank you for just the joy and the privilege of assembling together with your people. God, it's been such a blessing already this morning just to interact with our brothers and sisters in Christ. And Lord, we joke around a little bit and laugh and enjoy each other. We thank you for the music we've heard, the congregational singing, the choir was a blessing, the special Lord, our hearts are stirred this morning, and we love you, Lord, and we do want all our days to be lived for you. And so now as we look into your word And I pray that your Holy Spirit, the author of this book, would open our spiritual eyes, open our hearts and minds, that we could see how this truth, this verse, applies to our lives. And God, whatever adjustments we need to make in our hearts, in our priorities, and our lives that we're living, I pray your Holy Spirit would help us, convict us, encourage us, instruct us. And Lord, for that to happen, you have to fill me with your Holy Spirit. Lord, I have nothing in and of myself that I can offer of any eternal value. So please, I yield myself, my will, present my body Pray your Holy Spirit would take your holy word, speak through my lips, and apply it to our lives, our homes, our hearts, as you know we need. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Matthew chapter 5, chapter 6, and chapter 7. And it's hard to say favorite part of the Bible, but that is definitely one of my favorite parts of the Bible. If you're familiar with this passage at all You know it's often referred to as the Sermon on the Mount. And this is the longest sermon recorded in all of Scripture. I got looking at maybe how long it might have taken the Lord to preach this message. It's three chapters. It's again, it's the longest recorded in Scripture Um it takes about, uh I would say, depending on how fast you eat, takes about fifteen minutes. maybe to read these three chapters. You might could read it quicker. It might take you a little bit longer. I would guess, now this is total guessing, speculation on my part I would guess it might have taken the Lord about an hour to preach this. Reading a message and preaching a message are different. And so my guess is it took a l quite a bit longer than that to actually preach it uh and and all of that. But these the sermon is without a doubt the most quoted sermon in all of history. Well, more quotes from the Sermon on the Mount than any other sermon that's ever been preached. It's the most well-known sermon in all of history around the world, wherever the Bible is Uh the Sermon on the Mount is also the most scrutinized and criticized sermon uh that has perhaps ever been preached. I have a few sermons I preach that have been scrutinized and criticized a fair bit, but probably not as much as this one here has been. It is a sermon, no doubt, has been analyzed. More than any other sermon ever preached. The Sermon on the Mount. Now, every time I preach from the Sermon on a Mount, I always are very I'm very, very careful to stop and point out a very important note about this sermon, and we need to understand this, or we'll miss the point of the whole message, of the whole, of the whole sermon the Lord preached. And that is this. The Sermon on the Mount is not An evangelistic message. Jesus is not preaching this sermon on how to be saved. He is not preaching to the Pharisees. He's not preaching to the Gentiles. He's not preaching to unsaved Jews. He's talking to folks who are believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not evangelistic. Now he touches on salvation. in the message. Later on he says, um, you know, some folks say, Lord, we've done uh many wonderful things in your name. He says, I never knew you. They're trusting in their works. He says, uh straight is the gate and narrow is the way. So he references salvation. in the message. And by the way, any Bible message is going to reference salvation at some point. So But it's not an evangelistic message. He's not preaching to unsaved people. If you would note with me very carefully, chapter five. Come back at chapter Verse number one and two tell us who the audience is that Jesus is preaching to. It tells us who he's addressing. Matthew 5, look with me if you would at verse number 1. And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. So you have this vast multitudes, thousands and thousands of people coming to see the miracles and get healed and hear his teaching. He sees them and he withdraws from the multitude And he goes up in the mountain. That's the setting here. And when he was set, so he withdrew from this great multitude of all these people, he gets up in the mountain, he sets down. Look what he does His disciples came to him, and he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Who is the them he's referring to in verse 2? It's the disciples. The disciples are folks that have trusted him as Savior. They've recognized who Jesus is. He is the Messiah. He is the only hope of forgiveness of sin, of eternal life. And they have made a conscious decision to put their faith and trust in Jesus Christ. Now, there's no doubt they don't fully comprehend what all that entails The crucifixion, burial, resurrection, his ascension, all that. They perhaps don't fully grace that, but they believe he's the Messiah. They believe in Jesus Christ. And not only do they believe in him, but they have made the decision to be a follower of his. They are disciples. It is possible, and I think I've said this in a message recently, but it is possible To be a believer in Jesus Christ, to be saved, but not be a disciple. It is impossible to be a disciple and not be a saved person. A disciple is somebody that's accepted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. They believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. They've called on Jesus Christ to be their Savior. My Bible says that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen or not? This week we had nine people out at the fair. Now, you say, did all they all get saved? Everyone that sincerely called on the Lord got saved Nine people sincerely call the Lord, we trust, they sincerely call the Lord to be their personal Savior, trust in the Savior. They're safe, sins forgiven, home in heaven, and dwelt by the Holy Spirit. Now God's plan and purpose for them is to become a disciple. Discipleship requires something on my part. Salvation, I can't do anything, darn. There's nothing on my part. I just receive it by faith But discipleship, I take up my cross. I deny myself. I follow him. I make Jesus Christ. I submit to him as Lord and I live for him And that's God's intention for every person saved. How many folks here this morning? You're saved to know it. Say amen. God's intention for you, all of us, that that's true, is that we be his disciple. We live for him. We follow him. And so that is the crowd he's addressing. It says his disciples came to him, and he said unto them, the next three chapters. is what he's telling his disciples. In fact, if you would, look over there at chapter 6 and verse number 9. He's talking about prayer. And in chapter 6, verse 9, he makes this statement. And again, notice the wording here very carefully. We have to pay attention. He says, after this manner, therefore pray ye. So he's teaching his disciples how to pray, and notice what he says. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, our what? Father which art in heaven. The only person that can legitimately claim God as their father is a person who has been born again by trusting Jesus Christ as their Savior. An unsaved person cannot legitimately refer to God as their father. Jesus said in John chapter 8, verse 44. Speaking to the unsaved Pharisees, he said, You are of your father the devil. And so Jesus would never tell unsaved people To refer to God as their father only saved people. And so it's important for us to understand That the Sermon on the Mound, Matthew chapter 5, 6, and 7, is for saved people, folks that are wanting to live for God, wanting to be a disciple. Actually, this Sermon on the Mount is a manual on discipleship. It's how to be a disciple. Uh he's explaining to his disciples, this is how you think. If you notice there in chapter five, he starts off with um uh uh Chapter 5, he starts off, he says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. And he goes down this list of what we call the Beatitudes. It's basically telling you, telling us how a disciple thinks Oh, how he views himself. He's humble. He's meek. And how God responds to that type. He's basically saying this is the attitude That a disciple of Jesus Christ ought to have. That's the Beatitudes. Then he goes on. He explains how disciples treat each other. You say, well, somebody was unkind to me. Well, go to the Sermon on the Mount, and Jesus will tell you, Jesus tells us how we are to respond to people who are unkind to us. The world responds in their way. How does the re world respond to somebody who's unkind to us? They do what? They're unkind back Oh yeah? You're gonna treat nobody's gonna treat me that way and get away with it. That's world thinking. That's unsaved thinking Jesus says, you be my disciple. This is how you respond. You bless them that curse you. You do good to them that despitefully use you. You pray for them. He's saying disciples live by a different standard. We have a whole different approach with one another. It's a manual on discipleship. How a disciple of Jesus Christ thinks, what our attitude should be, how we treat one another, how we treat unkind people. He goes on and he goes into Pretty much detail there of how a disciple lives a pure life. We're to be clean and pure. We're to be faithful to our spouses. We're to be just in our living and our interaction. The disciple is to do right in every situation, every case. It's a manual on discipleship. He tells us how to pray. We know to Darren chapter 6, verse 9. His whole thing is there how to pray. Don't just put on a show, say these words, so everybody thinks you're really something. No, no, no. Go in your closet. Get alone with God. Spend time with God. I like what Spurgeon said. He said, when you pray in public, keep it short. But when you pray in private, you get a hold of God and you spend time in the presence of God. That's what Jesus is saying. That's what disciples do. It's a manual on discipleship. How to pray, how to witness, hear the salt of the earth. The way you live your life, your lips and your life need to match up so you have influence. You're the light of the world How to win he talks about how to give. Don't do it just for show. I was in a church years ago, as long before I uh ended up we ended up here in Oakland. I was in a church and One night during testimony time, a guy got up and had a dollar, he had some money in his hand, I don't know what it was, and he says, Boy, God stirred my heart, and he says, From now on, the hunt the honey pot's gonna be sweeter Praise the Lord for it, but don't get up and broadcast it to everybody what you're doing. You're going to give to God just what? Just give it. It's a manual on discipleship. How disciples give, how we witness, how we pray, how we live our lives, the condition of our heart. I'm convinced, I was talking to my wife this week, preparing this, I'm convinced that every Christian ought to study the Sermon on the Mount very, very thoroughly. What a different place our churches would be if we just lived by this one sermon. If we just take these principles that are this teaching that the Lord gives us implement them into our life, just practice what he preaches to us here, we'd have revival. There's no doubt in my mind. It's a manual on how to live for God, how to be a disciple of Jesus Christ. In chapter 6, we come to chapter 6, and he gives two great dangers That disciples face two great dangers. In verses 1 through 18, he addresses this matter of hypocrisy. Hypocrisy. Look with me, if you would, at verse number two of chapter six. He says, Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, that's your giving, do not sound a trumpet before thee as the What's the next word? Hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, for they they may have the glory that they have the glory of men. But barely I say unto you, they have their reward Now he's not saying don't give, he said just don't blow a trumpet about it. And he's hypocrites. The danger of hypocrisy. Look there at verse number five. And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the help me out now, what? Hypocrites! Come down verse number 16. Moreover, when ye fast, be not as the hypocrites. Who's he talking to? Now, I want you to interact here with me. Now, who's he talking to? Disciples. And he says, don't be like the hypocrites. That tells me something. That tells me that uh every disciple of Jesus Christ Is capable of being hypocritical. You say, well, those unsaved people, they're hypocritical. You know, believers can be hypocritical. Disciples! Say, preacher, I've taken up my cross. I'm following the Lord. I'm trying to live for God. Jesus says, you be careful. Don't you get hypocritical Don't you be like the hypocrites put on a show and everything's outward and facade and everything, what everybody thinks of me. Don't you be that way. That's a danger facing disciples of Jesus Christ. And it's true. What was true back when Jesus said that is still true, just as true today in 2025. We must not be hypocritical. Amen or not. So that's a real danger. And he takes eighteen, nineteen verses here, and he addresses that whole thing, talking to his disciples. And then the second danger facing a disciple, verse 19 through 34, is this matter of materialism. Materialism. In other words, exalting material, physical things above spiritual The temporal, exalting and prioritizing the material and the temporal above the spiritual and eternal. Very dangerous that we can be materialistic. Would you agree with me? Christians can get wrapped up, and this material world becomes more important to them than the spiritual world. Yes or no? Of course. In fact, it's probably one of the major failures of American believers. Materialism. We have so much wealth. We have so much stuff. We have so much prosperity. We have so much pleasure and enjoyment available to us that we've exalted that and we've neglect the spiritual aspect of our lives, right or wrong. And so Jesus warns us here. Over and over and over. He warns all through these. Look, notice there in verse 25. He says, Therefore I say unto you, take no thought. Come up to verse twenty seven. Which of you by taking thought? Verse twenty eight. Uh why take ye thought of raiment Verse 31. Therefore take no thought saying what shall we eat or what shall we drink or wherewith shall we be clothed? Verse 34, therefore take no thought for the morrow. The morrow take thought. Six times He says, you need to get your thinking straight. You need to get your focus straight. You're looking at stuff. You're looking at the material. You're looking at the physical and the temporal, and you're not seeing. The reality of the spiritual realm and the eternal realm. And so materialism. Jesus is making it very, very clear in this sermon. I hope you'll get this point. It's making it very very clear that we as Christians are fundamentally different than what the world is A disciple of Jesus Christ, the way we live our life, the way we think, our values, our priorities. The principles that we live by, that which drives us, that which motivates us, is different than that which drives the world and motivates the world. Are you with me? We're fundamentally different. We're not the same as the world. We don't have the values and the priorities that the world has. We're different. Now but I'm going to be very, very careful. We are not better than the world We are sinners just like the rest of the world. Not one of us. We ought to be very careful. We never look down our noses on this old world, the people of this world. There's a term the Bible has for that. It's called this, holier than thou. And we need to be very, very careful about that. Sometimes Christians who try to uh uh hold to biblical convictions and biblical standards, and that's good, and that's right. We ought to But we need to be very, very careful. We don't let pride get in there and start thinking that I'm holier than someone else. Are you with me? Amen or not? We're not holier than them. We're not better than them in any way, shape, or form. We don't deserve the forgiveness and grace of God any more than anybody else does, but once we receive, by faith, Jesus Christ as Savior, We are not the same as the world. God changes us fundamentally. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things are passed away. All things become new. And so the message of the Sermon on the Mount is we're not like the world. We have the real danger of being hypocritical. Don't be hypocritical The real danger of being materialistic, living for the here and now. He says, don't be materialistic. Don't be materialistic. Then we come to verse 33. And he says, here's what you need to do. Don't be hypocritical, don't be materialistic. Here's what you need to do. Seek ye first. The kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things, all this other stuff that will be added unto you. You'll be taken care of. I see two things very quickly in this text, in this verse here, that apply to you and I. Number one, we need to have we need to establish right priorities Seek ye first the kingdom of God. Now notice what's the very first word of verse number 30? This is class, students, all right? This is class. Here's the first quiz. What's the first word in verse 33? But why does he use the word but? Why is that there? Because he's making a contrast So if we're going to understand the verse 33 correctly, we've got to come back to verse 32 because he's contrasting what he says in verse 33 with what he says in verse number 32. So let's look at verse 32. For all these things, what we shall eat, verse 31, what we shall drink, wherewithal shall we be clothed, stuff. For all these things do the Gentiles what? Seek. For your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of these things, but seek ye use that word seek twice. Now, I got studying this and looking at this, and I found something very interesting. Now, I am not a linguistic scholar in any way, shape, or form. I can barely get through English. But I got looking at these two-word Sikhs, and I've learned enough over the years about this to realize something. These words come from, they're translated into English from some Greek words. I know a little Greek. He has a deli up in Philly outside where we grew up. That's my limit But there's an interesting thing, and this is just I think is interesting. The Greek language, here's an interesting thing that I think is interesting. The Greek Greek language is much more specific than the English language is. You know there's English words that have multiple meanings. Anybody ever aware of that? Yeah. So, you know, sometimes you use the word you know, well which meaning do you mean? The word seek, I I said all that say this. The word seek in there is a slightly different, comes from a word that's slightly different than the word seek in verse 33. Same English word, but they have two different, slightly different meanings. The word seek In verse 32, that the Gentiles seek after, it has this idea to demand. To uh uh it has the idea of to clamor after, to obsess over As I was looking it up and how it's used different places and ideas behind it, I came to this word picture in my mind, to be frenzied over Have you ever seen people who are in a frenzy? Um uh Black Friday No, is that it? After Thanksgiving when they do shopping, is that Black Friday? And and uh man, people lined up at two o'clock in the morning. Wait and when there's man, you run get run over and fighting and pulling and s and shoving and going on. Anyone have a picture of that in your mind right now? That's the idea of the word there talking about the Gentiles. They go gaga over this. They're loony. They're frenzied over it. I'm telling you, it was everybody had to get, and it was nuts. And Jesus is saying, that's the way the world is. They're demanding, they have to have the latest of this and the most of that, and I want this, and I want, and their whole lives are consumed. By what I have and what I'm going to do and enjoying this and possessing that and going there. And that's what they seek. Temporary material things that have no eternal value whatsoever It's just a vapor. Bubble, you get it. And it's gone. I need something else. And you get that. Then I need something else. And then you come to verse 33, and he uses the word seek, and it has a slightly different meaning. Same English word, but there's a little slightly different definition to it. And in verse 33, it means this, to desire. To pursue, without the frenziness, without the frantic. It has this idea to prioritize, to make a priority. The world is obsessed with the physical and the material. Think about this. If the world has pushed God out of their life, The world has pushed their creator, the God that they're going to stand before someday, the God that we all have to answer to. They've pushed him out of their life, out of their thinking. The only thing left is material and physical stuff. And it and they grab it and they're trying to fill that vacuum and that void in their life. And I need this and I have to go there and I have to experience this, and I want to have that. And nothing satisfies. Nothing, nothing, nothing. So that's the way the Gentiles live. Listen, my disciple, don't you live that way. You prioritize the eternal, the things that are real, that last. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. Seek it, pursue it. He says a disciple is to focus on the spiritual and the eternal. You and I are physical beings. How many people are glad you came to church to find out that we are physical beings? But I'm here to tell you, and that's true, but I'm here to tell you, we are not only physical beings. We are spiritual. There is a part of you and I that is more than just this physical body, flesh and bones. There is a part, and every one of us knows it. There is a spiritual thing we call life. It's a soul that lives inside this body. And that spirit, that soul, is eternal. It is going to exist forever. It was given to us by the breath of God. When God breathed into the nostrils of Adam when he was just clay, and he became a living soul. And that life that is passed down from Adam through generation, generation, you and I now have this life that lives in this body, this tabernacle, the Bible calls our body, we indwell it. This physical is temporal, but you and I are eternal. Now, as a disciple, when this body wears out, when this old tabernacle is taken down, this flesh is done. We go and we spend, we're accepted by God. We spend eternity with the Lord. We have eternal life, everlasting life. The world, the unsaved, they have a soul just like you and I, no different. But they do not have eternal life. Jesus, the Bible says they're dead, spiritually dead, spiritually. And when that body wears out, and when that body dies, they're separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place that Jesus called hell. And so all the world, the Gentiles, and when he used the term Gentiles there in verse 32, he's talking about the unsaved. All they see, all that they're focused on, all that they're living for is this temporal And one of these days, the temporal wears out. And one of these days, the temporary ends. That which is eternal goes on. They give no thought to that. And he says, as a disciple, don't be pursuing after the physical and temporal. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 18. And God used this verse before I got saved to bring such conviction to my heart. It says, while we look not at the things which are seen, But the things which are not seen. For the things which are not seen, the spiritual realm, is eternal. But the things which are seen are what? Temporal. Temporal. And God convicted me before I got saved. It was I'm living just for here and now. Me, my mind, stop. And I've there's a spiritual reality, there's a spiritual realm that I need to I need to deal with. In Mark chapter 8 and verse 36, Jesus put it this way: What shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world? But loses his own soul. What does it gain? It gains what? Nothing. It's eternal loss. What a fool. And so he says, seek ye first. Make this a priority. The word first means prioritize it. Seek it. Put it up first. Now notice what he doesn't say in verse 33. He doesn't say, but seek ye only the kingdom of God. He says, what? Seek ye what? First. Don't say only. He's not saying we don't have to pay attention to food and clothing and shelter. We're designed. We need that. But that is not our priority. Our priority should be the kingdom of God. Now, here's the question: what in the world? What does he mean by kingdom of God? What's he talking about? Well, a kingdom has the idea of authority. A king has authority over his kingdom. And what he's saying here is simply, it's not complicated. He's simply put first God's authority over your life. He's saying, put first God's will, God's plan, God's will for your life. Prioritize that Over and above all the food and clothing and shelter, all that stuff. Yeah, I'm not saying don't pay attention to it. I'm not saying ignore it I'm simply saying keep God's will and God's authority a higher priority than all of that. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? Seek ye first. Prioritize it. He's talking about the Lordship of Christ. He's talking about disciples, and he's saying, listen, you need to make sure that your life is living under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. He is Lord. He is King. I submit to His will and His instructions and His plan. And I make that a highest priority. So I have to establish the right priorities in my life Now again, he's not talking about how to enter the kingdom of God. We do that by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. Well, you've got to make, I heard a guy the other day, you gotta make Jesus Lord, or you can't be saved. I can't make Jesus nothing. He is Lord. What I need to do is trust him as my Savior, and once I do that, then I submit to him as Lord, as my Lord. He already is But I recognize that and say, Lord, your plan, Lord of my life, your plan, your purpose, your instructions, that's number one priority. That's above it all. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. He's telling us how to live under the Lordship of Christ, the kingdom of God. He's saying the kingdom of God ought to govern every area of my life. He uses the word first. The kingdom of God needs to govern area of my life. The will of God needs to govern every area of my life. Here's what I need to ask. Alright? Here's this. Here's a situation. Here's a All right, God, first and foremost, what is your will concerning these material things? What is your will for my life? What I invest my life in, what I do, how I spend my time, what I love and what I uh desire. Lord, what's your will? That's putting his kingdom first. His kingdom first. God's kingdom governs every area of my life. It's the center of my life. All my pursuits in life, all my concerns, all my desires, all my decisions I make are governed by the will of God. It's the highest priority. The will of God. The will of God. If you would, everybody with me? Everybody? Doing all right? Come with me over to Matthew, same book here, but just a few chapters back to Matthew chapter 19. You have this fellow that comes to the Lord Jesus Christ. He approaches him as a young man. And you're going to find out here, we read this in just a moment, you're going to find out he's incredibly wealthy. He has a lot of material stuff. He's been whatever his his occupation was or whatever, he's been tremendously successful as far as materialistic things are concerned. But he comes the Lord with a very important question. In fact, the most important question. Look with me at verse 16 of Matthew 19. And behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, look at this, what good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life? So he's concerned about where he spends eternity. He's concerned about whether he's going to heaven or hell or not. Would you agree with me? That's a good concern. In fact, that's the most important issue in life. And so he says, what must I do to etern that I might have eternal life? And the Lord responds in verse 17. He says, Why callest thou me good? There's none good but one. That's God. By the way, Jesus is referencing his deity right there. But if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments. Now he said, what do I have to do? So the Lord says, all right, you want to do something to have eternal life? Keep the commandments. Look how he responds. Which He said, Well, thou shalt do no murder, thou shalt not commit adultery, thou shalt not steal, thou shalt not bear false witness. That means don't lie. Is there anybody here? Uh raise your hand if you've never told a lie in your life If you raise your hand, you just broke your record. There's none of us. Lord is saying, listen, you're a sinner. You can't keep the law. That's what he's illustrating to the fella. Notice how he responds. Verse 19, he says, Honor thy father and mother, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. None of us have lived up to that. I'm telling you, this fellow did not live up to that. Look how he responds. Verse 20. Young man said unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth up. What lack I yet? Now, if I was there. I would have at least thought this, maybe said it, liar, liar, pants on fire. You didn't keep all them. But the Lord's more gracious Verse 21. Jesus said unto him, Oh, if thou be perfect, okay, you're perfect, huh? Go and sell that thou hast and give to the poor. And thou shalt have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me. Uh-oh. We're about to find out what this guy's priorities were. Was it eternal life? Was it the things of God? Was it the things that are eternal? Or was it just temporary stuff? Look at us how he responds. But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful. Look at this, for he had great what? Would you agree with me? In this young man, in this case here, that young man, possessions were a higher priority than where he was spending eternity. What does it profit this young man? He has all these possessions. He's going to lose his own soul. His priorities were out of whack. He took that which is temporal and meaningless and nothing, and he prioritized it so high, and then that which is eternal and significant Uh, no thanks. I'm gonna hold on to my stuff. Priorities. Priorities. Where my treasure is, that's where my priorities are going to be. Say, preacher, how do I know what my priorities are? How do I know? Well, look at my life. As a believer, as a disciple, look at my life. What my priorities are revealed by what I invest my time in By what I invest my efforts, I have these I have these abilities. God's given me various things. What's the focus? What's the emphasis of my efforts? Is it material? What's the investment of my time? Now he doesn't say ignore food and clothing and all that. You gotta work. He doesn't say don't seek that at all. He said, but our efforts, our time, our investments, our resources, how we use it, that will tell me what my priorities are. Did you ever notice you go to Walmart and spend fifty bucks and you come out and say, well, that wasn't too bad? Go to church and put fifty bucks in the offering plate, it's like, good night. Why do we react that differently? Because stuff is a higher priority. And eternal and lasting. And I'm not trying to get money. That's I'm not preaching on money. I'm preaching on priorities. How we use our money indicates what my priorities are, what I invest in. Now he doesn't say don't put up for retirement, don't put savings, don't he's not saying don't do that. But keep your priorities right. How I use my time, my efforts, what I give attention to, what I spend my money on. We have some mothers here, some I thank God for all the little children in our church. I thank God for all our babies. We need a bigger nursery. A mother, two o'clock, two or three o'clock in the morning, sound asleep Comfortable, needs the rest desperately. And the baby starts wailing. And she does something she would not really want to do. She drags herself out of that bed. Her eyes are bloodshot, she makes it over to the baby and checks on the baby, and the baby is burning up. 101, 102, 103 degree fever. It's pale, it's coaked in sweat. She doesn't want to go to the hospital. She doesn't want to spend four hours in the emergency room She wants to be in bed asleep, she desperately needs a sleep. She takes that little baby She packs gets a wet cloth and tries to cool it down and she gets the husband or whatever and they run up to the hospital and they take the baby in the emergency room and they spend hours in there. Why Because that baby is a very high priority in her heart and life. And how she treats that child and how she cares for that child tells you that it is high priority. And how we treat our God and how we invest in the eternal things in the spiritual realities tells us what a kind of priority it is in our life. Jesus said, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. He doesn't say don't work and don't, you know, don't buy a house and don't he doesn't say don't do that. He's saying keep your priorities right. We'll invest our time and effort and money and resources and energy into stuff And fifty years from now it'll be gone. And we don't give a second thought to our spiritual condition and where we spend eternity and whether I'm fulfilling God's will or not. Seeking first the kingdom of God. What would someone else say your priorities? Someone that knows you, someone that sees you, they're watching your life And I would come to them and say, what is so-and-so's what what do you think their priorities are? I wonder what folks would say. Wonder what our children would say. That our priorities are as parents. I wonder what our neighbors would say. I wonder what fellow church members would say. Is it the things of God, the things that account that are going to be eternal, last forever? It's the will of God for my life, or is it this and that and me, and I want to do this and I want to enjoy that and I want to go there, I want to possess this That's the Gentiles. What would my neighbors say my priority is? What would my family say that my priority is? Jesus saying, listen, you're my disciple. Get your priorities right. Establish right priorities. The kingdom of God, the will of God, the authority of God are my That takes first place. All the others fall in behind that. All other areas of my life are governed by my relationship with my God, by my commitment to my God, my Savior. And every other area of life is governed. By that priority. By that priority. And then, last of all, I am with this. He says, then you can expect to receive the promises. Seek ye first the kingdom of God, his righteousness. He doesn't end there. And all these things, your food, clothing, all the stuff you need. They'll be added unto you. This is a divine assurance. This isn't some empty statement God is making. This is a promise of God. All these things, all the necessities of life, all the needs of life. It's not a promise of wealth and luxury I may not ever have all the things the world has, but I tell you, I have something the world can never possess outside of Christ, and that is eternal life. And that is the attention and care and watch care of my God over my life. When my priority is God's kingdom, I'll be content with whatever He provides for me. Contentment. Now he isn't, again, he's not suggesting we shouldn't work for food and clothing and all of that. We should. Second Thessalonians says, uh, he that doesn't work, neither should he eat. But he is saying that we shouldn't worry about it. If we put the Lord where he ought to be, all these things will be taken care of. Hudson Taylor was a great missionary, years gone by to China. He was making a trip. The Lord was directing him to go to another city and preach the gospel and win these Chinese, dear Chinese people, the Lord never heard of Jesus Christ. didn't knew nothing of the Bible, and God was directing them there, and he only had enough money to get across a ferry, to cross this large river. And then once he got on the other side, he had no money to make the rest of the journey. Some people said he was foolish for even trying. They said, What are you going to do? When you get to the other side, Hudson Taylor, he made a great statement. He said, God's work Done in God's way will never lack God's supply. That's a promise of God I modified that statement a little bit for our message. I put it this way: when God's will is our top priority. We will never lack God's supply. In other words, God will take care of us Say, preacher, if I it's dog eat, dog world. If I don't get after it, if I don't get out there and get that, I'm gonna come up short. I'm here to tell you, when you seek first the kingdom of God, his righteousness, you will never come up short. God meets our needs. Amen or none? Father, I pray you'd help us. Myself, our church, as a body, each of us as individuals. Lord, help us. To keep our priorities where they ought to be. Help us establish the priority of your will for our lives, your instructions, submission to your will. That govern all other areas of our life. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I just God spoke to my heart, and there's some priorities in my life. I need to make some arrangements I need to do some rearranging and some priorities in my life. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. I'm telling you, he's talking to disciples. These aren't heathen. These aren't terrible people. These are people who love the Lord. And he says, listen, make sure your priorities are right. Any others say preacher, pray with me. I gotta get these I need to have these priorities. God bless you. God bless you Wonder if there's some that say, preacher, you know, I never, I've been neglecting my spiritual condition. Maybe you're saved, you haven't been reading your Bible and having daily devotions. I'm telling you, you've got to get that settled. Maybe you haven't been witnessing. Maybe there's some area, as a Christian, you've neglected your spiritual well-being. Maybe you never trusted Christ. Your whole life has been here and now, and you never gave thought to where you spend eternity. You never gave thought to your relationship with your Creator. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me this morning. I need to get that settled where I spend eternity. I need to know that God has forgiven my sins. Is there any like that by the uplift hand? You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure about where I spend eternity. I've got to get that settled. Is there any like that at all? Any? Maybe online. Contact us Father, I pray you bless her invitation now in Jesus' name