According to Matthew chapter four and verse nineteen, the Bible says, uh speaking of Jesus, he said unto them, Follow me. And I will make you fishers of men. I want to talk about fishers of men this morning. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we're grateful for the privilege, again, as we said before, of being in your house. Being with your people, being part of the body of Christ. I pray now as we look into your word that you would speak our hearts. Lord, I ask that your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds to how this passage applies to our lives individually. Help us to see that, Lord, and help us to respond in faith. I yield myself to you as a preacher for this hour now, and Ask that you would please fill me with your spirit as I present to you my body anew to be a tool in your hand that you could speak through me. I yield my mind and my will to you, that you would direct my thinking and my speaking as I preach and that we would hear from you from heaven. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think it's important. How many folks here you're saved? You know it. Say amen. Amen. Isn't a wonderful thing to be saved. I thank the Lord Jesus didn't come down. Now the thing I want to emphasize this morning is the fact that salvation is more than just a gift that is received. Now it is that The gift of God is eternal life. Salvation is not earned. We don't buy it. We don't work for it. It's a gift that we receive. How many people understand that? Sure. But the important thing to understand is when I received that gift, for me it was May 7, 1979. When I received that gift by faith, I trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. He gave me eternal light. Whenever you made that decision to trust race, God gave you eternal life as a gift. Now that is not a goal accomplished. It is the beginning of a new life. In other words, salvation is not the end of a transaction. It is the beginning of a whole new relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. It's more than simply securing a place in heaven for myself. I put it this way, salvation is embarking on a new journey here on earth that ultimately ends up with you and I up in heaven. So salvation is the beginning of a new life. It's the beginning of this journey. It's the beginning of an adventure really in a lot of ways. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 verse 17, if any man be in Christ, he is a what? A new creature. Old things are passed away. And all things are become what? Become new. It's a new life. It's a new journey. And as a believer, we often look back with gratitude to Christ. For what He's done for us. Amen? I mean that's what they sang about. We look back. He didn't come down at the cross. I am grateful that Jesus died on the cross for my sins. I'm grateful he took responsibility for my actions, for the words I've said, sinful things I've thought. attitudes I've had, actions I've done, behavior I've engaged in. Jesus Christ took responsibility for all of that. And he was judged of God in my place. And I tell you, I look back in gratitude for what God has done for me. Amen. This morning in my devotions, I took time and just bowed my head and said, thank you, Lord, for saving my soul. Thank you for making me whole, for giving me new life, for what you've done for me in the past. However, as Christians, we don't just look back And we do with gratitude, but that's not all we do. We look forward with anticipation of what God's going to do in us and through us, right? We don't think of that often But what God has planned for us, when he saved us, what he has planned for us, what he wants to do with you and through you and me. I think this week in Neighborhood Bible time, we have a team of teachers. We have a team that are going to teach a Bible stories to the young people that come in. We have some that are going to teach missionary stories. And I tell you, we look forward with anticipation how God is going to work through those teachers to instruct the children of themselves and draw them to themselves. Isn't that an exciting thing? God working through us. And then we have a team of folks that do all the other peripheral things and getting things in place and God working, God using. We have folks that are going to sit down with little children this week. They're going to take an open Bible And they're going to be able to show those children from the Bible how their sins can be forgiven, how they can be born again and have eternal life. And God will use them to bring children to Christ. Isn't that exciting? So it's not just what God has done for us in the past. It's what does God want to do with us and through us in the coming days. God wants to use every one of us. He wants to. That's why he saved us. So that he can use us. First, Jesus says to us, he says, receive me as your Savior. You're here this morning, or maybe you're listening in online or on the radio, one way or another. You're under the sound of my voice, and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you may be a good person. Humanly speaking, you may be a very religious person, but if you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you need to do that. If you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior and we die in that condition, we're separated from God for all eternity. And so Jesus says, receive me, trust me. Then, once we do that, once we accept Christ as Savior, then he says to us, follow me. Follow me. And that's where our text comes in. He says, um, it says there, he says, and he said unto them, follow me And I will make you fishers of men. Here's a question I asked this morning. Here's a question we need to ask ourselves. Am I following Jesus Christ? In my life, in my actions, in my daily living. Am I following Jesus Christ? And so the first step in following the Lord Jesus Christ is to follow Him in baptism. Every person that gets saved ought to follow the Lord in believers' baptism. Bible's very, very clear. Study the book of Acts. And so we follow him in baptism. And then the second step in following the Lord, as a believer, I trust him as my Savior, I follow him in baptism as a testimony to the fact I've trusted him as Savior. We say it so often. It's like a wedding band. The wedding band identifies me as a married man. Baptism is an identification that I've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. And then we follow him by submitting ourselves to him, submitting our will to his will. Whenever I baptize someone, we always make this little statement, and it's not original with me But always make this little statement, buried with him in baptism, raised to walk in newness of life. That new life, following the Lord, following the Lord Jesus Christ. In Matthew chapter 4, we see this: this matter of following the Lord Jesus Christ and becoming fishers of men. Chapter 4 is a tremendous chapter. Verses 1 through 11, we have Jesus is confronted, Jesus has this confrontation with the devil. The devil tempts them. Of course, Jesus overcomes the temptation, quoting the word of God. In verses 12 through 17, we have what I put the command of his duties. This is really the beginning of Jesus' earthly ministry. And he begins uh uh uh he begins his duties. Look at verse 17 It says, from that time Jesus began to preach and to say, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. He's beginning his ministry here on earth. And then verses 18 through 20, which we read, it's the call of his disciples. And then verse 23, through the end of the chapter, all these great crowds start coming to him. Now my focus this morning is verses 18 through 22. This is really where we have the beginning of New Testament discipleship This is the beginning where Jesus calls these men, and for three and a half years, he's going to be training them to serve him, to lead the church through the book of Acts and ultimate through the years down to us today. So I have three observations from verse number nineteen. Everybody with me? Everybody okay? All right, look at verse 19. Let's focus in on this, and I want to get I want to get right to my the points I'm trying to make here. He saith unto them, follow the me. The first thing I notice here is Jesus' call to follow him. The question I'm asking myself, am I following Jesus Christ in my life? Is he leading me? Am I following him? And he makes this call. Follow me. This was a personal call. He's calling them personally. In John chapter 1, verse 27, the Lord Jesus said, My sheep hear my voice. And they follow me. He calls us. We hear him, Lord, I want to follow you. I want to be your follower. Now, he's not calling us to a religious movement He's calling us to follow him personally. Christianity is not a religion, and we use that term a little bit, but genuine Christianity is a relationship with the living Savior, Jesus Christ. It's a relationship. And so it's a personal call. He's saying, listen, I want you to follow me, not some religious group. It's a call to follow him, not necessarily a doctrinal position Now, I think we understand here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, biblical doctrine is vitally important. I cannot be a correct follower of Jesus Christ unless I have correct doctrine, teaching, who he is, what the Bible says he is. It's a lot of talk about Jesus out there in the world. But the Jesus the world talks about is not the Jesus of the Bible. And so I need to know what the Bible teaches me about Jesus Christ. So my call, the call to follow him, is a call to follow Jesus Christ, not some doctrine, although doctrine is vitally important. We need to know what the Bible says. It's not some call to follow some religious organization, some religious position. Now, I want to say very, very quickly: I am a Baptist by conviction. I am absolutely convinced that the distinctives of the Baptist faith are scriptural in every way, shape, or form. If my faith, if my faith does not line up with Scripture, then my faith is in the wrong thing. And if our doctrines and our distinctions as a church do not line up with Scripture, then our doctrines and our distinctions are wrong. And I'm absolutely convinced the longer I study the Bible, the more I'm convinced that the distinctives of the Baptist faith are lined up with Scripture in every way. But Jesus isn't saying, I'm calling you to be this or to be that. He said, I'm calling you to follow me. A personal call that he gives here. And so it's a personal call. Discipleship begins with a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. You cannot be a Christian without a personal faith in Jesus Christ. Um I was reading this week somewhere, I don't remember where I came across it, but uh uh the statement, you can't be a Christian without Christ. Right? You can be a church member, not know Jesus Christ. You can be a religious person, not know Jesus Christ, not having relationship with him, but you cannot be a biblical Christian without faith in Jesus Christ. And I cannot be a disciple of Jesus Christ without having faith in Jesus Christ. So it's a personal call. He wants us to follow him. Listen, we ought not to follow a man. I don't want anybody in our church following Dennis Leatherman. I want our people to follow who? Jesus Christ. Follow him. Follow him. And I like what John the Baptist said. He pointed everything to Jesus Christ And I read in my devotions this morning, beginning of in John, the Bible says, and they f when they heard John's voice, they followed Jesus Isn't that something? John was simply pointing them to follow Christ, follow Christ. That's the preacher's job. That's our job. Hey, parents, our kids aren't to follow us, they're to follow Jesus. Raise up a child in the way he should go, following the Lord Jesus, following the Lord Jesus, knowing him as their Savior, and then following him through their life And so it's a personal call. This call to follow Jesus is a personal call. I put this down. Number two, it was a very pointed call. And by that I mean this There was a decision these fellows had to make. Look at our passage here, verse number 18. He's walking by the Sea of Galilee. He sees these two brothers, Simon called Peter, and his brother Andrew. And they're casting a net in the sea. They're working away. They've got their occupation. They've got their job they're working away on. And Jesus calls them. Now they've got a decision to make Am I going to keep on with my job? Am I going to keep on this fishing business we've got going here? And by the way, they weren't fishing for pleasure. This was their occupation. This is how they earned their money. This is how they made their living. And now they got a decision to make. Lord says, follow me. You've got your fish, you're casting nets, follow me. And every one of us as believers, we've got to make a decision. Am I going to live by my life? Am I going to lean on my own understanding? Am I going to call the shots in my life? Am I going to be the one deciding what uh direction my life goes and what I should do and what I shouldn't do, or am I going to follow Christ? And we've got to make a decision. We're going to bring the children this week, particularly the teens, and we're going to bring them to confront them with this decision. Are you going to live your life for Jesus Christ, or are you going to live your life for yourself? And so we were to call the dedication to Christ to live for Him. How many folks will pray that many of our young people will decide to follow the Lord Jesus Christ? Follow the Lord Jesus Christ. We see many, many uh young people, not just young people, old adults also, following the world. We see what that produces And so Jesus says, come follow me, make a decision. Are you going to follow me? Are you going to let me make the choices? Or you? And so it was a pointed decision. Somebody put it this way: only two choices on the shelf. Following Christ or following myself? And that's what it boils down to. I like that old song, I have decided to follow Jesus. I decided. I decided. Doesn't just happen. I decided. So it's a personal call. It's a pointed call. I put this down. It was a pricey call. In other words, following Jesus, there's a price to pay. It costs something. Following Jesus, if I'm going to follow Jesus, that means I have to forsake myself I've got to say, all right, it's no longer my way, it's no longer my path, it's no longer the direction I'm going. I'm going to start following him. If you follow someone who's making the decisions what direction you go. The one you're following. And so really the call to follow Christ is a call of submission to Christ. Lord, I'm going to follow you. You decide the direction of my life. You decide the use of my resources. You decide how my talents are used. You decide what I'm engaged in and what I how I behave. Lord, I'm following you. You are the one leading that. And there's a price to pay for that. There's a cost to that To follow you, get behind. I allow them to lead and make the decisions. If you would, keep your place here and turn with me to Luke chapter number 9. Luke chapter number 9, Jesus is explaining what it means to follow him and what the cost is. Matthew, Mark, Luke chapter number 9. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 23. Luke 9 and verse 23. Alright, everybody good? Everybody up with me? Alright. Look at verse 23. And he said unto them all, now look at this. If any man will come what? After me, what's that mean? Follow him. Says, alright, if you're going to follow me, if you're going to get behind me You're going to follow me. You're going to come after me. Look at this. Let him, look at this first one, deny himself. I cannot simultaneously follow the Lord Jesus Christ and yet at the same time go my own way. I've got to deny myself. Say nope, not the way I want to go, I'm going to follow the Lord. And so he must deny himself. Take up his cross daily. What was the purpose of a cross? What was it designed for? For crucifixion. What is crucifixion? It's death Crucifixion is death. The cross is an emblem of death, a violent death. And so when he says, take up your cross, I believe what he's saying here, you want to be my disciple, you want to come after me You want to follow me? One thing you're going to have to stop going your own way. You're going to have to deny yourself. And then you've got to prepare. You've got to uh take up your cross When Jesus said, Come follow me, said to Simon and Andrew, he says, follow me, then later the other disciples, he says, follow me. Where was he going to? Where are they following him to? Where does he end up? On the cross. He's saying, listen, discipleship, following the Lord Jesus Christ, requires a dying to sell. Paul put it this way: it is no longer I that liveth, but Christ what liveth in me. So I've died to self. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet no longer I, but Christ liveth in me. And so there's a cost to this. You say, preacher, I've got my dreams Preacher, I got my plans. I've got my hopes and my ideas that I want my life to be and and uh I I've got this and I've got that, and there's nothing wrong with that in and of itself But if I'm going to follow the Lord Jesus Christ, it's no longer my plans, it's his plans. It's no longer my dreams. It's his will It's no longer my intentions. It's his intentions. It's dying to sell. You say, preacher, that costs a lot. You're right It does cost a lot. It does cost a lot. But the cross always, the cross of Christ always leads to glory. Read Philippians chapter 2. Always leads to glory. Now, this isn't my message. I don't really have this prepared in my message, but I'll say this. I'm absolutely convinced that dying to self, taking up my cross, denying myself, will absolutely be worth it one day in glory. There's no doubt in my mind. By the way, even if this is all just a dream, I had a there was a fellow in the church years ago who said to me, He says, you know, if Christ didn't rise again, if this is all wrong, Man, I I wasted my life. I should have just lived out in the world. I don't know about you, but I've lived out in the world I e even and and we're and um don't don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm absolutely convinced that this is absolutely true. But what I'm saying is even if it isn't, it's still worth it to live this life than the life that this world gave me. Die to self. Crucify myself to this world and live for Christ. I'll tell you, there's a peace. There's a joy, there's a fulfillment, there's a confidence, there's the presence of God that I'll never have holding on to my own self-will. There's a price to follow Christ. Deny yourself. Take up your cross. And he says, and follow me. Follow me. Look, he goes on, verse 24 of Luke 9. For whosoever will save his life shall lose it. Go ahead and hang on to your life. He's talking to believers. Go ahead and lean on your own understanding. Go ahead and live your life the way you want. You're going to lose it. You'll just waste it For whosoever will save his life shall lose it, but whosoever shall have will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it What is a man uh what is uh for what is a man advantage if he gained the whole world and lose himself or be cast away? And so there's a price. Come over to chapter 14 of Luke, just a few pages over. Now this is a this is a an aspect of Christianity that isn't preached on much. This is an aspect of Christianity that isn't super popular. There's a price to follow Christ. Look at chapter 14. Look with me at verse 26. Now, this is the Lord here. Chapter 14, verse 26. He says, If any man come to me, now look at this And hate not his father and mother, his wife, his children, his brother and his sister, yea, his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. Now we touch on this periodically. He's not saying I'm to dislike my family, I'm to be hateful and unkind and rude to our family. We're told other places we're to love our spouse, we're to love our children, we're to love our parents. What he's saying here is, your love for me, your commitment for me, must be supreme above all other loves. Above all other loves. I think the best thing, listen, I think the best thing a husband can do for his wife is love Jesus Christ supremely. The best thing a wife can do for her husband is love Jesus Christ supremely. When I love the Lord Jesus Christ with all my heart, with all my soul, with all my might, with all my mind. When I love Jesus Christ supremely, then I'll be able to love my wife the way I should. Follow? Husband, parent, child. The best thing, the best thing a parent can do for their children is love Jesus Christ supremely. Love Jesus Christ supremely. And so he says, there's a price. You want to follow me? There's a price to pay. You have to say no to the world. You're gonna have to you're gonna we're gonna walk we're gonna walk against the grain of this whole world. And you're gonna have to learn to die to self and you're gonna have to learn to uh to take up a cross because this world will crucify you For following Jesus, just like it crucified Jesus Christ. And so there's a price. The call to follow the Lord Jesus Christ is personal It's me and Jesus. I'm following him. Not a man, not a doctrine, not a religion. I'm following Jesus. It's a pointed. I've got to decide to do that. And then it's pricey. Now, second thing I want to notice is back here in Matthew chapter 4, not just the call to follow, but the change that that produces in my life Look what he says. Verse 19 there, Matthew 4. And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you. That word make I will make you. It has this idea. I will fashion you. I will form you. It has in the definition part of the word to construct something. Jesus says, listen, if you follow me, I'm going to change your life. Just like back in Jeremiah, he talks about God being the potter, and you and I are the clay. And how that potter will form that clay into the vase or into the item that he intends for it to be, to have the shape he intends for it to have. And Jesus says, you follow me, you're putting yourself on that potter's uh, what's it called? Wheel. You're putting yourself on that potter's wheel. You're following me. And he says, I'll make you into something. I'll change your life. I don't know about you, but for 19 years I saw what I could do with my life, and I tell you, it was very disappointing. May 7th, I trusted Jesus Christ. I decided I was going to follow him. I was going to live for him. Let him. I tell you, Jesus Christ has been better to me than I was to me. He makes us. He makes us. He molds us and changes us and forms us. He constructs us into something. He makes our life something that he can use for his glory. He changes us. I believe our priorities are changed when we follow the Lord Jesus Christ. Our priorities. Before we follow Jesus, self is the priority, success is the priority. But once I follow Jesus Christ, these priorities change. You're here in Matthew. Come over to chapter 19 of Matthew. Notice the disciples. Now God's molding them. He's making them. He's changing them. It's a process that takes place over time. But in Matthew chapter 19, look with me at verse 24. Verse 23, let's start there. It says, And then said Jesus unto his disciples. Now they're following him. Alright? And he's making them into something. Then said Jesus to his disciples, Verily I say unto you, a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven. And again I say unto you, it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. Whoa! Now look how the disciples responded to that statement. Verse number 23, 5. When his disciples heard it, they were what? Exceedingly amazed. They're like, what in the world? Look what they say. Who then can be saved? Now, why would they respond that way? Why would Jesus say it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich man to get saved? They say, good night. Who then can be saved? Why would they respond that way? I'll tell you why we responded that way. Because in their mind, the ultimate goal in life was to be rich Rich is to them was an indication that they were accepted by God. If I have tons of money and lots of gold and silver and possessions, and I'm rich Then God surely accepts me. And Jesus is saying, No, that's not the way it works. Priorities change when I follow Jesus And what he was trying to do for his disciples here, he was changing their priorities. In their mind Getting riches and getting possession was the highest priority. And surely if I got all of that, then that means God is blessing me, God has accepted me. God And he's saying, No, no, no, that's not it at all. Your priorities are out of whack. I'm afraid in Christianity in America today, we need to be very, very careful. Our priorities can very easily get out of whack. And we can start pursuing riches and popularity and possessions, and that becomes a high priority In the disciples' riches was the ultimate goal in life. Come over to chapter 20. Look with me at verse 26. They're arguing, they're uh uh they got in this debate about who is going to be the greatest in the kingdom of God. Popular, great, have authority, man. I'm just top top of the pack, leader of the pack. Look what the Lord says in verse 26. It shall not be so among you. Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister Servant, serving. And whosoever shall be chief among you, let him be your servant Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. Their priorities were completely out of line. He's changing them. He's making them into something. He's changing their priorities, no longer riches, position, power, influence. Now I'm coming to serve, not be served, but to minister, give my life for others. When we follow the Lord Jesus Christ, there's a change produced in us. Our priorities change. Now Jesus is in charge. Jesus is the one. What was important to me before I was following Jesus is no longer important. And what wasn't important to me before now is very, very important. When I got saved, before I got saved, I tell you, this book This book right here, before I got saved, it meant nothing to me. It's just a book. I had one uh that was down sunny school teacher gave me when I was real young in the in the Mennonite church and I had stuck it in a drawer somewhere and for years and years never paid any attention, never thought about it. It meant nothing to me And suddenly I started getting concerned about my soul. I saw the direction my life was going. I saw what I was becoming. I began praying, God help me, God help me. The very first thing God did, and it was not an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was an audible voice on my heart. Get your Bible, start reading it. I started reading this thing. God started showing himself to me. I realized who I was and who Jesus was. And when I trusted in the Savior, suddenly this book became the most important possession I had. Priorities changed. Things that were important to me before, uh having a big time, getting out, doing this and doing that, and enjoying this, enjoying. Suddenly that was no longer important. God changed me. We talk about a fellow, Mike Stubler. You hear us talk about him a good bit. Many of us remember Brother Mike. Mark at the men's shootout gave a great testimony how Mike influenced Mark and Jackie and bringing them. Just a tremendous tribute to Brother Mike. He was an amazing man. He's with the Lord now many, many years. I remember when Mike got saved. We started working with him, discipling him. He's growing. It's probably a year into his Salvation and his d he made the decision he was going to follow the Lord. He's going to live for God. He's going to let the Lord lead him He called me up one day. He said, Pastor Lemon, he says, I got some questions I need to talk to you. I said, sure. So he came by and he uh came, we sat in my office, and he says, um I made a decision I said, okay. He says, I'm going to sell and give away all my hunting gear. All my hunting, my guns, everything Now Mike, if you remember, was an avid hunter. He was very good. I had hunted with him up there. He had quite a setup. He was a very, very avid hunter. He was very good. And he said, I'm going to give it all away. I'm going to stop. I'm not going to hunt anymore. I said, Mike, what's your thinking? What's the reasoning? He says, Preacher, I don't think it's necessarily wrong, and I'm not saying anybody else has to do this. He said, but it's more important to me that I invest my time and my resources in the Lord Jesus Christ and the gospel than in this activity. You know what was happening? His priorities were changing. He was following the Lord and God's making him, making him Now I'm not suggesting a person shouldn't enjoy hobbies and stuff like that, and Mike didn't suggest that at all. But for him It was decision he had to make. For him, his priorities were changing. And it was no longer important I thought about uh down in Florida, Chester and I think it was Chester or Dave or somebody, people that go to Florida. Um down there, there's a great church down there, Landmark Baptist Church, Brother Mickey Carter. And uh maybe it was Dave we were talking, maybe it was Chester, I don't know. But um old Mickey Carter was a NASCAR racer. He was a race car driver, one of those big race cars. He was apparently very, very good. And he got saved. And that was his life. That was what he lived for. That was the high priority to race these cars. God saved them. He said, I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. I'm not just going to be a believer. I'm going to follow him. I want to give my life and let him lead me through life. And suddenly that race car business became lower and lower and lower on the priority list. And serving God and living for God became higher. You follow what I'm trying to say We follow Jesus Christ. He changes our priorities. When we follow Jesus Christ, our perspective on things is changed. We begin to see people from Jesus' perspective. We begin to see our circumstances from God's perspective, from a biblical perspective. We begin to see our possessions from God's perspective. We begin to see people with compassion. And we see a soul that needs Jesus. I tell you, this week, there's no doubt we're going to have some young people come in from some rough backgrounds. We're going to have some young people come in from good strong homes. But I tell you, every single one of them, whether they come from a rough background or a good, strong, healthy home, regardless If they don't know Jesus Christ the Savior, they're all in the same condition. They all need a Savior. And we've got to learn to see people from God's perspective. And when we follow the Lord, he changes our perspective. Our principles are changed. Right and wrong are no longer determined by what I think is right and what I think is wrong. The world no longer decides what is right and wrong for me. Now Jesus Christ decides what's right and wrong. The Bible says that Jesus is the judge of all the earth. What does a judge do? A judge determines what's right and wrong. A judge answers and, of course, makes judgment, but they determine what's right and wrong. Jesus Christ is the one that determines what's right and wrong, not my own understanding, not my own sinful nature. This world has perfected the ability to make that which is wrong seem right and that which is right seem wrong. And when I'm following Jesus Christ, he's the one that determines what's right and wrong. My principles are changed. In the New Testament, the followers of Jesus Christ were fundamentally different than the world. They were not the same as the world. They were following Christ, not the world. Now we are no better, we say this often, we're no better than the world, but we're not the same as the world. We're not the same. And then last of all, I am with this, the commission that is given. Come back to Matthew here. Look what he says. He saith unto them, follow me, and I will make you Fishers of men, fishers of men. Up to this point they were fishers of fish. Their life was committed to catching fish. Now, following Jesus Christ, they're fishers of men. They're going to reach people, they're going to reach men for the gospel. I got thinking about fishing. I enjoy fishing. Most of you know that. Nathan and I go fishing. Derek and I have been fishing together. Others, Tom. I enjoy fishing. I enjoy it. But I found out to catch a fish, if you're going to be a fisherman, if you're going to go fishing, there has to be a desire in your heart to catch a fish. Right? If you're going to catch fish, there has to be that desire there. Some fellas, I'm talking to some fellas here, you don't ever catch fish. You know why? You have no desire to catch fish I've talked to Dave, I was talking to Dave Heath about going fishing. He says, I'd rather have a root canal than go fishing. Guess who's never gonna catch a fish? Because he has no desire to do that. When we follow Jesus, he puts a desire in our heart to see other people saved. You know why some people never win a soul to Christ? They don't have any desire to. They don't care. Not interested. Some people don't catch fish because they don't care. Who care less about catching a fish? And the tragedy is The Christian realm, some people never win souls because they really have no desire. They really don't care I believe there are whole churches. Never see people saved, month after month, year after year, never see a soul saved, never see anybody baptized. Why? Because they have no desire I like to catch fish. I like to catch big fish. I like to catch bass. There's something desire. I want to go do that. So it's good. So I found if I'm going to be a fisherman, if I'm going to catch fish, I've got to have a desire. And if I'm going to be a fisher of men, if I'm going to win people to Christ I need that desire has to be there. And I believe when I follow Jesus, he makes me into that fisherman. He puts that desire there. How many people here, after you got saved, you wanted to see other people saved Yeah, that's the Spirit of God. That's God making us in the Fish years of men. So first of all, there has to be a desire To catch the fish, to be a fisher of men. Some people don't catch fish, as I said, because they don't care about it Um, God forbid that we would ever become a church that didn't care whether people got saved or not. I hope if we go if we go a little period of time, we don't hear uh we don't have anybody make a profession of faith and and we don't have anybody say, I don't know about you. That starts to bother me a little bit That bothers me. We pray Saturday nights here with the fellows and sometimes say, fellas, we need to pray. We see more people saved. We need to pray. We're out every week. I was out three nights this week with our free Bibles thing set up trying to win people to Christ. We went out Wednesday night, knocking on doors, signing up people to Bible time. We were out yesterday Giving out tracts all week long. Why? There's a desire in our heart to see people saved. And God puts that there. And God forbid we ever lose that desire as a church and as individuals. I found second of all if I'm going to catch fish, there must be action. Some people have a desire to go fishing, but they never make the effort to actually do it. Yeah, I'd like to catch a fish. Brother Matt's a fisherman back there. I'd like to catch a fish. I found out, I tell you, I evaluate, I spent all week evaluating my fishing. I came to this conclusion. I've never caught a fish sitting on my couch. Every time I caught a fish, I had to actually get up Go to where the fish are and put some effort into catching that fish. How many people understand that concept? Yeah. Sitting there on the couch, sitting on the back deck drinking iced tea, my wife says, um, what are you wanting to do? Well, I'd like to catch a fish What are you going to do about it? Oh, nothing. I got to do something. You know what? Some people, I think there's Christians, I think there's churches. They'd like to see people saved. I'd like to see people come to Christ. They're not against it. They're all for it. But they don't do anything to make it happen They don't go out to where the fish are, where the lost are. They don't put any time or effort or energy and resources into trying to win the lost. Oh, they want people to be saved Sing about it, preach about it, talk about it, read about it in the sword. We don't ever do anything to actually catch men for Jesus. So there has to be a desire. There has to be some action. And then last of all, I end with this. There must be persistence. If you know anything about fishing, it requires patience. I mean you just gotta be patient. You just gotta stay at it, stay at it. Go out one time, cast the line out, work that thing back in, didn't catch a fish, get in boat, go back home. You ain't never gonna catch fish that way. You gotta stay at it, you gotta stay at it, you gotta stay at it, you gotta stay at it. Am I right, brother Matt? You gotta get at it. You just go, you gotta Figure out what alright that didn't work, I'm gonna try this. Alright, this didn't work, that didn't work. That's uh You gotta work at it, work at it. Just stay at it, stay at it, stay at it, stay at it. You know how we win souls? Now we catch men for Jesus Gotta have a desire, burden, burden. Paul said a heart's desire for Israel is that they might be saved. He wanted people to be saved. And then we do take some action. We go out Thursday night. We go out in Bible time. We work out. We get involved in the bus ministry. We do something. We give out gospel tracts. We take some action. You say, preacher, I gave out a tract this week and nobody got saved. Well, praise the Lord, you gave a tract out, but you got to stay at it Get another one out, and another one out, and another one out, and another one out. We had a dear lady years ago, and God bless her, she's with the Lord now, but she said, Preacher, I keep witnessing folks and I don't ever get anybody saved I said, Sue, keep right on witnessing. Just keep on doing it. Just keep on doing it. Just keep on doing it. And you gotta stay at it. You gotta stay at it. Here' Question Am I following Jesus Christ? Am I a follower? If I am, he'll start changing me. He'll start working with me. And he wants to use me to bring other people to Christ. Father, I ask you to bless now. Take these thoughts. I ask, Lord, you'd help us to be followers of Jesus Christ as individuals and as a church. And I pray you'd bless this week as we do our best and we work hard and put on long days To try and bring boys and girls and teenagers to know Jesus Christ as Savior and use us is our prayer. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if there's any this morning who would say, preacher I want to be a follower of Christ. I want him to mold me and make me into what into a person he can use to bring others to Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, I want to be a follower of Christ. God bless you. Hands all around I can't imagine not wanting to be. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I need God to give me a greater burden in my heart for the loss. I don't want anybody to go to hell, but I need a greater burden, a greater desire to see people saved. I need the Lord to help me with that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? I need a greater desire. God bless you. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I want people to say, I need God to stir me to actually do something, to take actions so that people will come to Christ. Paul said, how can they hear without a preacher? If somebody doesn't get involved, somebody doesn't do something, how are they going to hear? I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need to take action. I need to be more active involved in reaching loss. Anything like that, the outside, God bless you. My hand's raised. And I wonder if some say, preacher, I'm trying. But I'm just going to stay at it. I'm just going to keep doing. If I see results or not, I'll just put that in God's hand. But I'm going to keep on witnessing I'm going to keep on trying to live for God. I want to keep on serving the Lord and let Him take care of the results. Is there any like that? I'm just going to need to stand. God bless you. And I hope all of us will pray for Bible time, pray for soul saved, pray for God's blessing on our efforts. Father, bless now our imitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes.