Um but uh let me start by way of introduction going uh the uh the FCC, if you guys know what the FCC is, it's the uh Federal Communication Commission. It uh has a certain um it has a certain way that deals with obscenity. You guys might not know this, but uh there have been obscenity laws in America since its founding. And uh while they're not often uh Often utilized today why on. Blue, blue. Oh, thanks. Hello. Blue. Lights on. Check it, check in. That works? You didn't hear that. Uh the FCC apparently turned me off. So we're gonna um that's pretty funny. Um But as a Federal Communications Commission, and as a certain way that it deals with obscenity, a lot of people don't know this, but there have been obscenity laws uh since the founding of the nation. Actually, and by by the way, just let me preface this whole message by saying, I'm a huge I'm a huge believer in freedom of speech. I d I just I'm a huge believer in it. Probably more than I'd say most people I even know. I I I I'm I am all for people who completely disagree with me in every single way saying whatever they want as long as I'm allowed to say whatever I want too Right. Because that's how freedom of speech works. However, there are obscenity laws. In fact, in night in the sixties, um, there was a comedian who was arrested three different times for using obscene language. I didn't know you could get arrested for that. But apparently back then you could. Um and uh the uh Uh this is from their website. This is actually their actual uh this is their actual policy. It is a viol violation of federal law to air obscene programming any time or this is for television, sorry. It is a violation of federal law to air obscene programming at any time or indecent programming or profane language from 6 a. m. to ten PM. By the way, did you know that the um federal uh federal com the FCC actually puts time limits on it so you can do it after ten o'clock or before six AM you're allowed to air um Let's see, let's say it indecent programming or profane language. Did you guys know that? See, I didn't know that. Um so that's why when uh we're sitting there and it's late and listen, I'm a night owl, I'd rather be up late than be up early in the morning. But when I'm up late When you're like, I'm gonna watch some TV, be much more careful than you are before it's late. Because legally they're allowed to do more things after ten PM. But it's keep going. Congress has given the FCC the responsibility for administrating and enforcing these laws. The FCC may revoke a station's license, impose a monetary forfeiture, or issue a warning if a station errs obscene, indecent, or profane material. A seam material is not protected by the First Amendment to the Constitution and cannot be broadcast at any time. The Supreme Court has established that to be considered a STEAM material must meet a three-pronged test An average person applying the contemporary community standards must find that the material as a whole appeals to the uh prurient interest. The material must depict, describe, um in a patently offensive way. certain things which I'm not going to read. And the material taken as a whole must lack serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value. So there you go, that's actually their uh policy on dealing with obscene stuff. In fact, uh now thirty-five, forty years ago, you there was it was a lot stricter. All right, I wasn't alive thirty-five, forty years ago, and uh this will actually uh shock a lot of you to know. Um I was having a discussion with my best friend earlier this week, and uh And I have I'm a I'm a fan of President Reagan. I don't know and much of I mean I wasn't alive. Um but I'm a fan of what I've read and such. Did you know that to be an able to vote for Reagan, you must you have to be like forty four years old now? Or something ridiculous like if you wanted to have voted for him. No, I'm sorry, it's like fifty years old to have voted for him. It's forty four years old or something like that. I like I said I'm If it's forty six, forty seven. Anyways, you have to be ha you have to now be over the hill to have voted for him or or been an adult when he was president. Yeah, that'll make you feel old. I was not even alive during his presidency. Isn't that ridiculous? Um And so but uh but that's a completely different point. I just thought it was a funny point 'cause I was talking about because we were talking about Reagan and I was like, huh. You know, most people a lot of that I know it's just a ridiculous point. But there's but by the way, there's still some things you can't say or do on TV. Alright? The FCC actually still had the pretty pretty tight um hold on it, not as tight as it used to be, but does have a hold on what they're allowed to do. However, I will say this. It is not difficult, it is not difficult to find a pro TV program where they do curse a lot. And words that you can't say on TV and it'd be barely bleeped out. And I say barely because They bleep out like the middle letters. You still know what the word is, but they bleep out the middle letters. Alright? It's not hard to find that on TV today. In fact, it's easy. In fact, um if you go down the list, there are certain shows that made their money off of off of bleeping out obscenities. They're all over You know, it's really not hard to find rampant innuendos. I say rampant because I don't know of Many uh many sitcoms especially. Any anything with comedy in it is usually is just ripe with just full of innuendos. It turns out you can also tell complete blatant lies with no evidential backing. Now I know that's not obscene, but that is ridiculous, that you can that you can tell a complete lie And no one will and no one will call you on it. And and you don't get in trouble from anyone. You can just absolutely lie to everyone, to the public, and because it's on TV people think it's supposed to be true and no one will stop you. You can do these things on television now. But may I say that in the sermon the title of the sermon is Five Things You Can't Say on Television. You can say the F word. It'll be bleeped out, but you can say it. You can uh you can say innuendos. And those won't be bleeded out. You can get downright raunchy, but that won't be believed out. You can absolutely lie to people. You can show um you can show partial nudity. All this stuff on television, but there are five things that I think you can't say on television. It has nothing to do with any of that. I never preached a sermon like this. Um most of my sermons I try to and honestly I don't preach enough I don't think I preach enough to have a most of my sermons are like this or this style because they're all kind of weird. But um and a little different. But this is the one that I've never preached for. It's it's a sermon on society itself And be and the reason I don't preach on it very often, the br reason I don't preach on it much at all, is because I'm twenty-four years old and what do I know about society? What do I know about the world? But this is my first sermon on society today. Five things you can't say on television. You know what the first one is? Not all religions are equal. Without getting sued, without getting turned off, without getting yelled at, without making a hundred different enemies, you cannot say the words, not all religions are equal. You can't say one religion is better than another. You can't say Christianity is better than uh than Islam. You can't say that Buddhism Is better than uh Mormonism. You can't say any of that. You cannot say one religion is better than another, no matter how true it is. You can't say that. Now here's the fact. I believe a truth, an absolute truth, is that Christianity, true un true Christianity, whoa. That's what I sound like right there. Don't walk next to a speaker, that's a bad idea. You're sitting there, you're like, is that what I sound like? Is my voice that high? That's what you think. But uh but true Christianity, and I believe this with every fiber of my being. True Christianity is not only the greatest religion, it's the only true religion and I can't say that on a television Without being berated and hated. I can't say that. Without being told me that I'm a bigot. I can't say that Christianity is the only way to go, even if it's the absolute truth. You see, my Bible says that there is only one God. In Deuteronomy 4 and 35 it says, Unto thee it was showed that thou mightest know the Lord, that the Lord That the Lord He is God. There is none else beside him. And then 39 says, Know therefore this day and consider in thine heart that the Lord thy God, or the Lord He is God in heaven above, and on earth beneath, and there is none else. Listen, it might be true, but I can't say there's only one God. Because people say, oh wow, that guy's a bigot, that guy doesn't know what he's talking about, that guy doesn't treat everybody equally. Listen, I treat everybody equally, but I will treat truth like truth and lies like lies. And the fact is I can't say there's only one God from television. I can't say that not all religions are equal. I can't say that Christianity is a true religion. I can't say that. On TV today. Watch. Watch. You have um Watch TV. I'm not imploring you to watch TV, but say you're watching TV. I I ask you, is there a gay couple in every TV show you watch? Absolutely. In fact, I had this discussion with my teens once. You know that there's uh there's an estimated uh about uh two million homosexuals in America right now. That's about the estimate. I mean it might be two percent of America. It's one of those two. But the interesting thing about that is that's the same um number of fundamental Christians. What's weird to me is I don't see fundamental Christians on every single TV show. I don't In fact, now that I think about it, I've never seen a fundamental Christian portrayed in a good light on any TV show. They're allowed to say that we're bad, but I'm not allowed to say that we're the best. Because that's the world. That's our society today. I'm not allowed to say that Christianity is the absolute best. That there is only one God, and not only that, if they'll dealt, they might even let me slide with there's only one God, because that's what I believe But what I'm definitely, definitely, definitely, definitely, definitely not allowed to say is that it is not your belief in God that gets you to heaven, it's your belief in Jesus Christ specifically that gets you to heaven See here's the thing, a lot of people try to slide the gate the um slide under the right belly they try to say, you know what, I think all religions are the same. They were all worshiping the same God, it's just different names for him. Listen, if that were true, then the Bible is definitely not true because the Bible says that thou believest there is one God that doest well, and the devils also believe and tremble. The Bible says that it's Jesus Christ It's important. Not the fact that we were that we believe there's God, but in the fact that we believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God that's important But you're not allowed to say that. You're definitely not allowed to say Jesus Christ is the only way and everyone else is going to hell. You're not allowed to say that. That's hate speech to them And by the way, when I say not all religions are equal, that doesn't mean that not just all religions are the uh true religion. Like I said, you know, I believe Christianity is the truest religion. I think that being a Baptist is actually the best way to be a good Christian. The very most Christ-like way to be a Baptist, the best way to study the Bible is the or the best way to be a Christian is to study the Bible as a Baptist is to believe what we believe because you know we actually study the Bible, which by the way, a lot of religion uh a lot of sects of uh Christianity really don't study the Bible. And and I'm not and I'm not hate on anyone. I think there are saved people in probably every sect of Christianity. I just think that we do it the right way. And trust me, I said this before, I would not be in a Baptist church if I didn't believe it. I'm not a Baptist because of tradition. I don't care about tradition. I'll throw tradition out the window. Anyone that has the truth, I'll go there. And you know what? We got the truth. That's why I'm here. And the moment we walk away from the truth, I'm going to try to be gone and go to somewhere that does have the truth, but I don't think it's going to happen anytime soon. And when I say not all religions are equal, I'm not just talking about the the way that they're done, but not all religions are equal because You know, religion different religions have effects on different parts of the world. Let's see. Let's see. All the countries started with a Western Christian base For the most part of it, it started with a Christian base, it's usually a pretty free country. Especially Buddha started either by Protestants or by uh it's actually a free country. Interesting. You're actually allowed to have freedom of religion in most of those countries. And I'm talking most of uh most of uh Europe, the western part of Europe and uh and America and Canada, you're allowed to have your say in what you want your religion to be Well wait a second, what about all those Islamic nations? I'm sure freedom religion is there. Oh no, that's not true. What about Hindu nations? You ever tried to be a Christian in India? It's dangerous. It's real dangerous. You're afraid tell people about Christianity in India? Might cost you your life. I get thrown in jail for it. And while they have their forms of freedom of religion, the only religion that actually pretty much allows for freedom of religion that it they actually take other people's thoughts into consideration and other people into consideration I hate to say it happens to be Christianity. And they can burn me for that, but the fact is, look at the evidence. The Western world was founded on Christianity, and the Western world is the freest part of the world. Listen. And I and I love and listen, you're gonna talk to people and they're like, well Christianity is not the best religion uh because there was the crusades and you killed a bunch of people. Well first of all we didn't start the Crusades. We went to take back the Holy Land after they killed a bunch of our people. That's a completely different fact because I'm not a Catholic. And and listen, I don't hate on any Catholics, but the fact is the Catholics killed All of us Baptists, like in which we were not Baptists at the time, I understand that. But uh the Catholic were killing the uh precursors of the Baptists, at the same time they were killing the Muslims. You think I did that? You think our religion did that? You mean the religion that says to love your enemies? You mean the religion that says um in Matthew chapter 5? Mers forty four, three four through forty four, ye have heard it, you've heard that it has set been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and praise for them which despitefully use you and persecute you You think if someone's actually following that, they can persecute someone, they can persecute non-Christians? You think if someone's actually following what Jesus actually said, then they actually can be a bad person? Then they can be a corrupt religion? No. The only time a real Christian is uh sorry, the only time a Christian has been hateful and murderous has been when they weren't being Christians. The fact is, I can't say it from television, but not all religions are equal. And guess what? Jesus Christ's religion, Christianity, is the best. And does the most amount of good and the least amount of harm. Listen, this isn't a sermon on patriotism, but I will say this: America is not only the uh the freest nation there's ever been. as far as a belief, uh freedom of religion, freedom of speech rights, but it's also the most giving nation in the world. We give more charity than anyone else. And that had to do with our Christian roots. But I can't say not all religions are equal, because that would make me a bit bigot. You know what else I can't say? Because I get in trouble for it? Because I would get sued for it. Because I would have so many people because I can I would say this. I thought about just uh and not because I'm paranoid, but I am. Um I thought about asking uh Dave to not put the sermon, like not scream the sermon, just in case I said something stupid. Just in case someone was looking for something stupid to say, uh I didn't I don't want to bring this church any grief, so I was just gonna add but then I forgot to. Um so it doesn't matter now. Um But the fact is, and I don't plan on saying anything stupid. I'm uh that's not my intent. But the fact is, there's things you can't say on television, and all those things I'm scared to say here because I think someone might be listening and they might take it out of context. Like this church doesn't know what that means. Um second thing you can't say, you can't say this on television. Because people will call you uh they'll call you uh they'll call you a ton of things. They can call you a bigot, they can call you Hateful, they can call you close-minded, they can call you a lot of things. One of the things that you can that you can't say on television is that God judges immorality. God judges immorality. Listen, I say that with more love than I can possibly say. I don't want any sinner ever to go to hell. I don't want every sinner to do right with God. I I honestly, there are people that I know that um that I know are in sin completely, and not one part of me hates them. It's the exact opposite. My heart breaks for them. But God does judge immorality. God is a judge. Let me uh let's talk about uh Let's talk about something that they and this and now I'm just pulling from TV shows. Let's just think about this. Um alcohol You know, and honestly, I don't remember the last time I watched a TV show where the characters didn't drink. I don't remember the last time I watched a TV show where the characters didn't drink. I can't think of one But the Bible says that alcohol is vile. Proverbs 21 says, wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging, and whoever is deceived by it is thereby is not wise. Ephesians 5. 8 says, be not drunk with wine wherein its excess, but be filled with the spirit. The fact is, the Bible does not like alcohol. I can't say alcohol is wrong on television. I'll be hated for it. I'll be cool and crazy for it. I can't say that, but someone can say curse words all they want. I can't say that alcohol is wrong to drink. I can't say that it it does it it breaks families apart, it turns men into monsters And it gives and it makes people fall into terrible depressions? I can't say that. But someone can make a very crass innuendo twenty times a show You see where I'm at? I can't pick on alcohol. I also can't pick on sex before marriage. Again, try watching try watching a TV show where characters ha uh where characters are still but until until marriage. I don't know of one. And again, maybe I'm wrong. Because there are TV shows. And you know, there are actually uh a uh a uh evangelist uh sorry a pastor I know owns his own TV network on, I think, Dish. Uh we just went and heard his name is Randy Digman. We just went and heard him he actually owns his own TV network. So by the way, the TV itself is not wrong It's not like, you know, it's like saying a gun is evil. It's not evil. It's it's how you use it. What's what's put into it, how you use it that makes it evil. But the fact is, I don't remember the last time that I heard that sex before marriage was wrong In um First Corinthians six, what know ye not that which is joined to a harlot, or know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one body, for two he saith shall become one flesh. But he that is joined in the Lord is one spirit. Flee fornication, every sin that a man doeth without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body But I can't say that on television. Homosexuality? I don't necessarily need to go into it, but I can't read this verse. I can't read this verse on TV without being labeled a wacko Without being labeled self-righteous, without being labeled um an extremist, a fanatic Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulteresses Nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind, nor thieves, nor covetousness, nor drunkards, nor violers, nor extortionists, shall inherit the kingdom of God Now I added this Latinx verse because I like it a lot. And such were some of you, but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus and by the Spirit of our God. You see, here's the thing. Christianity, when I say God judges morality, that's not meant to hate on anyone. They won't let me say it anyways, but it's not meant to hate on people. It's meant to say, listen, not only it might be wrong, these things I mentioned might be wrong, but guess what? Guess what? God can give you a way out God can justify you, sanctify you, make you clean. I'm not condemning you, I'm showing you the way. But you can't say that. Because that makes you hateful, closed-minded, a bigot. You can't say those things You know, and uh this is uh separate point. You can't say abortion, this is uh my next one, but you can't say abortion is murder Where have we come to in our society where we're not allowed to debate this anymore? We're not allowed to debate this without being told that we hate women. The fact is, if I hated women, I would be an abortionist because or I if I hated women, I'd be an abortionist because half those ladies I'm killing are women. That true? They don't believe in women's rights. I this is so funny. They're like, well it's basically just like you know taking out like a uh like a gull butt or like a pancreas or something. We believe not. Because that pancreas and that gallbladder have my DNA written all over them. And that fetus, which I call baby, but sure, let's use a scientific term, that baby inside of you, a fetus, has his own DNA. You're not attacking your body, you're attacking someone else's body. Fact is I'm not even allowed to say that abortion is wrong on public television without being told that I hate people. I'm not allowed to try to stop murder without being told I hate people. And that's not in front of that's not in front of a liberal crowd. That's not in front of people who say who are who are very pro abortion. That's not in front of the whole Pro choice, which is just pro-baby killing, crowd I can't say it there, but I can't even say it on television in front of all of America. Both sides. They don't allow it. They won't allow me to Because that's being seen as hateful. Wrong. Wrap this up very quickly. It's not a very long sermon. But the last thing I'm not allowed to say. You see, the first one, the first one was uh not all religions are equal. The second one was God judges morality. The third one Oh, this is not the last one, sorry. Counting the five is hard. Um Abortion is murder, and I can give you, by the way, Mark nine uh forty two where it says, And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me It is better for him that his m a milestone were hanged about his neck and cast into the sea. Say something. Don't mess with kids Because God says it's better for you to have a giant rock hang on by your neck and then cast into the sea, which is not my favorite way to die. Or uh I like this one too. These sixteen things that the Lord hate. This is in Proverbs 6, 16, 17. These six things that the Lord hate, the Lord hate, the Lord hate, the Lord hate, the Lord haste A proud book, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood Number four, not my last one. The Bible is the Word of God. So this is interesting because you're like, well TV preachers will say that. Yes. You can hear people and you can even hear people who claim to be Christians on their shows. By the way, um every Christian you'll see on a T V show, this is the funny thing, I've made this point before, but I think it's funny it's still Everyone knows the Bible on all those shows, like more Bibles than I do. They know where things are found in their obscure verses. And none of them have ever, like none of them seemingly have ever gone to church. I know everybody's an expert on every show, and it bugs me. And everybody has done everything on every show. Yes, I'm a cop, but I also was once a spy. And a singer and an actor and a plumber and and you and that's one thing that bugs me out TV shows is people have these ridiculous backstories. It makes me mad. I'd rather someone just be like, Yeah, I watch T V And be like, hey, that guy's like me. And then I'm seeing that it's a good time because you're just watching each other watch TV. Wouldn't that be a weird TV show if someone just like watching you And you're washing the back. It wouldn't get very far, but it would be interesting. Um actually let me try it again. It would be not interesting at all. But it's kind of funny. Um But you'll hear TV preachers say that the Bible is the Word of God, and that's great And good for them. And you know there's actually listen, I don't recommend you staying home on Sundays and watching TV preaching because A there's a lot of heresy that's preached. There is. And B, because you should be in church. Because God doesn't necessarily just tell you to Listen to preaching? He actually tells you to assemble yourselves together. Then hear preaching. Um But the Bible is the word of God. When I say that, I mean it a little differently. I'm not saying it's the word of God, man became man. I'm saying it is the words of God. The actual transcribed, written down, and now translated words of God. That's a big deal. That's important. Because remember, God's words created the universe. God's words created everything. So it's pretty powerful. God's word is also Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the living word, the word human form. God's word is important. And that means that God's word is true. And if God's word is true, then I'm going to be in trouble with a lot of people that I tell that to. Because a lot of people don't want God's word to be true. They're okay with some of Jesus' words, as long as you don't get all religious on them and all spiritual on them. They're okay with some of his words. In fact I've I've been in schools and uh I actually respect this I think uh I think Northern Middle School um has like a it's like an NIB version, but it is, you know, it is Bible verses on the wall. There's no references? I'm like, I'm pretty sure that came from the Bible. Like I'm pretty sure. And I'm cool with that. That's that's fine. I'm really glad they did that. And they're cool with those verses. They're cool with the golden rule. Like, you know, they're cool with saying, hey, doing to others is uh them doing they're cool with that. They're cool with uh With uh love your enemies, sure, they're alright with that one. They're cool with uh you know, love your brother, that's cool that one. But when you start stepping on toes and talking about sin, they're like, Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, we don't believe that When you start talking about Jesus Christ is the only way to heaven, they're like, whoa, whoa, whoa, we don't believe that. So when I say the Bible is the Word of God, and actually mean it from beginning to finish, and every single word in between, it's actually the Word of God. I can't say that on television because that labels me a hater. That labels me someone who's trying to condemn someone, someone who's trying to judge someone. That's not my intention. My intention is to live right with God, but I can't say that on TV. I can't say, 2 Timothy 16 and 17, all scriptures are given by the inspiration of God. I they want to say, no, it's just men's opinion. But I can't say that it's given by God, and it's profitable for doctrine, for approval, for correction, for instruction, rightness, righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished into all good works Where do we get this idea? Listen, I I believe everyone has flaws, everyone has something And then they're trying to beat everyone. Everyone has sin nature they're constantly fighting. But where do we get this idea that everyone has to have flaws all the time? I don't mean you'll be perfect. I mean you'll never sin, but You ever like hear and maybe you guys don't hear this often I do, but it's like but we're always told well you can't be perfect but and so the minute they say that no one tries to be perfect anymore The minute they say, and listen, I listen, I know, sin nature will, you will lose sometimes, but that's not an excuse ever to lose. Just because you will lose it doesn't mean that's an excuse to lose to your flesh. And so we're taught, you know, no one can be perfect. You know, if we're taught there's no quite right or wrong. But the Bible has given us a 1100 pages, depending on your Bible, of right and wrong. Listen, I can't say the Bible is the word of God from television. I can't say it 2 Corinthians 5 10, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body according to what he has done, whether it be good or bad. That's hate speech. Because if I say that, then I have to admit that there is right and wrong, that there is good and bad, that there is morality. And I can't say that because that's hate speech. I can't say the Bible is the Word of God because it says things that people don't like. Because if the Bible is true, if it really is truly the Word of God, then there is a judgment seat coming, and then everyone has to be accountable for what they do. And they don't want to say that. Lastly, and I've already touched on this. Lastly, and I've already touched on this. Another thing you can't say on television. I mean I mean it You can't say it. Is it Christians or good people? True Christians are good people. And you're going to say, well didn't we already cover that with the all religions are equal? Yeah, a little bit, but I think it's important, so I'm going to say it again. The true Christians are good people. You're not allowed to say that. You're not allowed to say, you know what, those are the good guys. You know, like I said, and listen, if if some of you don't know me that well, and and that's okay because man, I wouldn't get to know me either. I'm not that really that great guy. But if some of you don't know me too well, and um Obviously none of you live with me. I actually I'm actually uh I I I've always kind of been a film guy, a T V guy. Like film I like I like angles, I like uh I like storylines. That's what that's who I am. I like to make movies, I I like I like the medium, if you will, of film and television and movies. I like that So if you think I'm anti T V and you think I'm like old fashioned, I I might be I g you know, maybe I may be right, but I really like it, so that's why I'm allowed to preach against it. Is because I know it. Because I know there's evil out there. And I know well enough to know that Christians are not represented Christians are not represented, and they're especially not represented as good guys. They're represented as hateful condemning people if they're a fundamentalist Christian, or they're represented as a Catholic or maybe a Methodist or Lutheran And they're it's usually more of a ritualism thing than it is a walk with God. You can't say that Christians are actually the good guys. You know, they'll always show the person who's an atheist just trying to make their way in the world. Just, you know, even even though they don't believe in God, they're just trying to do good for other people. They'll show that person trying to do good. But they'll never show the real Christian Walks it and believes in it. They'll show someone who has a spiritual experience where they're like, maybe there is a God. Alright, and you know what I'm talking about because they'll do that. They're like, maybe there is God. There'll be um they'll show that. But they won't show Someone who lives their life like that. Someone who goes through a trial and is oh and is and is going to God. Yeah they'll show they might even show someone go uh going to God during a trial, but when they come out of that trial that whole God storyline just kind of disappears. Christians are not treated as the good guys. You can't say Christians are the good guys on television. Let me tell you why that is. This is my last point. Those were the five things you can't say on television. Trust me, there's probably a lot more. But why but they won't but I say that one for last because I said they won't let you say that Christians are the good guys. Christians are usually the true heroes. Christians are the people who are willing to give themselves, or at least they should be And the reason they won't say that, because they don't think we are the good guys. John 15, 18 through 19 If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love its own. But because you're not of the world, But I have chosen you out of the world. Therefore, the world hateth you. You want to know why we're not treated as good guys on the on television mostly? Because it's the world television. Let's be honest, it's society's television. And the world is going to hate us. And if we're real Christians, the world is going to hate us. Now listen, does that mean that the person you know at work who is not a Christian is going to hate you? No, but the world as a whole, the attitude towards Christianity as a whole, it's going to be hateful. It's going to be despising. The world will hate you. The reason we're not treated like good guys is because they think we're the bad guys. Jesus was treated as a criminal and hung on a cross. If you guys want any more evidence, your Lord and Savior, who did who did nothing wrong, was treated like a criminal. And convicted and convicted and executed like a criminal. We're not their good guys We're not their heroes. Now we try to be. We try to turn them. We try to save them out of their sin. We try to save them out of the world. We try to we try to witness them and show them Christ And show them the path of righteousness, the path of faith, where they can be saved. But until they do, they hit us because they think we are against them. Because they don't want to be told they're wrong. The world hates us because it loves its own. Isn't it weird that a religion That a religion like Islam, which is awful, let me say that one more time, is awful to women. Hateful, cruel, sexist, awful to women. Isn't it interesting that our liberal pro-women media will stand up for them but never Christians? Because they're not their own. Because they're not they're not a part of their group. It seems we're in our own little group and they all recognize, I man, I hate those guys. And they don't even know why most time they hate us, but man they hate us. James Four Four Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is enmity with God? Whosoever will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. In 1 John 2, 15, love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, then love the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. Is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Okay, so here's the preaching part of this: the world hates us. So you have one of two choices. I can't say these five things from TV. Now I have one of two choices. That means that I can either just not say them at all. Or if somehow on TV I say them anyways. What's the right thing to do? What's the right thing to do? If it if if our TV camera is on me, which it most likely won't be. I mean camera might break. Those are expensive. Like three grand for like a low end one. But if the camera is on me and it's going to the whole world, I have one of two options. To do the impossible, do the thing I'm not allowed to do, do the thing I can't do, to say these types of things, be the same person, be a Christian in front of them. Or transform. Or sorry, let me not say transform. Or conform. In the world you have one of two options. You can either transform To be like God? Or you can conform to the world. You see, here's the thing: He's already transformed you. He's already given you your life. He's already given you your new man. He's already given you righte The fish But that doesn't mean you can't hide under it and try to fit in with the rest of the world. Because you can. You can fit in. It's just wrong. The friend of the world, the friend of the world is the enemy of God. He loveth the world, the love of God is not in him. But lastly, in verse 17, I already read this. Listen, what are you doing to before I get there? What are you doing to try to be like the world? Watching the world's television, listening to the world's music? We can talk about those. You talking like the world? Listen, I'm preaching myself to you. You talking like the world? You making decisions like the world? Are you acting like the world, dressing like the world? Are you being a friend to the world? Now I'm talking to be being a friend to sinners. We're supposed to be friends with people who are unsaved. Because God says we're supposed to be friends with people that absolutely hate us. And they apparently hate us. So we're supposed to be friends with them. We're supposed to be free and we're supposed to be kind to anyone who is Christian, anyone who is Muslim, and I and like I said, I love all peoples in all religions. I hope all of them get saved. And not because I want our religion to grow, but because I want them to not go to hell. Listen, we didn't give thirty two hundred dollars last month to missions. Because everyone who gave was like, No, I got this extra money. I'm just gonna send it to some people. No, I'm pretty sure that was sent. So that people get saved. Pretty sure. Pretty sure that's that so people get saved. Listen, we don't hate people, but the fact is you have one of two options in this world. Conform. Be like the world. Hide your head. Be ashamed you're a Christian. Or stand up no matter what you are. Because here's the thing, there's five things you can't say on television. And can't is another word for impossible. But through God, all things possible Let me tell you something. You can choose to conform. But if you choose to be, do the impossible, to stand up all the time for what you believe in, the Bible says, and the world passeth away. And the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Listen, you already have eternal life if you're saved. But I like this word abideth. Because it makes it a little different. See, because the world's gonna pass away, but you're a Christian and you do the will of the Father. Not gonna live forever, but you're gonna be there. Not even be not turned on, but you're gonna but you're gonna bite, you're gonna work, you're gonna you're gonna be. And listen, you will if you're unsafe with me or if you if you're uh not right with God, I guess, but that's just a great promise. Heads down that's close, please Listen, I preached against society a lot. But the world is not Christians. The world does not include Christians. Or at least it shouldn't. Some of you, listen, you don't may not even know you're a Christian. If you don't know you're a Christian, If you might be a part of this world, if you don't feel guilt, if you don't feel shame when you sin, maybe you need to talk to someone. If you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your Savior, you need to talk to someone and have them show you I would not be part of this world anymore. But many of you are saved. Many of you are um Christians. Many of you are not only just Christians, but you have been saved and born again. But you ask this. Are you like the world? The world is obviously evil. The world is obviously against God. I just showed you, you're not allowed to say what we believe. Basic tenets of our faith. You're not allowed to say without people saying that you're evil, that you're wicked. You're not allowed to. So the question is whose side are you on? Whose side are you on? Have you been have you been flirting with the world? Have you been being a friend of the world Have you been committing adultery with the world? Or You're staying with God. Everyone sta uh please uh the gentleman if you all stand and uh if you want to deal with God uh income.