Simple kind of guy, and I just like a little simple song. Good job, Mark. I appreciate that. First Second Thessalonians chapter one, verse seven. Bill Cosby, you know who Bill Cosby is, right? What a hoot. He said uh he said the word to the wise is not necessary. It's the stupid people that need it. So uh it's got a point there. If you knew how sincere I was when I say stuff like I'm really going to try and be brief, if you knew how sincere I was on that and uh when I say uh you know I want to cover a lot of ground we not drag it out and And uh I sincerely mean that with all my heart. But uh my intention was tonight um was to uh cover verses seven through ten is what I wanted to do, and I initially did that. I don't think I'm One here, Dave. Something snuck. Right there. I got it on Chapter one. Second Thessalonians chapter one. Second Thessalonians chapter 1. And uh I wanted to cover verses 7 through 10. I got studying them, I had it broke down into outline, that whole section. I thought, praise the Lord, we're going to cover four verses One service, I just kinda get to the point. And I got studying and studying and studying, and um we're gonna look at half of verse seven tonight, so I meant it with all my heart. I meant to cover more ground. But I tell you, I really think this will be a blessing. If if you get out of what we're gonna look at tonight half of what I did I will be thrilled and I think all of us will be helped. So I'm going to read the part I originally was going to preach from. Look at verse 7. It says, To you who are troubled, rest with us When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels, in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power, when he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be mired in all of them that believe, because our testimony among you was believed. in that day. So that's what I was going to cover, but I was just going to look at the first part of verse seven. Let's have a word of prayer. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would bless our time in your word. And God, I pray that um The truths here that you spoke to my heart about as I prepared this, that you would communicate them through me to others, Lord, and we would be more effective in our Christian life. We would understand uh a little bit more of you and and your plan for us and and help us. I yield myself to you, Lord, and I present my body anew and pray with all my heart that you fill me with your spirit and help us leave here, Lord I pray that we would leave here, Lord, helped and stronger, and that we would receive something from you, I ask. In Jesus' name, Amen. In Psalms 118 and verse 24, the psalmist praise this prayer. And uh we won't turn to listen listen to what he is praying. The verse is actually a prayer. He says, When wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me, I'm being I feel like I'm being persecuted. Um I'm afraid to talk. Uh um He's praying, this is a prayer of his. And he says, When wilt thou execute judgment? The word judgment there means to execute a righteous sentence. And so the psalmist here is praying. Apparently, he was under persecution. Apparently, people were after him and trying to shut him up, maybe exterminate him. Maybe kill 'em. And he's pleading for God to execute judgment on them. Now what we have here in 2 Thessalonians, and we looked at a couple weeks ago when we were building up to this, we find out that the church at Thessalonica was Extremely effective in getting the gospel out. You remember in our study of the first book, uh they were so effective that Paul said I don't even have you know no matter where I go in your part of the world, the gospel's already been preached there. You guys have completely covered this area. Your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world And so they had a powerful, powerful influence with the gospel, this one, and we have no reason to think this church here was any kind of mega church as we understand them. We don't know the size of it. I would guess in the hundreds. Maybe I don't know if they had a thousand members or not. We have no idea But nevertheless, their influence was far greater than their numbers would indicate. And because of that, it brought tremendous persecution on them And notice here he says leading up to it, notice it says in verse 4, that we ourselves glory in you. We're bragging on you in the churches, to other churches, we're bragging about you for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that you endure. And so no matter what people threw, no matter what the world and the enemies of the cross threw at them They just stayed faithful. They kept a good attitude. That's the idea behind the patience. They kept a good attitude. Their faith was in God. And they just plowed ahead for the gospel. And now Paul is assuring the believers here, and down through verse 10, he's assuring these Thessalonian believers that listen God is going to deal with your persecutors. It might not seem that way right now. You guys are being very patient. You're plugging away. You're staying faithful, keeping a good attitude, you're not getting bitter about it. I just want to assure you, God will deal with them. God will deal very severely with them. You look at what he says here: flaming fire, taking vengeance on them. And pretty strong terminology. And so, as I said, he's assuring them God's going to deal with those that are opposing your walk with God, that are opposing your witness, that are trying to shut you up God will deal with them very severely. Now I want to stop there and point this out. God is not petty. You know what I mean by that? What do we mean when we say someone's very petty? They're picky. Small time. What I mean by this is uh when somebody you say they're petty, don't get all worked up over little meaningless things. It's just petty stuff. God doesn't do that. When God says he's going to take vengeance in flaming fire on someone, You can be assured it's very serious matter what he's doing. You offer someone a track and they cuss you out, that doesn't mean God's going to kill them and bring judgment on them like that right then and there. That would be petty on God's part. How many folks here did not get saved the first time you were offered the gospel? How many folks did not get saved first time Right. Aren't you glad God didn't judge you and kill you the first time you rejected the gospel? That would be petty of God. If he were if sorry somebody's unkind to you, somebody cuts you off. We had a fellow when I was in uh travel on Bible time, and when I was training in Bible time, when I was on staff There was a fellow traveling, and he was a good guy. I mean, he was intense for the Lord. He was just, his first name was Stuart, and man, he was just intense for the Lord. But he had a persecution complex And every time something wasn't the way he thought he was being persecuted, one church he got into, the only place they had to keep him was uh in an upstairs bedroom of a house And it was summertime, I think it was in Michigan, it was very hot, and he w he got it in his head, they were putting him up there because he was preaching the truth, and they didn't want the truth, so they put him in his hot bedroom up there Uh you know, that that's uh that's a persecution complex. Um probably they didn't have anywhere else to put them and couldn't afford an air conditioner. You know, is probably what it was. But anyways, God's not petty. So when it's talking about God pouring out vengeance here, don't get the idea that don't walk around and because somebody smirks at you when you say your prayer or whatever, that God's gonna kill them. No, God is very patient. God is very long suffering, and we ought to be glad about that because we needed it. We need it also. Alright. So There's a balance that needs to be kept here. On one hand, God is very patient. He's not petty. He's not going to blow someone up for every little thing they do. But on the other hand God deals very sharply with those who deliberately and over an extended period of time Try to hurt his people and try and hinder the gospel. It's one thing for a person to ignorantly or very selfishly blow off a gospel witness. It's another thing for there to be an organized, deliberate, diligent effort to shut down the gospel. And that's what they're talking about here. The church at Thessalonica was under an attempt, apparently organized, and pretty intense attempt To shut them down by whatever means necessary, if it's imprisonment, uh death, whatever. We're not told the details. But they were under the gun. It wasn't just being slight, it wasn't people being rude, it wasn't people just rejecting the gospel. It was an attempt to shut it down with violence, apparently. And so the church is dealing with this. They've got a good attitude. We saw that in verse 4. They're staying at it. They're uh just put it in our uh uh uh time, uh our frame of mind. Uh we could say they were running the buses. They're out there knocking on doors. They're sending the missionaries out. They're giving their faith promise. They're giving out the gospel tracts. They're taking heat for it. And they're under persecution for it, but they're have the joy of the Lord, they're going forward. And uh Paul is saying, listen God hasn't judged these people yet, but I want to assure you, He's going to. God will deal with it. You stay at it. You stay faithful. Keep the good attitude. God will deal with that Now I put this statement down and I think it helps us. Just because God's judgment is not swift, that does not mean that it is not certain. Follow what I'm saying? Just because God doesn't deal with it with in our time frame that we think he should, doesn't mean he's not going to deal with it. Uh it is certain. Um so uh that's the context of what he's dealing with here. And he gets down, you get the verse, last part of verse seven, eight, nine. Uh 10, good night. He's talking about when Jesus comes back and the the severity of his judgment on these people. But the first part of verse 7 caught my attention when I was studying and I got caught up in that. My first point of the four-point message from chapter seven through ten was the Thessalonians were instructed to rest in the Lord. And that's all we're going to get look at tonight. In the midst of this persecution, he's assuring them God's going to judge them. But look what he says in verse 7. And he says, To you who are troubled, rest with us. When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. But look what he says: to you who are troubled, rest with us. First thing I notice in that brief statement, the first half, is that these people were stressed. They were under stress. They had a great attitude, they're plugging away, but some of them We're really getting stressed out about that. And I use that word stressed for a reason, because the term troubled he has here. To you who are troubled. That word troubled means this. To be under a lot of pressure. He says, you Christians. You're feeling this persecution and man, it's really coming down on it. It's we could put it this way, it's starting to get to you You're under a lot of pressure. Apparently, and notice what he says, to you who are troubled, what's that imply? When he says, to you who are troubled, what's the implication there? Right, that they're not all troubled. Some of them were fine. Some of them were like, hey, praise the Lord, you know, whatever. If they mock us and try and do this, we get more rewards in heaven. Some of them were, you know, they were dealing with it scripturally. But apparently some of them weren't. And some of them this was really troubling them. It was bringing pressure down on them. And the word I thought of when I was studying this word troubled and how it's used that came to my mind is stress We hear a lot about stress. Anybody here ever been stressed out over anything? Can I get a witness? I don't mean since you've got here at church, I mean at some point in your life. Stress. Stress is nothing unique to modern man. Man has been under stress for since sin entered the world And these believers, at least some of them, apparently enough of them that it's included in the Word of God, were being stressed out because of the way the world was treating them when they're trying to be a witness for the Lord. They're trying to share the gospel. They're trying to live right and do right and please the Lord. And man, it's just coming down on 'em. And it was getting to them, it was bothering them. And so stress was a very real issue here in this new uh in this church here. Now, my question is, the world makes it sound like man has never been so stressful before. They say, oh, the good old days when there wasn't any stress. The fact is, there may be more stress today, but I'll tell you why there's more stress today, because we get stressed out about more trivial things today than what they did in years gone by. Think about our pioneers. What did they stress about? Having enough food to get through winter. We get stressed out because we had to wait ten minutes at the drive-thru at McDonald's. Right? How many people here ever got to you? You were waiting at come on now, it's Wednesday night, we want to be right with God. Uh how many people here sever sat in line at McDonald's and got irritated 'cause you had to pull off on the side and they had to bring the food out. Come on, admit it. Yeah, every Wednesday night. Hey, go back a hundred and fifty, two hundred years. When they would have done anything just to have that burger, you had to wait ten minutes for. Huh? So we are are we stressed more today than we used to be? Yeah, because we're more spoilt today. Than we've ever been before. And we stress over things that are completely meaningless, that are even the calling an inconvenience You know? And uh I I hope you understand uh none of this applies to me. I'm just talking about you guys on all of this. All right? Let's make that clear But come on, we're not even walking into the restaurant to get it. They're bringing it out to us. And man, we're troubled. Uh seems like smaller and more trivial things now producing greater stress. Um did you ever go to Walmart? Um Do you ever go to Walmart and you and you see that ten item line and you count do you do this? I count through, I got nine. So good, I'm legit. And you get there, and lo and behold, this happened to me the other day. I was stressed. Um I got there and lo and behold this woman I she had the whole thing. I counted her stuff. She had 32 items in the 10 item line. I counted it. Man, I was steaming. And uh of course I've gotten right since uh what? Yeah, she was, I think. Where's Robin? Oh. But anyway, I came up this has nothing to do with the message, but I think it's a great idea. I came up with a solution. You know, if I was a manager at Walmart, this is what this is the this is the the policy I would introduce. What they would do, if the every item they had that was over 10, they would charge an extra dollar And then the people waiting in line, that dollar would be applied to their bill and would take it off because they had to wait. Isn't that a good policy? What that would discourage people from bringing too much through and it would encourage the people that have to wait because of those that do it. And I I'm running for manager of Walmart, so vote for me. But anyway, this is the point I'm trying to make. Think about what we get worked up over. And what was stressing the believers in the Thessalonian church, two different things. We're worked up about the line at Walmart. They were stressed about being beheaded for the gospel. Let's keep things in perspective here. He says, to you who are troubled, uh, and I got thinking, what is it that causes stress? What is it that stresses us out? Why does some of these humorous things I was saying, why do they cause us so much stress? Why is it so troubling to us I think one green thing that causes stress in that case in particular is we're just downright selfish. It's sinful selfishness. They have to s wait on me according to my time frame and what I want. You know, there could be twenty-five different reasons why they can't do it as quickly as what we think they should You know what gets me is sometimes Christians in the restaurant and how they treat the waitresses in the restaurants. Tell you that hurts. The cause of Christ, we get worked up, we get stressed out over stuff for no other reason than simply we're selfish. Sinful selfishness. Sin causes stress, you know that. And so one of the reasons we get so stressed out is because of our sin and our selfishness. But there's another reason I found in a Bible, and I found a person, a woman, that got very stressed out. It wasn't sin, but it was her service for the Lord that stressed her out Remember when Jesus was in the home of Mary and Martha? And he makes this statement. It's in Luke chapter 10 and verse 40. He said, Martha, Martha, thou art cumbered about many things. Remember, she was complaining. I'm in here doing all this work, and she's out there. And Jesus says, Martha, Martha, thou art cumbered about. That word cumbered is interesting. It means to be mentally stressed. In fact, the one definition was means to be mentally distracted. She got so worked up that she couldn't even think straight. Now, here's my question. Was what Martha was doing? She was preparing food and stuff for the Lord Jesus Christ. Was there anything wrong with what she was doing? No. And Jesus never rebuked her for providing and taking care of. It was stuff that needed to be done. But her problem was: here's what got me. Her problem was she was trying to serve the Lord, but she was getting all stressed out about it. Trying to do something for the Lord That to me is an indicator that what I'm doing for the Lord, I'm doing in the flesh, and not in the spirit, not in faith. I've got my eyes off the Lord. I've got my eyes on other people. And I wish I could tell you your pastors never to deal with that. But the fact is. It's very easy to get stressed out serving the Lord. I'll be and let me give you a little insight in the pastor's life. Sunday mornings for a pastor for me. I don't know how it is for other guys for me. A lot of times Sunday mornings, man, I've got to fight getting stressed out. And I've got to fight not snipping my wife's head off. Because I'm thinking of all needs to be done, the buses gotta get out there and the Sunday school and I don't have this ready and that and I got this and I got and next thing I know I'm cumbered about. And I put myself under mental stress. And so it's possible to serve the Lord and get all worked up and be all stressed out. Even doing a good thing for the Lord. And so sin and selfishness cause stress. Sometimes serving the Lord causes stress. But persecution can cause stress. And that's what we find here. How many people recognize from the Bible the name John Mart? John Moore. Paul and Barnabas were called of God of the Holy Spirit, Acts chapter 13, to go to foreign fields as missionaries. The church was to send them out. It's a biblical process there. But the Bible says that another fellow joined them. That it never said that God called him. Said God called Paul and Barnabas. Doesn't say he called John Mark. Now there's nothing wrong and John Mark ended up going with them. Now there's nothing wrong with them going with him. It's just interesting in my mind that doesn't say he was called. And so John Mark goes along, and no doubt there was others in entourage that went with Paul and Barnabas, and they're out there. And uh and to make the whole story a little shorter, rather than turning there, it's in Acts 13. John Mark turns around and comes back. And I put in the margin of my Bible, John Mark quit. And he did. But if you'll study the circumstances out, the Bible doesn't tell us this, this is speculation, but it looks to me like persecution came down on Paul and Barnabas and John Mark got stressed out. And it was too much for him, he couldn't handle it, and he turned around and came back. Now that bothered, that stressed out Paul And later on, when they're on to the second trip, Barnabas says, let's bring John Mark again. Paul says, There ain't no way. He went one place with us, turned around and went back. He said, we can't trust him. I mean this is basically And so persecution, I believe, in John Mark's case, came down on him and actually got him for a period of time out of the ministry because of opposition. Now, here's what I'm trying to say. This is Wednesday night crowd. I take it that most of us, if not all of us, hopefully all of us, take our Christian life very seriously. I don't think you'd take the time and make the effort to be out in church in the middle of the week if you didn't And if we take our Christian life seriously, that means we're going to try and be a witness for the Lord. You can't take Christian life seriously and not be a witness for the Lord. And if we're going to be a witness for the Lord, we're going to face what? Persecution, opposition. And I still contend that our country, we're facing it, it's gonna we're gonna face it increased, increased, increased, increased, increased. There's no doubt. Unless God sends revival, I don't see this, I don't see uh this thing turning around anytime soon, apart from the Lord's intervention. And so, what do we do? How do we deal with the stress that persecution can bring? How do you deal with it when everybody at work hates your guts? For no other reason, not because you're an idiot, although that may be the case in some situations, but um uh but uh simply because you're trying to love the Lord and live for God and you're trying to be sweet about it, and they're all coming down on you. Paul said, rest with us. Rest with us. Rest with us. Don't get stressed out. When I am stressed out and uptight, I have a tendency, or I should say we have a tendency to hurt people. Am I right or wrong? How many folks here got worked up now I don't I don't want to know the particulars, but how many folks here ever got worked up about something and you said something unkind to someone who you really cared about? And you didn't mean it and you said something unkind. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Sure. That's what happens to us when we get worked up. It happens in church families. It happens in the home, happens on the job, happens in the ministry. And so we cannot let this stress affect us because it's going to hurt the cause of Christ We were talking about waitresses, you know, and I've been in situations and I try to be real careful about this, of course. I try to be careful with this, but I've been with other preachers where they were so mean To the waitresses, that I was almost ashamed for them to know we were preachers. You know, that hurts the cause of Christ. And so Paul was telling them there was some, there was an element in the church at Thessalonica there that the opposition from the world was getting to them. And he's saying to him basically, don't let it get to you. Because you'll end up hurting the cause of Christ. You'll end up saying and doing things that you're going to regret. You've got to deal with this stress. You've got to rest with us. And so they were stressed out. You get that from there. And by the way. What is the object? When the world persecutes Christians, what is their goal? What's the world's goal in persecuting a Christian? What are they trying to accomplish? Aha, they're trying to shut the gospel down. Right? They shut the gospel down. Why is it Why is it you can't blaspheme any other prophet or false God in the world, but you can Jesus is free reign. Yeah, it's open season on Jesus. You can't say a word about Muhammad, but you can do whatever you want to Jesus. Now, why is that? Jesus told us, he says, the world hates me. And don't be surprised if it's going to hate you. And so the object of persecution is to get us, is to keep our witness, our influence for the gospel at a minimum, at least, if not shut it out completely. Remember when Jesus said to Peter, he says, Peter, Peter, Satan hath desired to what? Sift thee. And I never could figure out what does it mean that Satan wants to sift Peter You know what sifting is separating the chaff from the wheat. And they would throw it in the air and the chaff would blow off and they would sift it out until it's the And he says, Peter, Satan wants to sift you. To me, sifting sounds like a good thing But it's obvious in this context, it's a bad thing that Satan wants to do to Peter. And I could not, for the life of me, figure out what does that mean? And then the next statement explains it, I think. He says, Nevertheless, I have prayed for thee that thy, anybody remember what he said, that thy faith fail not. Oh, there's what he means by Satan sipping him. He was trying to separate Peter's faith from the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what sifting is, it's a separation. And he says, I prayed for you. Satan wants you to not have faith in me. Satan wants to separate your faith in me. He wants to separate that, but I've prayed that your faith doesn't fail. It stays intact. It stays in me. That's what persecution is intends to do, is to get us not to have faith in God, shut our mouths. I like in the book of Acts, the first part, they kept telling the disciples that they should no longer preach in Jesus' name. No longer preach it. They didn't say you can no longer pray in his name. They didn't say you can no longer assemble in his name. They said you can no longer preach this man in the name of Jesus anymore. And um there the uh my mind just slipped what I was going with at. Um And so, oh, uh they would say, you can't preach in Jesus' name. You can't preach in Jesus' name. I wrote in the margin of my Bible this, Satan's Great Commission To not preach in the name of Jesus. And so that was the whole object for the church of Thessalonica. The whole purpose of the persecution coming down on them is so that their influence for the gospel, the preaching of the gospel, their faith in the Lord Jesus would be minimized if not completely exterminated. So he says, don't let that happen. You're getting stressed out, some of you are. It's the persecution's going to accomplish its goal. If you do that, So don't get stressed out. Then he gives them their instructions. Again in the first part of verse 7. And to you who are troubled. Alright, there's the stress. The answer is rest with us. Rest with us. Now I got looking here, that word rest. And it's interesting. It means to loosen up. It means, in fact, the word used in the definition in Strong's was relax. Just relax. Oh, they cut they're cussing me out at work and they threw some things at me and people stole, ripped up my Bible, and and uh and uh they're getting all worked up And he says, listen, rest with us. Just loosen up and relax. Um the word there is I was trying to Get a uh word picture in my mind of what that word rest loosen up lighten up or not lighten up loosen up or relax what it means. Uh what I thought of was a you have a pickup truck and you have a tow rope and you know we had all these storms and trees were blown over and You wrap the tow rope around. I was doing this out here moving some of the big logs after, and you wrap the tow rope around, and you pull and you pull that log out, and you finally get it to where you want, but that toe rope is still tight as can be And you can't get it off the hitch, and you can't untie it because it's tight. So what do you do? You back up a bit and you loosen up. Take that tension down so you can manipulate. That is what he's saying here. Just relax, back off. Now here's the danger. Don't confuse being relaxed. With being unconcerned. I I had that frame of mind for a long time. I would Kathy and I would be something we're dealing with and man, I'd be all worked up. This ain't right. You know? I know that's hard to imagine, but it was true nevertheless. And she would be like, Well, I think God'll work it out. We'll just trust God. I would think, in fact I probably said it to her, I would say something like, Well don't you even care? She goes, Yeah I care. I'm just not stressed out about it. I said, we have to be, if you care, you have to be stressed out And she goes, No, you don't. And I said, Yes, you do. But if we're not careful, we get the idea, if we're not exploding and all worked up, therefore we don't care about it. That's don't be confused. Remember when Jesus was in the boat with the disciples and the storm hit? Would you agree with me? The disciples were stressed out. What was Jesus doing? He was resting. He was unwound. He was relaxing. And what was the first question? And they're there, oh, we're gonna die, we're all gonna die. There's no way we're surviving this. And they come in there, Jesus is resting. In fact, he's resting so well he fell asleep. And they woke him up, and what were their first words to Jesus? Carest thou not that we perish? Don't you even care? If you cared, you'd be all worked up. Of course, Jesus cared. But he had faith in God. He was trusting God. God was going to take care of it. He didn't have to get worked up. The Thessalonian believers were being confronted with divine instructions. God was telling those that were troubled God was telling those that were getting stressed out over the persecution in this case, but it could be anything. He was saying, you rest. Stop being stressed and start resting. You're the troubler? Rest with us. Now that was God telling them. That tells me this: that they had a choice. They could stop being stressed if they decided to. God doesn't say, well, you have no choice, that's just the way you are. He doesn't say that. He says, you who are troubled, rest with us. Make the decision that you're going to relax, you're going to trust God, you're just going to let Him see you through it, and you're not going to get all worked up and start biting people's heads off and throwing things around. And stomping your feet or whatever it is you do when you get stressed out. Just trust God. Doesn't mean you don't care. Doesn't mean it doesn't hurt. Doesn't mean you that you know it isn't an issue to be dealt with. But don't let it trouble you. Don't let it trouble you. So they have one of two things. What we can do is allow Those the circumstances that produce stress, rather than letting it produce stress, why don't we let it develop our faith? And here's an opportunity. Look at it. Here's an opportunity where I can learn to trust God and see what He can teach me through this. Well, we're all out of Coca-Cola. I'll have to get you a Dr. Pepper, I'll bring it out, just pull up over there. What Why don't you do, okay, Lord, maybe there was something bad with the Coca-Cola, I would have died. And uh you're gonna you're taking care of me. That's unwinding. Follow what I'm saying? My son gave me what I consider a great compliment, and don't misunderstand, I'm in this boat with all of us. God raked me over on this. But Sam had moved away for about three years. He was going in college and down in Texas and, as you know, a year and a half ago when he came back. And he lived with us for a year. And he was probably there about a month or so. And we were talking one evening. We had great talks. And we had a talk one evening. And he said, Dad, he says you don't seem as uptight as I remember you He said, you were always uptight. And he says, you seem more relaxed. I said, thank you, Sam. I appreciate that. I said, I feel more relaxed. And I got thinking about that, and I would like to believe that it's nothing more than God is helping my faith to grow. And I'm simply learning to trust God with some stuff and not get so worked up about it. Understand what I'm saying? I've learned to say lately, or in the last few years, I've been learning to say this. It's going to be alright. It's going to be alright. Trust God, it'll be alright. Now, I wish I'd tell you I already attained, and whatever I do, you do it. But I'm not there yet. But this helped me. And if it helped you half as much as it did me, then God will be glorified. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us not to stress. Help us have faith in you. And um Lord, we I desperately want to have a gospel witness. I want us to influence. I want to myself personally as our church to have an effective influence on our world with the gospel. Or to do that, we've got to learn to rest. We've got to learn to trust you and relax. And just plug away. And help us to do that. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I had to, when I finished this message, I had to stop and just bow before the Lord and say, Lord, I need you to help me with this. And maybe tonight we don't have a counterplayer. Mark, could you just sing a little something or just softly sing a little invitation song? But maybe there's some of us that'd be good just kneeling on an old-fashioned altar and say, God, help me in this matter And um ask the Lord to help us just to rest in him. Let's stand together and we'll just take a moment. We don't have the piano. Mark's just going to softly sing a little bit to give the uh atmosphere right, I guess. But let's stand together And if God spoke to your heart and this is an issue, maybe you want to come to an altar, or maybe just make your pew there, an altar or whatever. Say, Lord, help me in my home and on my job. Just uh Trust you and have faith in you. Maybe other folks don't deal with this like I do or have. But um Church at Thessalonica did, and they needed God to confront them about it.