Necessary if we are going to be strong spiritually, healthy spiritually. I I'd like to be healthy physically, wouldn't you? I'm trying to work on that and prove that a little bit for my my condition But I especially want to be healthy spiritually. That is so important. I want to be strong spiritually. And I hope that's a concern of yours. One thing I have people I pray for, and one thing I pray for many folks is that they would take their spiritual condition seriously. And I want to challenge you this morning to be healthy spiritually, to be strong spiritually. I believe there are two Two absolutely necessary ingredients in life. Number one, there needs to be a daily time of reading and meditating in the Word of God. And not just reading and meditating God's Word, but praying. That Bible reading, Bible meditating and prayer, looking in God's Word Asking, expecting God to speak to my heart and give me instructions and help me, and then pouring out my heart to God, telling him my request and my needs. and praising him. That that has to be every day. I do not see how a person can be spiritually healthy And not spend time in God's Word and in prayer. I don't see how that can be. And the second ingredient is being faithful to the church services The church is the body of Christ. God has established the church for God's people to come together, to assemble together, and encourage one another, be taught the word of God. And, you know, to be negligent in our church attendance and our involvement in the church will affect us spiritually. We can deny it, we can try and think it won't, but it's a fact. It will be. And so I want to challenge you. Do not neglect these two areas. Just establish in your own personal life. I'm going to meditate and and look into the Word of God on a daily basis. Asking God to speak to me and direct me. I'm going to pray to Him. It doesn't have to be hours on end, just a portion of, you know, a few minutes even. uh a day looking into the word of God praying and you say, well I don't know where to read. I don't know. We've got we can have tips, we have reading schedules, different things that can be helpful. And then that faithful church attendance and involvement, being involved in the body of Christ and serving the Lord and being active there, those two things I I really believe will help us and make us stronger spiritually. We'll be able to grow and we'll see our lives changing into the image of Christ. Now, Matthew chapter 4, I want to look at two passages here. Two verses, Matthew 4. I was talking and I didn't turn here. Verse number um eighteen and nineteen is what I want us to look at. And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brethren Simon called Peter and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea. Now why were they casting a net into the sea? Well, for they were what? Fishers. They were fishermen. They're fishing And he, Jesus, verse 19, and he said unto them, saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. They're fishing for fish. And he says, if you follow me, uh you'll still be fishermen. You're still going to do what you're doing, what you're good at, but we're going to change the object of your fishing. I'll make you a fisher of men. Now, what I want us to notice, we're going to look at several things, but what I want us to notice in our Lord's statement there in verse 19, notice the chronology If I want to be a fisher of men, I've got the first what? What's it say there? I need to follow Jesus He says, follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. And so this is my thought, and I'll try and make some application here, but follow first, and then fish. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would use this portion of scripture here to influence us and affect us to be the Christians you intend for us to be. Father, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me your word and challenge us, convict us, encourage us, instruct us, I pray, Lord, this morning that uh we can be those Christians that you've saved us to be and we can be active and involved in doing that what you intend for us to do And uh so have your way, open our hearts and minds, help us to be willing Christians, yielded to you. I pray this in Jesus' name, amen. All through the Gospels, if you read Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, you find Jesus, particularly earlier in the Gospels, but scattered throughout them, you find Jesus going around calling people to follow him. He sees these two brothers by the seashore and they're fishing, casting a net, and he says, Follow me. He sees Matthew at the receipt of customs taking up the taxes. He says, Follow me. He sees a crowd of disciples. He says, follow me, follow me, follow me. We find him over and over and over again, calling people to follow him. Now, we find some other statements in Scripture, in the Gospels, the Gospel of John particularly, where Jesus makes the statement, or the Bible makes the statement, that if a person believes on Jesus Christ, They have everlasting life. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth on him shall not perish, but have Everlasting life. That's a statement of fact. He that believeth on him shall not perish. It's a statement of fact all through the Gospels. He makes that statement. If you believe on the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you have everlasting life. By the way, if something is everlasting, how long does it last? Forever. And um just that word itself tells me that my salvation is secure. If God gives me life that is everlasting, and then I lose it five days later, it wasn't everlasting, it was temporary And so, nevertheless, you find that statement. But you find Jesus saying to people, follow me. Now, there is a difference between following Jesus and believing on Jesus. Nowhere does the Bible say that I have to be a follower of Jesus Christ to have everlasting life. The Bible says I believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Then to those who believe on him, to those who will accept him as their personal Savior, those who will receive the gift of God, which is eternal life, the gift of God, which is eternal life, those that receive that by faith They have everlasting life. When their sins are forgiven, the judgment of God, condemnation of God is removed off their head, and they have eternal life. They have a home in heaven Then the Lord says to those who have everlasting life, who have put their faith, he goes, now I want you to follow me. I want you to follow me. As I said, following Jesus is not salvation. It's not a salvation invitation. Now, for some folks in the Gospels here, it may include salvation. Following it may mean believing on Him, getting saved, and then following Him. But they're not necessarily one in the same. God calls His people to follow Him. God wants us, what I'm trying to say is this: the Lord Jesus Christ wants us to go beyond just believing in him as our personal Savior. He wants us to go beyond that. And he wants us to step out and follow him. Forsake the direction I am going. And follow him in the direction he's going. You see what I'm saying? It's a call to discipleship. There are two classifications of Christians Two classifications of Christians. One is, we get this from the book of 1 Corinthians, you have what are called, what are referred to as carnal Christians. Carnal Christians. You say, what does that mean? What's a carnal Christian? Word carnal actually comes from the word we get our word flesh fleshly. They're living according to the flesh, the old nature. They're saved. They've been born again. They're a child of God. But they're not spirit-filled. They're not spiritual Christians. They are carnal Christians. They're living according to the dictates of the flesh and the desires of the flesh and their own understanding. They're a carnal Christian. The word, as I said, the word carnal comes from our word for flesh. If you ever I always think of this, I've said this hundreds of times over the years, but uh if you ever try to remember that, if you had chili concarni Chili concarney. Chili with meat or flesh. Concarni is the same, comes with the same word as carnal. And so there's one classification of Christians. These are people who have accepted Jesus Christ their personal Savior. They're saved, they're born again, they're a child of God, their eternal home is secure. All of that is the judgment of God that's been taken from them. But The way they're living their life is fleshly. They're leaning on their own understanding. They're operating according to their flesh in the old nature. Oh, they're a nice person, maybe a little religious, you know, and they have that show. Read 1 Corinthians. You get a classic picture of what a carnal Christian is, a carnal church. He calls them brethren. He doesn't say you're not saved, but he reminds them what God has saved them out of, reminds them what God's plan is for them. The whole book of 1 Corinthians is calling these carnal Christians to forsake their carnality and follow Christ. So the first classification is what we call a carnal Christian. They believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, but they're following their self. The second classification, there's various names we could use for this, would be a spiritual Christian. Or I like the term Dr. Brother Charles Holmesher, founder at Ecker of Bible Time, he used to use the term dedicated Christian a lot. A lot of people use that A person who has dedicated their life to the Lord Jesus Christ, and they're not following the dictates of their sinful flesh But they've forsaken that, they've mortified that, and they said, All right, I want to follow Jesus, I want to be a spiritual Christian, I want to live uh under the uh influence of the Holy Spirit, the Word of God, I want to bear spiritual fruit, the fruit of the Spirit. I want to be a spiritual Christian. Person that dies to self, forsakes self, and follows Jesus. So that's what Jesus is calling Peter and Andrew here too, and others throughout the Gospels. Follow me. Forsake your own self, forsake your own understanding, forsake your own plans and dreams, and follow me, follow me. Now, having said that, I think it's important for us to understand, and we need to understand that Jesus Christ, the one calling us to follow him, is our Creator. Now, for some reason, the world has a hard time with that. For some reason, this old sinful world wants to push God completely out of the equation and try to suggest that we do not have a creator. We do not have a designer, nothing. We are just here by happenstance and chance and um uh and we have not been created. Now the only possible reason I think they can come up with that is simply they do not want an authority to be accountable to. My my I am convinced that man's rejection of the Bible's declaration that God is our Creator, man rejecting that is not a evidence problem, a scientific evidence problem, it's a heart condition problem Now, Jesus Christ is our Creator. He created you and I for a purpose, for a reason. He created this whole world Everything we see, the stars at night, the mountains, the rivers, God created all of this exactly as the Bible declares. And by the way, and this is not my message, but there is you say, well, you know, that's religion, you take that by faith. Listen There is plenty of scientific evidence supporting the biblical account of creation. And so it's not just Well, it's not separating science and religion. It's simply Bible and interpreting the evidence in light of biblical truth, and it makes sense So that's not I'm getting off course. I'm getting forg I'm just getting off course, all right? So Jesus is our creator. He made us. He made everything else. I have no that that seems obvious to me. As our Creator, get this. This stirs my heart. As our Creator, Jesus Christ loves us. He created us and he loves us. He loves me. He loves you. Our God loves us. And he has a plan for our lives. There's a purpose, we exist. There's a purpose, I'm alive. We created us for a reason. And so I look at my life, I look at myself, and I see a person who is created by God. And that God loves me very, very much, and that God has a plan for my life. And it's true for all of us. And so when God originally, when Jesus Christ originally created the world, and um uh Adam and Eve, the first man and woman, uh everything was honky-dory, wonderful. But then sin entered the world. And death by sin. And now for all these generations, thousands of years, that death has been passing on from one generation to the next as they die off. Because we've all sinned. We've inherited that sinful nature. God still loves us, He still has a plan for our lives. But sin has stained us Sin has corrupted us. And so God comes, and Jesus Christ, because he loves us, he becomes a man and he does not sin. He becomes the sinless man. He's God, but he's man. He's born, as we celebrate, on Christmas, and um uh uh and he lives 33 plus years around there somewhere. Never sins one time, never says one word, he ought not to say, just perfectly sinless, separate from sinners, pure and holy. He willingly gives himself on the old rugged cross. And there he takes the judgment for our sin upon himself because he loves us. He's buried, he rises again, and he offers to us full and free forgiveness if we will just accept him as my Savior. I'm going in and out up here, aren't I? Can I just stay close to this and I'll just turn this off? I'll just throw it in a baptistry. Maybe if it got baptized it would work. So if I accept Jesus Christ, my personal I tell you, for some of us this is old hat, but I'll tell you two things. One, I like hearing the gospel over and over and over, and two, I like preaching the gospel over and over and over And three, we're supposed to preach the gospel over and over and over. That is the greatest message that ever was. That God created us, loves us, has a plan for our lives. We sinned against that God, that creator. We disobeyed him. We brought the death in upon ourselves God became man for us, suffered that death in our place, was buried, rose again. If I will accept what he's done, if I will receive that as a gift, he offers It to me, he will forgive me and cleanse me of all my sin and give me everlasting life. And then he goes, What I want from you is to follow me. I'll forgive you. You receive me by faith. Just receive it as a gift at Christmas time. You just accept it. I'll forgive you all your sin. And what I ask from you now, what I invite you to do, what I call you to do, is as a believer in me, Because of what I've done for you, I want you to follow me. I want you to follow me. Now, we live in a period of time of man's history where God has established the church And giving to the local church, our church, the responsibility of taking that message that He's our Creator, He loves us, has a plan for us. We've sinned, brought death upon ourselves, the judges in. He died for us, buried, rose again. If we receive it, to get the eternal life, we're supposed to take that message to every single person on this planet. A person across the street, over here on Alexander Lane, a person across the country, out in Nevada and Utah, and the person around the world, in in uh Central Asia and Europe We're supposed to he has given the church the responsibility of taking the gospel to every single person on this planet. That's our job as a church. That's our responsibility. Now in the gospel, is everybody hanging with me here? Alright, I'm going somewhere with all of this, so bear with me. Now we're in the gospels And Jesus in the Gospels is laying the foundation for this church, the church that he is establishing at this point. He's establishing it. For the purpose of taking this great message, he's the Creator, loves us, has a plan for us. We sinned, death, he died for us, rose again, we accept that, and he'll give us your life. The church is being established here so that as an institution that the gospel goes out of, and that job is to take the gospel around all the world. That's what he's establishing here to reach the world with the gospel Now, come back to our text. With all that in mind, we have Jesus Christ walking on the shore here, and he's teaching and preaching. He sees Peter and Andrew. And he says to them, follow me. He sees them casting their nets, he sees them fishing. And this is what captivated my thinking He says to them, and I'll put this in, I'll reword it here a little bit just for the sake of the sermon. He says, hey fellas, I see you fishing there. You guys are fishermen. You're going after fish. You're investing your time and your life into catching fish, and that's a legitimate business. And apparently, as you study, they were very successful at that. They were very good at what they did He says, if you will follow me, you can keep on fishing what you're good at. You can keep doing what you are gifted at. But rather than working and investing your time and effort and your abilities in catching fish, which is fine, you'll follow me, I'll make you fishers of men. I'll make you fishers. I'll make you kind of I'll use you to influence people To understand who I am as a Savior and see them come and trust me as Christ and be forgiven of their sins and have a home in heaven. Now, what stirred my heart here was this. Jesus Christ was telling them, I will take what you are good at doing And if you'll follow me, we will take those abilities you have and we'll refocus them on reaching people for the Lord Jesus Christ. You're fishermen? Alright, I'm gonna make you uh you're you're fishermen going after fish, I'll make you fishermen going after men. You follow what I'm saying? This is what I'm trying to convey. Every one of us here have been given gifts by God. We have abilities. They're various. And the Bible says that very clearly. Every member of the church has gifts. Some may have several gifts. Some may have one or two. Some gifts are more visible than other gifts. Other gifts are more behind the scenes type thing. But all of us have something God has enabled us to do. And what he wants us to do is to follow him and let him take those abilities, those gifts that we have, and make us Use them, enable us to use them to influence this world for the gospel of Jesus Christ. You follow where what we're saying here? How many folks are happy? Say amen. If you're not happy, don't say amen. Alright, see what we're saying? God wants us to follow him. How many folks here you're saved to know it? Say amen. Now, wherever you may be at spiritually, I can tell you this. Jesus Christ wants you to follow him. He doesn't want Dennis Letterman to follow what Dennis Letterman may think or want to do or what my flesh may desire to do. He wants me to forsake myself and follow him. And follow him. So let me give you a few thoughts here real quick. Number one, I put this first thought down. And by the way, verse number 19 ought to be underlined in your Bible. That is a classic verse. Follow me, and I will make you fishers of the How many folks here went to Sunday school in a Bible believing church when you were little? How many ever heard this song? I will make you fishers of men Fishers of men, fishers of men. I will make you fishers of men if you'll Follow me. The words are tough to learn, but um if you work at it, you can get it This is a good verse. And I recommend you underline this verse in the Bible. Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Number one, if you're taking notes, you're writing these down, jot this down. Following Jesus is a personal decision. It's a personal decision I've got to make. He's calling them. Follow me. That word follow has the idea of an imperative. It's urgent. He's calling them. This is important. Um it's something I decide to do. It doesn't just happen. Those of us here this morning, we've accepted, those of us that have accepted Jesus Christ our personal Savior. And we've accepted Jesus Christ our personal Savior. Jesus Christ says, Alright, now, once you've accepted me as your Savior, I want you to follow me. And that is the decision I have to make. If I trust Christ and just get saved, And I just don't make any decisions. I just go with the flow. I'm just going to do whatever. I'm never going to be a follower of Jesus Christ. You follow what I'm saying? You follow what I'm saying? So we have to make a decision. We have to decide what direction we're going to go in life. I used to, when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis, one thing I used to emphasize with the young people, I said, whatever you're going to be in life, whatever you're going to be in life Decide to be that. Don't let it just happen to you. Don't just go along with the crowd. Don't just do what somebody else is telling you to do. You decide what I want to be. I used to tell him, I said, listen, if you want to be a sorry, lazy uh uh drug addict and lose your purity and just be a bum And if that's the way you want to be, then you just make a decision. That's the kind of person I want to be. You know the people that end up as sorry, drunkard, lazy uh bombs and their lives are destroyed. You know why they end up that way? Because they never decided not to be that They just let things happen. I'm telling you, the drunkard out in the street last night, he didn't become that way because, oh, I'm going to start drinking and I'm going to be a drunk and totally waste my life. He didn't make that decision. He just decided, he just never made the decision not to be that way. And listen, you don't want your end life to end up a mess. Don't take that first straight Amen? Uh I still young people. You want to stay pure? You want your life to be pure? And when you walk that wedding, that uh wedding uh you walk that um Io, uh, at your wedding, and uh, you want to be pure there? Hey, you just decide that I'm gonna keep my myself pure. Amen? Well I when Kathy and I got married on February 14th, 1987, back in the previous century. And uh we got married. I've told this before, she still has it. We're driving off to our honeymoon, which by the way, the motel sold our room. We didn't have anywhere to go. And so we just drove up the road, found this little motel, stayed there. Lo and behold, next morning we're down at breakfast. Here my mom comes walking in. She happened to stay at the so mo same motel we were going back as we did I said I I'm fifteen hundred miles away from home. Place I spend my honeymoon, my mom's there. True story Trying to remember why I'm telling this story. We're driving up to the to Pigeon Forge from Chattanooga. And uh we're uh uh, you know, twenty minutes or whatever out of the city, heading up there, and um my wife hands me a little envelope. Uh We'd stop to get guests, I guess, somewhere. She hands me this little envelope. It's kind of yellowed. And uh it says to my husband, written in kind of like a young person's writing. I mean it look looked like a younger person wrote it. And um she goes, this is for you. It says, to my husband I said, what's this? She goes, open it, read it. I said, okay. So I opened it, I read, said something to this effect, said to my husband, I don't know who you are yet. But I've decided at the altar at church today that I'm going to love you and keep myself pure for you so that I can be the wife that God intends for me to be. Sign Kathy Michelle Schifflet. As a 15-year-old girl, she had a preacher-preach a message along the same lines what this point is. God stirred her heart. She made a decision. I'm going to keep myself pure. I'm going to prepare myself to be the wife that God wants me to be. And she kept that decision. I thank God for that. And the point I'm trying to make is this: if I'm going to be a follower of Jesus Christ, I've got to decide to be a follower of Jesus Christ. It's not just going to happen. I started the message out saying there's two things every Christian ought to do if you're going to be strong and healthy. You ought to spend time every day meditating and reading God's Word and in prayer, you ought to be faithful to church. Those are things I have to decide whether I'm going to do them or not. And if I decide not to, then there's going to be results. And if I decide I'm going to do those things, I'll see spiritual growth. And Jesus says to the disciples, Follow me, listen, it's your decision. You be the kind of Christian you decide to be. If you want to be a carnal Christian and live by your own understanding and live by your own life and your own way, then decide that. Or you can decide. To follow me. You can follow my leadership in my direction. And so it's a personal decision. God offers us the gift of salvation. I can decide to accept it or reject it. Right? We have it all the time. Last Sunday afternoon we were out busy. I was able to witness to a Muslim man. Went through the gospel and it was a tremendous visit visit Phillies with me And he was just with us and going through the gospel. He says, I have never heard this clear like this before. This makes sense. invited him to trust Christ in various things. He said I really need to think this through or whatnot, but it's the decision to make. Yes, I'll believe that, I'll accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, or I decide no, I'll not believe that. I'll not accept him as a person. my Savior. Salvation is a decision I make to accept what God offers or reject it. And following Jesus is a decision I make. Am I, as a Christian, going to die to self and say, yes, I'm going to follow the Lord, I'm going to trust him, obey him, let me lead me, let him lead me and direct me in life? Or no, I think I'll do things the way I think they should be done. It's a decision. I have to ask myself. If I'm going to make a decision, I have to ask myself, do I really believe? Do I really believe Ask myself this. What do I really believe about Jesus Christ? We have to ask ourselves that. What do I really believe about the Bible? Is the Bible God's word? Do I really believe that this book is the very words of God that created me? Is Jesus Christ, do I really believe that He is the Son of God? And that he wants to lead me and direct me in my life. Do I believe that? Is it true? I have to ask myself this. Does Jesus Christ understand life better than I do? Is he wiser than I am? Does he have more information than I have? Does he i i i is his way, would he following him be better for me or not? Now, if Jesus Christ understands life better than I do, if Jesus Christ as my Savior knows what the future holds better than I do, and knows what is better for me than I do Then it would be wise to follow him. If that is true, if the Bible is true and Jesus is who he claims to be, it would be foolish. To say now, thank you, Jesus, for the offer. I'm gonna do my thing. As a Christian, I'm gonna live my way. That's exactly what the believers at the Church of Corinth did, and it was disaster. It was a disaster. They didn't know what they were doing in life. And rather than following Jesus, they said, we'll do it our way. And it was failure. Listen, I'm here to tell you this morning. Jesus Christ knows better how life should be lived than you and I do. That to me is a given. Jesus Christ knows what tomorrow holds. I don't want to say, I got it figured out. I'm going to do it my way. Alright, fine, but you have no idea what tomorrow holds. And the decision you're making now could very possibly be the worst decision you could possibly make. Why not rather say I'm going to trust Jesus Christ? And I'm going to follow him. I'm going to let him lead me. What I'm trying to say is it's a personal decision. I like this little ditty. Only two choices on the shelf. Following Jesus or following self. Only two choices. So Jesus says to you and I who are saved, that are believers this morning, follow me. Follow me. Follow my instructions. Follow my direction. Follow my leadership in your life. Hey, I'll make something out of you. I can use you. My second thought is this, real quickly, I have to give these to you. Following Jesus precedes fishing for souls. Now, I'm of the persuasion that every genuine believer wants to see souls saved. Right? Somewhere down inside their heart, every genuine believer wants these souls saved. How many folks hear you say and you say, Preacher, down in my heart, I'd really like to see other people Be saved also. How many of you will testify to that? Sure. One of the first things when I got saved, did I ever tell you May 7, 1979 I accepted Jesus Christ my Savior. One of the first things the next morning I went to work, one of the first things I wanted to do was tell those other guys that I had gotten saved. I didn't know all the terminology And I started immediately I wanted to share that with them. Wasn't something I conjured up one because I was some great guy. It was something God did in my heart I wanted my mom to know I was saved. I wanted her to be saved. I wanted my sisters to know that I was saved. I wanted them to be saved. I knew my dad was saved. I wante My co-workers know I I was I trusted Jesus my Savior, I wanted them to do the same But God saves a person, He puts the desire, the love of God in their heart and constrains them to want to see other people saved. Now, if I want to see other people saved, I want to be an effective witness. How do I become an effective witness? Somebody says, well, take the soul winning class on Wednesday nights at 8 o'clock. And uh that'd be very helpful. Somebody says, well, go to Bible college. And uh you want to be a witness and be a fisherman, go to Bible college. Now I think every young person ought to go at least one year of Bible college. I think that's where I would have said amen very loud, right there. But I really believe that. Um but that's not what Jesus says here. He doesn't say take a soul wedding class and I'll make you soul fisheries He doesn't say go up to Bible college, I'll make you fishers of men. He says what? Follow me, and I'll make you fishers of men. If I want to be an effective witness, I need to do this. I need to die to sell. I need to yield my will to Christ and say, all right, I'm going to follow Jesus Christ. I'm going to let Him lead me. I'm going to let Him direct me. I'm going to let him, I'm going to follow him. Now, I think a soul winning class helps me. If I'm a follower of Jesus Christ, I can take learners. Techniques, it enables me. It's a tool I can use. Bible college, it's a tool I can use. Education I get, it's a tool I can use. But if I want to be a fisherman, if I want to be an effective witness, I've got to die to self and say, I'm going to follow Jesus. Christ. I need to forsake my own life and follow Jesus Christ. Follow me. What does it mean to follow Jesus? It means walk in his tracks. Go where he's leading. Let him direct me. The most important aspect of being a witness, being a soul winner, is following Jesus Christ. The most useful, let me make this statement. The most useful Christian is not necessarily the one that has the most verses memorized Although memorizing verses is very, very important. We emphasize that. The most useful Christian, the Jesus Christ, is not necessarily the one that has the most Bible knowledge. The most useful Christian is the one that follows Jesus. He's the one that he can make into faith. I can learn all this Bible and still be doing my own thing out here and not be useful to God. I can memorize the whole book of Revelation. I might be doing my own thing, be carnal-minded, and be of no use to God. Curtis Hudson used to say, Bob Jones Sr. used to say this: the best ability is dependability. Bob Jennings, did you ever hear him say that, Donna? Best ability is dependability. Curtis Hudson tweaked that a little bit. He said the best ability is availability. Which ties in with dependability. But God, if I'm not available, can't be used. I use this illustration many times. I heard it from someone else But if you have a nail you need to put in the wall and there's no hammer available, but there's a shoe with a hard Heel? You can hammer that nail in with the heel of a shoe and hammer that in. Right or wrong? The shoe's available. I can use the shoe. The hammer is not available, it doesn't do me any good. Now a hammer is ideal, it's designed to do that, but if it's not available, it doesn't do any good And a Christian, listen, memorizing scripture and studying the Bible and all these things, uh, taking the soul wing course, all these things, those are helpful. They into me. But if I'm not following Jesus Christ, I'm not available to him to use me. Follow what I'm saying? And so, number one, following Jesus is a personal decision. Number two, following Jesus precedes fishing for souls. Let me give you a third one real quick. Following Jesus produces fishing for souls. I got to follow Jesus before I can fish for souls, but once I start following Jesus, I will start fishing for souls. Look what he says there in verse 19. Follow me and I Will make you fishers a man. He doesn't say follow me and you might become a fisherman. He doesn't say follow me and I'll help you be a fisherman. He says if you follow me, you will have an influence on other people. If you follow me, you will have a testimony that will influence people to come to Christ. It is impossible to be a follower of Jesus Christ and not have an influence on people around me with the gospel. He says, if you follow me, I will make you fishers of men. Acts chapter 1, verse 8. What did he say? But ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye Shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in Judea and all Samaria and unto the uttermost part of the earth. He says, You will be, you will be. If I die to self, if I yield myself to Christ, I say, Lord, I'm not living for myself anymore. I'm living for Jesus Christ. I'm going to follow you. Spirit of God will fill me and I will just automatically have an influence on other people. I will make you fishers of men. We put push soul winning here. We try to for these years. Try to encourage people, train, stir people to win souls, share the gospel, witness to others. We try to do that. Anybody ever notice that? We try and push that. Anybody notice that? I hope so. Yes. Sometimes somebody comes to me and says, Pastor, I'm just not good at witnessing One of uh what I consider one of our best soul winners in our church, one of the tremendous soul winners in our church, told me, he told me years ago, he said, I'm just not good at talking to people. He led up somebody, the Lord, two weeks ago. Please feel the Lord all the time. Some of you know who I'm talking about. Cindy might know who I'm talking about. She lives with them. But anyway. Oh, if she lives with him, she's married to him. I thought I ought to clarify that. But somebody says, Oh, I'm just not good talking to people. I'm not a good witness. You know what I think when I hear that? I think, yes. Because the fact of the matter is, you and I, in and of ourselves, we're not much of a witness. But if I'll follow Jesus Christ, I'll let Him lead me and direct me, and I'll just trust Him and obey Him. You know what? He may Makes me a fisher of men. It's not my abilities, it's not something I work up. Boy, that guy, he's just, I've heard that he's just a natural soul winner. No, you become a follower of Jesus Christ. That's what produces it I'd rather hear someone say, Well, I'm just not good at talking to people I want to, but I'm just not good. The answer is, Well tell you what, praise the Lord, you start following Jesus. You guyself, you let the Lord have his way, you just trust Him, obey everything He says. God will make you a soul winner. God will make you a fisherman. I'd rather hear that than somebody says, Oh yeah, I'm the best soul winner in this church. I've got it, I can handle this, I'm good at this. I hear that, I think, uh-oh. Uh oh. That's trouble. They're gonna fall flat on their face. Um fact of the matter is, without Jesus Christ, we cannot do anything. We can do nothing. So, number four, let me give you the last one. Following Jesus. Number one, we said it's a personal decision. I've got to decide this morning, all right. Listen, no more living for self, no more self on the altar. I'm gonna die to self, I'm gonna put Christ on the throne, I'm gonna follow Jesus Christ. He's gonna I'm gonna let Him lead me and direct me in my life Number two, following Jesus precedes fishing for soul. I've got to do that before I'm going to be very effective for the Lord. I've got to follow the Lord. Number three, following Jesus will produce fishing for souls. He'll make me into the witness that I need to be. And the last one is following Jesus Christ is a high priority. Is a high priority. I believe the most important thing a Christian can do is decide to follow Jesus. At some point in your life. Now this I don't feel like I'm able to convey this. I've tried over the years. I don't think I'm able to convey to you with words what actually took place in my life. But on August 25th, 1985, I've been in Bible college, I was going into my senior year. After five years of cramming a four-year degree, five years, I was going into my senior year. And um I was witnessing, I was preaching, I was I was active in the bus ministry, I was a leader in the bus ministry, I was preaching in chapels, I was winning souls. I was doing all these things, but it was like I was doing it because I was deciding to. You know what I'm saying? It was it was me. That's what I I wanted to do. And I had some of my own ideas of what direction my life was going to go and what I was going to be And God had been dealing with me and was leading me in a different direction. And finally, August 25th, 1985, Sunday night service After the message, I knelt on the left side over here is a big church, Highland Park. I knelt at that altar and I said, Lord, no more Dennis Leatherman. Now it's Jesus Christ. And I did what Romans chapter 12, verse 1 says to do. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. And I said, Lord, I just yield my whole self, my will, my plans, my future, every aspect. I yield it over to you. I present it to you. I'm no longer my own. And I want to be a follower of Jesus Christ. That is a priority in the Christian life Peter and Andrew got up and they forsook their nets. They followed Jesus Christ. All their plans, all their ambitions, all their hopes and dreams for the future of that business in their lives. Put it aside. Following Jesus Christ. Following Jesus Christ. That was a game changer. That changed their life. Following Jesus Christ simply means I trust him and I obey him. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not into thine own understanding. And all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy path. You know what he's saying? I'll be your leader. You follow me. Don't lead on your understanding, all your ways acknowledge it, and I'll direct your paths. I'll direct your paths. I was reading about A young lady's gone off to college, true story as I understand it, and she's reading the questionnaire on the application for this fairly exclusive college And her heart sank. The question was this: Are you a leader? And this young lady is going up to college, was an honest young woman. She was a woman of integrity, and she knew. But she was not what others would consider a leader. And she thought, I'm not a leader. And so because she was a woman of integrity, she wrote down no, convinced that she would never be accepted at this exclusive college. Because she is not a leader. A little time went by. To her surprise, she received a letter from the college. It said this: Dear Applicant, A study of the application forms returned to us reveals that this year our college will have 1,452 new leaders. We are accepting you because we feel it's imperative that we have at least one follower in our school You know what Jesus is looking for? Not so much leaders. He's looking for followers. People who will say, Lord, where you lead, I will follow. What you instruct, I will do. Follow me, and I'll make something out of you. Follow me, and I will take what I have gifted you with. And I will use you and enable you to use that to influence this old sinful world for the gospel. Isn't that good? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask that maybe this truth, these thoughts would challenge us this morning. Lord, maybe there's some of us here this morning. We've been saved. God, you know our hearts. You know where we're at. You know better than we do, even of our own selves. And I ask, dear Lord, if there's some way your Holy Spirit would convict and challenge us To die to ourselves and say, yes, Lord, I'll follow you. Yes, Lord, I'll let you lead and direct in my life. Whatever, wherever it may lead, I'll trust you and obey you. I wonder, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, this morning, Christians. You say, preacher, I really, really want to follow the Lord Jesus. I want to be a follower. I don't want to live my own life. I don't want to do it my way. I want to do it God's way. I sincerely I sincerely want to be a follower of Jesus Christ, not just a believer. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, that's my heart. I really want to be a follower. God bless me. Many hands all around. Now that means laying those nets aside. That means getting up and letting him lead and direct, doing what he says, trusting him, obeying him. I wonder if there's some this morning say, preacher, I know exactly what God's wanting me to do as a Christian. I'm struggling with that. Looks to me that this here would be the case, and God's directing me in his word some other direction And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me trust him in this matter. There's a struggle going on in my heart about the will of God for me and my will. You'd say, pray with me, preacher, please, that I'll do the right thing. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, there is an issue there, and I know what God's will is, and I know what my will is. And that's a struggle and I need God to help me. God bless you. A bunch of hands. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me also. God bless you and you. Following Jesus isn't always easy. Dropping everything and forsaking what I've got planned isn't always easy. But Jesus does know best. He is God. He does have a plan. Is there someone this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure when I die, I'm going to heaven Listen, that's a personal decision, whether you accept Jesus as your Savior or not. Don't just automatically go to heaven. We have to decide to trust Christ. Is there any like that this morning, preacher? Pray for me, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell, and I need to settle that. I need to get that clarified and not uh not have any doubts. Any there at all like that. How about it by the uplifted hand. You need to make make sure of this. You need to settle this. Any at all? Now Father, please bless our invitation. You know our hearts. Have your way, we ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.