Through this uh inspired epistle to a rapture ready church, a church that was by all appearances from what we read and study here. I'm gonna turn this on so be prepared. Here we go All right, very good. Painless transition. This is a church by all appearances from what we can read and study in 1 Thessalonians, a church that is ready for the rapture. Paul does nothing almost but praise them and compliment them and hold them up as an example for other churches uh on what it is like to be a rapture-ready church. I don't know about you, I say this all the time. I, as pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, would like for us to be a rapture-ready church I would like when that trumpet sounds that we don't have to change anything, we don't have to quick try and make something right, but we're just ready for the Lord to come back at any moment. And so that's why we're studying this. And we're at we're in the chapter 2, and we're up to verse 14. Let's read three verses, and I'll make a few introductory statements and give the outline. And then we should be able to get to our prayer time pretty quick. Look at verse 14. For ye brethren, again, Paul, Timothy, and Silas writing under the inspiration of God to the believers at Thessalonica, for ye brethren became followers of the churches of God, with uh churches of God which in Judea are in Christ Jesus. So he's saying, you are followers of other churches. For ye also have suffered like things of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews. who both killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and have persecuted us. And they please not God and are contrary to all men. Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved, to fill up their sin always, for the wrath has come upon them to the othermost. Now there's a lot in these three verses we could build sermons and sermons on here, but I want to zero in on one thing particularly out of these three verses, and that is this. The church at Thessalonica, Paul says, was a follower of other churches. A follower of other churches. Let me ask you a question. Is it a good idea for men to be followers of men? Is that a good idea? Yeah, you think it's a trick question, don't you? Let's pray and find out. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless our study of your word. And Lord, as we look at these verses, Lord, my first concern is that I be true to your word and uh I be faithful to the the revelation you've given us here. I pray, second of all, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and just take my body, Lord, and speak through me. Teach us. And Lord, we have a lot of folks out sick, some traveling, various other things. But we pray for those of us that are here, that our hearts would be stirred, our walk with you with you would be challenged. And we could be a rapture-ready church. And so please bless now. Help us, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Now, before I answer that question, I want to lay a little groundwork here. If you study the New Testament carefully and particularly study what the Bible says, the New Testament says about local churches, about a local church, you're going to find a few things. One thing will become very, very evident. The local churches in the New Testament period, right here at the beginning of the church age, The churches, each individual local church was independent. Now what do we mean by that? We mean they were not under the authority of anything other than the Lord Jesus Christ. Each local church called their own pastor under the leadership of the Lord is the ideal. Sometimes folks will come, I'll be out visiting or whatever, and they'll say, you're an independent Baptist church. What is an independent Baptist church? How is that different than any other type of Baptist church? And so we'll explain these things to them. We are not, they were not. You find no denominational hierarchy in the New Testament uh exercising authority over the local churches. Each one was independent. They called their own pastor. They established, it appears, by all appearances, they established their own budget. They determined what missionaries they would support. They determined as a church how their finances were going to be used. It wasn't directed uh from some uh bishop or some authority outside the church. They were all independent churches. Um as far as property goes, uh they owned their own property And so they were independent. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is an independent church. We have no authority over us other than the Lord Jesus Christ. And so you say, Brother Levin, we knew we were independent. That's our name. Actually, I cannot take that for granted. I was visiting out by the lake. This was years ago. And uh we were going door to door through there as a trailer park and visiting, got this one lady and we witnessed to her. She was saved, she was out of Pittsburgh, she comes down on the weekends and all this. So lo and behold, she came to church that next Sunday And she says, you know, I always knew your church was here, and I always knew about Meton Lake Independent Baptist Church, but I didn't know you guys were independent Baptists. I said, really? And so uh so we are an independent Baptist church. Now, that's what you find in the New Testament. The church at Thessalonica, they're independent. They ran the show under the leadership of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, having said that, there's something else We learn about local churches as we study the New Testament very carefully. We find that the local churches, though they were independent, they were not isolated. In other words, the local churches communicated with other local churches of like faith. They cooperated back and forth with different things. You read Paul in Corinthians, and he's taken money from one church, is taking it back to the church at Jerusalem. They're helping them out. He's got people helping carry that. He's sending the pastor from one church is going. uh I think it was Philippi and he's uh working back and forth and so they're independent of each other. They don't exercise authority over each other but they're not isolated from each other There's fellowship with each other. There's communication between each other. When God was inspiring Paul and he was writing these things down, God was giving the inspired word, I should say, through Paul, he would write a an epistle to one church And then he'd say, hey, you make sure this letter gets over to this other church and make sure they get it read. So they were obviously in fellowship with each other. They were obviously in cooperation with each other. There's obviously communication going back and forth. Now, I said all that because of a statement made here in verse number 14. They communicated, the churches communicated with each other. Now don't misunderstand, we're not talking about anything ghost We're not talking about just any old church. They're talking about churches of like faith. Paul gave stern warnings in Timothy to Timothy about false prophets and those with another doctrine and staying away. So don't misunderstand what I'm saying. We're not talking about any type of ecumenical cooperation. We're talking about churches, biblical New Testament churches. Cooperating, communicating, but also clearly influencing each other. Look at verse 14 again. For ye, brethren, became followers of the churches of God which in Judea are in Christ Jesus. They became followers. They were separated, no doubt about it, from unscriptural churches. But they were in fellowship with like-minded churches, and in fact the church at Thessalonica was strongly influenced by the Jewish churches in the land of Judea. These older churches that have been around, established right after Pentecost, and uh they began to spring up throughout Judea, and these Jewish churches had a powerful influence. Now, here's my three thoughts. The church at Thessalonica, first of all, had characteristics of other churches. The church at Thessalonica had some characteristics of other like-minded churches That word followers there in verse 14, it's used throughout scripture. If you get your strongest concordance out, it has the idea of imitation. of imitating someone else. In Ephesians, we're told to be followers of God, and the idea is imitating him. Not just walking behind, but actually Mimicking to some degree, imitating. And that's the term used here. The church at Thessalonica, Thessalonica was, in a sense, you could say, an imitation. of these established churches in in Judaism, in in Judea. Now I do not believe as I studied this and gave this thought and read through here and and got some other ideas. I do not believe that it was direct imitation or even deliberate imitation. And by that I mean this. I do not get the idea in studying this that the church at Thessalonica said, oh look, they're doing that. We're going to do that too. They're doing it that way. We're going to do it that way also. I don't think that's what's taking place here. They're not just Copying everything the other church does. This is what I think is being said here. The church at Thessalonica was following or imitating the other churches in this sense that they were following the Lord Jesus Christ the same way these churches in Judea were following the Lord Jesus Christ. You follow what I'm saying? It wasn't, oh, they're doing that. They're going to open up with a hymn and then say the memory verse and then pray and then open up with a hymn. Well, that's what we're going to do I don't think that's what's taking place. They're saying, hey, look, the Lord's leading and directing them in this direction. We need the Lord to lead and direct us also, just like the Lord is leading them. In fact, that principle is that precedent, I guess you could say, is given throughout Scripture. Keep your place here. Turn over to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Paul of course is writing to the church at Corinth. Question, the church at Corinth, good church or bad church? Messed up church. Uh good grief. You go out on vacation and uh you go visit the first Baptist church of Corinth. And you go in there and you would say, I ain't never going back to that church again. It is disaster. I mean extreme perverse disaster. And uh look what Paul says. He's writing to them and he's confronting them about a bunch of their issues. And in chapter 11 of 1 Corinthians, in verse number 1, look what Paul tells them to do. He says, be ye followers of who? Me. Now, you'll notice, and it's very obvious, the verse does not end there, does it? If Paul just said, listen, you'll be followers of me, then that would be a problem. Right? Paul didn't always do uh Paul didn't always do everything the way he should have. In fact, this is a little bit of leathermanism here, this is my take on Paul. I think Paul was very difficult to work for. I think it was very difficult to work with. Over and over again, you know what he says? He says stuff like, Nobody's sticking with me Everybody's leaving me. All I've got with me is loot. And I thought, I got reading that one time and I got thinking, you know, he has a hard time keeping employees. And so uh I think there was aspect my personal opinion is when Paul and Barnabas uh had the fuss over John Mark, remember that? Some of you were there. And um uh had that fuss over John Mark and uh went their separate ways. My personal feeling is I think Paul was wrong and Barnabas was right. My gut feeling is But um I mean you guys disagree me you it's a free country. You can be wrong if you want. But um I think uh when Paul went back to Jerusalem and took that vow And all that mess that came out of that? Uh I don't I don't think uh uh you know, I don't know. We'll get to heaven and find out. But um What I'm trying to say is this, I forget what my point was on this. Oh, so anyway, he's confronting them. But look, he says, be ye followers of me. But he doesn't stop there. He's not telling them you imitate me. He's not saying you cut your hair the way I cut my hair. Now I think people should cut their hair the way the way I come here, but and uh very good. Thank you, brother. Uh you just earned three days in the mission house. God bless you So he's not saying that. Look what he goes on and says. Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ. What's he saying? He's saying you follow the way I follow Christ. He's not saying do everything I do He goes, you see how committed I am to Christ, you see my submission to the Lord, you be just as submitted. You follow me the way I'm following Christ. And I believe that's what God is saying here to the church at Thessalonica Through the Apostle Paul, he says you became followers of the church. You learn to follow the Lord just like those Judean churches learned to follow the Lord And so they had the characteristics of other churches. He said Paul makes this same principle, gives the same principle throughout scripture. In 1 Corinthians 4, 16, he says something very similar to that. Philippians chapter 3 verse 17, in 2 Thessalonians 3. 9, and Hebrews 13. 7 and 1 Peter 5. 3. He said he gives that same principle over and over and over. You follow these people the way they follow the Lord And so they have these characteristics of these other churches. Now, what's my conclusion from this thought here? I put this down. It's good for us to learn from and be influenced in a positive way from other good churches. That's good for us. It's good for us to get out to a special meeting at another church or somewhere, a good, strong church that God is blessing and God is doing a work through. And get over there and look and see what is God doing? Is there something here that can be an influence of us? Is there some way that we can follow the Lord a little more thoroughly than what we are? And I'm learning from that church. That's a good thing. We are not isolated. We're not here just on some island up on top of this mountain in western Maryland. There are churches all around the world that are good churches that God is blessing and they're following the Lord. And we can learn from them. It's why we go to meetings like down at North Carolina, uh to the big uh Bobby Robertson's church down there, you know? Do we do everything are we uh am I saying we should do everything the way they do? Absolutely not. But I am saying maybe there's a spirit there we can pick up. Maybe there's something that God is doing there we can get a hold of And follow the Lord in Samaria as the way they are. I sent James the last couple days down to Louisville, Kentucky to the big bus convention down there. You know, maybe there's some things, the way they run their bus ministry, some things they do down there, that uh we can learn from them and help us be more effective in serving God and having an influence, and we can learn from that And so my statement is this. It's good for us to learn from and be influenced in a positive way from other good churches. And so we go and see and glean some things. By the way, I would like for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be a church where people can come to. And maybe be influenced in a positive way and be helped in that way. We don't have all the answers. Good night. Everything we do here, we learn from someone else We can take that and maybe if God, if it's worked and it's blessed, we can help another church be that way. There was a couple That vacation up here, and they don't hardly come very often at all, once or twice a year now. But over the years they've been coming up before years ago they came more often than they do now. But um when they first started coming up here, they were attending a uh more of a liberal church. It was a Methodist church. I think it was pretty conservative as far as Methodist goes, but that's where they were attending. And attending very faithfully, they came up here for whatever reason. They attended our church and they liked it. And they came and after about three, four years, one night, uh during a weeknight, I got a phone call. He's back down east And he says, Pastor Leatherman, we have joined an independent Baptist church. He said, we got up there and we saw the difference. Between your church and the church we're attending, and we prayed about and talked about it, and we're joining a inde we're joining an independent Baptist church And this is what he said. He says, I want to tell you how they do their Wednesday night. And he says, I want to know if you do it that way, if that's the right way it's supposed to be done. I said, Well, there's no real right and wrong way to do it. I said, I'll tell you how we do it and uh you know each church has their own little methods or whatever. But he was so concerned it had to be just like we did or it wasn't going to be a good church. But I'd like to think we had some influence. That it stirred, that uh like that's what he's saying about the church here. Hey, you're imitating Christ, you're finding Christ, and you learned it from them So it's a good for us to learn from and be influenced in a positive way from other churches. I'd like for us to be that way as we learn from other churches. I put this second observation down under this thought When churches are following the Lord, they will have similar characteristics. You get what I'm saying? If the church in Thessalonica is following the Lord, the same way the churches in Judea are following the Lord, Then that tells me there are going to be similarities about those churches. Right? If we're all following the Lord through according to the scriptures, There's going to be similarities. How many times have I heard folks leave here, they're out on vacation, they come back and say, Pastor, we found a church and we felt right at home as if we were in our home church sitting there in that church How many times have we had folks visiting up here and say, Preacher, we feel like we're back home in our church, in this church? You know what? That's nothing great about us. That's nothing great about the other church. You know what that is? That's what's great about the Lord and the Word of God. When churches follow God and go by the Word of God, of course there's going to be similarities because we're following the same principles. We're living by the same convictions And thus you have very similar characteristics. And so, what do I notice here? I see, first of all, the church at Thessalonica had characteristics of other churches. They were influenced by them, and the fact that they were all following the same Lord produced similar characteristics. Let me give my second observation here, my second thought. I put this down: the church at Thessonica encountered persecution. Just like other churches had. Again, look at verse 14. For ye, brethren, became followers of the churches of God, which in Judea are in Christ Jesus. Look at this. For ye also have suffered like things of your countrymen, even as they have of the Jews. The church at Thessalonica was suffering perse question. Let's back up. Hold on a second. Back up. The church at Thessalonica, primarily Jewish or Gentile? Church at Thessalonica. Gentile. Yeah, this is pagan, this is Greek. They're all most they're saved out of paganism. There are probably a few Jews saved out of the synagogue there. But for the most part, uh is it was um It was Gentile. In fact, if I'm correct here, I think the Jews rejected Paul and he went to the Gentiles. And uh so it's primarily a Gentile congregation And now, with that in mind, he says, you suffered like things of your own countrymen. So if the church at Thessalonica is a Gentile in its makeup, of its membership So their countrymen will be who? Gentiles. They're suffering persecution from their countrymen, uh, other Thessalonian citizens, Gentile citizens are persecuting them, he says the same way the Jewish churches in Judea were being persecuted from the Jews They had similar, even though it was different nationalities, the persecution was similar, was the same. That tells me something That you know the Jews take a bad rap on being the killers of Jesus. Do you ever hear that? Folks say that? The Jews, oh, they killed Jesus The Jews, they kill Jesus. Wait a minute. The Jews don't have any corner on persecuting Christians. Gentiles persecute Christians just as much as any other group. The persecution of God's people is not based on race, it's based on the spiritual condition of the hearts of people. Whether it's Jew or Gentile. And so he's saying, listen, the Gentiles persecuted you guys just as much as the Jews persecuted the Jewish believers. They don't have any caught or on persecution. If you would, we're not far away from it. Turn over to 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3, and look at verse number 12. Second Timothy three twelve, just a few pages back there. 2 Timothy 3. 12 Paul writing to the young preacher boy, uh Timothy, under the inspiration of God, of course, and he says in verse 12 of 2 Timothy 3, yea, and all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer what? Persecution. He's saying, listen, uh uh, it doesn't matter who you are or where you are. If you're living for God, if you're going by the book, if you're trying to live a pure, godly life, you're going to face opposition. Now, it may take different forms The persecution that takes place over in our adopted nation, where we just came from, may be of a different stripe, different form than what it would be in Oakland, Maryland. You know, we don't get thrown in prison for assembling together or giving out literature. But nevertheless, regardless of who we are or where we are, If we're living for God, there will be persecution. It may be differing in degrees. Some places may be more severe than others Some places the persecution may be more intense than others. I thank God in the United States of America, our definition of persecution is not like the definition that the Chinese might have of persecution. Father, what I can I get an amen on that? Thank God for that. The freedoms we have to do that. But nevertheless, Uh they were suffering persecution from the Gentiles just as much as they were. Hey, can I throw something out? I found, and I've been work uh working with youth for many years before we came here when I was traveling and whatnot I found out that in a Christian school, a godly teenager can take just as much heat as a godly teenager in the public school does. Sometimes more. So uh you know what? You get a Christian some I've been in some churches. You get a church member gets on fire for God, there'll be church members give them as hard a time as uh the guys at work give the guy a hard time. So, you know, it takes different forms, it has different degrees, but nevertheless, mark it down If you and I are going to sell out for God, if we're going to live for the Lord Jesus Christ, we're not going to get voted citizen of the year. Alright? So, look at this here. Look at verse 15. Come back here. Second to First Thessalonians chapter two, look at verse fifteen. He says, Who hath uh speaken of the Jews now persecuting the Judean churches? who hath both killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets. That verse tells me, along with others, you know what the object of persecution is? It's not you. It's not me. You know what the object of persecution is? It's the Lord Jesus. It's because we're committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what bothers them. Jesus said, listen, the world hated me Don't be surprised that the world hates you if you are a follower of me. And so the object of the hatred of the Gentiles there in Thessalonica, the persecution that they put upon the church at Thessalonica was not because of who necessarily themselves, it was because of who they worshipped, who they loved, who they were committed to. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. So what am I trying to say? I'm trying to say this. When somebody gives you a hard time because you try to end on the gospel track or you try to be honest on the job or you speak of the Lord Jesus Christ Anything for Jesus' sake, don't take it personally. It's Jesus Christ that they have a problem with. In fact, Jesus said, if people persecute you for my sake, what are we supposed to do? Punch them in the nose, right? No. We're supposed to what? What? Yeah, rejoice. Then he goes on and says, be exceeding glad. Because great is your reward where? In heaven. You may get your nose punched here, but in heaven you get a reward. And uh I was in Laughlin, I've told this story before. We just moved here. I was only here a week or two, knocking on doors, I'm all excited. Just about every door I got to, I said, I'm the new pastor of Mount. Oh, you're the new pastor, oh come on in, I got some coffee, you want some donuts. And um and I mean it was incredible and I gained fifteen pounds in five days and uh just everybody was friendly and oh I wish our pastor did this And uh people said, Well I never had a pastor come by our house before. Now it's like, all right, what do you want this time? Goodbye, J But uh I got knocked on this one door. I mean I was spoiled. Everybody was so happy and I knocked on this one door and I said I'm Pastor Leatherman and she cussed me out up one side, get off my porch, why You know my first reaction was being the spiritual new godly pastor at the church. You know, I walked away and I thought, who does she think? And you know, the Lord smote my heart. And I thought that verse came right to mind. And I just stopped at the end of her walk away. I said, Lord, thank you for that experience I'm going to rejoice and I'm going to go on the next house. I'm going to smile. I'm going to try and share the gospel there. I don't know why I'm telling this either. But the object of our persecution is not us. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. And when those people, a total stranger lays into you like that, I've given this so much thought over the years. That total stranger tears into you like that. There could be 25 different reasons why she did that You know, it's possible there was some Jehovah's Witness there just before me, giving her a hard time. She's totally exasperated. She don't know who I is. She don't know who I is. She don't know who I am. And, you know, there could be a hundred different reasons there. So don't take it personally. Persecution is ultimately against the Lord. The other thing I noticed here is it says they both killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets. God had been sending Israel prophet after prophet after prophet for hundreds of years. And you know what Israel did to them almost without exception? Kill them. Persecute them. Throw them in a prison. Run them out. Accuse them of being unpatriotic. I mean they just chewed them up and spit them out. And I got looking at that and thinking about that. You know, the persecution of God's people, the history of it is from Cain and Abel all the way through the book of Revelation. It has always been that way. Abel didn't have anything against Cain All Abel wanted to do is just do what God told him to do. There's no animosity towards anybody. But brother, when Cain got rejected and he saw God accepted Abel's Persecution broke out. And it's been that way. It's been that way. Let me give you the last thing I got out of this. First of all, we see characteristics of other churches in the church at Thessalonica. We see they encountered persecution just like the other churches. And I noticed the church in Thessalonica, I believe they got encouragement from other churches. I think Paul's encouraging them here He's saying, I believe he's saying this. Persecution that you're going through, that your fellow countrymen are doing to you, listen, you're not the only ones having to deal with that. It's a bunch of other churches down here in Judea. They're dealing with the same thing from their countrymen. Listen, don't you think that Maybe you're doing something wrong, or maybe you're failing in some way, or uh or God is uh uh you know is is is forsaking you. Don't you think that at all. What you're going through All the other churches that are trying to live and follow Christ are going through the same thing. It's part, it's uh, it goes with the territory So listen, don't get dishearted. You're not a failure. You're not necessarily doing something wrong. Everybody else is dealing with the same thing. You know what gets discouraging when I'm having a struggle in my personal life in a certain area, and we get to think, I'll bet no one else in the church struggles with that Oh, but I'm the only one that is such a weak Christian that I struggle in this area. You know what, after a while you get talking to somebody, and I found out, well, they struggle there too You find out, well, they've got struggles too. Huh, that guy's got struggles too. You know what sometimes people think the preachers we bring through here, the different ones, they think they are some type of Christian that is on this golden pedestal and they're superhuman and uh they don't have it you know what the guy the greatest preachers we bring through here you know what I found out about them they're human beings just like me They've got struggles. They've got areas they're struggling. Now, you know, they're all different. And obviously we want people who are victorious. But it's the same. And that to me is an encouragement. I was at a meeting Thursday and Friday for Beacon of Truth, and a preacher friend of mine was there who I hadn't seen him in years. Every time we see each other, we say this Man, we gotta get together and have lunch sometime. We've been saying that for twelve years. We said it last week. Hey man, we gotta get yeah, we gotta do that sometime, and it ain't gonna happen But um we got talking a little bit and I always had because I just see him rare occasions and uh I preached for him a few times years ago and uh but uh uh I just had in my mind That this was a booming church. You know, just my impression was that this was just everything. They were just happening. And we got talking there and I said, he said, how are things going? I said, really? We're having a great summer. I said, we're excited about Sunday night. We were preparing. I said, uh Lord's really blessed. And I said, man, I said, things going great over there? He goes, oh, it's tough. I said, really? He goes, Oh yeah, we just people are the Lord he says, we need revival. And um this is not like him and then I said, Well what can I pray? What's going on? He goes, We got so many people make professions of faith He said, we can't get them in and get them baptized. We can't get them in and join the church. I said, you're kidding. We've got that exact same thing. I said we get people make profession of faith and all that, can't drag them to church. And uh we went back and forth, back and forth, and you know I came out of that thinking, huh, we're not the only ones that deal with that Now I'm not glad that that's an issue, but it's kind of encouraging that we're not the only ones that have to face that. You follow what I'm saying? And that's what I think Paul is, God through Paul is telling the church at Thessalonica, hey, you guys are getting persecuted. I know it. But you know what? So is every other church that's doing right. So you just stay at it. You just keep plugging away. You be faithful. You're not the only ones. You're not the oddballs. I came away from these three verses thinking this. We need each other. We need to be influenced in a positive way. What was true on the church level is also true on the individual level. And that's why church attendance is so important. I want to get around people who are victorious in their Christian life that I can be influenced. Them. I want to learn to follow the Lord Jesus like other victorious Christians are following the Lord Jesus. And you're not going to get that out there, and you're not going to get that on Fox News. Right? And so don't say anything about Fox News. Um I'm all for Fox News, I'm fine with it. But I'm telling you this, you're not going to learn how to be a good Christian there And I'm going to be learning to be a good Christian on National Geographic and all these things. We're going to get around other Christians. That's what's going to help me. That's what's going to help me. I'm going to learn from others. I'll say, hey, you know, God's blessing. Hey, that's a good idea how they read their Bible. God's really blessing that method. I'm going to try it. that. Boy, listen to how they sing. They're so happy in singing. I'm gonna sing too. And God uses that to stir us. We need each other. We need each other. Not only the positive areas, but you know, we need to see where others are struggling too. That's why, listen, if you're too good of a Christian to go to an altar, you're too good of a Christian. Huh? What I'm trying to say is there ain't nobody that good that never needs to respond to the Word of God. Now I'm not trying to get you to come here, I'm not rebuking you for not, but I'm saying this You know, sometimes folks need to see. Let me put it this way, your kids need to see that you need God. Amen. Just like the church at Thessalonica needed to know that those other churches needed Lord just as much as they did. That's what I'm trying to say. We need each other. There was a guy down at Highland Park when I was there, an old guy. I didn't know him. He's just a member of the church. He wasn't a student. He was an older guy. He was at least 15. I mean an old guy. And every single invitation. I mean, this is a 6,000-seat auditorium. Sundays the place is packed. Every service, every single service That guy was at the altar. Didn't matter what the message was, didn't matter, he was at the altar. And when I first got down there, I thought, man, that guy must be living a wicked life. He's got to go to the altar every time. He must be ungodly. You know, as I was there a little while, you know what I found out? He was one of the sweetest, humblest, most godly men you'd ever meet. You know why? His heart was so tender. God would speak to his heart about something, oh, I need to make that right. Oh, I don't want this to displease the Lord. Lord. And he was very tender-hearted the Lord. You know what? I learned from him. That influenced me. I need to be tender If somebody of that spiritual caliber needs to be sensitive to the Spirit of God dealing with their heart, then I need to be sensitive too. We need each other. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for the church at Thessalonica and for I guess the humility there almost, Father, that uh they were willing to be influenced by others. They didn't think they had their whole act together. They needed others and they under needed to understand persecution was across the board. I pray you'd help us with that way. And Lord, help us not to get proud and think that we don't need anyone or anything else. Help us to understand that you want to use other people to develop us and mold us and make us. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, you know I do have some areas get me discouraged, some areas where I struggle and I'm just going to look to God and let Him teach me and maybe work through other people to help me grow in my Christian faith and help me get victory in my Christian faith. Christian faith. Is there any like that that God speaks to your heart tonight? I don't know across the board. God bless you. Hands all around. We need church. We need one another. We need to pray together and talk together. Share our burdens. And God uses that to help us grow. Father, bless your invitation. Have your way in our lives, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.