Shotgun message. I'm just going to share some thoughts there. They may be related. They may not. But I'm pray God will use it and maybe help encourage us and challenge us in the coming year. Deuteronomy chapter number eleven. If you would turn there Deuteronomy eleven And just one verse, and I want to zero in on just a phrase out of this verse, Deuteronomy 11 and verse number 13. Deuteronomy eleven, verse thirteen, the Bible says, and it and it shall come to pass If ye shall hearken diligently unto my commandments, which I command you this day, of course, this is the Lord speaking through Moses to the nation of Israel. He says, if you hearken diligently to my commandments, which I command you this day, then he says this to love the Lord your God and to serve him. And he just and he expands on what he means by that. To love the Lord your God and serve him. Look at his next statement. With all your heart and with all your soul. God says, I want you to love me and I want you to serve me, not just go through the motions, but I want it to be with all your heart. With all your soul. Come over to chapter 13, Deuteronomy, just a page over there or so And notice with me verse number three. Now here he's warning them about false prophets coming up among them and trying to get them to lead them off to false gods and get their attention, their love off of the Lord on something else. And in verse three he says this thou shalt not hearken to the words of that prophet That prophet that's trying to draw them away from the Lord. That shall not hearken unto the words of that prophet or that dreamer of dreams. For the Lord your God proveth you to know whether ye love the Lord your God. Now look at this statement here: with all your heart and with all your soul. God's saying, I'm gonna let these false prophets, I'm gonna let them do their thing. I mean, he could have just snuffed them out. He says, I'm gonna let them there, but you don't listen to them. He says, you don't you don't pay attention, you don't follow them. And I'm allowing them for the purpose I want to prove you, I want to test and see whether you don't just love me But love me with all your heart, with all your soul. Now we won't turn to these others, but let me read a few others in Joshua chapter 22. Now they're in the promised land. Moses is with the Lord. Joshua has been leading them a number of years. This is years later. And he says this, but take diligent heed. This is Joshua 22, 5 Take diligent heed to do the commandment and the law which Moses, the servant of the Lord, charged you. Now here he quotes Moses. And he says, to love the Lord your God, and to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and cleave unto him, and serve him, here he says it again, with all your heart and with all your soul. Not just going through the motions, not just half-hearted, but all your heart. In 1 Samuel 12, 20, Samuel's talking to the people, and he says this, fear not. This is where they said they wanted a God, they wanted a king, just like the other nations around them. And God rebuked them. And he gave it to them, but he rebuked them. And he says this, Fear not, ye have done all this wickedness. Yet turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. Again, 1 Samuel 12, 24, a few verses down. Only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart, for consider how great things he hath done for you. Anybody hear God do anything great for you? I'll tell you, if you're saved, you got something to say amen about at that question. That's the greatest thing in the world to be saved. Sins forgiven, home in heaven, new life, presence of the Holy Spirit in me And so he says, serve the Lord with all your heart, considering how great things he's done for you. Then in Jeremiah 29, 13, he says, Ye shall seek me and find me When ye shall search for me with all your heart. Job chapter 2 and verse 12. Now therefore, now therefore also now saith the Lord, turn ye even unto me with all your heart. Then Ecclesiastes 9:10, he's talking about our work ethic, and he says, whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thine might, with all thine might. Wholehearted. I want to talk and again it's just kind of scattered here. It's just some thoughts. But I hope I pray the Lord will use it. I think He can. So let's pray and ask the Lord just take a few moments and speak to our hearts and help us finish out this year, start a new year. Father in heaven, I thank you for the opportunity we have to get together and for the folks that come out on a on a snowy, icy night. A lot going on and and uh a lot of reasons to uh uh be concerned about going out on the road. So I just pray you'd bless now with those of us that are here Lord, I pray. I know your presence is here. I know that. We can't see you, Lord. I can't feel you. I can't hear you, but I know you're here just as real as ever. So help us. Speak to us. Lord, use your word and challenge us. Some of these thoughts you gave me, I pray. And fill me with your Spirit as always my prayer. In Jesus' name. Amen. I think if for any sincere Christian, our desire is to please the Lord with our life I don't know how you feel, but I want I'm 65 now, been doing this a long time, and just not as a preacher, but just as a child of God, just somebody that God saved me From sin and hell. I want my life to please the Lord. Amen. Can I get a witness? I want my life to please the Lord. And um And uh to be successful, I put it down this way, I want to be successful in my personal Christian life, my daily walk with God, Monday morning, Tuesday afternoon, Wednesday night, Thursday afternoon, all week long. I want God to be pleased with the things I do and how I work and how I interact with my wife and others around. I want everything. I wanted to please the Lord in my personal Christian life. And I want to be successful, and I think I'm speaking for all of us. I want to be successful in my Christian service. I want to win souls to Christ. Right? Anybody here on the same page with me? I want God to use me. Two things primarily, and again I'm speaking for all of us and I'm challenging all of us, I think, but I want God to use me in two areas. As a preacher and just as an individual Christian, one, I want God to use me to bring others to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. I sincerely want to see people saved. And we get criticized a little bit sometimes. Oh, it's all soul winning, oh preaching the gospel. That's all right. You study the book of Acts, that's what they did all through the book of Acts. And the second thing I'd like for God to use me and use all of us as a church and as individuals Is folks that are safe, help them find the will of God for their life and then live that life So I want to bring people to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ, and I want God to use me to help people find the will of God for their individual lives and their place of service and their purpose, God's will, God's purpose for them. And so my desire is to please the Lord, and I want our church to please God in 2026. Maybe the Lord will come today. Maybe the Lord will come next month. Maybe this summer. Maybe next fall. Rapture will take place. We talked about that Sunday. If that's the case, whenever that happens, whenever the Lord comes, and we are before the Lord, and I don't know how this all plays out, to be honest with you. But if we end up before the Lord as a church congregation standing there before the judgment seat of Christ, I know we'll be individuals, but maybe as a church, you know, He He addressed the churches in Revelation as a body. You know, he addressed the pastor. I just want to remind you the pastor is called an angel and uh wonderful thing. But um but he addresses the whole church. So if We end up as a church congregation before the Lord and stand before Him as a body of believers I'd like to hear the Lord say to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, Well done, thou good and faithful church. Amen? I'd like to hear it as a church. And for that to happen, we have to be successful victorious Christians individually, because its individuals make up the church. And so we have to be that. So that's a desire of mine for this coming year, is to please God in every aspect of my life. Every day of my life, Lord, be pleased with me. Wouldn't it be a wonderful thing? Every night before you go to bed, uh Kathy and I, we always pray together and have our little devotion Kneel before the Lord, and if you could hear God say this, you did good today. I'm pleased with you today. Wouldn't that be a wonderful thing every night hear the Lord say that Dr. Lee Robertson said everything rises and falls on leadership. Leadership. And I believed that, and he proved that to be true. However, I'm not correcting that in any way, shape, or form. I just want to I want to expand on that Everything rises and falls on leadership. However, we need to be careful not to discount the importance of what I'm calling followship. Leadership, but then the importance of leadership, but also the importance of following I think it's possible for a church or organization, ministry, whatever, church is on my mind. To have a great leader, but if they have poor followers, that leader, no matter how great he is, he's severely handicapped. If he doesn't have good followers. You follow what I'm saying? So a great leader, but if he has poor followers, his leadership is going to be handicapped. Because of the poor followers with them. You follow what I'm saying? On the other hand, you could have a very poor leader, sorry, leader, but if you have great followers That leaders, leadership is enhanced, is strengthened because of the good followers. You follow what I'm saying? I think sometimes leaders get credit Not so much because of their great leadership, but they've got good people under them and working around them and makes them look good, right? And uh you say, oh uh brother so-and-so, and he's doing a great job, and you go out there, and man everybody's working hard and doing everything and going on, and um so leadership, everything rises and falls on leadership, but We cannot discount the importance of followership. I think Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I hesitate to use the word followers, because I never viewed myself as much of a leader. God knows my weaknesses. The Holy Spirit makes up for my weaknesses. But I tell you, we have tremendous people in our church. And I'm not just saying that, you know, for any reason. I'm saying it because it's true. And a team of people that have a genuine burden for the Lord and for winning the lost and serving God. And I I I may be off base here on this a little bit. Dr. Robertson used to say that 10% of the people in the church do 90% of the work. That's probably true in a lot of cases. I think the percentage of people in our church that do the work is much higher than 10% I mean it's a higher higher much higher figure. And that's because there's people and make up the body of Christ here that love God. And a burden for souls and love each other. We hear it all the time. It's a family. And I tell you, it's the congregation that makes that happen. Their personal walk with God and their love for the Lord and love for one another. A poor leader with good followers can appear to be a great leader because he has good people working with him. And I think this applies in the home. You can have a a good husband and so be careful here folks. You can have a good husband As the greatest husband in the world, but if he has a poor wife, it handicaps him as a husband. Right? You follow what I'm saying? It hurts him But then the converse of that is true also. I think you can have a sorry husband. If he's got a good wife and she's everything the God wants her to be, she can make that husband look good, even though he's a sorry rascal. I'm not getting a whole lot of feedback on this part. The Bible says in Proverbs, I don't have the reference, it says about the wife being a virtuous wife is a crown unto her husband. What happens to somebody when you put a crown on them? They become what? They get it. Might be in the Hebrew there, I'm not sure. But it makes them what? You put a crown on somebody, it makes them what? Nobility. They're part of royalty. You know, over in England, now we don't have monarchy and kings and all that here, but in countries they do, you put a crown on someone, their crown all of a sudden They're noble, they're royal. They may be a sorry rascal. But they put that crown on their head. And that's what I'm trying to say here. Followshit. The importance of follows. A good wife can make a poor husband look good. Followship. A church, a good people can make a sorry pastor look good. Because they love God and they walk with each other. So the importance of followship, the importance of followship. Here's my one of my challenges. I got one more. I'm going to leave it with that. But let's commit ourselves this year. Would you join me in this? Let's commit ourselves this year to be good followers of Jesus Christ. We're not here to follow a man. We're here to follow Jesus Christ. I like what it says about John the Baptist. The disciples heard John the Baptist speak and they followed Christ. And I always thought that's what I want as a pastor, a preacher. I want to preach God's word, and people, the the and because of what I say, people follow Christ. So let's be good followers of Jesus Christ. In 1 Corinthians 11:1, Paul made this statement. Listen to what he said. And Paul is a phenomenal leader, powerful influence. Even to this day through the scriptures. He says, Be ye followers of me, but he doesn't stop there. He qualifies it, even as I also am of Christ. In other words, he's saying, listen, you only follow me insofar that I'm following Christ. If there's somewhere where I'm not following Christ, then don't follow me. The followers, the importance of followship. Um then here's another Shotgun thought. And I'm going to end with this. Success in the Christian life does not happen just by accident. I can't just go along to get along and think I'm going to get to the end of my life and stand before God and hear God say, Well done, just went along. You just kind of went with the flow. You just kind of melded into everything. If I i if I'm going to be successful in my Christian life, It has to be deliberate. There has to be diligence. There has to be discipline. There has to be determination If I'm going to be successful in my Christian life. Now, I'll be honest with you, some people might take issue with this, but for me personally, I'm a big fan of New Year's resolutions I like it. I think a new year, you're coming up, here's a whole new chapter. It's a fresh start. It's a clean slate. That's the way I look at 2026. And this year I want to sit down, I want to evaluate what happened last year with successes, failures, look at all that, and then I want to look forward and I want to say, all right, I want to resolve to work on this area, to do better here, to uh maybe push this out, it's unnecessary baggage, and uh just look at the year ahead and approach it in a deliberate um thought-through, intelligent, resolved way face the new year. You follow what I'm saying? And don't just float into the new year. Oh, whatever it was last year. I'll just, whatever, I'll float along. I don't want to be that way. I want to be better this year than I was last year. I want to be stronger in my faith in 2026 than I was in 2025. Anyone with me on this? I want to be more effective in my witness. I want to make more of a difference in this old dark world with the gospel this year than I did last year. And that doesn't just happen. There has to be decision. There has to be determination, discipline. I have to learn to say no to things that hinder me, and yes to the things that help me and strengthen me. I can't just go through. I'm a fan of New Year's resolution, a new year, a fresh start, a new beginning What do we mean by resolution? A resolution is a decision and a declaration of what I intend to do. We sing it occasionally. I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world's delights. I'm resolved. I'm declaring, I'm determining this is what I'm going to do. Now, Christian resolutions. Deal with Christian virtues. You know, the old drunk, oh yeah, uh, I want to get drunk more this year than I did last year. That guy's a fool, to be honest with you. He needs Christ. He's the Lord to help him. Christian virtue, Christians make Christian resolutions. And these resolutions had to do with our virtue, our spiritual virtues, love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, kindness, power of God. Christian resolutions deal with spiritual power, victory over besetting sins. Power to share the gospel and see people under conviction and saved, their lives changed by the power of the gospel, the Lord filling me and working through me. Christian resolutions. Paul put it this way, Philippians 4 13. I can do all things, but he doesn't end there. What's he say? I can do all things, say it with me, through Christ, which strengthens me. He wasn't doing his he wasn't making his resolutions. He wasn't resolving to live for God in his own power. Somebody put it this way. They said, if your resolutions fail, if your resolutions can be accomplished in your own strength and power, then they were not resolutions They were not Christian resolutions. Because the flesh cannot be what God intends for the Christian to be. You follow what I'm saying? What I'm getting at is this. This is what I'm getting at. We need the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives if we're going to grow and be what we ought to be as Christians this year. That's the whole thing I'm trying to get at tonight. That every one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we're filled with the Holy Spirit this year. We're empowered by the Holy Spirit. To live a victorious Christian life, to have victory over sin, to be a blessing, to have the joy of the Lord in my life, and to be a witness to other people and see people saved. And people growing because of my influence. I need the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit in my life for that to happen. So Christian resolution is really Christian submission to the Holy Spirit, to his power. Probably one prayer I pray more than anything else as far as my ministry is concerned, pastoring is concerned, is this, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, help me, enable me to walk in the Spirit. So it's not my power, it's not my strength, it's the Spirit of God working through me. Are you with me? Everybody with me tonight? I put it down this way. Oh, by the way, we make New Year's resolutions. Remember it's New Year's resolution, not New Day's resolution. That's where a lot of them last one day. I'm going to get in shape. I'm going to go work out. The other year I resolved I was going to join the gym and uh lose weight and get in shape. I joined the gym. I paid my payments every month for a year. I never lost a pound in get in shape Then I found out you actually have to go to it. I thought you'd just join the thing and By the way, um this has nothing to do with anything I'm talking about. But um New Year's Eve up in Times Square in New York. Anybody familiar? Everybody's up there. I always heard how great this thing was, how great New Year's Eve, Times Square And so one night I stayed up and watched. I didn't think it was that great. In fact I think they dropped the ball. It's New Year's resolution New Year's resolution, not new days or new weeks resolution for the year I put this down. We need the filling of the Holy Spirit if I'm going to be what God intends for me to be. I can't be what God intends for me without the filling of the Holy Spirit. I need the power of the Holy Spirit to do what God instructs me to do. God wants me to be a certain kind of person. He wants my life to be characterized by the fruits of the Spirit By the fruit of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, kindness. That's what he wants me to be. And the Holy Spirit does that to me. But I need the Holy Spirit to fill me to be the kind of person. the Christian the kind of Christian God wants me to be. I can't do it on my own. I've tried. I can't. The flesh cannot be The flesh cannot make me be the person God wants me to be. I need the filling of the Holy Spirit. And by the way, what I need, you do too. All Christians do. And I don't think we emphasize that enough in our ministries, our preaching, our churches. The filling of the Holy Spirit. To make me what I ought to be. And we're trying and we grit our teeth. I'm going to do better. And I'm going to try to. And that's not where it's at. Not I. It's the Spirit of God living through it. Paul put it this way, for I'm crucified Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I. Christ liveth in me. The life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. He said it's Christ in me, it's the Holy Spirit living in me. So I need the filling of the Holy Spirit to be what God intends for me to be, and then the power of the Holy Spirit to do what God instructs me to do, and that's win souls and help others and be a blessing and encourage people and help people live for God. And I need the leadership of the Holy Spirit to go where God directs me I want God to lead me. I want the Holy Spirit to lead me. Read the book of Acts and you see the Holy Spirit leading them, leading them, leading them. And he'll put a blockade here. They're going to go over to Asia and to Europe. And he put a block there. The Holy Spirit forbade them. And he redirected them up into Europe Holy Spirit was leading them, leading them, leading them. I want that for my life. I want that for our church. I want that for each of our individual lives, God leading us, leading us, leading us through the Holy Spirit. So we need to be filled, we need the power, we need the leadership. In 2026. That's what we need, the Holy Spirit. Say how does that happen? How do I get filled with the Holy Spirit? How do I have the power of the Holy Spirit? How does that happen? What do I do, preacher? I'm just a I just work a job and I got a family. I'm trying to do a what how does this happen? There's a guy in the Bible, um, and I I don't have the reference on his name But uh he saw he saw the apostles and the Holy Spirit coming upon people, and that was a unique situation And he says, here's some money. I want the ability to give the Holy Spirit. Here's some money. And Peter rebuked him sharply. You can't buy the Holy Spirit. There's only one way to have the filling and the power and the leadership of the Holy Spirit, and that is where I come, and I die to sell, and I just yield my will completely to Christ. Say, no longer my will, but thy will be done. No longer Dennis Leatherman. It's Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ only. I just put myself on that altar. Say, Lord, I want to die to self. I want your spirit to take me, empower me, and lead me and use me. We present ourselves fully to the Lord. We yield our will fully to the Lord. We die to self and we trust the Lord fully. And He fills us and leads us and uses us. And sometimes, often The filling of the Holy Spirit, we're not necessarily aware of it. It's by faith. I confess my sin, I get all that, died all that, put myself in the all and say, Lord, fill me. The Spirit of God leads me and directs me and gives me victory. Amen? So that's my challenge for the new year. Let's seek The filling and the leadership and the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives, in our homes, and in our church. Amen? Anyone on board with me on this? I'm going to give an invitation, Catherine, if you can come up here. And we've seen God working. We've seen it. The presence of God. But I want him to lead us and fill us. I know it's just a handful here tonight with everything going on but I'm telling you, just the folks here tonight, if we would have the Holy Spirit filling us and leading us, empowering us, we could make a God could do a great, great day. So the invitation is this. I'm going to invite us this last night of 2025. Wherever you're at spiritually, wherever you're at, I'm going to invite you to come, an old altar, maybe families together, by yourself if you want. Just kneel and say, Lord, here I give myself to you. I want to die to sell. I want me off the throne. I want it, Jesus, and Jesus alone. Fill me, empower me, lead me this year, and use me. And I'm telling you, if we mean it. God will do it. I'm convinced of that. Let's stand together. Father, bless now as we give our final invitation of this year And I pray maybe it would be a a life-changing thing. Maybe you'd just empower us in great ways, and we'd see you do give us victory and and joy of the Lord anew. In Jesus' name. Let's as the piano play.