Of the what? Ruler. Alright, so we're talking about rulers. If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee Leave not thy place, for yielding pacifieth great offenses. There is an evil which I have seen under the sun. There's that statement An evil which I have seen under the sun, as an error which proceedeth from the ruler. Alright, he's talking about a ruler again. Folly is set in great dignity. And the rich sit in low places. I have seen servants upon horses and princes walking as servants upon the earth. I entitled it this Folly on the Throne. Folly on the Throne. And uh I'll share with you what I got out of this, and um we'll trust the Lord to use it and help us. Father, as we now look at these next few verses, um I ask that you would open our hearts, give us understanding. I pray that I would be true to your word. I pray that you would use your word to help us see this world from your perspective And understand a little bit of what the situation we have as those living under the sun But I pray you'd give us, as I said, a view from above the sun, a view from above, particularly in this matter of rulers, dignitaries. presidents and kings, elected officials. We could see all this from your perspective. So fill me with your spirit is my prayer as I yield my will, present my body anew And be our teacher tonight, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. I think if there's anywhere that any place that wisdom is desperately needed, Where wisdom is desperately needed, it is in the hearts and minds of leaders Folks whose decisions have a profound impact and influence on many, many people, we would want wisdom in those, especially we would want wisdom in those positions. In the hearts and minds of leaders and rulers over people, over nations. I noticed here in these few verses, verses four, five, six, and seven. The word ruler is used twice in verse five, and then in verse uh four and verse four and verse five, and then in verse seven he references princes. Who are walking as servants upon the earth, but the servants are up on the horses. They're up in the place of honor. The princes are down walking as a servant Jesus, I think, referenced the eye this idea of foolishness In the hearts and minds of leaders of rulers. He mentioned in Matthew 15, 14, he Addressing the Pharisees who were leaders, rulers in the synagogues, rulers in religion and spiritual things, he referred to them as blind leaders of the what? Of the blind. And he's referencing here a blindness, and we could say ignorance or foolishness On the part of those who lead others. And the influence of that foolishness, the influence of that ignorance and lack of wisdom on the part of leaders. how that influences those who follow behind, those who are affected by their leadership. Solomon understood this. Would you turn with me to 1 Kings chapter 3? Now I wish Solomon would not have ended up the way he did. How many people with me wish that Solomon would have stayed wise and stayed true? But he didn't. And you didn't catch God off guard, and God can deal with man's foolishness. But nevertheless, Solomon understood the importance of wisdom. In the hearts and minds of those who lead us, those who are our quote unquote rulers In 1 Kings chapter 3, I want to begin reading verse 5. Solomon has now taken the throne. David is off the scene. Solomon is taking the throne. And notice in verse number 5, the Bible says in 1 Kings 3, and Gibeah the Lord appeared unto Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, Ask what I shall give thee. I don't know how you think, but I think that would be cool. God shows up in the middle of the night and says, hey Dennis. I don't think he'd call me pastor, but uh he says, Hey Dennis, ask anything you want. Well, I hope I'd have my I'd hope I would hope that I was wide awake and thinking straight, because I may say something stupid But Solomon understood the gravity of the position he held, and he responded in a tremendously wise way. And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy, according as he has walked before thee in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee. And thou hast kept for him this great kindness that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day This is Solomon responding back to God telling him, Solomon, you ask what you will. And now, O Lord my God. Thou hast made thy servant, referring to himself, king instead of David, my father. And look what he says: and I am but what? I'm a little child. I know not how to go out or come in. And thy servant is in the midst of thy people. Which thou hast chosen, a great people that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. What is Solomon saying about himself here? He said, I'm a child. And you've made me a king, a ruler of this great people that you've chosen out of all the people of the world, you've chosen out the children of Israel. What's he saying about himself? He's saying, I'm inadequate for this. I I'm overwhelmed by this. I I don't have what it takes. To be the ruler, to be the king over this great people. And I tell you, I think there's something to be learned there. When we think we've got it and we think we can handle it, and oh yeah, I'm up to this, I can do this That's usually when we fall on our face. And that's one thing that just kind of gets on me a little bit, just our system, and I think it's the best there is available under the sun. our system of government. But it's basically people running around candidating, telling us how great they are and how how adequate they are. Wouldn't it be something to have somebody say, hey, I can't handle this, I can't do it. I need God to give me wisdom to do this I'd vote for that one. Now look what he says. Verse 9. Give therefore, because I'm inadequate, because I cannot do this. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad. For who is able to judge this, thy so great a people? Look at this. And the speech pleased the Lord. And Solomon had that Solomon had asked this thing. Now, right from the get-go, Solomon, just a young man, now he's the king, he's the ruler, he's the prince And he understands right off the get-go. And people know what get-go is. I don't know where that came from, but we know what it means. And he says, God, I need wisdom. I need wisdom. I need wisdom. Boy, how the history of Israel would be different if every king that came to the throne would have had that attitude and prayed that prayer. So Solomon's exercising wisdom before God even gives him this supernatural wisdom. He understood the importance. Of those who rule desperately need wisdom in their hearts and minds. Lyndon Johnson, not my favorite president. But he made this statement. He made a pretty insightful statement. He said the president's hardest task is not to do what is right, but to know what is right. Well that's that's the true statement. It's knowing what is right. To know what is right and to know what is wrong is an act of wisdom, is a fruit of wisdom. It's bad enough for a fool to be alone, maybe in a corner, and not have much influence. It's bad enough for anybody to be a fool. Even somebody that maybe doesn't have a lot of influence or just kind of off in those shadows somewhere. But it is a tragedy for someone who has tremendous influence over great nations And for that person to be a fool. For that person to be a fool. You see, leadership has a ripple effect You read you study the history of Israel and you find when they had a good and godly king, they had a wise king. You find that has an influence throughout the nation and the nation as a whole, for the most part, not 100%, but for the most part, then that nation will behave wisely But when you have a foolish king like Ahab or one of those, an ungodly king, before you know it, the whole nation's ungodly. Because of the influence, that ripple effect. Um that is true. Uh I just thought of this. They say often that a church will take on the personality of its pastor. God bless you all dearly. But it's because of those that are in positions of influence, those that are in positions of leadership, rulers, so to speak. Has an effect throughout there. So what a tragedy it is for a fool to be sitting on a throne. For a fool to be in a position of influence. That tells me, that impresses upon me the importance of praying and voting for those who have some common sense For those that have at least a little bit of wisdom, and you know, uh, and maybe it's just the cynical part of me, but I look at our situation and think It's awfully scarce. And so we have to pay very careful attention. We have to pay pay close attention. I'm not of the mentality I'm just going to sit back and let fools take over our country, our county, our state. I want to pray and I want to be proactive as best I can and you know nobody's gonna live up to my ideal that I have in my mind right there, but I want to get as best I can And have a little bit of common sense, have a little biblical wisdom from above, a little bit of, at least, a perspective of what is right and wrong. Try and use what influence I have to see that take place in whatever country I am. I'm God placed me in his grace and mercy in America. But if I was in New Zealand or Australia or wherever, I would want to try and do the same there. Wherever God would place me. Now I think verse number four, come back to our text. I think verse number four, Solomon is giving us, under the inspiration of God, some advice. This whole topic of fools on the throne, folly on the throne. Verse 4, he gives us advice. And then I see in verse 5, 6, and 7, he's kind of making an observation. And so let's look first of all at the advice. And verse 4, I put it this way: he gives us advice for dealing with an infuriated ruler. Look at verse 4. And if the spirit, and the word spirit there, I believe he's referencing the attitude, the frame of mind of the ruler. If the spirit of the ruler Rise up against thee. Now I get the word infuriated from that phrase rise up. The word rise up means to ascend up in flames is kind of the idea, the word picture. Becomes inflamed. Or you could say something like this, going by the context, you could say something like this: his spirit becomes enraged. Did anybody here ever has anybody here ever worked for a hothead? You know what I'm talking about? I did for a little while in Chattanooga, I worked for a fellow in a carpet mill. The guy who I I think he was the boss, I don't remember, he was at least the foreman, I think he ran the show. That guy was the hottest hothead I've ever seen. He would lose his tool, he would his spirit would rise up Over every little thing. I think this is a phrase that's used. Their temper rises Is temper is rising? Is that not temperature, but they're tempered or anybody ever hear that? I think I just imagined that But here he's given a picture of a ruler. Could be an employer, could be a president, a king, a governor, a prince. Somebody's in a position of leadership and influence, and they're shouting and screaming in anger. I mean they are blowing up and they're throwing stuff and they're mad and going on And as I got looking at this, the advice he gives is different than what I would think. If you're working under somebody, you're serving under somebody, a man they are they're a hothead and they got a terrible temper and they're blowing up all the time. What would you want to do? I'd want to get out of that. I say, I ain't living with this. I quit. I'm out of here. I resign. Here's my resignation. But look what he says. If the spirit of the world rise up against thee, what's he say? Leave not thy place. Don't remove yourself from that situation. Don't hand in your resignation. Don't go storming out of the root. I'd have thought otherwise. How many people would think otherwise? Philly. Philly on this. I'm out. He says, don't do that. Don't leave your place. Don't hand in your resignation. And I thought, I wonder why that is. Why would he say stay in that type of situation? I think there's, and this is speculation on my part, but I think there's a couple of different reasons. One, it might protect the people below that ruler. From the negative effects of that angry ruler. I might be like a buffer. This guy's exploding, he's making stupid decisions, he's throwing stuff, he's very, very angry. If I keep my place, I stay there, I may be able to be a buffer on that having effect on the people underneath. You follow what I'm trying to say? And I get that from David and Saul. When an evil spirit came upon Saul and he lost his mind and he's in a rage, what did David do? Anybody remember? He plays some nice, soft, soothing music, and it calms Saul down. And it protected the nation from this evil spirit that would come upon Saul and the effects of that. You follow what I'm saying? And it's interesting, and we're going to study this, we're studying this on Wednesday night, the life of David And we're just coming up to it in chapter 18 of 1 Samuel. We're just coming up to where Saul does ridiculous things. He gets mad. He gets all envious. He gets jealous. But the Bible says that David behaved himself what? Wisely He didn't storm out, he didn't say, I'm out of here, I'm out. He kept his place, he stayed at his place, and he used his influence To minimize the effects of Saul's spirit rising up on the nation No in the nation. Now I don't think I say that, but I don't think that that means that we don't ever come to a point where we need to leave. I think we do what we can, stay in our place, follow this admonition, and do everything we can to try and minimize this, maybe help the ruler to get over this because they're God's appointed man, they're in that position by the providence of God. God allowed them to be there whether it should be or not. God allowed them to be there, and I try to do everything I can. But I do believe there comes a point where finally He says, All right, I cannot be a part of this anymore I think the Bible allows for that. So maybe I'll help the ruler be a better person. I bounced this off my wife. I said, I think this is a correct statement. See what dog thinks. A good follower helps a leader to be a better leader. Think about that. I think that's true. In fact, it is true because I'm saying it. But I think that's the case. I think you can maybe have a poor leader, but if you've got very, very good followers, you can still accomplish something. I've known over the years churches that maybe didn't have a very good leader in the pastor, but the folks in the church were just solid and strong and they followed his leadership. And they made up for his lack of ability and were able to accomplish things for the Lord. Now Dr. Robertson said everything rises and falls on leadership, and that's true. But I think maybe what Solomon is referencing here is the importance and the influence of followship And being a good follower and staying in there, not bailing out on it. So he says, Leave not thy place. And then he says, This, for yielding pacifieth great offenses. So he says, uh here's his advice for dealing with an angry leader. You got a king, you got a ruler, a prince, and you're underneath them, or a boss. And boy, they're a hothead and they blow up over everything. Don't just bail out right away. Don't resign, storm out. Stay there. Try and use your influence and be what you can. But then he says this: don't respond in kind. Don't remove yourself, but neither should you respond in kindness. He says, yielding pacifieth great offenses It's interesting that word yield, and again I like to do Bible studies, I like to do word studies, that word yield means a healing cure. It's almost like you're looking at that ruler, that spirit rises up like there's there's a a malfunction there, there's uh something not well, there it's it's not what it ought to be And by me holding into my position and not responding in kind and throwing stuff back and yelling back at him and screaming back when he's screaming, but I yield to that, I become a healing cure. I help pacify that. And again, I have scripture for this. Go to Proverbs with me. Chapter 15. I don't know if anybody relates to this, maybe in your workplace or whatever. But notice chapter fifteen and verse number one, Proverbs. This is a great verse. A soft answer turneth away what? There's that spirit rising up. A soft answer turneth away wrath, but grievous words stir up anger. Boy, he gets mad, he blows up, he starts throwing stuff, and um you do the same thing. What's that gonna do to his anger? He's going to stir it up more. He's going to get more angry. Then you get more angry. And the next thing you know, the whole organization is destroyed. But a soft answer pacified that. Look over at chapter sixteen, just a chapter over, and verse number fourteen. The wrath of a what? Oh, he's mad. The king is furious. He's screaming, throwing his scepter around, smashing stuff. The wrath of a king is a messenger of death. He's calling for heads. Heads are gonna roll. But look at the rest of the statement. But what kind of man? A wise man does what? Pacify it. The word pacify means puts it off, plays it down, gets that thing calmed down. 25, chapter 25, and verse 15. That word pacify, as I said, caused the settle down or put to rest. Chapter 25 of Proverbs, verse number 15. By what? Long forbearing, patience, staying at it To stay there in your place, do right. A prince is persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone. I think it requires, see if you agree with me on this, I think it requires great strength of character to not lose your head when all around you, everyone else is losing their head. Do you agree with me? Uh you're you get called in the office, and boy, the boss is mad, he's screaming at you, he's angry, red faced, veins bulging. And I'm telling you, it takes straight, great strength of character to stand there and not get angry in response. You agree with me on that? Anger is contagious. Very contagious. And it takes a strong, wise man of great character to say, I am not going to respond in kind. I have a little poem I like, and I've had it in my Bible for years. I don't in the current Bible, I've got a new Bible, but it's not a Christian poem. It's by Rudyard Kipling. If Well, what a great poem. He says this, and I won't read the whole thing, I'm just going to read a phrase out of it. He said, if you can keep your head when all about you are losing theirs and blaming you. Then he goes down here, he says, Then you will be a man, my son. And I think that's what Solomon is referencing here in Proverbs when he says, When the spirit of the ruler rises up, man, he loses it. Don't you go storming out, but don't you respond in kind either. You pacify that, you be gracious, you use calm words, you use soft answers, and you'll break that bone. So the first thing I notice, verse 4, is Advice for dealing with an infuriated uh ruler. And then verse 5, 6, and 7, just quickly, he makes some observations of an inadequate ruler. Look at verse 5. There's an evil which I've seen under the sun, and an error which proceedeth from the ruler. Folly is set in great dignity. Folly is sitting up on the throne. The guy sitting on that throne is a fool. And the rich, those who are successful, have been wise, they're in low places. I've seen servants upon horses. And princes, people who are genuinely a prince, a wise, a prince of a man, they're walking as servants on the earth. The reality of the world we live in is that fools are not limited to places of insignificance. And wise people are not guaranteed places of leadership. Under the sun Those who are on the throne often lack character, often lack courage, and often lack wisdom. Can I tell you my opinion? I think when television came in it deteriorated the quality of the people who hold office in our country. And the reason I say that is this. Now you have a population is in many cases judging the person they want to be on that throne, so to speak, by their appearance. By their suave personality, by their use, their clever use of words, and not because of their character, not because of their wisdom Not because of anything they've done as far as a track record of a solid uh godly history, but because they look good. In the the debate with um Kennedy and Nixon, they s and that was a turning point. And they said it was first debate televised, I believe, and they said that Nixon lost that simply because Kennedy looked so good And Nixon had that dark afternoon shadow and he didn't look sharp. Isn't that something? So under the sun, in an imperfect world, a fallen world, so many times for various reasons, not just in our country, but throughout history, the fools Have ended up on the throne, the fools, those that have no character, those with uh no wisdom, no courage. They ended up in places of leadership, and the wise end up walking with the horses. We see it in Saul and David. Saul was the fool, sat on the throne, David was the wise man, and he's chased around the wilderness like a dog. Ahab, full, wicked, he's in the place of throne, he's in the place of leadership, and Elijah. The godly prophet of God, he's out there being persecuted and off by little streams eating food that ravens bring to him. Agrippa, he's the fool. He's sitting on the throne. He hears the gospel. You're not persuading me, Paul. And Paul's the wise one. Where's Paul at? He's in prison. He's in shackles. It's called political inequality In other words, in a fallen world, the wicked are often praised and celebrated, and the godly and the righteous are often persecuted and cut off. Chances are, chances are, now this isn't a cross, I can't say this uh dogmatically But most of the time, your godly wise people are not going to get citizen of the year awards. They're not going to be the ones that are raised up on the shoulders for he's a jolly good fellow. It's not who the world's going to praise most of the time. Now it's there's exceptions. Most of the time, the fools are going to be exalted under the sun, and the wise are going to be relegated to the sun. So, what does that mean? That means we have to look above the sun for leadership and direction, right? Look above the sun. Who is it above the sun? It's the Lord. We look to God for that leadership. And I believe that tells us, and it's kind of as this is where it came in, where it's kind of interesting that we are considering this tonight week when we have a very important election in our country. I think we need to pray for godly wise leaders. I don't think we have a right to criticize our country or the leadership of our country if we are not praying Earnestly, diligently for our country. God told us to in Timothy. Pray for rulers and kings and those in authority that we may live peaceable and godly lives And I think we ought to take action and do everything we humanly can to get wise people on the throne and not fools. Not fools. Now as long as we're under the sun, as long as we're dealing with human beings, we're gonna have infallible people in these positions. I mean it's gonna be that way. In pulpits and everywhere, it's gonna be infallible people No, not infallible people. Fallible people. But we ought to seek the wisest that there are. And try and do everything we can to get in place. And so I think this is important I think Tuesday is an important day. Incredibly important. You say, oh, God just does what it was. You know, I'm not convinced that every king of Israel was the man God wanted there. God allowed it. It wasn't what God wanted. But he allowed men make their choice. You want a king? I don't think you should have a king. You want a king? All right. There you go. Saul. And so I believe we ought to pray earnestly this week, and I believe we ought to get out and vote and be intelligent on our votes. There's a clear distinction in our country today. There's a very clear distinction. There was a fellow up in Pennsylvania that put on his Facebook, he said, I stand for the flag and I kneel for the cross. And his political party forced him out because of that statement he made. If you want to know which party that was, see me, I'll tell you. You can probably guess So we need wisdom. We need to pray. We need to act. That's I believe what he's telling us here. Alright? That's my political speech for the night. But I believe that Bible here, I believe that Solomon is addressing that. So here's going to be our invitation. I don't know how God may speak to your heart. Here's going to be our invitation. I'm going to ask our church folk. That we would pray in old order and pray that God's will be done. God have mercy on a country. Send revival to our church first and foremost. But God would show mercy to our country and give us wise leaders. Amen? Father in heaven, please bless us now. You know our hearts. You know where we're at. You know, Lord, what I'm trying to say. And I believe that's what you're addressing here, foolishness on the throne, and we need wisdom, so bam. Father in heaven, bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And maybe would you join me as Jennifer plays the invitation? Maybe join me.