With me to the book of 2 Kings. We're going to be in the 22nd chapter of the book of 2 Kings. 2 Kings chapter 22. If you were here this morning, you heard part one of this message You heard me describe how Josiah became king at the age of eight, surrendered his heart to the Lord at the age of sixteen, began to repair and amend the house. at the age of twenty-six, and then at the age of twenty-one, at the same time, Jeremiah had been called to preach and to uh preach hard against the nation of Judah And that the nation of uh Judah has turned away from the Word of God, and we talked about this morning Hilkiah finding the book of the law of the Lord in the house of the Lord. And I have preached the message entitled I have found the book. Tonight We're going to take the next step. We're going to see what happened after the Word of God was read to Josiah. That's where the cliffhanger was this morning. Chafin was standing there reading the book of the law, most likely the book of Deuteronomy. to Jo uh to Josiah as he stands there. This young man that has been surrendered to the Lord, that has been already at this point in time, if he did nothing else, would have been one of the best kings that Judah ever had. He's done more to tear down high places, to purge the land, to repair and amend the house of God. place and there we found Shaphan standing there in the palace reading the book of the law of the Lord to Josiah. I want you to look with me at 2 Kings chapter 22 and we're going to begin reading in verse eleven, I believe it is. Verse eleven. And we're going to read several verses, so hang on tight with me for just a moment. And it came to pass when the king had heard the words of the book of the law that he rent his clothes. There's something about the Word of God that burns in our heart. We find it pricked the hearts of those on the day of Pentecost. It cut the hearts of those that were getting ready to stone Stephen. Even those two men on the road to Emmaus, when they got ready, when they got to the house, they said, Did our not our hearts The Word of God will do something in your heart. We preachers can give you argument arguments for your head. We can even give you things that are logical to think about. We can even speak emotionally sometimes in illustrations and passages of scripture, but we can't affect your heart, only God and His Word So we find that Josiah has been this audience of one listening to Shaphan read the book of the law of the Lord. And at the end of that He rent his clothes. And the king commanded Hilkaiah the priest, and Ahakim and the son of Shaphan, and Akbar and the son of Micaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asiah a servant of the king, saying, Go ye Inquire of the Lord for me, and for the people, and for all Judah. Concerning the words of this book that is found, for great is the wrath of the Lord that is kindled against us. Because our fathers have not hearkened unto the words of this book, did do according unto all that all that which is written concerning us So Hilkiah the priest and Ahakim and Akbar and Shaphan and Asahiah went unto Holdah the prophetess, the wife of Solomon the son of Tikva, the son of Harhus, keeper of the wardrobe. Now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the college, and they communed with her. And she said unto them, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, Tell the man that sent you to me, thus saith the Lord. Behold, I will bring evil upon this place and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all the words of the book which the king of Judah hath read Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, and that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands, therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place and shall not be quenched. But to the king of Judah, which since you'd inquire of the Lord, thus shall uh shall ye say unto him, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel. As touching the words which thou hast heard, because thine heart was tender, and thou hast humbled thyself before the Lord, when thou heardest what I spake against this place and against the inhabitants thereof That they should become a desolation and a curse, and hast rent thy clothes and wept before me, I also have heard thee, saith the Lord. Behold, therefore, I will gather thee unto thy fathers, and thou shalt be gathered unto thy grave in peace, and thine eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring upon this place. And they brought the king word again And the king sent. By the way, from that moment on, Nebuchadnezzar, I'm sorry, Josiah knew he was safe. From that moment on, Josiah knew he was going to be spared. He was going to live his life without seeing the desolation come to the nation of Judah. With that w trying to put this as delicately as possible, from that moment on, he has nothing to gain here. Notice what it says in verse 1. And the king sent, and they gathered unto him all the elders of Judah and of Jerusalem. And the king went up into the house of the Lord, and all the men of Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him. And the priests, and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great. And he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of the Lord. The king stood by a pillar and made a covenant before the Lord to walk after the Lord and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all their heart and all their soul To perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book and all the people should to the covenant. And the king commanded Hilkai the high priest priest and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring forth out of the temple of the Lord all the vessels that were made for Baal. For the grove, for all the host of heaven. And he burned them without Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron, and carried the ashes of them unto Bethel. And he put down the idolatrous priests, whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah and in the places round about Jerusalem. Them also that burnt incense unto Baal to the sun and to the moon and to the planets and to all the hosts of heaven. Skip down for a few verses to get to verse nine. And what you have to watch is this is taking place, something else is taking place. Nevertheless, the priests of the high places came not up to the altar of the Lord in Jerusalem, but they did eat of the unleavened bread among their brethren Let's get down to verse 20. The Bible says, And he slew all the priests of the high places that were there upon the altars, and burned men's bones upon them, and returned to Jerusalem. The king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the Passover unto the Lord your God as it is written in the book of this covenant. Now watch this. This is such a huge verse. Surely there was not Holden such a Passover from the days of the judges that judged Israel Nor in all the days of the kings of Israel, nor of the kings of Judah, but in the eighteenth year of King Josiah, wherein this Passover was holding to the Lord in Jerusalem. Moreover, the workers were familiar spirits and the wizards and the images and the idols and all the abominations that were spied in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem did Josiah put away that he might perform the words of the law which were written in the book of uh uh that Hilkiah the uh priest found in the house of the Lord. Like unto him was there no king before him That turned to the Lord with all his heart, with all his soul, with all his might. When all the law of Moses, neither after him, arose there any like him. We talk quite a bit about this thing called revival. I'll give you four simple truths as part of the introduction about revival four incontrovertible truths about revival. Number one is this God is still powerful enough to send revival. He said, I am the Lord, I change not. He is the same yesterday, today, and forever. With him there is no variabless, neither shadow of turning Anything that God could do a ten thousand years ago, he can do today. He could stick his fingers in the waters of the Red Sea and part it He can keep you safe in a den of lions, he can keep you safe in a fiery furnace, he can part the Jordan, he can cleanse lepers, he can raise people from the dead. God is still powerful enough We talk about him in past tense. Oh, I'd like to have a revival like D. O. Moody had. I wish God could do again what he did then Anything God could do in the past, he can still do. He is the unchangeable high priest. Know this carefully, please. God is still powerful enough to send revival. Number two, God still wants us to have revival. I think that's something that we we have actually gotten to the place where we look towards softening our stance, softening our preaching, hoping that that will bring about revival. That has never been the case True revival happens when we stand on the principles of the Word of God. God still wants us to have revival. God is powerful enough to send revival. Number three, Satan himself cannot stop a true revival. We've got it so backwards so often. We talk about how Satan is attacking us. Yes, Satan is going to attack us, but I have a shield of faith whereby we'll be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked It is not Satan that is supposed to be on the attack. It's the church that's supposed to be on the attack. Upon this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. Gates are not offensive weapons. Gates are defensive weapons. Unfortunately, even though Satan himself cannot stop a true revival, oftentimes he has many accomplices in pulpits and pews around our country. God is still powerful enough to send revival. God still wants us to have revival. Satan himself cannot stop a true revival. Number four. Most of us have never actually seen one. We read the old stories about Billy Sunday coming to a town and then the bars being shut down and all the uh all the places of ill repute being closed for the entire revival. We haven't seen that We haven't seen revivals like Bob Jones Sr. saw in Dot in Alabama or even Charles G. Finney saw in Rochester, New York. We haven't seen revivals that just Spread and spread and spread. Because part of the problem is when we pray for revival, we're praying for someone else to get revived. Dear Lord, revive our country. Dear Lord, revive my church. There's absolutely nothing wrong with praying that way. But the true prayer revival is, Dear Lord, please revive me. The true reason why we are we do not have old revivals like we heard about, now there are lots of things. We can blame lots of people, we can blame the internet, we can blame all the Technology, we can blame all the the uh the ad atmosphere in the world, we can blame the woke crowd, we can blame anybody we want to blame, but the real reason that you and I are not having true revival is because of me When that's your answer, then maybe we're ready. In this passage of Scripture, we're going to watch the last great revival of God's people while the nation of Judah still existed We're going to see this revival take place under this king. Remember, it's not just a king. It's not just a king. There's also a prophet named Jeremiah, and they also now are reading the Word of God. Understand, those things working together are going to bring about a revival. A young king that is surrendered to serve the Lord, a prophet who's willing to go to prison just to Preach the word of God, to root up, to pull down, to throw down, and to destroy. And we're going to see, as Hilkiah hands that book to Shaphan and he reads it to King Josiah, that everything changes. I want to preach a message tonight entitled Following the Book. Let's see what happens when we follow the book. Josiah is going to take the right steps. He's going to have the right submission. He's going to have the right service. And he's going to have the right surrender. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. Dear Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you for our time once again together in your house. Father, we ask that you bless the message. Help us, Father. As we look at this passage of Scripture, the life of this man, this event that takes place, Father, we beg and plead for true revival, Father, to happen inside of each of us. Father, may we realize that corporate revival It's not an actual thing. A corporate revival is when a bunch of individuals get revived in the same place. Father, help us tonight, in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, you notice the first thing, as Chaffan is reading the Word of God, and Josiah is listening to it. And Josiah realizes he needs to do something. You'll notice the first thing that he does when he takes the right steps is he rent his clothes. He read his clothes. That's the mark of abject humility. Josiah could have been, like so many modern preachers or modern politicians or modern pundits would have been, he could have said, You know what If I rent my clothes and all my servants see it, then they might disrespect me. They might put me up on the pedestal that a king should be on, so maybe I shouldn't do it Maybe I shouldn't respond to the burning in my heart from the reading of the Word of God because somebody might see me. Or it might be that Josiah could have thought I wonder what the king of the Hittites and the Moabites and the Edomites would think if they heard that the king of Judah had rent his clothes I mean Assyria has already conquered the nation of Israel. We're next on the chopping block. God's hand of judgment has already been promised. We're next to be judged by God. And I don't want those other kings to hear that I'm a weak Listen, how many times has worried about what Someone else in the auditorium was going to say about you, Cat you in your seat when God wanted you at an altar. The king didn't care who saw. He didn't care what people heard. He rent his clothes. This act of abject humility. God resisteth the proud. But giveth grace unto the humble. Proverbs sixteen and verse eighteen pride goeth before destruction, a haughty spirit before a fall. Pride always goes before a fall. Humility always goes before revival. It doesn't happen any other way. A proud Christian is never going to be revived. A Christian that looks around and says, Boy, oh boy, Brother Harper, a whole bunch of people in this church needed that message tonight. Understand what I'm telling you tonight. Josiah took the right steps. The first step was he rent his clothes. The Bible tells us these six things doth the Lord hate. Yea, seven are an abomination unto him. The first one listed is a proud look. When Lucifer, did you ever think about this? When Lucifer invented sin. He didn't start with murder and he didn't start with adultery. He started with pride. I will be like the Most High. I will ascend above the stars of God. What I'm trying to tell you is the first thing that Josiah did was he humbled himself. Never in history has a proud church been revived. Never in history has a proud Christian been revived. Never in history has a proud evangelist been revived. He rent his clothes. After he rent his clothes, I love what he did next, because he does two things. One is specifically listed, the other one we're told later on, but he does two things after he rent his clothes First, he gets this group of people together and he says, listen, go inquire of the Lord for me. I want to know what God wants me to do next. Oh, that book talks about so much judgment, and it's obvious that God's hand of judgment is about to fall, and I don't want to make another step I don't want to make the wrong decision. That's unlike any king you've ever heard of in your entire life. It's unlike any president that we've ever heard of in our entire life. Josiah doesn't stand up and say, Boy, I've got an agenda that will rescue the nation of Judah. He doesn't say, I've got a plan that's gonna make put us back on top of everybody else. He doesn't say that. Josiah doesn't say Follow me because I've got all the plans. Josiah says, I'm not making a move, I'm not doing anything, I'm not given an edict, I'm not given an order, I'm not doing one single thing until I hear what God wants. So many times we're following someone's great program, great plan. Someone comes out with something, it might be perfectly fine, but we end up trusting that instead of the power of God. When the original person that came up with it trusted the power of God when he came up with the plan. But then we find ourselves following a plan instead of the Bible, instead of the Word of God, instead of God Himself. Josiah says, you guys gotta go find out. I gotta know what God wants. I don't want to do anything until I know what God wants. By the way, once you've rended your clothes, Once you've humbled yourself in abject humility before Almighty God, you no longer have your own agenda anymore, do you? There are young people in this auditorium. If we asked you right now, you would say, Well, I'm going to this college, I'm going to marry this person, this is going to be my career, and you don't even give the Lord a opportunity to open up his mouth and say something to you. You've got your agenda, but if you truly humble yourself before God, you're going to say, I don't have an agenda. I just want what he wants. See, the first step toward this great revival that's going to take place is the hardest step. It goes the most against human nature. That's that humility. That's that rending of clothes. But once you've rent your clothes, once you're in abject humility, the rest of the steps fall in uh fall in order pretty quickly. If I no longer have my own direction, I've got to find out what his is. If I no longer have my own agenda, I've got to know what his is. It happens that way, doesn't it? Not only that, but at the same time we know that Josiah, while sending these people to inquire of the Lord for him, that he's gotten down on his knees on his own and is praying Remember what the prophetess said? Go and tell the man that sent you unto me. That the Lord said, I also have heard thee. Josiah didn't just sit there and wait for someone to come back and tell him what God said. He got alone with Almighty God. He began to call on the name of the Lord. You begin to ask the Lord what he's supposed to do next. Oh, he's going to get confirmation from these people talking to the prophetess that's going to give them what the words directly from God. But Josiah wasn't just depending on her First Chronicles chapter sixteen and verse eleven, seek the Lord in his strength, seek his face continually. Luke chapter eighteen and verse two. The Lord spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray and not to faint You watch this, first thing he did was he rent his clothes. The second thing he did was say, Go inquire of the Lord. The third thing he did was he prayed on his own. And by the way, he probably started praying before they inquired of the Lord. Then when they came back, they said, Good news, Josiah. You're fine. You're not going to see the judgment. You're going to go to your father's grave in peace. You're fine. What does Josiah do? He said, Whether I'm fine or not, the nation of Judah is not fine. We're going to tear down some more high places. We're going to get those vessels. Did you notice that when we read it that there are vessels to Baal and to false gods stored in the temple of the living God. Not only that, the kings of Judah had ordained priests to the high places to offer up sacrifices to the sun and to the moon and to the stars and to Baal and to Asheroth. God's kings have anointed descendants of David. have anointed priests to offer up sacrifices to false gods. Josiah said, no, no, we're knocking those things down. We're getting those things out of the temple. We're getting those priests off of their job. We're going to clean some things up. We're going to start destroying some high places. See, Josiah took the right steps. Brother Harper, how do you know those are the right steps? Number one, because it worked. The nation of Judah did get revived. Number two, because the Bible tells us those are the right steps. If my people which are called by my name shall humble themselves. He rent his clothes. And pray, I also have heard thee, saith the Lord. And seek my face. Go ye inquire of the Lord for me. And turn from their wicked ways. Let's get the vessels out of the temple and tear down the high places. And I know I know there's probably someone watching online. Some person that is such a smart theologian that they in their own mind have turned the world upside down three or four times, even though they haven't accomplished one single thing except criticizing everybody else on the internet. But there's somebody out there saying, well, 2 Chronicles chapter 7 and verse 14 is not in its context about New Testament church revival. No, you're absolutely right. You really are Whoever you are, Mr. Theologian, you're absolutely right. In its context, it's an answer to Solomon's prayer on the dedication of the temple But even though I can say without hesitation that it's not in his context a passage about New Testament church revival, I can tell you in its application that there's never been a revival that didn't follow those four steps. Josiah humbled himself, prayed, sought the Lord's face, and turned from wicked ways. And what's God gonna do? He said, I'm gonna hear from heaven. I'm going to stay my judging hand. In the passage before it actually tells us that God's hand is hanging over the nation of Judah, ready to fall. Judgment is coming. By the way, can we not look around at the good old blessed United States of America and know for sure the judgment is coming? I feel like some of the other preachers have already said this. I feel like we're in a time of reprieve for just a little while. I rejoice in that. I love my country. And I know all of you do too, but the truth of the matter is the hand of judgment is still ready to fall. It's not time to slack up, it's not time to take it easy, it's not time it's not time, by the way, I'm gonna say this, I'm not saying anything ugly about anybody. It's not time to trust a president or uh a governor to take care of the whole job for you. Notice carefully, please. Took the right steps. Number two, he has the right submission. Don't you love that in chapter twenty three? After Josiah has been so moved that he's rent his clothes, inquired of the Lord, and prayed and started getting ready to tear down some more high places. Now all of a sudden Josiah says, okay, here's what we got to do. We got to get everybody here. Gotta get all the priests, gotta get all the people, gotta get all the old and the young, we've gotta get everybody here, because I want to read this same book to them. Josiah says basically if it did this for me, it can do this for them too. Don't you love it when a preacher gets up in a pulpit, when your pastor stands up in the pulpit and you can tell he's not just preaching. Now please understand. I'm not criticizing and I'm not saying just preaching is a simple thing. I'm not saying that at all. What I am saying, have you ever heard him preach and it was obvious that that That passage had gripped his heart in such a way that he has been waiting all week long for Sunday to come. That's what happens with Josiah. He said, get them all. I want everybody here. I don't want this. You know he could have kept that between him and Chafe and Hilkiah He could have said, Well let's get together and have a little Bible study. That would have been fine. That's not what he did. He said, Everybody needs to hear this And then he stands by that pillar and he makes a pledge. He makes a commitment to the Lord that all the children of Israel, all the children of Judah, are going to stand for. Watch what it says. Verse 3 of chapter 23. The king stood by a pillar and made a covenant before the Lord. To walk after the Lord. Listen, if you don't have an agenda, if you're inquiring of the Lord, if you're renting rending your clothes, you're gonna have to walk after the Lord, aren't you? Josiah is literally saying here, I don't want to take a single step unless I know the Lord's leading me. He doesn't say I don't want to get in front of him, I don't want to get above him, I want to walk right after him. Just like that shepherd leading us by those green pastures and still waters, I want to stay right behind him. He said, I want my direction to be right. You know, if you're following after the Lord, you'll never make a wrong turn You know we make those wrong turns? Make those wrong turns when something shiny shows up over there and we say, Well that looks good, and we turn over there and we find ourselves in a mess every single time But Josiah says, I'm going to walk after the Lord. I'm not going to get on my uh give my own agenda. I'm not going to give my own platform. God is my platform. I'm just going to walk after the Lord. Notice what he says here. I want my direction to be right. Then he says this, and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes. His dedication was right too, wasn't it? He said, I'm going to keep all of his commandments, all of his statutes, all of his judgments. Now what we're good at, and we all are good at this, please understand, I'm not preaching to you, I'm preaching to me too. We're all good at picking a few things in the Word of God that we don't have a problem with and preaching real hard on those. But we don't mention those things we have a problem with. We don't mention those sins that we struggle with, do we? Oh, we'll preach against the command with the commandments and we'll preach the judgments, but not some of those statutes. Those are difficult to go through. Isn't that what we do? Josiah said, it doesn't matter if it's my favorite verse, my favorite passage, it doesn't matter if it's my favorite commandment, my favorite judgment, or my favorite statute, I'm going to keep them all. See, there's not a one of us. Once again it goes back to that rending of the clothes, there's not a one of us who can sit here and say, Boy, I sure am glad I keep every word of the Word of God every day of my life No. But Josiah is making a commitment. He's m he's uh offering his submission. He said, I want my direction to be right. I want my dedication to be right. I want to follow after the Lord. And in following after the Lord, I'm going to give keep his commandments and his statutes and his testimonies. You write it down, I'm going to keep it, every single one of them. Then he says this not just is he going to do it, but he's going to do it with all their heart and all their soul What would happen to a church? How could any church grow? How much could any church grow if the pastor never had to stand up and preach the ABCs? The pastor never had to preach a message on the importance of reading your Bible, never had to preach a message on the importance of prayer. Never had to preach a message on the importance of coming to church, or never had to preach a message on the importance of having soul winning, because every single time they had soul winning, they had so many people show up, they ran out of cards to pass out The church members were in their Bible all day, every day. They were praying without ceasing. They were in church every time the doors were open. What would happen if a pastor didn't spend ninety percent of his time telling mature Christians those same four things they learned the first day they got saved? Well what would happen if every one of us kept those commandments and those statutes and those judgments with all our heart With all our soul. Not just half-heartedly, but with all our heart. Ye shall seek me and ye shall find me when you search for me with all your heart. Jeremiah chapter 29 and verse 13 says. But he's not done there. Once again, I'm going back. And I'm not really trying to grind an axe here, but I'm going to go there a second time. I'm going to go back to those internet warriors that we have, because watch what it says next. To perform The words the this covenant. By the way, you want to get someone to criticize you online? Just do something for God They're waiting. They're waiting to say something about how you did it wrong, how you wore the wrong color tie, or you you didn't have the the uh the the right look on your face while you were preaching. Oh they're ready, they're scouring They spend a lot of time watching sermons, but they don't do it the way the Bereans did. These were all noble than those that went in Thessalica. They received the Word of God with all readiness of mind. And search the scriptures data to see if those things were so. He says, I'm going to perform. I'm not just going to sit around and tell everybody How much I know, I'm gonna perform. I'm rolling up my sleeves, I'm gonna be involved. If uh I I remember someone saying this, I can't remember who it was I think my mom said it years ago actually, that if the pastor told us when we were members of a church in New Jersey, if the pastor told us we were going to paint the auditorium, we'd show up and paint it. That's just how we were. We were there every time the doors were open. We just performed. That's what you do. If the pastor says, well, we're gonna do this, we're gonna remodel this, we're gonna fix this, we're gonna uh fix the problem back there, we're gonna go knocking on doors, we're So pass out flyers I wonder how many of us would say, I don't necessarily have to be the first one here since I rent my clothes, but I'm going to be there. I'm going to perform everything in this book What have revival? This nation has revival. God's people have revival right here before our very eyes. It's not a story, it's not a history lesson, it's scripture. They actually have a revival. Don't you think we should want to do exactly what they did? It started with an individual rending his clothes, inquiring of the Lord and praying, and then tearing down high places and removing vessels It starts with his steps, then it starts, continues with his submission, his direction was right, his dedication was right, his desire was right, his devotion was right. Number three, I want you to notice his separation. I find this interesting. Revival is going on. It's happening. This thing is uh building some steam now. And all the other high pre uh guys of the high places are gone, except those ones on the very tippity top of the high priest uh places. The priests of the high places. They're up there, they're outwardly religious. They're eating unleavened bread with their brethren. Boy, if you saw them, you'd think, boy, those guys are spiritual. By the way, there are people in this auditorium. This has actually happened to you. When you first got saved, you had an ant. I'm just going to pick a denomination. Please understand, once again, it's not an axe to grind. You have a a sweet little aunt that is a Methodist. And your sweet little Methodist aunt was the only one because she knew you came out of drunkenness, that you weren't a good husband, you weren't a good father, and then you got saved. She was the only one happy that you got religion Oh, she was a pretty strong supporter. Then you started going not just on Sunday mornings. You were going on Sunday nights. It was that Aunt Cindy, whatever her name is. We'll make her an Aunt Karen. That fits with the modern day narrative And Karen's the one saying, Oh, you go twice every Sunday? That's almost all day. Then you started going on Wednesday night. Who was the first person to criticize you for being going overboard, for being brainwashed? And then you started telling ants and Aunt Karen about the revival that you had where you went to church every single night, Sunday through Friday, and Aunt Karen said, Wow, I think you've become fanatical. See, the person that was outwardly religious will often be your worst critic. They support you as long as you straighten some things out in your life, but they don't want to support you when you're serving the Lord. Oh, they probably said, well it's a good thing they're getting rid of some of that stuff down there beneath us as they look down from their high places. But now they've gone all crazy. They're taking vessels out of the house of God. They're burning things. They're doing all kinds of crazy fundamental stuff down there in the nation of Judah and at Jerusalem. That king's just completely off his rocker. We understand because we're Religious. They were outwardly religious. They were obviously rebellious. Josiah says, come on down. We're having revival. They said, no, we'll just stay right here and eat our unleavened bread. But I love the fact that they were outw outrightly rejected. Josiah goes up and gets 'em. First, he kills them. Now, by the way, I'm not suggesting that we kill people that don't stand with us. But that wasn't quite enough for Josiah He then had a priest of the high place barbecue. He burned men's bones on top of them. These guys are not just dead, they're cooked, if you know what I'm saying. The simple truth is, Josiah seemed to understand what fellowship hath light with darkness. What communion hath Christ with Belial? We are way too busy trying to find ways to work with people that believe opposite that we do. That's not what we're supposed to do, Christian. So Brother Harper, there's a there's a phrase that goes around. I love this phrase. They'll say this. Well, if we agree in Jesus, we should be able to get along. Here's the bad news. We really don't agree in Jesus My Jesus doesn't need his mommy to help him save people. My Jesus saves people forever and ever. He doesn't save them and then lose them My Jesus didn't pick people before the foundation of the world so he could let them be born and die, so he can condemn them to hell without an opportunity to experience the grace of God. That's not what my Jesus did. Notice his separation. We saw first we saw his steps, then we saw number two his submission, number three his separation, number four quickly his service. Josiah still reading the book. You find it throughout the entire passage. Josiah didn't just let Shaphan read it to him, then he read it to all the people and he still is reading it. And she get over to verse 20 after he's burned men's bones upon those priests of the high places, Josiah says this, let's have the Passover. He says, here's what we're gonna do. We're going to take this book, and we're going to read everything that it says about the Passover, and we're going to do it We're going to take the instruction manual and do what the instruction manual says. Well, that's good. We would think, sitting here in this auditorium, well of course that's what you would do. But notice what the Bible says, because verse 22 is just to me such a jumping off the page verse. Surely there was not holding such a Passover from the days of the judges that judged Israel. Nor in all the days of the kings of Israel, or nor of the kings of Judah. Do you know that outside of the judges and the kings, only two people led the entire nation of Israel that aren't in that group? You know what their names were? Moses and Joshua. Do you realize Moses and Joshua were there for the first Passover? They could go on their rote memory. They could go on what they did that day. They could go on that. So what this passage is saying is nobody ever Picked up the instruction manual and followed it the way Josiah did. I'm here to tell you, that's a pretty good compliment coming from our God. That's a pretty good pretty big thing for God to say. Almighty God says there was never hold in the Passover from someone just reading the book. And notice what he says, please. He actually says In the eighteenth year of the reign of King Josiah wherein this Passover was holding unto the Lord. Now he goes on, he's continuing continuing to kick out the the workers with familiar spirits, his service is still going on. He's still cleaning up the nation of Judah. He's still getting rid of all of these people that shouldn't be there. All of these things that they shouldn't worship. Because see, the the the the act The activity of keeping our lives pure doesn't stop when we get right with God one time. It's a constant thing. It's a daily thing. We're to die daily, is what the Bible tells us. But I want you to notice the surrender. Look carefully what the Bible says here in verse twenty-five. Let's read all of verse 24 before we get to 25. Moreover, the workers with familiar spirits, and the wizards, and the images, and the idols, and all the abominations that were spied, anything you can find. In the land of Judah, and in Jerusalem did Josiah put away. That he might perform the words of the law which were written in the book that Hokiah the priest found in the house of God. Isn't that interesting? Because just a few moments ago we read that he stood by that pillar and promised to perform. And now we see he's still performing. And then there's this. If I were to ask, before we read verse 25, if I were to ask a thousand theologians, a thousand pastors, a thousand evangelists, missionaries, whatever, a thousand deacons. Who is the greatest king that Israel ever had? That God's people ever had. Every one of us would answer David. The man after God's own heart. The man that other kings are compared to. When Josiah gets right with the Lord, he promises to go after all the ways of his father, David. If I gave you a piece of paper and every church member got the vote, who was the greatest king of God's people, we would all write down David. But there's one vote you're not including, and that's God's. Your vote and my vote, as we talked last night, they really just don't matter. Like unto him Was there no king before him? It doesn't say like unto him there was only one king before him. No, no, like unto him was there no king before him. Watch what it says That turned to the Lord with all his heart, with all his soul, with all his might, according to the law of Moses, neither after him arose there any like him. We would look through all those ballots and it would say David and David and David and David and David and then all of a sudden the skies would open up and in the clouds it would say Josiah and we know what God's vote was See this what we do? We look around and we see preacher so-and-so, evangelist so-and-so, missionary so-and-so, and we say, wow. That's the greatest servant God ever had. You know, we are going to be just slap surprised at the judgment seat of Christ. So lady Named Alma Dowdy. We lived across the street, across the parking lot from Marinatha Baptist Church. My daughter was three Three-year-olds, if you teach the three-year-olds, they've got the uh the mental abilities basically of goldfish. Their memory retention is so short, you've got to repeat things over and over and over like that So we would walk across the parking lot to go to Sunday school, and Alma Dowdy was my wife's, my daughter's Sunday school teacher, the three-year-old Sunday school teacher. We're sitting in the house one Saturday There's a knock at the door and I opened the door. It was at the front door. Nobody ever came to the front door. I opened the front door and there was Almadh. Almaddy was 72 years old, I believe, at the time. I said, Miss Dowdy, how are you? Can I help you with something? She said, I'm visiting my class. She was visiting the three-year-olds. Wonderful. I said, well, come on in. I walked by, I still have the picture at home. I walked by my daughter's room. And there at her little tetable is my daughter sitting in one pink chair and Miss Dowdy sitting in another pink chair. My daughter has Placed a tiara on Alma Daddy's head. She's wearing a little uh shawl that Charity got out of the closet, and she is having a fake tea party with my daughter because she's visiting her class I'm the pastor's son-in-law. I have to be there. But she still came to visit her class. I'm here to tell you something. At the judgment seat of Christ, I'm going to be looking and thinking, I don't want to be any place close to Alma Dowdy. Oh, I'm not worried about famous guy this, famous guy that, all this kind of stuff. I'm not the least bit concerned about most of them. Not that there's anything wrong with them or anything right with me, but I want to be any place near someone that you don't even know Certain people get all the accolades and all the notoriety, but I'm here to tell you I don't want to be standing there in line when this pastor from Indiana or Pennsylvania or Kentucky that has thirty people in his church. It's never been bigger than thirty people, but he labors all day. Every day he prays for them without ceasing. He seeks the Lord's guidance on what he's supposed to preach. He's there to hold their hand when they're sick. He's there to counsel them when they're hurting. He's there to love on them when trials come into their lives. And he just Preaches the word of God without apology, without compromise. You're never going to read his message in this word of the Lord. He's never going to preach at a famous conference. He's never going to publish a book. He's never going to be in anybody. But I don't want to be behind him when the fire of God falls and there's gold and silver and precious stones there and he reaches down and scoops it up and lays it at the feet of my Saviour and says, Here, Lord, I'm not worthy of any of this. And my Savior looks at him and smiles and says, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Listen, we're going to vote for certain people that are going to be the greatest king that Israel ever had But only God's vote ever mattered. You wanna have the Lord say something like that about you someday? Better humble yourself now. You better rend your clothes. You better acknowledge that revival can still come if I get out of the way. If I stop standing and talking about all the things that I've done and rend my clothes because the word of God has burned my heart. Then I'm going to seek his guidance. I'm going to pray. I'm going to follow after his direction. I'm going to perform his commandments. I'm going to do it with all my heart. I'm going to do it with the rest of my life. I'm going to separate from those that want to pour cold water on everything that God does I want to serve him. I want to pick up the instruction manual and do what the instruction manual says I don't want other people to tell me what to do, how to do it. Oh, I'm great taking advice. I love getting advice from preachers that know what they're talking about, but understand this is our instruction manual. Josiah picked it up and said, boys and girls, we're going to follow this. We're going to follow every word of it. And when he got done, it is God that says, Wow! Now that was a Passover. Can you imagine that? And then the Lord said, like in him was there no king before him. And followed, they turned to the Lord with all his heart, with all his soul, and with all his might, according to all the law of Moses. Neither after him arose there any like him. Oh yes. I certainly would not mind being a David. But I think maybe we realize we should realize by now that we really ought to want to be a Josiah. You want revival? It's close rending time. That's the first step. Once that step takes place, then we're ready for something. Have a word of prayer. Lord in Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you for our time in your word. Father, we pray now that you'll bless as Pastor Leatherman comes in Jesus' name. Amen.