Matthew chapter seventeen. Matthew seventeen. Now Pastor, what time should we be finished with the service? Ten ten thirty. Uh A. M. Okay, alright. Uh Matthew 17. Let's go ahead and stand, if you would, and uh let's look here as we look at Matthew 17, find verse 14. It says in Matthew 17, beginning in verse 14, and when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man kneeling down to him and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son, for he is lunatic and sore vexed. For oft times he followeth into the fire and into and off into the water. And I brought him to the disciples, and they could not cure him Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer you? Bring them hither to me And Jesus rebuked the devil, and he departed out of him, and the child was cured from that very hour. Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why could we not cast him out? Jesus said unto them, because of your what's the word? Unbelief For verily I say unto you, if ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed ye shall say unto this mountain, remove hence to yonder place, and it shall remove And nothing shall be impossible unto you. Do you hear that? And nothing Shall be impossible unto you. Verse 21. Howbeit, this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting. He talks about moving a mountain and seeing that done by faith. The title of the message is Needing a Mountain Moving Miracle. Needing a mountain moving miracle. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father, we commit our time to you, ourselves to you. And Lord, please, I pray, would you accomplish everything you designed? and directed to this day to be. Lord, you directed Pastor in this morning's message in the Hebrews 11. You directed me in this passage here in Matthew seventeen. Now Lord, I pray that you would build our faith, that Lord, you would help us in our understanding And Lord help us to go away recognizing and looking and saying that you are a mountain moving God. You can do anything. You are the God of the impossible. Now God do a work in our hearts and our lives tonight tonight. Fill me, Lord, I ask, and I offer myself to be filled. Ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated. Thank you so much for standing. Uh we live full time in a fifth-wheel trailer and we travel around in a truck. Now the one that we have currently is very large. Our family uh grew up and uh now our children are older but they grew up in that trailer and it is a large one. It's a scu custom built trailer. It's 49 foot Uh we pull it with a semi. You know, it's like way too big. So we're trying to to be able to sell that. Anybody wants to buy it, make an offer after the service. I'll say yes. And uh but Uh but we have for years traveled in uh in a fifth wheel trailer. We're doing so uh and out west one particular time. This time it was in a pickup truck and uh thirty five hundred and we had uh just a small forty two foot trailer, you know, at that time. And but it's it's uh it was pretty uh good size and good weight We're leaving El Paso, Texas, probably 30 miles outside of El Paso. We're going to New Mexico, and we're getting ready to go over what's called the Guadalupe Pass. It's a mountain pass and it's out in the middle of nowhere. I mean uh so uh I knew we needed to stop. Our kids were young at the time, and so I said, well let's go ahead, we'll stop It just on the, you know, if we could find a place, well I couldn't find a place. There's no store, there's no exit, there's no whatever. And uh so I said, well, it's a it was a pretty flat, good highway with a really large shoulder. I said, I'll just pull off. It's a two-lane each direction, four-lane, I believe. And um and we pulled off on the on the shoulder and uh so we're we're doing so. And we let the kids get back there and get everything taken care of and get some snacks and such and um And I I remember I was leaving the trailer to get back in the truck, and I'm going down the three steps of the trailer, and I say, Lord, please help us as we go over this mountain pass, and Lord help our tires I thought that's kind of interesting. Why am I praying for the tires? I don't go through and pray for, okay, the fuel injectors and uh, you know, the fuel, you know, this and this and that. I don't go through and pray for every I just pray for safety, right? Well I look to the right and in our trailer where there's supposed to be three tires on this side there's only two. I had a blowout and I didn't know it. And I believe the Lord stopped us before we got went over that mountain pass because that would have been very dangerous going over with uh with a blowout. And so I said, well, I'll go to the truck. and get the the jack and change the tire. I go to the truck, the semi, uh not the semi, I'm sorry, the pickup truck, and I get the jack and I realize, oh wow, this is a small jack. It's rated for the truck Not for the the trailer. I go back to the trailer and it is not gonna pick that thing up. And I went, wow, I don't have that. And then I was looking, I don't even have the right lug nut wrench for that size I was not a Boy Scout, I was not prepared, and so I thought, okay, here we are in the middle of the desert, thirty minutes from here, thirty minutes from there, uh from our next to our next destination. What am I going to do? So I said, well I'll call Triple A. I've got Triple A. Uh hello uh Triple A. Yeah, are you safe? Yes I'm safe. What's your problem? We have a blowout. We need uh someone to come change our tire. Okay, no problem, Mr. Miller. Okay, can you please tell me where you are? I said, uh well, uh I'm about ten miles north of the intersection of this highway and this highway on this particular road. They said, no, no, no, no. Uh I need an address. I said, well I'm sorry, I won't be able to give you an address. I'm on the side of the road. Literally, there's nothing out here just ten miles from this at from this intersection would be the best d description. Um and she said, No, I need an address. I said, Well I she said, you know an address, it's you know just look at a building or a or a store. It it's the number. So it just to let you know, that's the number that's on that building And I said, Yes, ma'am, I I know that, but I I I can't I'm looking literally it's like m desert, desert, desert, desert mountain, you know, and there there's no house, there's nothing in sight I said, I'm sorry I can't do that. And she goes, Where are you? I said, I'm in the middle of nowhere. And uh so she said, Okay, now tell me again what's what's going on. I said, Well we have uh a blowout on our trailer and we need someone to fix it She said, Well on your what? uh on our trailer. Oh Mr. Miller, your coverage takes care of the track, but not the trailer. And uh she said, Well I can give you some other truck places to be able to to come out of it. I said, Okay, well give me some places. So she gave it. Well the day before they had a snowstorm on I-10 of all places and it closed down the interstate. It was so bad there was all kinds of trucks off the road and in the ditches. And so uh I'm calling all these places and none of them would come out Not one is that we're too busy, we have all our dri our drivers are gone. There is no one to help. So we just stopped and we prayed, Lord, we need a miracle because here we are in the middle of the desert. It's dusk. You know, Wiley Coyote is going to come out soon. And uh and so we have no generator. There's nothing, you know, we're not gonna be able to survive out here. We need someone to help us to get this thing changed. And no roadside service can come out, they're all busy And so we prayed about it and I went and I tried to stop somebody. Have you tried to stop anybody on the side of the road here recently? 95% won't stop, and I think they're independent Baptists And uh they just boom buzz right by. They think I'm a murderer or something. And uh so uh it's so funny. Finally a car stopped. It's this little bitty four-cylinder car with these nice little elderly couple and it goes, mmm. And I said, uh, yes, do you have a jack? to fit pick up a 21,000 pound trailer. You know, it's like so silly. Well obviously didn't know we have a cell phone. Well I have a my phone still has battery. Thank you very much. They left. Oh I need a trucker. I got a trucker to stop He said, I don't have the stuff called roadside service. I did. There's no one out here. So we are the place, I believe, where we need a miracle. So I pray, God, would you give us somebody that has the stuff to be able to help us to to change this higher. Well I go after this prayer, I go out and I see a pickup truck, I just do a one arm wave. Well he stops. He pulls behind the trailer. And I don't say thank you. I don't greet him. I'm so focused. I go, Do you have a jack? He just grabs in the back of his pack pickup truck, hands me a jack. I start heading to the drain. I said, Do you have a lug nut wrench He said, Let's see if I have the right size and he grabbed a nice tool and he handed it to me. It was the exact right size. He knew exactly what it was. And uh I said, Okay, I got to the tire Okay, here's what I'll do. I'll run up on boards with the other tires and I'll make it a little bit higher and I'll jack this up. And he's looking at his watch. He goes, Yeah. Uh I said, I'll do it as quickly as I can. He said, No, I I gotta get to El Paso I said, well I I'll I'll uh this won't take long. Uh really d uh I'll do it as quickly as I possibly can. Say, no, I got to get to El Paso right now I'm like, sir, I'll do it. He goes, now I gotta go. I said, so now I need someone to stop, someone that has the stuff, and someone that's willing to be able to have the time. I said, I'll do it as quickly as I can. He goes, listen, you just take this stuff, it's yours. And before I knew it, he was gone. And I'm like, I think I just saw an angel, a bald one. I didn't know they came in bald, you know? And uh and so So he leaves and but we change the tire and man I I was we're singing on the way to the church and I said, Isn't this great kids we're in God's will and God's gonna take care of us And he provided a miracle. You're like, yeah, yeah, Brother Miller, that's great. You just didn't have the stuff. He provided uh the jack. But I wouldn't say that's in a category of a miracle. Well, three weeks later I go get a new tire because that spare wasn't as good and I wanted to put that back and use it as a spare. So I go into a parking lot, I run up on boards, I take that same jack Put it under the axle and I start to pump up and I cannot lift that axle. And I try again. I'm not on the side of the road now, and I've got better boards, it's a better place. I cannot lift it. I look at the jack and the jack wasn't even rated for that weight. I believe God helped me lift that trailer and provide for that need. Folks, when we are in a need of a mountain moving miracle, God was us to pray, believing for him to do something that's beyond our ability. When we're in that situation, what does God do? Now here's the story of a father, and he comes to Jesus, and he says, My son is bothered, he's obviously demon-possessed, and he's gonna he could hurt himself or perhaps kill himself because of this. And as a result, what is going to take place? Well, we're going to see what Jesus does. There's three things God does when we need a miracle. Number one, Jesus waits until the situation is hopeless. Now this is interesting. Jesus waits until the situation is hopeless. That is hopeless humanly speaking. Look at the passage of Scripture, Matthew chapter 17. Look at verse fourteen, and when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man kneeling down to him and saying, Lord, have mercy on my son For he is lunatic and sore vexed, for oft times he falleth in the fire and often to the water. And I brought him to the disciples, and they could not cure him. So he's bringing his son and he's he is a desperate parent. And uh but but when we really recognize this desperation It's because of the timing of it. And the timing is uh is certainly of the Lord. You know, by the way, timing is more important to God than time. For us, we have to wait and wait and wait. But oftentimes timing is everything. Now let's hold our place in Matthew 17. Look at Mark 9, Mark 9's account of this same story. Mark chapter 9. In Mark chapter 9, he brings him to him again the same thing. He has a dumb spirit, which means he cannot speak. And then as well, it he's thrashing and he's he's hurting himself Matthew chapter, I'm sorry, Mark chapter 9, look at verse 20. Mark chapter 9 in verse 20. In Mark nine twenty, the Bible says this, and they brought him unto him, and when he saw him, straightway the spirit tear him, and he fell on the ground and wallowed, foaming. Man This kid needs major help. Look at verse 21. And he asked his father, how long is it ago since this came into him? Did you just see what happened? Jesus is asking how long. Jesus, God himself, is asking, how long? Okay How long is it? Now that do we think he's a teenager? I don't know. Uh do we think he's uh an adult? We don't have clear reference, but notice he says this, and he said of a child. So that would imply he's Ungar a child. Would be young adult perhaps. Whatever it is, his it's his son And he said, how long? And it says in verse 22, and oftentimes he hath cast him into the fire and into the water to destroy him, and etc. But isn't it amazing how the timing is everything. How about it when Jesus heard that Lazarus was sick? And what happened? He delayed Why? So he could be glorified and so that their faith could be in him. Oftentimes, Jesus waits until the situation is hopeless, so we have a greater faith in him. You're in Mark chapter 9. Look at Mark chapter 5. In Mark chapter 5, we see the account of Jerusal's daughter. Mark chapter 5. Find verse 22. Mark chapter 5. We don't have time to be able to read through much much of this, so let's look down all the way to um uh verse thirty-five. It says this, Mark chapter 5. You have that verse 35? It says, and while they while he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogues a house uh synagogue's house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead, why troublest thou the master any further? Okay. Now we just got in the middle of the story. Jarrus here is going to Jesus. He says, Would you come come please to my house and heal my daughter? She is sick. She is almost going to die. Okay? Jesus agrees. Jesus goes with him and is now on the way. To go heal his daughter. While he's on the way, the crowds around him, it slows him down. And also, this is the time when a lady touches his garment And he stops and he says, Who touched me? It was the woman with the issue of blood. And his disciples are confused. Well, all of this interruption takes Time. So he stops, she's healed, she is saved, all of this is taking place. Well, while this is taking place, then news comes about his daughter. Don't trouble the master anymore. Your your daughter is dead. Look at Matthew, I'm sorry, Mark chapter 5, verse 36. As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue Be not afraid. What's the next two words? Only believe. Be not afraid, only believe. What Jesus does Is he waits until the situation is hopeless. Now, if Jesus got there in time and he healed her of that great sickness, would that not be incredible? Yes. Would that not be a wonderful miracle? Yes. But if she dies And he raises her again, could you imagine now how much more glory he would receive, how much more faith They would see that God can do the absolute impossible. The timing is uh uh is amazing. He delayed in his timing. But also, let's notice this when he waits until the situation is hopeless. Notice the desperate need, going back to Matthew chapter 17, the desperate need of this situation of this father and this son There are three needs that are obvious. Number one, spiritual deliverance. Number one is spiritual deliverance. There's a demon that is in control of his son. In Mark chapter 9's account, it says it was a dumb spirit. That means he could not speak. Not intelligent, but it would stop him from actually speaking. Why? I don't know. if this boy is gonna be a preacher. I don't know if this boy was gonna be a great witness and Satan was uh uh gonna stop this, whatever the case is, but he was ensnared, he was trapped And uh because of this, because of the the demon possession, he needed spiritual deliverance. I I remember being in India. We had a crusade over in India And uh first night we had nine hundred people. Second night we had uh a thousand and and the third we had twelve hundred and finally we had about double the the first night with 1800 on the last evening. It was incredible. And uh we had 400 trust Christ as Savior. It was wonderful Well we would when we give the invitation I would preach of course to an interpreter and and all the men would come over here and speak to someone over there uh and uh and and talk to counselors over here and all the women would come over and talk to counselors over here in their own language. And so we gave the invitation and and there were a number that came and one particular lady came and she was over there, her eyes were just fiery. She was agitated in her spirit. And while they're talking to her, she is, she goes to the ground and starts through rolling around in the dirt. Trying to figure out what's going on. They bring her up and they sh try to calm her down and get her under control and they try to give the gospel to her And they say that we did, and we think she got saved, but it's so hard to tell. We don't know. The following night she came back. She came up to me and her eyes were soft. Her whole demeanor was changed. She could speak no English, but this is what she did. Isn't that incredible? She was saved and she trusted Christ as Savior and she was delivered. And she said through an interpreter I haven't been able to sleep through the night in over six months. In the last two nights I've slept slept all the way through and I've had peace since I've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You know, there are ones that need spiritual deliverance. Let me ask. Are there ones in here and the devil's got your kid? Your son, your daughter, your adult son, your adult daughter, your grandchild. Someone that you know that's away from God. They're entrapped and ensnared in this world. And you there there needs to be someone that's going to intercede on their behalf You need a miracle for God to work in that young person's life. There's spiritual deliverance. Let me ask for you Are you walking in the spirit or walking in the flesh? You say, man, I'm just so enslaved in the flesh, and I'm saying yes to the flesh so much, and I've got so much bondage there and so many bad habits and things Did you realize that tonight you can be free from all of that? Walk in the Spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. And you can say, dear God, I need your help. Would you please give me help over this uh addiction? Number one is spiritual deliverance. That's exactly what was needed. What was what else is a desperate need of this Boy hat. Number two is physical healing. Physical healing. The boy was cut He was foaming, he was bleeding, it would rip him, he would oft times be thrown into water, off into the fire. Did he have burns? He needed physical healing. Now the father uses the word cure. They could not cure him. Certainly spiritually they could not, nor could they do it physically. Let me let me just ask tonight, is there a physical thing that you need to bring before the Lord? A disease? A sickness, a chronic thing. I do not know God's will. I do not know God's will for terminal illness. In the in one of the books in the back from John O'Rice from the Sword of the Lord, it's called Prayer, Asking, Receiving. By the way, if I were to get one book on the table, it would be that one. Prayer, asking, receiving. It does deal with how to pray for terminally ill diseases. How do you pray in God's will Here's my thing is at least ask. If you don't know, ask for direction and Lord, I just commit this person or commit myself to you. But God, if it would please you and bring glory, would you heal me? Let me ask, is there someone here So you need to ask for physical healing. Again, I can't say a guarantee on what God's going to do. In certain situations, the greater glory goes when he allows that person to pass on and to move to heaven. Or perhaps be able to just stay with that sickness and see God's grace in a m manifest it in a different way in their life. But but tonight not only would there be represented here the mountain that needs to be moved, spiritual deliverance, but also physical healing. How about the third? This is not uh written here, this is not told, but I would think would potentially be implied financial provision This father is bringing his son to Jesus in the middle of the day. Why is he not working? Does he work for himself? Does he have his own farm? Is he able to do so? We don't know any of that. We do not know. If he worked for somebody else, And he had to physically grab his son and get him out of the fire, physically restrain his son from being drowned in the water. How often could he go to work? Could his wife take care of this? How could he do even the jobs around the farm or whatever he would have? Does he have a vineyard? Do you see what I'm talking about? Well it could it be like the issue of the woman with the issue of blood where she spent all of her money with the physicians and they couldn't do anything. Here's this man and he is desperate. God, I need you to do something. Would you please help? Would you please provide? I know there are certain situations and times in our lives when God brings us to a desperate situation. I remember we were heading to our very first uh area wide uh hu huge crusade that we're gonna have in in the Altoona, Pennsylvania. It was in twenty twenty. We thought that would be a good year to have a crusade. And uh we scheduled it two and a half years in advance. So we had no idea obviously about COVID Well, everything was going on and all this is taking place and it was in the fall time and uh and there was the the riots going on and defund the police and the churches and such, especially in uh in California, were making the news every single day. Um and all of this was going on. Well we said we're gonna continue on with the crusade. And we had a beautiful thousand seat auditorium and a s a public school. that we were going to rent for this particular crusade. Well, I'm driving towards the crusade two weeks before, two and a half weeks before, and I get a call saying they're getting ready to vote on whether or not we're going to continue to have the contract or they're going to cancel our contract on the auditorium. I pull off on a rest area. I get on my truck, go in my trailer, folks, I get on my face. before God and I am pouring our out my heart. I am crying before God. And God, would you please provide, or help them to keep Keep this uh contract. I get back in the truck, I drive, and a couple hours later I get a call, it canceled. We call an emergency prayer meeting for the pastors. Pastors are there. One of the pastors that came was from three hours away. He couldn't even participate in the crusade. But he came from three hours away. Well we pray and we cry out to God for help and deliverance. We're like, what are we going to do? We we We we could do this or that and n everything was was fallen through. There was no other place, there was no other location. We couldn't rent someplace. Well how about if we get a tent? We don't have a tent. We don't have a place to put a tent. And then a pastor from three hours away goes I know a guy with a tent that can hold like six hundred people? Yeah. And uh and so well we'll see if he's available. You we called? Yes, he's available. He said, but we're gonna have to be able to put it up a little bit before and keep it up a little bit after your dates. We said, no problem. Well ended up. We had the crusade and folks, we extended because people were saved every single day. God was doing amazing. We had fifty-seven people trust Christ as Savior in that first crusade. And it was all it was in the middle of all this is going on. You know what? God waits until the situation becomes hopeless for us to be able to trust him. Not only does he do that, when we need a miracle, he waits for the situation to be hopeless. Number two, what does Jesus do? He reveals the sin of being faithless. He reveals the sin of being faithless. What do you mean he reveals the sin of being faithless? Look at verses 19 and 20. In Mark, Matthew chapter 17, verse 19, it says, Then came the disciples to Jesus apart and said, Why could we not cast him out? And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief, for verily I say unto you, if you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you shall say unto this mountain, remove hence Notice he he is starting to deal with them. It is your unbelief. How does he refer and talk to his disciples? Look in verse seventeen. He says, O faithless and perverse generation How long shall I be with you? How long shall I suffer with you? How long am I going to have to put up with you? And you will not believe me when I tell you something is going to take place. Do you realize I'm not I'm sent from God? Do you realize I am God Almighty? Jesus is saying, and the truth is they had the sin of being faithless. The reason they were powerless is because they were faithless. He perverse generation unbelief Is a sin. That's why Hebrews eleven says without faith it is impossible. Impossible to please God Well when uh Jesus rose from the dead, he appeared to the disciples in the closed door. In Max Mark chapter 16's account of it, it says he abrated them with their unbelief and hardness of heart. Because they had believed not others' report that he was risen from the dead. Here is Jesus, and he's rebuking them because of their sin of unbelief. Unbelief is a sin against Jesus Christ. And we need to recognize that, yes, it would be a blessing if we trust God more. But it is a sin to hear God's word and not depend upon it. There are two times, only two times in Scripture, that Jesus was astonished. That something surprised him. He can we say this? He was shocked. Two times. Wanna see them? First is in Matthew chapter eight. Look at Matthew chapter eight. Look at Matthew chapter eight and find verse ten. Two times Jesus is shocked. Matthew chapter 8, look at verse 10 Uh uh in fact, uh look if you will, uh look at verse eight, Matthew eight, verse eight. It said, This is the centurion. The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldst come under my roof But speak the word only. Speak the word only and my servant shall be healed. For I am a man under authority, having soldiers unto me. And I say unto this man, go and he goeth and to another Come and he cometh and to my servant do this, and he doeth it. And when Jesus heard this, he marvelled and said unto them, He marvelled, there it is He marveled and said unto them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not seen so great faith, no, not in Israel. He was amazed and marveling at his great faith. Why? Because he believed, you don't even have to come to my house. You speak the word, and your word is powerful enough to be able to heal my servant. That is the great faith of the centurion. What about the other time when he marveled? Look, if you will at Mark chapter 6, Mark chapter 6. Mark chapter 6 and find verse 5. Mark chapter 6 and find verse 5. Mark chapter 6 and find verse 5. The Bible says in verse 4 that a prophet is is uh without honor in his own country, so Jesus is coming back to his own town. And look at verse 5, it says, and he could Do their uh could there do no mighty work. That's a miracle, save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk and healed them. And he marveled because of their what in verse six? Unbelief. Two times he marveled. One is the centurion with the great faith, and the other is when he went back to his hometown and they wouldn't believe he had plans To do mighty works there, incredible miracles. And he's I just healed a few sick folk. I couldn't do it Jesus said, because of their unbelief. And he marveled that they would not believe him. Now notice as we think about this faith, faith is again simply dependence. We don't focus on our faith. When Jesus is talking about the centurion, he had great faith, it's not like, wow, this is massive faith This is so amazing and size is so great faith. How do you increase faith? Okay, to grow your faith If faith is dependence, okay, I have an iPad up here, and I take my iPad, and if it's okay, I'll just set it, I'll place it upon the piano. I place it there. If the iPad is faith, dependence, the the object of our faith is whatever it's placed on Jesus asked the question, where is your faith? Well, where's my iPad? Right now it's on the piano. That's the object of faith. I can move it over here and I can place my iPad on the pulpit. Now where's my iPad? It's over here The the the faith is only as good as the object onto which you place it. What if I place it right here on the mic stand? Wouldn't be a good idea, would it? And uh so no, so it's only as good as the object. So faith is always faith. It's just dependence. Dependence upon God Okay, but what about great faith? Well great faith is trusting God for doing a greater work. It's trusting God for doing something that that's large. Okay, for instance, if I were to dis display faith right now, I would come over to the chair, over to the pew, and I could If I were going to display my faith in this pew, I would do what? If it can hold Brother Matt, it can hold me Okay, and I come and I sit down. Okay, but you say, but Brother Miller, but this time, this time I want you to really do it with great faith. Okay? Great faith this time, okay? No, no, no, no, no. This time I want you to really, really mean it, okay? Alright? You say, wait a minute. It's just a pendant. That's right. That's right. So faith is always dependence upon the object. It's focused on Jesus and it's placed upon his word. It's always, thus saith the Lord. It's a response to what God wants us to do. We increase our faith by When God speaks, okay, I more readily and more often I go sit down. I depend upon him and his word. Or I how about great faith? If I sit on this pew right now, it it you say it's pretty simple. How about if this was placed in the parking lot and a hurricane came? Tornado comes and I'm still sitting there. Now I'm having this this displaying great faith because I'm sitting in the middle of an incredible circumstance That's the idea. The faith isn't the issue. If it were the size of the faith, then the mustard seed Wouldn't work. But look at the Matthew chapter 17 and verse 20. And he said unto them, Because of your unbelief, for verily I say unto you, if you have faith as a grain Of mustard seed. If you just have this little bitty faith, God can do great things. The faith is not the thing that you're supposed to focus on. Major Ian Thomas said this, that the more confident we are on the object of the faith, the less we focus on our own faith. And when we have the focus on our own faith, our doubts start to arise. Faith is only dependent upon the object. Uh let's pick on Brother Matt again. Let's say after the service, Brother Matt says, I can fly. He says, I can fly. I believe I can fly. Do you think you can fly? Yeah, he thinks he can fly. And uh so he got he climbs up onto the roof, and we're all out there. We've got our cameras and everything. He says, I can fly, I can fly, and he jumps off the roof. I can call an ambulance as what's gonna happen. And so I have to do that. Well what? You say, well, but he really believed. Okay. But he wasn't believing the right thing. Now if you get on the 737 He can fly, that is, because he's dependent upon that plane to do what he cannot. Faith is certainly that. So what happens when we need a mountain moving miracle? Jesus waits until the situation is hopeless. He reveals the sin of being faithless, but here's the final thing, is he gives a solution for being prayerless. He gives the solution for being prayerless. What do you mean? Look at Matthew chapter 17 The end of verse 20 says this. He says, Ye shall say into this mountain, remove hence that yonder place, and it shall remove, and nothing shall be impossible unto you. And verse 21, howbeit, this kind goeth not out, but by prayer and fasting. Now, does that verse, has that verse ever just like thrown you a curveball? Like, wait a minute. I thought Jesus was saying you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you can move a mountain. Incredible things. Nothing's impossible to you. Oh, oh, oh, but this boy? That was demon-possessed? Okay, this kind, this one goes out, this is different. Not but by prayer and fasting. See here's the temptation to think incorrectly. It's either faith over here or it's prayer and fasting over here. That is not what he's saying. It's not opposite. Faith is demonstrated through Prayer and fasting. You want your faith your prayer to increase Tonight, I could ask this in the invitation. I could say, okay, how many here will commit to I'm going to be more disciplined in my prayer life? That's what I need. I need, you know, the key to my prayer life is discipline. No, it's not. The key to your prayer life is faith. If you really believed that God can change your situation, then you'd ask him. Why don't you ask him tonight? God, I need spiritual deliverance for this prodigal son. I need spiritual deliverance for this one that's unsaved, that's blinded in this world. God, I need spiritual deliverance for me. I'm praying for it right now. Lord, what I need is physical healing. Lord, the doctors say there is no cure. Jesus heard that before. And he healed people. Dear God, I know you can do anything. Would you heal me? Lord, we need financial provision. We need some other provision. Lord, would you help with that pray? And the fasting is simply the doing without a food, to be able to focus in on the praying. It's not earning favor or merit in that way, but it's that taking that and having focused time to be able to ask God because I believe that if I ask God to do things, God will do it and he'll answer his word. He is, and he is the rewarder of them that diligently seek him. The answer to your prayer life is faith. So if this kind goes not out but by prayer and fasting, Then who prayed and who fasted for that boy? Some say, Well, Jesus did. I'm gonna actually differ with you. I don't think so. Now he said, howbeit this kind goes not out but by prayer and fasting. Did he make an exception and go ahead and heal the boy and save him and cast out the demon, even though there wasn't? Or did someone else pray Believing and fast. Maybe they didn't have great faith. All they had was just this tiny little mustard seed. Look in Mark chapter 9 and let's find out who it was. In Mark chapter 9, look again at verse 22. After Jesus asked the father, how long has it been since the child had this? He said, of a child. Mark chapter nine, verse twenty two. If you have it, just say amen. You got it? Okay. Verse twenty-two. And oftentimes it hath cast him into the fire And into the waters to destroy him. Now watch this. This is the father asking. But if thou canst, now notice that that old English word can't That means can. It does not mean cannot, it means can. If thou can if thou canst do anything Have compassion on us and help us. Okay, now watch. I don't know if this father is saying, if you can do anything, or if he's saying If you can do anything, Jesus have compassion to help us. I don't think he has massive faith. I don't think that. I think he's saying if I don't know. Now look at verse 23. Jesus turns it around. Jesus said unto him, If Thou canst believe, if you can believe, all things are possible to him that believeth. If thou canst believe All things are possible to him to leave. Now notice what he says in verse 24. And straightway the father of the child cried out and said with tears, Lord. I believe. Help thou mine unbelief. He was not fully convinced he didn't have the great faith of the centurion and great massive size. That's not the s the point All he had was the seed. He said, Jesus, you are my last resort, and if you can do anything, help, if you can believe. All things are possible to him that believeth. Okay, I believe. Just help my unbelief. Jesus helped him. Folks, you don't have to have massive faith, but as Pastor said this morning, anyone can trust God There are boys and girls in here tonight that you can trust God with amazing things, and you can see unbelievable things if you simply trust God tonight. You know, you can see people saved, an aunt and an uncle, a grandma, a grandpa, because of you and your prayer I've seen people say because my little eight-year-old or nine-year-old prayed for it and I didn't. Is it simple faith, just to see it? Maybe for you, whatever the situation you're saying tonight, I need a mountain movie miracle. Let me ask, would you depend upon God and ask him to do exactly that? You can believe all things are possible to him that believeth. Let's pray. Father, I ask for your help. Thank you, Lord, for helping us a little bit further in this matter of faith. Help us right now to depend upon you for spiritual deliverance, for physical healing. For financial provision. And Lord, I pray that you'd help us to and reveal to us we're areas where we're not trusting you. With our heads bowed, with our eyes closed, thank you so much for your kind attention. Let me ask, just right now, did God speak to you? See, Brother Miller, one thing I know is I I am saved. I know Jesus as my Savior. If you know Jesus Christ as your Savior all throughout the room, can you raise your hand all throughout the room? God bless you. God bless you. Man, that's wonderful Is there anyone here that I don't know if I died if I go to heaven? I'm not saved. I've never trusted Jesus before. Anyone like that? I'm just curious about that. Okay. Let me ask Did God reveal to you some unbelief? Did God reveal to you some area that you need to trust Him? Maybe it's financial provision, physical healing, or spiritual deliverance But you're saying there's something I need to trust God for. I'm going to ask and I'm going to take a step of faith and depend upon God for something in my heart, in my life. If that's true for you, all throughout the room, can you raise your hand right now Would you read? God bless you. Wonderful. Wonderful. You can place your hands down. Would you look this way? In a moment, I'm going to ask for you to step out and come pray about that. Would you do that? And we're going to stand. I'll pray. After we pray, we'll have the pianos play. God spoke in your heart. You're making that decision of faith. But you step out and pray in response to that. Everyone standing, let's ask the Lord to help us.