I have no idea how much that means. And uh, you know, it's it's just a great privilege. I never thought that God would have ever given me the privilege not only to speak for him. but to speak to and for our nation. And so I'm very humbled in this and and uh I am very thankful and I sure do appreciate Just you know how your pastor and you folks treat us every time that we come here. It's like you know we're part of the family. Well we are You know. Uh we are the extended members of the family. Amen. And uh and so this is kind of like a a home away from home, amen. And and uh we both uh my wife and I both grew up here in Maryland and And we were about five minutes away from each other, about five, ten minutes away from each other there in Bowie, Maryland, and I I never did know her Growing up, she's three years younger than me. And so when we're in elementary school, she was one of the snotty nose kids, you know, that we didn't associate with. And uh and then of course when uh We uh both uh I graduated from uh high school and uh was in college and she graduated. We were actually I was thinking about and was In fact, for a while a portrait painter, we were uh going to be artists uh before the Lord got a hold of us and said, no, you're gonna do something else for me. Uh but the very first time I met my wife was in art class and she was uh drawing a picture and I walked over and uh I said, Oh, uh very nice. And she said, Oh, you like my picture? I said I wasn't talking about the picture, okay Forty one years later here we are. Amen. But um it's it's been uh just uh wonderful to be with you and and I think your pastor and I are already talking about coming back up again. Are we? And uh so I'm looking all already, looking forward to coming back up. Thank you for the comfortable accommodations and and just the beautiful place that this is I mean my wife and I enjoy just driving back and forth. You know, Pastor, we got you a little bit further out this time, but hey, that's okay because the ride is beautiful. Amen. Going by the lake and seeing everything. And uh so I just love this area uh of Maryland. We love Maryland, in fact, when we we lived out in the Midwest for a while uh because the ministry and then we were moving back people saying how are you gonna actually acclimate to Washington DC area and the traffic and everything and she said, Isn't it gonna be horrendous? I said, Hey, we grew up there, it's no big deal. They went, Oh, oh, oh, oh, okay. And uh we just know when to get out and when to get back, amen. And uh so it's no it's no sweat. But we are we're thrilled to be here tonight and uh I'm really looking forward to what the Lord has for us this evening. And Myle, my, I'm I'm telling you, I'm twice the man I used to be because Every time we're eating, uh your pastor and I, um uh I I asked him, are you gonna have dessert? He said, if you're gonna have dessert, I'm gonna have dessert. And you should have seen what we had today I'm not even going to go there because I don't want it to make anybody hungry, okay? But it was it's been wonderful and the and the food's been excellent and just the spirit of your church. You know, I go all over the United States and I want to tell you that not every church has this kind of spirit. So I hope you realize that you have something special here. And I I want you to know you really do have something special as far as just the spirit that you have within your church. And and I told your pastor, I said, Well man, I love preaching to your people. It's like saying sick me to a bulldog, you know. They're out there and they I could just tell you're ready. So I hope you're ready tonight. Take your Bibles, go with me over to Isaiah chapter fifty-eight Isaiah chapter 58 this evening. I I do want to tell you that the uh the one book, the uh Maxims of Washington, uh is uh sold out and but you can still order them. We'll get them to you very quickly within a week or so. And uh I'll be glad to sign them. Uh this book here is the book that I'm actually going to be preaching from tonight. This message was actually um the impetus of this book uh that I co-authored with uh brother Brother Creed. And uh, you know, it's its foundations, the foundations of our country are so very amazing One of the things that I think is fascinating about this book is uh is this particular monument right here that we have uh taken and and put forward in the book and explained in great detail. Most people don't even know that it's there, but it's a monument to excuse me to our forefathers. There it is right there in the New England states. Tells you exactly where it is. It's in the middle of a suburb area. And yet it's the largest granite monument In the United States of America. And what it does is it explains why we are who we are. It talks about faith. It talks about the pilgrim's embarkation, morality, the evangelist, the prophet, what part mercy, love, justice. and all of the different facets of our country and it's displayed there. It's the matrix of who we are as a nation. And it's fascinating study, and so I just wanted to point that out to you. Do we do have some of these available in the back? But uh along with that, just uh the amazing array of the different things, stories you've never heard before are uh written out very clearly uh in that book, The Foundations of Our Country. I I love the area that we um allocated to immigration in this book. And you know, the first um immigrant to the United States through Ellis Island was a little Irish girl and she had all of her possessions in the world in one little bag. And she came through by the time they closed Ellis Island, millions of people had come through to the United States. And I'm gonna be getting into the uh into the idea of e Plerbus Unuman, who we are as a nation. But uh I want to begin with uh Isaiah chapter 58 and verse 12 because it's so very important for us to understand something that I think is illustrated in this verse, this truth from God to us. We're going to use this as a springboard into the message tonight, the foundations that sustain America. It says this in Isaiah chapter 58 and verse 12, and they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places. And thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations. And thou shalt be called the repair of the breach, the res the restore of the paths to dwell in. Heavenly Father, we thank you now for loving us and oh dear God. As we bow before you tonight collectively in our minds and our hearts, brothers and sisters in Christ, dear God, if there's one person here tonight that doesn't know you as Savior, May they make this the night that they come to the knowledge of the truth and accept that gift of eternal life that is given only through and by accepting Jesus Christ as Savior. Father, we pray tonight, dear God, that you would meet with us once again. That at this moment, Lord, as we unite our minds and hearts, create and maintain a hedge protection around this assembly, bind off the wicked and the evil one, anything that would keep us from focusing upon these eternal truths. And oh dear God, we look to you and we ask that you would Allow us just to forget about the world for a while and the burdens of life and help us to concentrate on exactly what you would have for us. As I step back, step forward, dear God, articulate These lips clarify this mind, but once again through and by thy Holy Spirit's power infuse and imbue everything that's said into our hearts and minds. And might we truly not just be stirred, but changed and moved to action. Father, we thank you for allowing us to live in this time, for such a time. As this, as we see the darkness approaching when no man can work, help us to be about thy business. And Father, meet with us tonight in a miraculous way. in thy presence, in thy power, and through thy provision. Father, that you would give me thy thoughts and thy words and dear God We will give you all the praise and glory for what you're about to do, for we ask this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, and by the power and the merit and the authority that is in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. I want to show you something right here off the bat where it says in verse 12, and they that shall be of thee. They that shall be of thee. See, I want everyone to understand something. The future of our country will never be in the hands of the heathen. It's in God's people in our hands, you see. It'll never be in the hands of those people in Washington, D. C. And a lot of times we think, and it's very frustrating, oh what are they doing? Look It's not them, it's us, you see. And the only way that the heathen will ever have any kind of, you might say, role in the future of our country is if we give place to the devil and give it to them So what we need to do is realize that God wants us to be the repair of the breach. And it's up to us to make an effectual change in our country. And I think we started realizing that we can do that simply by the fact That through and by God's people in prayers, as we said this morning, we saw something very unique happen. And it's continuing to happen now. Now, folks, too many times we go from inspiration to inspiration Too many times if we lose, we take our ball and we go home. But the problem with us sometimes, when we win, we take our ball and go home Amen. And what we need to do is we need to realize that now is the time that we just begin to start to do something for our country. Uh just because the election uh went the way that it did doesn't mean that we can just relax and and uh just let those people take care of it. Those people should never take care of it. They're just supposed to be representing us, we the people. We are the government, not them. They're the representation of the government. And too many times what's happening Is the those people telling us what to do instead of us telling them what we want them to do through by the Constitution of the United States based upon the Bible. Amen? And so we must understand when we look into the foundations of the world, in world history, as an architecture, foundations are a necessity. Long before any civilization is established, a foundation is laid, must be laid. From the foundation, a nation arises, and if it's a deep foundation, that nation will stand the test of time. If it's a shallow foundation, that nation will basically falter and fail quickly This truth is illustrated time and time again throughout the annals of history. Over and over again we see nations rise and we see them fall, and great is their destruction when they fall. to the people, devastation. This truth is founded also in the Bible as it pertains to the individual. As it says in Luke chapter 6 Verse 47 through 49, where whosoever cometh to me and heareth my sayings and doeth them, I will show you to whom He is like he is like a man which built an a house and dig deep and laid the foundation on a rock. And when the flood arose the stream beat vehemently upon the house and could not shake it, for it was founded upon a rock. Our nation is founded upon that rock who is Jesus Christ. Amen? And that's why during the eight years of our former president, he couldn't ruin America. He tried, he almost got it done. Had we not had an election like we did, we would have been finished, but God interceded and we, as we said this morning, have that space of grace, and we must be about our Father's business because the gospel of Jesus Christ depends upon it. And our nation has given us given us the permission to accomplish the Great Commission. For the last past two and a half centuries, America has been nourished to the greatness as a result of applying biblical principles as a part of our foundations. God's word asks in Deuteronomy chapter 4 and verse 8, and what nation Is there so great that has statues and judgments so righteous as all this law, which I set before you this day only, take heed to thyself and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thine heart all the days of thy life, but teach them, thy sons, And thy sons, sons, when I see our veterans, I go up and thank our veterans. When I see these World War II guys that come to Washington, D. C. on these honor plates, hey may I I go up to these fellas and I thank them for their service, amen. I thank the Korean War veterans, I thank the Vietnam veterans, I I I thank the the modern day warriors that have fought in Iraq and Afghanistan. Why? Because these men And women have sacrificed and served to preserve our nation, and that's what we need to be thankful for, amen These people that have paid the price evident in the red stripe of our flag. And this is the foundation. Do you understand? It's amazing to me That we've had our documents on public display for all of these years. We've not hidden the Declaration of Independence. We've not hidden the Constitution of the United States that really are miraculous in their design as a governmental document because they follow the most miraculous document in the history of man, which is God's Word, the living word of God But we display them openly. So tell me, why haven't more nations adopted what we have here in America? You know why? Because although all the precepts and principles are there, although the blueprint, the guideposts, you might say, are there to establish a republic, There's very few nations, there's very few people that have been willing to sacrifice like our founding fathers sacrificed. That's why. The foundation of our nation is the faith of our founding fathers. Those foundational truths by which our nation was founded upon. Daniel Webster said this. He said in the 1800s, if we abide by the principles taught in the Bible, our country will go on. prospering and to prosper. If we in our prosperity are true to our Christian religion, if we always live in the fear of God and shall respect his commandments. We may have high hopes for the future of our country, but If we in our prosperity is very dangerous, neglect the religious instruction, violate the rules of eternal justice, trifle within the injunctions of morality. recklessly destroy the political constitution which holds us together. No man can tell how sudden a catastrophe May overwhelm us and bury all our glory in profound obscurity. I look at the capital of the United States It's just been renovated. It's beautiful inside and out. It is the most recognizable symbol of America in the world You go inside, and it's simply just a tribute to God and how he has formed this nation. As Christians in America, we have responsibility to continually reintroduce these biblical principles into our nation and into our culture and to the next generation. to bring them up and to realize, make them realize we are a miracle. You understand that, right? America is a miraculous nation. We shouldn't be here. By all of man's thoughts and processes and strategies and military expertise, we should not have won the war for independence, but we did win, and we are here, and the reason why is because of God. We shouldn't have won this last election, but we did win it, and the reason why is because of God. Amen. Hey, look, I shouldn't even be standing here. I should be dead in hell today, but the reason why I'm standing here It's a miracle. Amen? And that miracle is God and the gospel of Jesus Christ. We as the people of God. Must understand. He increaseth the nations and destroyeth them. He enlargeth the nations and straighteneth them again. That means he blesses countries. And then he brings them back down. And he allows nations to continue to increase and encourage them to go. And then he brings them back down. If in fact we don't follow God, he will bring this nation to our knees. I wouldn't like to see our capital and wreck and ruin. Not ever, not in my life, you see. And people say, well, but Laharnie, you really think that uh America's gonna go on to prosper? It will. If in fact we do what God wants us to do, now the way that we do that is making sure that our foundations are sustained, making sure that we know the foundations that we must hold up and once again re you might say in force with our lives and by and through the truth of God. So to look at these, I think the groundbreaking of the first foundation for our country actually started back in the 1300s over in Europe. Where there was a man by the name of Wycliffe that started copying the Bible in the language of the people. It took him six months to copy one Bible. And there were many peasants. They couldn't really A for the Bible is very expensive because it took so long to create. But they would save up From back breaking work for months at a time. They would save up one month's salary and they'd come and they would buy one page One page of the Bible. And the man of the house would, on that particular day where they had enough coins To go by that one page would go over to the cottage industry of Wycliffe and knock on the door and that godly man Wycliffe would answer He said, sir, I'd like to buy a page of the Bible. I'm sure the question was, which page would you like? I'm sure the answer was, I I don't care as long as it's a page of God's Word. Because of course a lot of the people were illiterate But they stayed and they brought that one page of the Bible back to their little hovel and walked into their house on that dirt floor covered by thresh Put that page on the table and there his emaciated family would gather around because they had all sacrificed for months on end. And they'd all gather around and they look At one page of God's Word. And they'd say, we're wealthy beyond compare now. Because we have one page of God's living word. See, whenever I think of that story, it kind of makes me ashamed that I have stacks of Bibles at home And these people scrimped and sacrificed and half-starved themselves to get a page. How many times do we lay aside the Bible and do something else instead of reading it and cherishing it? Hey folks, you know. This is the foundation of our country. We need to have a five-finger grasp on God's Word. I mean we need to listen to it. Faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the word of God. Amen? That's what you're doing right now. You're listening to God's word preached, and your faith is growing simply because God says faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the word of God Well not only listening to it, because that's the smallest finger, you might say. We need to also read it. God says, until I come, give attendance to reading. Give attendance to reading until I come. So we need to read it. Not just read it. We need to study it. Amen. Study to show thyself a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. Amen. So we need to study God's word. Not only study it, not only read it, not only listen to it, but we need to memorize it as well. Thy word have I hidden my heart that I might not sin against thee. That's the fourth. But the fifth is to meditate upon it. Oh, how I love thy law. It's my meditation all the day. I don't know if I said this before when I was here, but it merits repetition if I did. But I can remember looking at cows as a little boy. And and we've all seen cows, we know what cows do. They eat a lot and then they go under a shade tree, right? And I'm going to actually illustrate a profound spiritual truth. You ready? And this is what they do under the Shea tree. You ready? Did you get that just in case you didn't? One more time? And I would look at them as a little kid and I'd say, huh. And then they do this I watch them and then in a few minutes they they they go. So where'd they get that from? They haven't eaten anything more, and then I realized and learned later that a cow has a primary stomach, has a secondary stomach, has a tertiary stomach and and they do something called ruminating. That means they eat a lot. They go under a shade tree and then they they can regurgitate, bring that stuff back up and chew it again. I thought as a little boy that'd come in handy if I could do that. You know, I'd be in school, a teacher would be teaching on something, and and I'd be getting hungry and I could go She said, hey, what are you eating? Snickers bar? Where'd you get it? I ate it last night. Just brought it back up to chew it on, chew on it just a little bit more, amen. Well what I'm saying is this, see that's God's word every time you bring God's word back up, if you have it If you chew it if you chewed up and swallowed it, you can bring it back up and you can chew it again. That's meditating. That's that opposing thumb that gives you a grip on God's word That's why it's so important for us to read, to study, to memorize, to meditate, even to listen to God's word, because it is the foundation of our country It's the thing that has made us who we are. It's the thing that's given us everything that we have as individuals, collectively, as churches and families, and as a nation as well. As time went on. There was a little boy playing in his father's shop. And as little boys did, he was carving his initials in a block of wood. It slipped out of his hand and he Fished it out of this purple bucket of dye and put it on a piece of paper to dry and and you want us he continued to go on playing his dad was a scribe he would copy out meticulously legal papers all day long. Well, Yohannis came back and picked up that block of wood and on the paper was printed the exact image of his initial that he had carved out of that black block of wood. And he looked at that and I believe right there God began to formulate in the mind of Johannes Gutenberg, the movable printing press, the movable type printing press. And the very first thing that came off of that printing press when he got older and devised and and actually created that machine was the Bible. So now the Bible's being printed in large quantities and people are taking the Bible and reading the Bible and taking the Bible and bringing it to the next generation and allowing their children to grow up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And From the 1400s to the sixteenths, two hundred years, we see more and more people not going to these uh state-run churches and not listening to these priests get up and and preach from Latin that they can't understand and and not Saying the Bible is just relegated into a dead language and changed to a pulpit. Now they have the Bible. Now they're reading the Bible. Now they're getting saved. Now they're passing on the salvation to the children in by the 1600s They're under persecution and do they decide to to come to the New World. And they set out in the the fortitude of our founders, their faith, you see, is the thing that led them here to this particular nation as a family As a church, the fortitude of our founding fathers was this that they had been given very carefully Very meticulously, something that was so unique, so eternal, so powerful, it was the word of God, it was salvation through Christ, and history continues to be an inspiration, a guiding light to all that finding. You say history, yes, his story right here. God's story. The Bible, the gospel of Jesus Christ. Their incredible drive, their desire, their determination to cultural victory. That was the very thing that we as God's people here tonight are recipients And our founding fathers came here with an inexhaustible, unstoppable strategy that they had received and had been passed on from their father, from their father, and from their father. It was that thing, that that strategy that God is how the world works and these men sat down and and realized historians looked in wonder at these men who presided over the war for independence when expressed with amazement that this group of men Political talent bloomed as it was touched by some tropical sun. Another one said these men that were so intellectual and yet they had moral caliber, but beyond that they had a faith That was stirring within them. Historians only are able to wonder of these amazing group of men that came together, our founders remained a phenomenon. to the whole world. Astounding and what they did and how 56 men changed the course of humanity. and birthed in this nation a liberty so people could think free. The foundation of our faith that led to the fortitude of our founding fathers also gave us, you might say, the formulation of the family. Amen. And the family, of course, is what civilization is based upon. And that family is what churches are made up of. Amen? And look, many times people say this, well Brother Harding, and you saw a little excerpt of it in the two-minute video. Where does the policy of a nation come from? And I explained to them, as I did in the video, it comes from the from the pulpit That's where it should come from. That's where it did come from for over 200 years in our nation's history. It came from the pulpit to the pew. The people in the churches. From the people in churches to the public. From the public to the politicians that made the policy. But when the Pulpit goes silent. Then what are the people in the pews supposed to think? See, that's where we've gone awry. Because the pulpit went silent decades ago. When we started laboring under the misnomer, it's not spiritual to be involved in politics. And and our guys, you know Brother Leatherman, we stopped preaching these these things. And we thought, well Look, it's a separation of church and state. We even fell under that misnomer and people say it's not spiritual be involved in government. Oh come on, really? Look in the Bible and how many times God's men and God's women We're involved all the way through from the very beginning to the very end of the Bible. Even John the Baptist told Herod, you shouldn't have your brother's wife. You've heard that story before. So very interesting that we as God's people We basically got a gag order that was self-induced. Well, now pastors more and more are speaking out once again. And they're speaking for and against candidates by name. In fact, uh, the Freedom Pulpit Sunday in October, now there's thousands of pastors that basically speak for and against candidates by name, and they're daring on the IRS to try to take their five oh one C three tax exempt status from them. They're daring. But since two thousand and eight it's never happened. The IRS has never touched them. You know why Because we're not tax exempt because the IRS says so. We're tax immune because the Constitution says so. Amen? And that's something that we must understand. But what we're looking at here is a foundation of the family. Here's the problem you see what people don't realize. There's three institutions that God has ordained. Number one, it's the family. Number two, it's government. Number three, it's the church. But government is never neutral. You understand? It will protect and promote the family and the church. Or it'll punish and prosecute the traditional family in the church. For most of our nation's history, government, because we're a Christian nation, has protected the traditional family And the church, right? But now because we've grown silent for so long and we're just now getting vocal again, and thank God for that, we're waking up. That's why the Lord led me to basically call this ministry Wake America. And now we're once again waking up and now we're realizing, hey, for the first time in a long time, we have an amazing thing that's happened. We have a president that that says, hey, we need to stipulate that a uh the marriage is between a man and a woman. I kind of like that, amen. And that's what the president has said. That's what the platform of the Republican Party has said. But we God's people have to understand it's one of the foundations of our nation. The family. Amen? And too many times what happens is instead of us sitting at least one meal of a day in the dinner time, in the supper time, as the Southerners call it And as uh us northerners call it uh, you know, dinner time. Uh suffer dinner, whatever you call it's the evening meal. We get together with our family And we just basically have kind of like a a family altar. Amen. You should have a family altar every single day with your with your children. Too many times we get too busy and and everyone's going off every which way. It's time to just every once in a while stop and just have a family altar. Now I was not brought up in a Christian home. Okay? But what we did have is a Christian memory. My dad, although he wasn't a Christian, I led him to the Lord when he was in his 60s. He would say, now son, you work hard, you you be honest, you bring, you know, honor to the family name, uh, you you know you be on time. All these things are all biblical principles. We did have a family altar In a in a way. Supper, where we learned about the family stories and about how mom and dad met. Okay? How about mom uh mom started knitting my dad Argyle socks? How many of you guys own Argyle socks See, not one hand, okay? Okay, well God bless you. Amen. Uh how many own happy socks? You know what happy socks are? No happy socks either? Thank you very much. I You know, I I'm glad Argyle socks aren't in style anymore. But my mom would tell how she knit my dad Argyle socks. They were all in fashion then. And and how that she would make my dad cold-tongue sandwiches Now I was just a kid. I had no idea what tongue meant. I just knew it was meat. I was hungry and I would eat it. Okay? And uh cold tongue sandwiches, we all laughed, cold tongue sandwiches, you know, we were just laughing. Um and we had heard the stories before, but it was our family stories. And now When I got a little bit older, I asked my mom one time, mom, when you say we're going to have tongue for dinner, do you mean we're going to have tongue? And I guess I timed it unintentionally just right because my mom was standing by a pressure cooker. Remember the old pressure cookers? Shh shh, okay, you were dating yourself now And my mom was standing by the pressure pressure cooker and it just finished and she took the top off and went shhhhhh, you know, and all the pressure came off. And she slid that lid open and she took a fork and she stab this piece of meat and it came out and she put it on a plate and it was a whole beef tongue. See my parents were f you know from they i immigrated from from Canada. And and and she said, What do you mean, son? When we have tongue, we have tongue. And I looked at that tongue and I mean it had all the you know and I said, I don't think I'm hungry This is the last time I ever ate tongue, amen. But what I'm saying, see that's the family. Uh that's very important. That's why the family's under attack today, because the devil knows If he can basically get us to start shifting away from the traditional family concept, our nation's over. That's why it's very important. That's why it's very dangerous. That's why we need to strengthen the family. And what better way to strengthen the family through and by God's Word and the church where you come as a family? And I've I've seen some families back there and Little ones are gone to sleep, you know, they're in la la land. But hey, that's okay. I'm glad the children are here. Amen. I'm glad they come here, parents. Bring them here. This is this is a strengthening post for families, amen. And that's what this nation was built upon, the formulation of the family. Not only the foundation of our faith, not only the fortitude of our founders, but the formulation of the family. family so very important. Something else I think that was uh very important as well is basically this the framework of the federal government that it is biblical that we see that whosoever look into the perfect law of liberty and And continues here, and he be not forgetful here, but a doer of work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. Look, I want to show you something here tonight that's amazing, that your pastor, as I said this morning, had a part in. This right here is the Republican platform positions. Now, one time we had a comparison between the Democrats and the Republicans. And you say, well, Brother Harding, I I've not seen a lot of guys that actually preach uh on Republican and Democrat parties. As I told you this morning, I'm not a Democrat, I'm not a Republican necessarily, I'm a Christoprat But the Republicans are where God is, and so that's where I am. Okay? But this right right here, it's the most biblical, it's the most constitutional, it's the most conservative platform in the history of any political party in the United States. Right here. In fact, um several uh months before the election, I showed my wife some excerpts of this right here, which is actually just excerpts of a fifty-eight-page document that the government that's now in the majority has promised us that they're going to do. Right here. This is just an excerpt. Two-page excerpt, okay? Split into life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. I showed it to my wife. She said, who's been listening to you preach? And so we did a little comparison. I want to show you the, I want to just tell you the backstory, so to speak, okay? How many remember Paul Hardy? Okay. All right. I want to tell you kind of like the Paul Harvey story about how this document that they have promised us came to pass. When The former chairman of the Republican National Committee was basically appointed. He came out with a public statement saying, we don't need Christians. You don't need people of faith back in the Republican Party to win the White House. I know a pastor that wrote him and chided him and said, oh, that's the only way you're going to get back into the White House. And to his credit, Uh the foreman the the former uh chairman of the Republican Party uh called that pastor and said, you know what, I'm wrong and you're right. And not only Am I going to apologize to you over the phone? I'm going to do something unprecedented in the Republican Party's history. I'm going to hire a faithful liaison. His name's Chad Connolly. He hired him, first time it's ever been done. And him and I are going to fly out to where you are. We're going to apologize to you in person. You try to get as many pastors together as possible, and we'll strategize on how we can get the people of faith back into the Republican Party. to win the White House. This was about five years ago. This was the f and of course I didn't know this was going on. But talk about providentially ordered. This is the first time we had the Capitol Connection. We took the Bible that Congress passed a resolution to print in 1782. Can we put that Bible back into every House and every Senate office on Capitol Hill and brought pastors in from 47 states? 500 showed up that first year. Amen. And so the chairman of the RNC, the Republican National Committee, said, uh, you need to go talk to these two guys because hundreds of pastors came and And they prayed with our elected officials, and everyone's abuzz as what's just going on. And look what they gave and we gave the chairman of the Republican Party also one of the Bibles. He said, you need to meet with these guys, Chad. And so Chad Connolly met with us and we had breakfast at the Capitol Hill Club, right next to the RNC headquarters. And this is what Chad said when we sat down to eat breakfast. He said, what can we do, the Republican Party, to get the people of faith, specifically who we believe you're going to be a voice to, the Independent Baptists, back to the Republican Party And I said, do you really want to know? He said, yeah, I really want to know. I said, what are you going to do with the information? He said, I'm going to go right over and I'm going to talk to the chairman. I said, okay. We're at the table. He said, excuse me? I said, we as independent Baptists, we're at the table. We are pro-family, pro-life. Pro-Israel, pro-Second Amendment, pro-free market. We are at the table. It's the Republican Party that's left the table. Boy, his eyes got real big. He said, boy, you don't mince words, do you? I said, Independent Baptist. He went, oh, oh, oh, okay. I said, let me tell you something else Right now I know there's different factions in the Republican Party, and you're thinking about turning to the left. Thinking about placating the LGBT and you're thinking about placating the uh the abortionist crowd and you're thinking about you know trying to uh be a soft shoe on socialism and and uh and turning your back on the free market and and you're thinking about going to the and you think that's going to get you back into the White House If you do that, you'll be nothing but a bad imitation of the Liberal Party. He went, Wow. I went, yeah. I'll say it backwards, wow Well he went over and he told the chairman of the RNC everything that we had told him. Time went on. And I told my wife we need to do a comparison, which we did. Now this is just what the Republicans say. We didn't need the Democrats anymore because uh they're, you know, they they lost. But uh but this is the Republican. Now you say, well Brother Hardy, two guys look, this is this was God's doing. And it's marvelous in our eyes. But you know why we had that meeting? It was because of pastors. That came from your church and other churches just like this one The chairman of the Republican Party came to talk to the pastors. He walked into the Canon Caucus room. There was hundreds of pastors there. This is like a third year. He looked at Chet Conney and he said, you've got to be kidding me. These are all pastors? Chad said, I told you. This is the clout that they have, you see. We would have never got that meeting had it not been for men like your pastor and other people. pastors that came and afforded us the opportunity to have that meeting. This is what else happened. This is what else had happened. Two weeks before the election. We're on a conference call with Chad. And uh I said, Chad, man, that that platform is amazing, biblical, it's constitutional, it's conservative. He said, yeah, everything you asked for at that breakfast meeting we got. And I looked at Brother Crete and I said, everything we asked for I was astounded. You could have knocked me over with a feather. See, what I said this morning is so true. We're nothing. You understand? We're nobody. But God can use nobodies. He uses great men to do great things, extraordinary people do extraordinary things, but he uses anybody to do miraculous things. It's God's doing. It's marvelous in our eyes. But we would have never had the opportunity had not your pastor and other pastors come. Let me read you some of this stuff. This is amazing to me. Now this is from page 13. Listen to this. The Constitution's guarantee that no one can be deprived of life, liberty, or property deliberately echoes the Declaration of Independence proclamation that all are endowed by their Creator with certain an alienable right to life. Accordingly, we assert the sanctity of human life and affirm that the unborn child has a fundamental right to life which cannot be infringed. We support human life amendment to the Constitution and legislation to make clear that the 14th Amendments protect and apply to children before birth. Page 13, they put that in writing. Now this is their platform that you can get online. You can pick one of these up right back there, which is Excerpt for free. Here's something else. We oppose the use of public funds to perform and promote abortion to fund organizations like Planned Parenthood, so long as they provide or refer for elective abortions to sell fetal parts rather than provide health care. They put that in writing. Now, why did they do that? Because they believed it's right. How are they going to get that done is if we continue to call and tell them They promised that, and that's on page 13, and we want them to continue to do that. You say, Brother Harding, won't they do what they said they're going to do? Do you understand? The election promises and how they work. Huh? Okay, it's up to us to call and make sure that they adhere to what they promised us. That's the only way the promises will be fulfilled. Because they're good people, but own the look, the best of people are only people at the at their best. Do you understand? And that's a very slippery slope there in Washington, D. C. Here's another one, marriage. We condemn this is this is from page 31 of the Republican platform positions. We condemn the Supreme Court's ruling in the United States versus Windsor, which wrongly removed the ability of Congress to define marriage policy and federal law. We also condemn the Supreme Court's lawless ruling. in Ovejafell versus Hodges. In Overjafell, five unelected lawyers robbed 325 million Americans of their legitimate constitutional authority to define marriage as a union of one man and one woman. In writing. You understand what I'm t I'm giving you here? This is our marching orders, what we need to be calling about. Not just your elected officials, but all the elected officials down there. You want to do something? Do you understand it only takes ten phone calls for them to start actually listening to us? A lot more than ten people here tonight. And this is an amazing, powerful thing because it's what they promised us. Now I know, you know, there's elected officials in Maryland that are Democrats. I understand that. But you don't, you're not just a, you know require just to call them. You can require, you you can basically call any of them and tell tell them as a person of faith you want them to follow this. I I I love this one here. Religious liberty. We value the right of America's religious leaders to preach and Americans to speak freely according to their faith. Republicans believe The federal government, specifically the IRS, is constitutional prohibited from policying or censoring speech based on religious convictions or beliefs. Therefore, we urge the repeal of the Johnson Amendment. It's the first time that's ever been said since July the second, nineteen fifty-four. You know what the Johnson Amendment says? You can't speak for and against candidates. without the possibility of losing their tax exempt status. The president has already s already signed an executive order to repeal that. So it's already been done. By the way, the president also signed an executive order that Mexico and Third World Nations are not going to get one more penny from us to perform abortions. That's already saved the lives of countless young people. You understand? Of countless innocent babies over in other nations as well. It's amazing to me. Hey, I'm excited about this. We consider the administration's deal with Iran to lift international sanctions and make hundreds of billions of dollars available to the mullahs, a personal agreement between the president and his negotiation partners. partners and non binding on the next president. Basically they say we're pulling out of the Iran agreement. I like that. Don't you like that? I just kind of like that. Amen. Here's something else too. Support for Israel. We affirm America's commitment to Israel's security. We ensure and we'll ensure uh yeah that Israel maintains a qualitative military edge over any and all adversaries. We support Israel's right and obligation to defend itself against terror attacks upon its people and against alternate forms of warfare being waged against it upon it legally, economically, culturally, or otherwise. I like that. You know why? Because God says those that bless Israel, God will bless. I I want my family to be blessed. I want my nation to be blessed. Amen. Old Testament, New T Testament as well, Galatians. Look at it. Chapter 3. It's talking about the blessings of God in the New Testament to the people that bless Israel. I'm kind of glad about that. Even to the point that the President said we're going to actually recognize Jerusalem as the legitimate capital of Israel Now that hasn't happened yet. But I believe it will happen. You say when? Well he's not even been in office a year. Everyone's screaming, jumping up and down. You know, when what is he going to do? He's done more in the first hundred days than most presidents have done since FDR and Truman. And he has four years, by the way. Okay? You say, well, uh you know, he does it in some of the times of Things that he says, uh kind of raise my eyebrows. I understand. I do too. And I wish he didn't uh text out everything that he did. I wish he thought about it before he texted, you know. And uh some of the things are good, some of the things are like, oh my, I wish he hadn't said that. Uh but what we need to be praying for him. You understand? We'd be praying for this man that God God has allowed to be the president and the leader of the free world. Amen. Aren't you glad that he has a Daniel? In Mike Pence. I've met most both both of them. I've talked to both of them and and uh and he's not the same guy that he is talking to you that he is but when he's stirring it up. I'm talking about President Trump. He's very personable. Mike Pence is a tremendous Christian gentleman. But I just wonder, are we really praying for them like we should be? Are we praying for them like no other president we've ever prayed for in our life? See, he's being attacked like Noah the President. He was elected like Noah the President, like we said this morning. We need to be praying for him like Noah the President. I mean several times, the hedge of protection. You know what I mean Nutcases would like to do him harm or Mike Pence harm or the family harm. We'd be praying a hedge protection around them. Amen? I pray the hedge protection around your pastor every day. Because he's my friend. Amen. Because he's a pastor here of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. But the fact is, I'm also Praying for our president who's the leader of the free world. It's amazing to me what we see of vetting rev refugees. I like that, don't you? That he's doing that? Amen. Immigration and trade? Hey, that's okay Uh i if we start bringing people that are actually educated, amen. I'm gonna talk about that in just a minute. Uh climate change You know, it was so funny to me that people were going down to the one of the uh ice, uh the uh the polar caps to uh study uh, you know, global warming before they changed the climate change. It was global warming and they got caught in the ice. And then the rescue boat that was sent to rescue them got caught in the ice. It just kind of warmed the cockles of my heart, you know what I mean? Global warming and then they get caught in the ice. Um it it's amazing to me that they want the Second Amendment. Oh, I I like the Second Amendment. Don't you like the Second Amendment? Amen. And uh we need to get some things changed here in Maryland too. And and we're working on that also, by the way. Amen. But uh we uphold the right of individuals to keep and bear arms a natural an ailable right that precedes and predates the Constitution and is secured by the Second Amendment. Lawful gun ownership enables Americans to exercise their God-given right of self-defense for the safety of their homes, their loved ones, and their communities. I like that, don't you? Where they have the most stringent gun laws, they have the most murders. We have where they have the the the best gun laws that you know that basically let people have and carry guns, they have the least amount of burglaries. And murders. You know why? Because they don't know who's going to pull. Amen? I mean I used to be in the Midwest and and the pastor said, How many have uh gun permits? And man who has seen the hands. Even the women were raising their hands I told my wife if anything happens in our church, just get down. Just get down. I don't want to get caught by friendly fire, you know what I mean? Just get because everyone's gonna be pulling, ah, you know, some of these ladies will be going, ah I can just imagine. You know. But uh, you know, I I I love that story o of that lady, she's traveling from uh from Oklahoma to Texas and and and she's a very petite, very well-dressed lady and and uh she has a uh concealed carry permit and she's pulled over by a Texas state trooper Well, there's reciprocity between Oklahoma and Texas, and and uh she's gets she gets a little rattled and instead of giving her a license to him, she gives her second her her a concealed carry permit. His eyes get real big and he looked at her and they said, A little petite lady all dressed up and very nicely and finally says, Ma'am, do you have uh weapons? Oh I'm sorry officer, here's my license. Yes, but yes, but ma'am, do you have weapons in the car Oh yes, officer, I have a 357 Magnum in my glove box, I have a 45 underneath my console right here, I have uh 22 in my purse, and I have a saw-of-shot and stuck underneath my dashboard He said, ma'am, what are you afraid of? She said, absolutely nothing. And that's America. Amen. And uh that's just another thing that they say that they n they they won't want to do here. So we need to we need to realize these things. I mean it's wonderful. Uh you know, uh look, you say, well they didn't get Obamacare repealed. I understand that. I I understand. But they're gonna be coming back to it again. You say, how do you know? Because I was just in a meeting with them. And they say we're not leaving it. We're coming back to it. Amen. And we need to be praying about that. So I can't do anything. And yes, you can. You can pray for miracles to happen in Washington, D. C. , just like we prayed for a miracle in the election. See, we need to be believing that God answers prayer. Amen? We need to be believing these things. Very quickly, I need to go on. and uh and show you a few more things here be and be before we go, okay? Everyone okay? Everyone doing alright? Okay, it's 818, just in case you were wondering, okay? But look, John Adams, he knew the content of sermons and Christian character was the very thing that inspired the Constitution of the United States. By me, God says, kings rule and princes decl decree justice. But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul. All that hate me love death. Our Constitution was not just the best ideas from former constitutions and and nations. It was biblical things put down into our nation's history, into our foundational documents from the foundation of the universe, which is God's word. For the Lord is our judge, the Lord is our lawgiver, the Lord is our King. You've heard me say that before. That's the three branches of government right there in Isaiah chapter 33 and verse 22. Article 4, section 4, republicanism, that we are guaranteed a republican form of government is to the republic for which it stands one nation under God, not the democracy. Number five, the fabric of our nation. Very interesting to me. E flerbus unum out of many one. Out of many one. I kind of like that. Look with me over to Leviticus chapter 19, verse 34. Leviticus chapter 19 and verse 34. That means that you can come to America and you become an American. Amen? Can't do that anywhere else. As I said this morning, you can't go to France and be a Frenchman. You'll always be an American. Can't go to Britain and be a Brit. You'll always be a yank Can't go to Spain. No, you always be, you know, that guy over in the corner from America. But you come to America, you become an American. I went out to a Filipino church out in California And uh they were just all Filipino people and very wonderful people, lovely people. I love the Filipino Christians in America. And they said, We're Filipino Americans. I said, No, you're not. They said, Yes, Brother Harding, we're Filipino Americans. I said, No They said, yeah, we came here legally and we learned the language and and uh and we are we are Filipino Americans. I said, no, you're not. They said, no. I said, no, you're Americans. I said, yeah, and I like halo halo, which is one of their little soft drinks that that they drink with rice and others, and they just went, Oh, you know. I I I said you're American, there's no hyphenation needed. You come here, you become an American, you can't do that anywhere else on earth. And the reason why is because of God's word, because of our founding fathers basing our immigration laws on God's Word. Look at this. It says In Leviticus, are you there? If you're not, look intelligently on whatever page you're on, because I'm going to read it. Okay. Leviticus chapter 19, verse 34. But the stranger that dwelleth with you, shall be unto you as one born among you. Look at that. And thou shalt love him as thyself. For ye were strangers in the land of Egypt. You come here legally, you learn our customs By the way, you learn our language. This is not supposed to be a bilingual nation. Our founding fathers voted back during our formulation point of our history as a nation that there was going to be one language and they had several languages up and English one So you come here legally and you learn our language and you learn our customs. You don't come here and try to use our freedom to destroy our freedom. Amen? You come here and you become now. Look, you can still have pride in your background. I have pride in my background. I'm British in my background. I'm Welsh, Irish, English. Scottish, you know. I'm British, okay? You can call all those people British, but don't call an Englishman, you know. I mean don't call a uh A Scottishman, uh an Englishman, or that that sort of thing. My grandmother, I was telling your pastor today. My grandmother on my mother's side still spoke with an Irish accent. My grandmother on my father's side, she spoke with an English accent. She used to call us her ducks. Okay, my duck's time to come in, you know. I love my English grandmother. I loved my Irish grandmother. But my Irish grandmother was a little fiery. You know why? Because ire means angry Okay? So Irish means angry ish, you know. And and Ireland means the angry land. Those are the angry people over there, you know. They like to fight, right? And my my little Irish grandmother, she was sweet, but boy, you didn't mess with her She was about this tall, but she gave birth to fourteen children. I was messing around one day and kind of acting up. as a five year old and my Irish grandmother said, You better behave yourself because if you don't, I'm gonna put the come hither on you Now I didn't know what the come hither was, but it didn't sound good. Okay? And she said, I'm gonna put the come hither on you, and I'm gonna give it to the Sheeny man Well, she timed it perfectly because where their backyards would come together, there was an alleyway, and the Sheeny man was this old gnarled looking guy He always had a a stogie, a cigar sticking out of his mouth that wasn't lit, and he was driving this big draft horse, pulling this cart. He was their first attempt at recycling. So they would give him all their broken things. He'd melt it down for middle content or fix it or whatever. And he'd come through and he'd be singing like a little song. I'm the sheeting band. I'm the sheeting. I can still remember it in my mind's eye. And my grandmother said, I'm gonna give you the kin. I said, Well grandmother, the way you want me to do it. She said, Well don't be sending around with two arms at one length Do something with yourself, son. What should I do, grandmother? She said here and she reached into her dress and and she pulled out some chain. She called it silver. Here's some silver Go down to the corner store and and buy yourself some penny candy. But don't be forhulik with your money. As a grandmother, I have no idea what Fahulik means, but keep the to keep the change coming. And I'll stay out of your way, okay? Amen? But I'm not Irish American. I'm an American. Amen? And that is who we are. E pleurisum. Out of many one, you see, we come here and we become Americans. We're coming from all different areas and backgrounds. But we come here with a common vision that this is a nation that you can belong to. And those people that come here as strangers are people that are just like those that are born among us. And we welcome them into us as long as they want to uphold the tenets of life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. That's why I'm glad the president is vetting these people coming from unfriendly nations that want our demise, you see. And as as far as I'm concerned, if you come here and and you you basically uh uh you know, look, immigration's not a right. And people that come here as immigrants before they actually become naturalized don't have any rights. They just have privileges. And we have. These people that come here and and they have these cities that they want to protect them. Are you kidding me? Oh well illegal aliens they have rights. Really? What part of illegal don't you understand They're illegal, you know? And uh and so I'm just glad that there's some common sense once again and and that we see this. That's number five, number six very quickly. The free market system, that's very easy. It's the right to try, it's the right to buy, it's the right to sell, and it's the right to fail. We need to continue to tell government, get out, get out, get out of the free market system Get out of healthcare. Get out of any kind of business. Amen. If you're in any kind of business, get out of it. Government, you're not supposed to be there. 17 codified restrictions of them not being involved in government, excuse me, government not being involved in business. We need to make sure that that stays. And then number seven and last. The fervency of the focus of prayer. Bringing back to our lives the fortitude of the foundational truths and bringing them all into that pinpoint of power. And knowing who Jesus Christ is, and getting our prayers answered. For then must he have suffered since the foundation of the world. But now Once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away the sacrifice of himself, excuse me, to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself as It is appointed unto men once to die, but after this is the judgment. Nevertheless, nevertheless, the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal The Lord knoweth them that are his. And let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. You want to see God move in our nation? Depart from iniquity. Get back to the foundation of our faith, which is the Lord Jesus Christ. Start getting serious about praying for revival in our nation See, we're ripe right now for revival. You understand? Let me have all the teenagers and those young people that are teenagers or below teenage age to stand up. All the young people in the church. If you're uh you know a young person, just stand up right right now. Stand up. All the young people, the young people, there's young people here, young people, ah, good young people. W this young guy right here, what's your name, buddy? How old are you? Ten. That's great. Congratulations. Double digits. Amen. That's good. And your name? And how old are you, Wyatt? Eleven. That's a good name, Wyatt. Wyatt Earp. Amen. Pass in the draw. Okay. And your name, young lady? And how old are you? Seventeen. Seventeen. And you? Uh Eve. And you? Seventeen? And I know who you are, but say it anyway. And you're ten. Yeah, he's my my buddy Evan. He was the one that answered that question. Last time I was here about the Constitution, remember that about the about the justice, and now he's writing all 50 governors about our country. There's a 10-year-old that's doing more than most adults are doing for our nation. Sending out letters and tracts to all 50 governors in America. You know, why because God cause him to to do he wants to do something. We should all have that desire, amen? And what's what's your name? How old are you, Caleb? Sixteen and you? And how old you? How many? Thirteen. Okay. And you? And old you? Fifteen? And how old you Austin? Thirteen? How old are you, Dad? Twelve, and how old you young young young lady? You're you what? She's seven. And what what's your name? What is it? Jocelyn. Jocelyn, you know seven, that's God's perfect number. Does that mean you're perfect? And mom and dad are going What's your name, young Lily? How old are you? Nine. And you? How old are you? Ten? Isaac, how old are you Isaac? Amen. I like that. Energy, Isaac, man, okay. It's my turn. Okay, and you? And how old are you? And you? Amen. How old are you? Twelve? And what's your name, young lady? And how old are you? Five. And you, buddy? Nathan, how old are you? Nine, good haircut man. And uh and you? And how old are you? Seven. Okay, all the young people. See see these young young people? And you young lady. And how old is she? Eight. And what what's her name? Grace? Grace. And you buddy? What's his name? He's three? And what what's his name? Gabriel Gabriel Gabriel. Oh my. Oh there's one did I miss one? Oh I'm sorry, young lady. And what's your name? And and how old are you? Ten. All the young people stand up just just again, just just for a minute. Do I missing one? Right back here in the booth, the sound booth. Thirteen. Now I I want you to look around at these young people. Okay? And I want to ask you a question. The pastor wanted me to do this. No, I'm just I'm just No, I I told him I I was going to do this. He said, yes, do do this. I I want to ask you, when we look at the foundations of our nation, you know they're all predicated upon us as Christians Getting hold of God. The fervency of the focus of prayer. These young people to me are worth some prayer time. I want to ask you, when was the last time you prayed for one hour for just our country? See, we have a challenge today because we have so many creature comforts. Before we had to pray for rain for the crops to come in, or we'd starve. We had to pray for safety because there was wild animals and some hostiles that didn't like us being in certain parts of the of the nation. Okay? But we don't have to do that anymore. So now the average Christian prays maybe 15 minutes a day. And that's average. It goes down and sometimes a little bit. up. Let me ask this when was the last time you prayed for a half an hour just for our country? How about 15 minutes? Let me make it real easy. When was the last time you prayed for just five minutes for our country? You know how long five minutes is? Praying for one thing? Five minutes. Try that. One thing for five minutes. See, these young people here that are standing, I I don't I don't really know them like you do, but they're worth five minutes of my time. Every day. And over a decade ago, I told God, I'm gonna be praying for my country every single day before my head hits the pillow at night. Certain things for my nation it takes a little more than five minutes. But I think these young people are worth five minutes, don't you? Thank you. You can be seated, young young people. I appreciate that. Folks, we need to get serious about our prayer life. I mean really serious. About believing that God can do miraculous things for your country, for my country, for our families. Many people never thought we would be here. They thought, boy, we'd be really having a hard time right now because it'd be Madam President. But a miracle occurred. I don't want to stop there. I want to see a miracle of a national revival And there's some of our brethren that your pastor would agree with me. Oh, we we won won't be able to have another Nas National Revival. I'm sorry, I don't believe it I do not believe it. I believe God is willing, waiting, and able to give us a national revival. You know what the problem is though? The problem is people don't believe it. Remember I asked you earlier, do you believe that God's a God of miracles? I believe He is How many say, I believe God's a God of miracles, same yesterday, today, and forever, what he's willing to do for the people the Bible is willing to do for me. Okay, I want to ask you, do you have a miracle on your prayer list? Right now, as you sit here. Do you have a miracle that you're praying about that it's not going to get done unless God does it See that's what you call putting your belief system on the line. I I I am praying for some miracles. I have put some miracles on my prayer list and I've said, well, if you don't do it, it's not going to get done. But I believe you can do it. I believe it. I believe we could have a national revival. Not thousands, not hundreds of thousands. I believe we could see millions. Of people come to know the Lord in something that would shake, so shake the foundation of this nation that the whole world would be looking to us. In amazement. I believe it. Because I see in the eyes of our young people hope. They want America to continue. I want America to continue. When I see our veterans, these wonderful old people walking around with their caps on, and I walk up and And I'd have shaken so many of their hands. What what did you do? I was a Hellcat driver. I would I would dive into those enemy ships. I was a tailgun tailgunner, tailgun Charlie on the back of the big flying fortresses. I said, whoa, you had a very short life expectancy. Yes. Who who were you and what would you do? I rolled in to Omaha Beach on D-Day at the age of seventeen. I see in their eyes that sacrifice that was given for us. I don't want to let it go in vain. I want to share up these foundations. And folks, we're the only ones that will do it. If we don't do it. The heathen will take it and they'll destroy the foundations. And if the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do? Psalm 11 and verse 3. So, Brother Horney, I don't know exactly how to pray, what to pray. Well, that's why I brought these pamphlets with us. Five minutes for America, and I want to give one of these up. But these All those these are principles and promises from God's Word, this won't mean anything unless we get real serious. I'm going to ask you two things tonight. Would you like to see A national revival? I mean something so miraculous that no one can explain it? I mean look, by comparison that would make this election on November the 8th look like a walk in the park. No one could explain that. They still can't explain it. And uh they can be and because the reason why It's because they're they're marching under the banner of the Antichrist and the devil thought he almost had America. And if America falls, the whole world falls with us. See, God's not through with our country. And we, as God's people, need to realize that He is willing and waiting and able to give us a national revival. But the belief in that is something we need to start with. So I want to ask you, how many would be willing to say, Brother Horney, I'm going to start praying for five minutes for my country for a national revival, for God to do some miraculous things in my country? That I can see, that we can see continue. You know, we're relevant now to the society in which we live once again, but already we're starting to lose that relevance because we're still not hard after it But we can start once again right here at these altars tonight. If you're just willing to come down to an old-fashioned altar and say, I'm willing to give five minutes of my life. For these little ones. Five minutes. They're worth it to me. Five minutes of my life. Every day. So you say that's me, Brother Harding. A little different of an invitation tonight. I'd be willing to pray for five minutes for a national revival. Wouldn't you love to see that before we're raptured out of here? Before we're taken out, before we go home. Amen. And don't be like that lady that said, I'm kind of I'm I'm kind of uh I'm just kind of scared about the rapture, Brother Harding, because I'm going to be taking a space Trip without a spaceship, I said, you'll be fine. You'll be like that lady that went to that dude ranch and and she said I've never ridden a horse. He's fine. We have a horse that's never been ridden. You can learn together. Amen But before we're taken out of here, wouldn't you like to see God answer a prayer of a man miracle. Wouldn't you like to be a part of that? See, you've already been a part of the greatest document in policy. That any political party's ever been put. But you were part of that. Your pastor was a part of that. But you can be a part of something even bigger than that. A national revival. If we just believe. You say, well, I have a hard time believing. Then ask God to help you with your unbelief. But say, I'm going to give you five minutes because I love my family. I love the children and the young people of my church. I I love the freedom that my pastor has to preach about our faith. I love my fellow citizens, these people that have no clue about what we're talking about. about the joy that we're having and enjoyment right here in church tonight and they're looking for enjoyment other places, but it's right here. I'd like to see more people come to know the enjoyment of Jesus Christ and knowing Him as Savior and coming to an old-fashioned church service where you don't worry about the time. It's 8 40. And and just have a good time, okay? But but I'm asking you tonight, with how many piano playing, how many worth how many would say these young people are worth it, worth five minutes of my time? Uh Our national revival is worth five minutes of my day every day. You say, by God's grace, by God's grace, I'm going to commit. Five minutes every day. Reuse your pamphlet to pray through it. I'm going to start praying for a national revival in my country. That's what we need. Are you a World War II veteran? Pshew. Right there is what I'm talking about. The greatest generation came through the depression and spent four years, four plus years. Without coming home, without any kind of, hi, how you doing, you know, FaceTime. A letter every once in a while. Uh we can't allow service and sacrifice like that in all the other veterans here to go So I'm going to ask you, church, would you join me if you can physically get up and walk to an old-fashioned altar and Bend your body and you tell God, even if you can't bend down the altar, just come forward and say, God, I'm going to give you five minutes Five minutes. How many times do we watch a half an hour program? Don't even think anything. Five minutes. I'm gonna give you five minutes every day. And I'm gonna pray very fervently, very sincerely. About my country using principles, promises from this pamphlet right here, and praying for a national revival. Say that's me, Brother Harding. Because my family, my friends, my faith, my freedom is worth it. I want you to stand and come down this altar and let's do this right now as we close tonight. Let's not hesitate. Our country is depending upon us. These young people are depending upon us. Countless men and women that have gone before us and given that last good measure are counting upon us to do something that is different. To cause God to do the miraculous, the church must take the right ground and the regard to our nation. God will bless or curse this nation according to the course Christians take. In the government, in the governance. But I'm talking about not just that. National revival. I believe it's a It can start with five minutes for America. Ask God, Lord, please help me to do what I can to make a few phone calls this week to take that position paper Make a few phone calls, couple minute phone calls. Maybe not to my Democratic representative, but maybe to a Republican Let them know I'm a citizen of this country, not just a resident of Maryland, but a citizen of this country. And I want them to follow the promises that they've made in policy. Dear God, I want to see a miraculous revival begin in my heart. My family, my church, my city, my state, and move to the entire nation. I'm going to give you five minutes every day for the rest of my life before I put my head on my pillow by thy grace. Five minutes every day. Because I think these young people in my church are worth it. Nation's worth it. Salvation that you've given me and your son, the Lord Jesus Christ, is so dear to me, I want others to share. To know the truth. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this church, for their pastor, for their heart. To you, to our country, for these commitments, these promises that are being made at this altar. May they take this nation and correct its course May they be that beginning, that impetus, that spark that will set fire to a great awakening, once again, the third great awakening in our nation. And before we're taken in the veil or through and by the rapture, oh dear God. We pray that you would show us your power and a miracle, Lord. We pray this in the name of Jesus Christ and thank you. Amen.