And turn to Zechariah, Old Testament book, second last book of the Old Testament, Zechariah. We're working our way through This book, and uh we're in chapter one still. Just gonna read the last two verses. I tell you, don't do me a favor, don't ask me about our barn, okay? I forgot to take my blood pressure medicine last night. First thing Ed said walked through the door he brought it up and I got mad my blood pressure went up and so don't bring that subject up. In fact I got mad now just thinking about it but not really Really. Zechariah chapter one, verse twenty. I don't guess there's special music. Right, okay. And the Lord showed me four carpenters. Then said I, what come these to do? And he spake, saying, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, so that no man did lift up his head. But these, the carpenters, are come to fray them. and to cast out the horns of the Gentiles, which lifted up their horns over the land of Judah to scatter it. I want to look tonight at these four carpenters. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you for giving us your word. Lord, it's been such a blessing to me just the last couple days in my reading. Lord, you just uh spoken to my heart and help me Lord, over the years you've done this for millions and millions of people. You've used your word to help us, encourage us, to give us direction, to warn us, and help us make decisions. So we're grateful for your blessing. Lord, we look at these two verses here this evening, somewhat obscure in some people's minds. But Lord, you've given us these Passages for a purpose, and I believe you have a message for us tonight. So with that in mind, Lord, I yield myself, my will, my mind I yield it to you. I present my body, God, as a tool in your hand to build your church, to strengthen our faith, to feed your people. So please speak through me tonight. Fill me with your spirit, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Sandy's mom's here. I just call her mom And uh she wanted me to review the last three months worth of messages from Zechariah. So we'll go back to square one Now I'm not going to do it all, but just to get us up to speed, what we're looking at is the book of Zechariah. It's called a, in and Bible scholars call this book one of the minor prophets The reason it's called a minor prophet is not because it's insignificant. Minor insignificance. That's not the purpose. It's minor because of its size. It's a smaller book of the prophets, Isaiah, Jeremiah, Ezekiel. They're considered major prophets. Again, not because they're any more important, more inspired, but because they're larger. They're major in size. Zechariah was a young man, probably raised by his grandfather, who was a priest. He was part of the crowd that came back from Babylon after their seven-year captivity. The you know Israel had deteriorated Saul, David, Solomon, and then the the the country split, the northern king, the southern kingdom, and they are deteriorated. They got farther and farther from God until finally God just led them into captivity, overrun the country, and there was no country of Israel anymore. The nation was decimated. The Jerusalem was complete Complete rubles, I mean as devastating as what you think. My picture of Jerusalem at this point was like a uh an atom bomb had dropped on it. I mean it's just rubble Seventy years they're in Babylon in captivity. Finally they're given permission to come back. Most of them had settled in Jerusalem in uh Babylon. They had businesses, their homes, they had gardens, farms They didn't want to leave. This is where they raised the kids, you know, 70 years and uh they didn't want to leave. Well 50,000 said, Oh yeah, we'll go back They start rebuilding Jerusalem. Uh they uh rebuild the temple foundation, they put the walls up under um Mihemiah, so Rubbab will get some building the foundation of the temple Takes about five years, they l slowly lose interest again. By the way, that's why we have revival services periodically, because people lose the fire We lose our burden. And that's what happened to the Jews in there in Jerusalem. And so slowly they started building their houses instead of God's house. Nothing wrong with building their house, but there was something wrong in building their house and neglecting God's house. And so it sets there for 17 years. God raises up Haggai and Zechariah. Zachariah, as I said, was a young man. He's probably in his mid-teens, maybe late teens at this point. His first message was to Israel was kind of a warning. Said, listen, you better get your act together, get back to what you came back here for. Now he goes in to the rest of chapter 1 and through chapter 2, he has these series of visions, all in one evening, I believe. One night he goes to bed, he has these visions, probably not physically seeing them, but he sees them, we use the term, in our mind's eye, maybe just in his spirit. God, he sees this in his spirit. These events take place. First one, if you remember, was a man on a red horse in the myrtle trees down in the bottom. Matt represented that God was with Israel during all their dark days and uh he was going to take care of them. Now he has the set then he has the second vision, the four rams are the four horns that scatter Judah. We looked at this last week. Now this third vision he has is these four carpenters. So did I get you up to speed, Mom? Are you good? You know what's going on. Okay. There you go. So, we have these third vision. Now some commentators put the ram the horns and the comment and the Carpenters together into one vision. But I think I agree with Schofield, I think they're two separate visions. I think it's one than the other. So he has this one of these ram these horns that have scattered Israel. I mean just decimated them That one's done. Then look, if you would, again, at verse 20. And the Lord showed me four carpenters. So he has this other scene taking place. And I said, what come these to do? And then he explains it. So these four carpenters. Now, man is so sinful Mankind in general and all of us individually, we're very, very sinful. Don't ever get the idea, well, I'm not that bad. Yes, you are And I am also. Our heart is deceitful, desperately wicked. So we know, if we're honest with ourselves, we know that we are sinners to the core Then you come to your Bible, and so much of the Bible speaks of God's judgment on sin. You know, you read through and sometimes you get through ports of scripture and I just think, oh, it's hopeless. We're doomed. God's going to judge us to death. You read that, and then you read how if you're saved, thank God you escape the judgment of hell, but then you got God's chastisement You know, and sometimes you read through there and you just, if we're not for if we're not careful, we'll we'll get the idea that God is, He hates us. We're so rotten and he's so holy and judgment is so severe and so certain. Man, we're scared to death of God. I want to remind you that God is for us. God's not against us. God wants us to succeed in life. He really does. God wants to bless us. We're if we're saved, we're his children. He loves us. I don't know a parent in their right mind that doesn't want their child to succeed. I don't know, a parent in a right mind doesn't want to bless their children, be a blessing to their children. So God is for us. God is on our side, so to speak. In fact, David says that in one of the Psalms Now, God's definition of success is different than the world's definition of success. The world's definition of success is you have everything you want. Right? That's successful. Somebody has everything they want before they're successful. God says success is simply wanting whatever it is you have. Right, there's a world of difference. And so God's definitely actually success for a child of God is determining God's will and doing it That's what success is. Wherever God's will is for me, I do it. That's successful. God's definition of blessing someone is different than what the world would describe as God blessing someone. Can I say something? I want to be very careful, because I don't want to get in the frame of mind of trying to judge whether people are saved or not. But I just be very frank with you. I don't believe uh there's a lot of these guys on TV, preachers, I just, they are flat out, I cannot believe they're saved. Can I be frank? I just don't see it. And their whole view of spirituality, their whole view of God's interaction with man, is materialism at its basis. At its very core, their whole definition of blessing, their whole definition of success is God blessing us materially, succeeding materially. And God's definition of success, God's definition of blessing is the world of is a world of difference from the world. So You say, what in the world does that have to do with this? This vision that Zechariah has is a message to his people. Hey, I'm for you. I want my people to succeed in life. I want my people to have my blessings. I want my people to be secure and happy and safe and fulfilled in their life. Now, there are some preachers who go to extremes on both ends. Some preachers, all they preach is judgment, judgment, judgment, judgment. And Lord knows we could use more preaching on judgment. Then you have the other extreme, and all they preach is blessing, blessing, blessing, blessing, blessing. You never hear anything about sin, you never hear anything about judgment. Guess which of those two have the bigger crowds? But the fact is we need to have a balance. Yes There sin is awful and and we're sinners and there is judgment, but God is for us and wants to bless us. And that's the biblical perspective. That's the biblical thing. So verse 20 and 21 We're given a principle that's seen throughout Scripture. Let me read it again. I'll give the principle, then I'll give you an outline. And the Lord showed me four carpenters. Now this is following the four ray horns horns that scattered Israel. I said, what come these to do? And he spake, saying, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, so that no man did lift up his head. So he's making reference to the previous vision. He's saying basically, remember those horns you just saw a little bit ago? And decimated Israel, and they're so discouraged they can't even lift up their heads, they're just in the pits. He says, but these, these carpenters, are come to fray them, to fray the horns to cast out the horns of the Gentiles, which lifted up their horn over the land of Judah to scatter it. Here's the principle. This is good this is a good principle. I this would be something good to write down. To every action of the enemy of God and God's people, our Lord has a greater and opposite reaction. Now let me say that again. That stirred my heart. That's where I would say amen. If I was sitting, somebody else was up here saying that I would have said amen right there. So let's try it again. I'll help you I'll tell you when to say amen. That way you won't have to wonder. To every action of the enemy of God and God's people. Our Lord has a greater and opposite reaction. There you go. You're catching on quick. But that's a good statement. Amen? I don't know that I like the word reaction at that because I don't think God reacts to things, but God does respond. Maybe response would be a better word there. But whatever the devil throws at God and God's people, God responds Not just in an equal response, he responds in a greater response. If we had time, boy, there's so many illustrations, you go through the Bible and show this. But um uh you remember in Isaiah 14? Where you have the account of the fall of Satan, Lucifer. And remember he says, I will be like the most high. I will how many people remember that passage? Does anybody remember how many times does Satan say I will? Five times. How many times does Satan say I will? Five times. Very good. I will, I will, I will, I will, I So But if you go over to Ezekiel and help me here, I think it's chapter 28, where God has given another account of Satan's fault, that then in Ezekiel, God responds with his own I wills. What he's going to do to Satan. And God doesn't respond back with five I wills. He responds back with six I wills. God responds anytime Satan assaults God's people, God responds to that assault in a greater An opposite response. Think of Job. How many children, uh how many of Job's kids did Satan kill? All of them. What was it? Twelve? Is that correct? Ten. Seven boys and three girls. At the end of the book God says, I'm going to do what? I'm going to double the amount of children you had. God responds in a greater sense. He took 10 away. God says you're going to end up with 20 when it's all said and done. And so the principle is this, to every action of the enemy of God and God's people, our Lord has a greater and opposite response. God operates on behalf of and defends his people from satanic attack. Now keep your place here. Is everybody still with me? Alright? I'm having a good time. I don't know if anybody else is. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Will you turn there? For some of us, this is a very familiar portion of scripture. But if we're not careful, sometimes we can get so familiar with passages we lose the significance of them 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 13. If this verse isn't underlined in your Bible void, it should be. 1 Corinthians 10. 13. Many of you have this verse memorized. There hath no temptation taken you, but such is what? Common American. What's he saying there? Everybody faces temptation, right? They say, oh, nobody's been tempted like me, but learning. It's common to all men. There's no temptation taking you, but such as is common to man. But look at this. Alright? The devil throws the temptation at all of us. But God is faithful who will not suffer, the word suffer means allow, permit, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able. So God's in control, right? God's not going to let you be tempted beyond your ability to withstand it. But will with the temptation also make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it. You know what I'm saying? Satan throws a temptation at you. You think, oh no, I can't overcome that. God says, oh no, you you can overcome that because I respond to Satan's attack in an even greater way, and I'll and uh if you think you can't get rid of it, I'll provide a way out of it. So here's a thought with this. I think this how many folks here have ever been tempted? Raise your hand. Alright. Some of you were tempted not to raise your hand right there. Every time, whenever I am tempted to do wrong, how many folks were tempted today to do anything wrong? Anybody on that? A few, okay. Paul was golfing, tempted to cheat. But uh uh anytime we're tempted, that is proof that we can have victory over it Because if tell me if I'm misunderstanding this verse, if if I cannot have victory over it, then God would not allow me to be tempted in that area So the very fact I'm being tempted is evidence that I don't have to do this. If it was something that there is no way possible for me to have victory over, God would not allow me to be tempted So what I'm trying to say is this, God's for us. Satan is against us. Satan wants to take us down. Everything he thinks throws at us, God says, no, I'm for that's my child. That's one of my people. I am for them. I'm going to respond back in a greater and opposite way. Now that brings us to Zechariah chapter 1, verse 20 and 21. These horns have decimated Israel. Remember we said they represent four nations, one still to come. They have absolutely destroyed Israel. We know about the tribulation period. Israel is going to be run under the ground. And it's going to come to a climax. The Battle of Armageddon When all the armies of the world are coming down on Israel, and Christ breaks through and uh destroys them and sets up the millennial kingdom. God's for his people Now, let's look at these carpenters real quick. Number one, I want us to notice the account of the carpenters here. What I mean by that, I want us to notice the number of carpenters. There are how many carpenters are there There's four carpenters. Question: In the previous vision, how many horns were there tearing Israel up? Four. So here we have again God responding to a threat on God's people. Now, whether it's Israel in the Old Testament or whether it's the church in our day, God has the ability not only to counter Satan's attacks. But to turn that assault of the devil to completely turn that thing around and him to get praise out of it, him to get glory out of it. This whole deal going on with the town and just trying to do just build a dumb little garage. See there we go again. It already got me worked up. But it's reminded me of the fact that we're not in friendly air territory. We have an enemy, and I'm not saying they're the enemies of God, but I am saying we're in hostile territory. And uh we've got to remember that Whatever opposition the devil tries to present to God's people, God is still for us. And he steps in with equal response The devil's got four horns tearing Israel up? Well, God says I've got four carpenters to deal with it. Now you say, what in the world does a carpenter have to do with horns? Glad you asked, because that brings us to point two Notice the identity of these carpenters. What in the world? Then said I, what come these to do? We got horns thrashed in Israel and Judah and Jerusalem. And you've got some carpenters? Well, these are the horns would have scattered it, Judah, like I said, that no man did lift his head up. But These carpenters have come to fray them and to cast out the horns of the Gentiles, which lift up their horn. Now we gotta do a little digging here and do a little research, and we find out That a carpenter in this context is not limited to our understanding of what a carpenter is. You think of a carpenter day, you think of, what do you think of? Mark or Ronnie, yeah. I mean what do you think of but they do? They build stuff with what? Wood. Right. With primarily wood, but they use hammers and nails. They build things of wood. So when we think of a carpenter, we're thinking somebody out there bang bang bang bang bang tearing stuff up, right? Um building things A carpenter in this context, in fact, the word carpenter itself initially referred to a workman. Who was very good, very skilled at cutting stuff That was what initially that's what a carpenter was. Didn't necessarily just have to be wood. It would be somebody that was very skilled maybe at cutting stone. Like a mason, he'd be cutting stone out and be able to fit it in and build things. A carpenter was also, could also refer to someone who is very good at cutting out metal And designing, carving, the idea of cutting is the word involved in carpenter, carving out things and cutting it, and designing things out of metal and designing things out of stone, and of course it included metal. But the idea of the carpenter, the word itself related at this time to someone who was skilled at cutting or carving things. So you've got these horns, I assume rams with horns running around, tearing everyone up. And God says, I've got a couple carpenters, guys that are good at cutting stuff. What do you think those carpenters are going to do to those horns? They're going to cut them off. And a horn isn't any good when it's cut off. It's powerless. So these carpenters Are very capable of dealing with or removing the horns, these things that were tearing up God's people, that were scattering God's people. Now the question comes up: who in the world are these carpenters? I read a ton of commentaries. They offered a slew of different nations. There was different individuals suggested. There was people in the tribulation period in history. To be honest with you, the more I read it, the more I became convinced I have no idea who these guys are. But they're very real. They could be some nations that God uses to step in, and He did this in the past, and overcome the nation who was overcoming Israel. Could be that, could be some specific men. Who raised up and are very good and become leaders, and um God uses them to stop the opposition against his people. And you know, we think in our the history of the church Great evangelists that God raises up. Who I think of a Billy Sunday. And that God raised someone like that up, and through his preaching and his leadership and the power of God upon him The work of Satan was hindered in great ways. Billy Sunday and D. L. Moody and people like him would come into a town. They'd have revival meetings. When they left, the bars were empty and the churches were full And so God would use people to cut off the horns that the devil used to hurt God's people. So whether it's nations or whether it's individual men, uh some suggested they were angelic beings, that the spiritual warfare going on that's invisible to our eyes and that spiritual dimension that God has certain uh angelic powers in place for God's people like guardian type angels That could very well be. There's a lot of speculation about it, but I know this for a fact that God is on our side, and when Satan attacks, he steps in and he operates on our behalf. It's interesting, God, so I've studied this. God doesn't fight horns with horns. And say, oh yeah, devil, you got four horns, I'm going to get four horns too. Boom, boom, boom. Do you ever see those videos of the rams up in the mountains? Boom! Buttonheads. Anybody ever see that? Anybody? Hello? You know what I always think when I see that? They both got headaches. Nobody won. God doesn't fight horns with horns. And by the way, God doesn't fight fire with fire. You know what God does when the devil has horns and he's tearing up God's people, God doesn't fight him with horns, you know what he does? He cuts off the devil's horns. He takes them away. Satan has never been able to pull anything over on God. Think about it. Never Satan has never had a victory over God. When it was God and Satan one-on-one, Satan loses every time. Every time. Never been able to overcome God in any way. The only time, now get this: the only time Satan has any success. Is when two times that I see in the Bible when Satan has any success. First time is when God gives him permission. And the illustration of that, of course, is Job. And God gave Satan permission to touch Job's, to take his family, decimate his property, and to touch his body. But Satan could only do what God allowed him, and Satan, I guess you could say, had a victory there to some degree, but in the end, Satan was accomplishing God's agenda. So God will let Satan have his way to some degree, but only in that it fits into God's agenda that he can use that to illustrate something or to uh uh um uh uh prove himself powerful, accomplish his will. So it's really not a success on the devil's part. The other time when Satan has any Success at all is when we operate independent of the Lord. When we operate And ignore God's instructions in his words. And we just say, well, I think, I'll do it this way, I think that, I think this. Anytime we do that, we're leaving the door open for Satan to come charging in with those horns and wipe us out. So God has his carpenters. The devil's not going to get anywhere against God's carpenters. They're just going to hack off his horns. God has all the resources necessary for us to be spiritually safe and victorious. We just need to trust God and do what he says. And it leads me to the third. Point in the last one. Again, look at this. I said, What come these to do? And he spake, saying, These are the horns which have scattered Judah so that no man to lift his head. But these carpenters are come to fray them. And then he says, and to cast out the horns of dentals. These carpenters do two things to the horns. Number one, they fray them. What in the world does that mean? The word fray means to take something and shake it. It means to cause something to tremble. Like an earthquake causes the ground to tremble. So these carpenters show up, you got these horns running around destroying God's people. The carpenters show up, and what do the horns start doing? They're trembling. They're scared to death. And it instills fear in them. Now, what does fear do to somebody? Suppose you got it's getting on football season. Yeah, one team comes out and um we'll say it's the offensive team comes out and they got their line there. You got some big defensive linemen come up and they're like seven foot tall and they weigh four hundred and ninety pounds And the offensive line there, they look up and see them, and all of a sudden they're like, uh, what does that fear do to them? What's it? It hinders them, yeah. It removes any motive they have of standing in front of that guy and protect the quarterback. Yay! Fear removes courage. Fear removes motives. And so these carpenters show up, and one way that they remove The horns, the effectiveness of them, they instill fear in them. And I'm here to tell you, the devil is scared to death of God's power. What does the Bible say? Resist the devil, submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will what Flee from you. He'll shake. I'm telling you, the obedient Christian has power over the devil. Through God. And so they fray them, they're scared to death. Um it's cutting off their horns They become scared, their courage is gone, their motive to destroy God's people is gone. And then the second thing they do is to cast out the horns, just make them powerless. So I come, I come, this is my conclusion. How often you look at the history of Israel, how often Has it gotten to the point where it looked like Israel was on the verge of annihilation? I mean, it just looked like they're over with. And God steps in and says, Oh no, I'm not done with them yet. How people remember the story of David and Goliath? Remember the story? Israel said what? They said, We're cooked. We're dead neat. There's nothing we can do. Look at the guy. And it looked like it was over. The Philistines had Saul and the armies of Israel destroyed. This was it for Israel. But God had a little carpenter boy. It's a shepherd, but he was a carpenter in this context. And he went out and he knocked the horn off the Philistines. And what did the Philistines do? They went running. They were afraid. They were shaking. They were trembling. They were removed. It looked like it was over. But one young man said, wait a minute, God can handle this. God's carpenter are far better than the devil's horns. Let's go get them. Israel was in slavery for 70 years. Good grief. They're done. Their capital is devastated. They're scattered. But God raises up Zechariah and others, gets some people, and sure enough, they rebuild things and they come back. And here we are two, three thousand years later, and Israel's in the land God's people have strong adversaries, but God's people have some spiritual allies, and God works on our behalf. I don't know where you may be at spiritually Israel blew it, Israel was decimated, it looks like it was over. But like he does so often, God steps in. And when it looked like there was no hope, God's carpenters show up and they change the whole situation. Now, what's our responsibility? It's very simple, and I've been saying this over and over, and I'm probably because God's dealing with my heart about it. I've got to trust and obey God. Trust him. Do what he says. And God will work on our behalf. Just trust him. Just God says, do this. Alright, God, I trust you. I'm going to do that. And we'll see God do great things. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us, Lord, to trust you and obey you. Lord, you have shown us in your word that you're for us. You love us. You want to bless us. You want us to succeed in our lives. Lord, we blow it so bad. I pray, God, you'd help me and help all of us just to trust you and to obey you Lord, that you can get the victory and your will can be done in our lives. With our heads bound and with our eyes closed, I wonder how many this evening would say, Preacher I'm facing some horns of the devil. Boy, they're just kind of, they're really running me down. I need to get my eyes off that and I need to look to the Lord and just trust God and let Him step in and work this thing out. Let Him step in and change the situation. Let Him give the victory. And get my hands off of it. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I just need, I got a situation, I just need to let God take care of it. I just need to trust the Lord to step in. I'm reminded He loves me, He's for me I'm just going to trust him and do what he says. Let him work that thing out. Bunch of hands raised. How about it? Any others? Preach or pray for me. I want God to have the victory in my life. I want God to have victory in this thing Father in heaven, a bunch of hands went up, Lord. You know our hearts, you know our situations, you know how where we're at spiritually and the struggles we're facing. Help us, Lord, just put that thing in your hands to trust you. Let you turn that thing around and get the glory. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together.