It's some type of plastic vest that has velcro and it has little things you freeze stuck all around it. It was left here a week or two ago. Weird wearing it around town. And so nobody knows. Okay, we'll donate it Uh fella, there was a I think this is a true story. There was a some towel somewhere. And it said, the sign said in the business window, we would rather do business with one Taliban than with a thousand Americans. And you read that and you think, what in the world? What kind of American would be so disgruntled with their country? They'd rather do business with one of our arch enemies than a thousand Americans But sometimes if you don't know the whole story, you'd misunderstand what's taking place. That was actually on the front window of a funeral home. And so that makes a little more sense. And and so the point of that is sometimes if we don't have all the information we come to wrong conclusions. And uh so it's important we get all the information. Zechariah chapter 1. I just want to read two verses tonight. Zechariah chapter 1, and I want to read verse 18 and 19. The Bible says, Then lifted I up mine eyes and saw, and behold, four horns. And I said unto the angel that talked with me, What be these? And he answered me, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. We're preaching our way through Zechariah, and I want us tonight to look at these four horns that have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to bless. Father, we look into your word. We ask, dear God, that you would uh bless our study of your word. We ask, Lord, that uh you would open our hearts and minds to understand why you have given this portion of Scripture and preserved it for all eternity. Lord, we believe you have a reason. There's profit in this passage. So I pray that tonight we would profit from this For the reason you've given it, I yield my will to yours, Lord. I present my body anew tonight. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. This four, these four horns and this vision that Zechariah has. This is the second vision in a series of ten that God gave this young prophet He had, we believe, these ten visions one evening. If you read through them, um you get the impression it took l took place one night. Whether he literally saw these with his physical eyes like beamed up on the wall of his house. I don't believe that was the case. I think this was probably Whether he was awake or asleep, we don't know, but they were in his mind. God revealed these to him in his mind. With his mind's eye, he viewed this. This is my take on it in his spirit. And God was giving these visions to Zechariah to communicate to Israel his word. As you know, and remember, we pointed out previously that Israel had been allowed, they'd been in uh in bondage and slavery in Babylon for 70 years. God stirred the king's heart, allowed whoever wanted to to come back to Jerusalem and rebuild the city. Small minority Came back. Most of them had settled in Babylon, were happy, had businesses, and were living their lives. They've been there seventy years. They didn't want to uproot and come back to the promised land. But some did. They got back, they rebuilt the foundation of the temple, and they rebuilt the walls of the city. Took about four or five years for all that to take place. The walls were built pretty quickly, foundation took a little longer. As time went, people lost interest, began building their own houses, their own homes, and um You know, it's bad when your own wife gets mad at you and walks out when you're preaching, but uh no, pray for Kathy, she's not feeling well. Um what was I talking about? The walls and uh Jerusalem. So they lost interest. They began building their own homes, and as happens often As time went by, the novelty wore off, the excitement faded away, they lost the wonder of coming back and rebuilding the temple, and it sat empty for 10, 15, 17 years. God raises up Haggai, God raises up Zechariah. Zechariah is a young man in his teens, no doubt, and he begins preaching and God gives him these visions. Now, if you read through the book of Zechariah, if you just read through it. And you don't pay attention, I don't think you really pick up the message that God has given. I think you have to go through and pay attention as you're reading. And what God is doing, God is um encouraging That handful of Jews that came back have launched the wonder of it all and are now worried about their own houses and their gardens and their businesses. God's house is unfinished. And God is stirring, trying to stir them up through Zechariah to get back about the Lord's business. Don't lose sight. Don't get your priorities out of whack. Don't lose Don't place value on things that God does not consider to be of great value. Keep your values in line. And he does that through Zechariah by encouraging them. Sometimes God rebukes severely, and it comes out a little bit in the book, but the main part of the book is God has encouraged him, saying, Listen, I'm not done with Israel yet You guys have been through it. And it's been tough, and everything seems like it's been against you. But I'm not done with Israel yet And much of the book of Zechariah is pointing Israel forward to a time even in our future When God is going to re-establish Israel in the land, where God is going to renew and fulfill his covenants that he made with them, and he's going to fill them to the T And so the whole message, and we've titled the series Words of Comfort and Encouragement, A Prophet of Hope. And that's his message. So, God still has a plan You have these ten visions, he picks up in one night. Each vision in and of itself is complete. It's one unit in and of itself. It has its own message, but yet all of them together communicate the same message. And that is simply this, as I just said, God still has a plan for his people in spite of their failure, in spite of the opposition from their enemies. God still has a plan. And I don't know about you. That encourages my heart that no matter how bad things get, God still has a plan. Praise the Lord for that. Now, vision number two, the four horns, is connected to vision number three, the four carpenters And I really initially wanted to preach all this together, but I wanted but I decided as I worked on it a little more in depth that I wanted to zero in on these four horns that God. Gives this vision of four horns that God gives to Zechariah. Now, the first vision, if you remember, ended with God's severe rebuke. on the nations of the world, the Gentile nations. Does anybody here remember? Why was God rebuking these Gentile nations so severely. What had they done? Anybody remember? This is Wednesday night class time. Yes God used them, God used the Babylonians, these Gentile nations, to chasten Israel. But they went so overboard they weren't interested in just chastening Israel, they were interested in destroying Israel. And they absolutely wanted to eat them up. And God rebukes them for that. And so that's the first vision is Zechariah telling the folks that God strong rebuke on the nations for doing this to them, but also the fact that God was reassuring them that He's going to keep His promises. Now we come to the second vision, and the primary subject of the second vision are four horns. His whole vision revolves around these four horns. And that's what I want to look at. Number one, I want us to notice this. I want us to consider the definition of these horns. And how it's used in the Bible. The best way to come to a the best way to define a biblical word is to go and use, see how that word is used throughout the Bible. And get a definition that way. How does God use that word? Well the word horn and horns is used in a variety of ways throughout the scriptures. Sometimes God will refer to horns, and they are literal horns on top of a goat or a um, what else has horns? Uh goats and rams. Do sheep have horns? Sheep have horns. Uh deer have antlers. You can tell city folk anytime Cows have horns, the oxen, jasmine, bulls have horns. So sometimes in the Bible you go through, if you look up the word horns, sometimes it'll be referred to literal horns on top of animals' head And anytime God uses the term horns to refer to literal horns, it's obvious. You say, oh, that's obviously talking about literal, actual horns there. Aren't you glad you came to church tonight? But sometimes, in fact often, throughout the Bible, God will use the term horns not to refer to literal What are horns made out of? Cartilage? What? They're bones? I don't think they're bones. Horns Sometimes God refer to them to the the horns, but sometimes in the Bible, in fact often he will refer to the uh the two term horn in a symbolic way. And he's not referring to a literal bones or whatever coming out of the head of an animal. He's using them symbolically. And anytime the term horns is used in the Bible symbolically, it's always obvious. It's obvious he's not talking about literal horns. For instance, verse 18 and 19 Then lifted up my eyes and saw on behold four horns. At that point you could say, Alright, this could be literally maybe seeing some literal horns. What is it? Then you get to verse 19. And I said to the angel, What that told me, What are these? What be these? He was from down south What be these man? Um, what be these? And he answered me. These, now look, these are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. Now we know that can't be literal, correct? I mean this is obvious. But when they're used symbolically, then we need to determine, all right, what is he talking about? It's obviously not literal horns chasing the Jews So these horns are representing something. So you look at the Bible. How are the word horns used throughout the Bible? What do they represent? in other places in the Bible. And we find that horns in the Bible are sometimes an emblem of power. Sometimes there represent great pride, a very proud that represents pride of man, power, strength. Now keep your place here. It's not far away. Come over to the book of Amos. Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah, Micah, Nahum. So it's right after Joel Amos. Go to Amos chapter six. If you have an old Schofield Bible, it's page nine hundred and thirty-eight. Amos chapter 6 and verse 13. He which rejoice in the thing of naught. Now he's rebuking uh unrighteous folks. And he says, He which rejoice in a thing of naught would say, Have we not taken us horns by our own strength? So they're talking about their ability to push others around. There's strength in pride. We've done this. We are strong. Now, even clearer if you come back to the book of Psalms. And verse chapter number seventy-five. Now here we get a clear picture of what God means when he's talking about horns symbolically. Psalm 75 and verse number 4. Now, who'd ever thought that you read through there, you see the word horns, who'd have thought there's much significance to that? But there's tremendous significance. God uses words on purpose. And when there's a word in the Bible there, he has something he's trying to communicate. He's used that for a reason. So notice Psalm 75 and look at verse 4. Psalm 75, verse 4. I said unto the fools, feel not foolishly, and to the wicked, lift not up the mourn. Now he's not talking about a literal horn here, that's obvious. Then he says, if you look at verse 5, Lift not up your horn on high, speak not with a stiff neck. So what kind of people is he describing here? These people are very what? Very what? Very proud? Very argant? Arrogant? Argurant? Arrogant? They're uh they're lifting up their horn. They're uh he says, uh lift not up your horn, oh night, speak not. Come down, look at verse number ten. And all the horns of the wicked also will I cut off. For the horns of the righteous shall be exalted. So it has the idea of strength. of power, uh pride, generally used in a negative sense of very proud people So, when used symbolically in the Bible, horns represent power, pride, and strike. But sometimes God uses horns along with that same idea, but a little more specifically Who will use the term horns to describe very powerful nations of the world? Gentile nations, nations who are very strong, nations who are very proud, throw their weight around. Now we won't take time to look at it, it's very lighting, but the book of Daniel, particularly chapter eight, God read Daniel had these visions and he He sees these rams with ten horns and one little horn comes up and it had great strength. And you read on particularly in chapter eight, and he says, These horns are nations. And he assigns various nations who these horns represent. And so horns in the Bible are an emblem of very powerful Gentile nations throw their weight around, use their military and political strength to accomplish their will, and they just rammed their will on the people of the earth. We go to Revelation chapter 17, 3 through 12. You have the same picture there. So these horns, coming back to Zechariah, he has this vision. He sees four horns. And he says, What are what be these? And the angel says, These horns These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. So these horns are, we can come to the conclusion, these horns are powerful world nations. They're very proud, very strong. That's the definition. We define what we mean by these horns. Second thing I want to notice is the declaration of the number of horns. And if you read it, how many horns are there? There's four. Now that is significant also. See what's the big deal? Four Horns. Well, there's several factors that make this significant. These horns are very powerful world nations They've scattered Israel, we'll look at that in a minute, but there's four of them. That implies several things. One thing it implies that these this opposition from these powerful nations comes from all directions. Can you ever hear the term the four corners of the earth? In fact, that term is used in the Bible. Now you and I know the earth has no corners, right? And God knows that the earth does not have four corners. Corners. In fact, the critics sometimes will criticize the Bible because the Bible used that term, the four corners of the earth. But generally, critics are pretty dumb. And so, when he's saying the four corners of the earth, he's not talking literally the four corners of the earth. When they talk about the four corners of the earth, when someone says, man, that guy's been to the four corners of the earth, what does they what do they mean by that? He's been where? Everywhere. Man, no matter which direction you go, that guy's been there. And so when God when God shows Zech Zechariah these four horns, the implication is And we pick this up in other ports of scripture. The implication is that Israel has been assaulted from every direction, north, south, east, west. They have taken it. Uh from every direction. They have been surrounded by enemies, and their enemies' power has been absolutely overwhelming. And if you know anything at all about the history of Israel, you have to say that is absolutely true. Israel, in its early stages, was no match for Egypt. They were weaponless slaves. Egypt was the most powerful nation in the world. But God delivered them Amen. Uh and you go through uh all these things. How Israel I it just come into modern history. Uh what was uh I was pretty young at the time, Six Day War. When Israel fought was in Egypt Uh some of you old people who were around back then. Um uh man, if you read the history of that, that thing was miraculous. God intervened. There is no way that little tiny newborn basic Nation could defeat, and yet uh God delivered them. So Israel's history has been one of coming at them from four directions, and we see that in scripture Number one, the definition of these horns. They're symbolic, they represent powerful Gentile nations. The the declaration of the number of horns four is significant, means they're overw they're surrounded, they're coming out From every direction. Then, number three, I notice the designation of this vision. And in other words, what's being said here? This vision given to Zechariah. And many of his contemporaries, these visions we're reading here, these messages, and Heggai is a contemporary of Zechariah. These revelations they're getting were usually based on previous revelations that God had given to earlier prophets. And now he's given them to Zechariah. Read Haggaiah, same thing. He's given them to Zechariah. And they're based on what God had already told earlier prophets, Daniel, and some of these. And we find that these four horns are a direct reference. If you go to Daniel, is everybody still with me? Everybody alright? Everybody? I know it's Wednesday night. But if you go to Daniel, Daniel makes reference to four kingdoms that assault Israel. And these four horns correspond with the four kingdoms referred to in Daniel. It's a further revelation, but God is restating, God is re-revealing. Truth, prophecies that he had given to Israel previously, but they went into slavery. You know, Daniel ended up going over there being the king and all that. Now they've come back, and God is saying, What I told Daniel is still true. We said earlier is still true. These visions that Daniel had, he had two in particular. Anybody remember the great image? That Daniel saw. How many people remember that story? The image was made up of four different types of metal. The head was made of what? Gold. The chest was made of the waist was made of and the legs were made of. And God tells Daniel that each one of those metals represents a different kingdom and actually it is a chronological history of world kingdoms. And uh yeah, Babylon and the Medes and Persians and and um I uh Who was the Syria? Greece, and then you have the Romans as uh iron, and then you have the revived Roman Empire and all that. That's not the point of this message. The point is this. There was four distinct world powers. That would oppose God's people. Then Daniel had another vision, and that was of four great beasts. And each one of those beasts corresponded to the four kingdoms in the image. And those four are restated here in these four horns. The four major world powers, past and present. Who would conquer Israel? Who would fight Israel? Now we have a problem. Look here with me. Verse 19. I said to the angel that told me, What be these? And he answered me, these are So the horns, which what's that next word? Have scattered Israel. Wait a minute. Have? That implies what? It's past tense. That's already happened. But yet, these kingdoms, if you refer back to Daniel, have not yet all happened. Some of them have. But you still have the Roman at this point, you still have uh the revived Roman Empire and that type of thing. How can this be past tense if some of it hasn't happened already? Now we know the answer to that, right? The answer to that is this. In prophecy language, nearly all future events are referred to either in present or past events And the reason for that is there's two reasons I believe for that. Number one is, and this I love this, and I can't comprehend it, and I love things I can't comprehend. But God transcends time. You follow me? God, well, you and I, and we talk about this uh You and I are prisoners of now. We can't go back five minutes and we can't go ahead five minutes. We're stuck right now. Alright, are you with me? Everybody? But God transcends that. He's up here. There's no limitations for God. All of time is present for God. Now that'll blow your mind And God looks down on all of history, past, present, future. He sees it all. He's at any given point. God is not limited by time like we are. And so God in the Bible will refer to future events as if they already happen or if they're presently happening because God's not limited time like you and I Alright? Are you with me? Now I think there's another reason God will refer to in the Bible to future events in past events. Sometimes He does that, I believe Because of the certainty that it's going to happen. In fact, when God says this is going to happen, it is so sure and certain of happening as if it already did. For instance, Ephesians speaks of believers as being already seated in the heavenlies. How many folks here are saved? You know it. Say amen. Have you been to heaven yet? And by the way, neither has Mr. Polantes, that guy on TV that says he's been there seven times. You hear that guy? He hadn't been there. He's lying and he knows it. But anyway, we're not seated in the heavenlies. I'm in Oakland, Maryland. But as far as God's concerned, if you and I are saved, a safe person is as sure of being in heaven as if they're already there. God refers to us as already being in heaven. Even though we're not there yet, it's God says it, if God says, Whosoever shall call Cain and the Lord shall be saved You can guarantee it, whoever calls the name of the Lord, they shall be saved. I'm going to get to heaven. So the designation of this vision is this. Throughout history, Israel is going to be opposed by powerful nations. They're going to throw their weight around. Then he says that brings us to my third point, the dispersion of Israel. Look what he says here, verse 19 These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. The word scattered there is translated other places as now you're gonna have to be a farmer to know this. I didn't know it I had to look it up. Uh mean it is also translated to be widowed. Am I saying that right? Any farmers know anybody know have any idea what I'm talking about? Winnowed. It it uh the way I understand is when you take wheat and chaff, you beat it and you throw it in the air and the breeze blows and it blows the chaff away. Am I right? Anyone? I only preach what you guys approve of, so uh it means to me it doesn't have the idea just run them around it means to thoroughly scatter um the idea is this it has the idea of throwing them in the air And being scattered irretrievably by the wind. In other words, there is no human way possible To get all these people back again, these four horns have so scattered Israel and Judah and Jerusalem, they are absolutely scattered. There's no way you can bring it's humanly impossible to bring this nation back together. And so he says, these four horns are which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. And the word picture is this, these horns thrusting Israel in the air, and they're just being blown to smithereens. Nothing left of them. It's just completely gone. We live, I'm gonna test your Bible prophecy understanding. What are the times that we live in? If anybody follows my train of thought. Alright, we're living in the last days, but the Bible gives a term. What? Times of the Gentiles, which is the last days. Different term. same period of time. We are living in the times of Gentiles, and what that simply means is this God does not have a particular need nation on earth that he's working through at this time. Before the times of the Gentiles, this isn't a Bible term, but you could use it, it was the times of Israel. That was who God was working through, the nation of Israel. We're talking about in Sunday school. Then Israel rejected the Lord. And God sets them aside, Hosea. God sets them aside. God doesn't divorce them, but they're set aside. And now we're in the times of the Gentiles. God is working primarily, not primarily, God is working through the church. Now, it's not Israel, he's working through the church. The Gentiles are ruling the world. The Gentiles are in charge. Anybody find that out? This whole world, Gentiles. Gentiles taking over Uh but uh Gentiles taking over Mountain Lake Park. But uh anyway. Now you got me worked up about that already. The times of the Gentiles, when the times of the Gentiles come to a close, when God says, all right, Gentiles aren't going to run this thing anymore At what period of time is that? When does that take place? When the times of the Gentiles end. Just say. Not at the rapture. The second advent. Because the second the rapture takes place, then you have what? Seven-year tribulation period. Seven-year tribulation period, boy, you got the antichrist, you got the Gentiles, they're reading Have it. God pulls the church off. God takes the Holy Spirit out. He goes, Alright, you want to run the show, go ahead, but you're going to have to deal with me. And God pours out his wrath. And Israel, during that time, comes to this. This close of absolutely absolutely being annihilated. How many people are familiar with the Battle of Armageddon? Coming down on Israel. They are doing them in. Four horns, scattering Israel to the point where there's nothing left. And that's what he's making reference to here. At the end of the times of the Gentiles, Israel is done as far as the world is concerned. And the interesting thing is during this time to the Gentiles, even Christianity, quote unquote, has taken blows at Israel. Anybody know everybody remember in history class the Crusade You know what the crusades were? War on Israel in the name of Christ. I'm telling you, that's the most unscriptural thing that is ever been done. If anybody should be friends with Israel, should be God's people. Should be saved people. So at the end of the times of the Gentiles, Israel is scattered. I mean they're just Done. But God intervenes, and this is my last point. I am with this. The indestructibility of God's people. That leads us to the third vision. carpenters four carpenters step in and this thing's fascinating you study it out it fits into all God's plan and God is assuring Israel Israel, you are not going to be annihilated. You are, I'm gonna, sorry, I end with this. Go with me if you would to Jeremiah. Jeremiah chapter Jeremiah chapter 30. Look with me if you would at verse eleven. Now if you're underlined verses in your Bible, here's one really should underline. Jeremiah chapter 30, verse eleven. Page eight oh four. This is the Lord speaking to Israel through Jeremiah. And Jeremiah's prophecy is Is the judgment of God on them for their disobedience. But look at verse 11. For I am with thee, saith the Lord, to save thee. Look at this. Though I make a full end of all nations, whither I have what? Scatter thee. Alright. I thought the horns scattered them. No, God's using the Gentile nations to fulfill his chastisement on them Yet, look at this, will I not make a full end of thee? But I will correct thee. What's the last two words? In measure. He says, I'm going to correct you, but I'm going to do it under control, and you're not going to be destroyed. Look at this last phrase. And will not leave thee altogether unconscious. What is God saying? God is saying, I'm going to deal with your sin. I'm going to correct you. I'm going to deal with your disobedience. But I will not allow you to be totally destroyed. I still have a plan for you. I promise or still hold true. And Zechariah is building up that, these revelations. Are communicating that. Israel, it's rough now. You've neglected it. You've been through it. You've got more trials to come. But I'm telling you, there's a day coming when I'm going to deal with these nations and I'm going to fulfill Fulfill my promises to you. Now, what does that have to do with you and I? Things can and will get dark. Amen. I think um I think Christians in America, we we can see the dark clouds coming. Am I right or wrong? We can see 'em coming. Dark days can and will come. It's possible, and I may be talking to someone, I hope you're not in it right now. You may be, maybe at some point in your Christian life you've been in this condition But we can get to point we can get to the point where things appear hopeless. Am I right? Can I get a witness? Ever been a situation you say, I don't see any openness. I don't see any I don't see any goodness Coming out of this whatsoever. That's where Israel was. But when it gets dark and things appear hopeless, we must never take our eyes off of God's promises. That's what he was telling Israel. Don't forget the covenants I made with you. You've had it rough, you brought a lot of it on yourself, you've got rough days ahead, but I'm telling you You hold to my promises, you believe them, do not get your eyes off the promises I've given you. I will fulfill them. Now that's good news for you and I We come the Bible and read promises, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. Say, man, everything looks hopeless. But God promised He will never leave me, never forsake me. I'm not taking my eyes off that promise Another thing we should do, we should not doubt God's power. Man, I tell you, at the end of the tribulation period, things are looking bad for Israel. I mean, there is no way. Nations of the world are coming down on it. But God's saying, Listen, don't you doubt my power? Every nation in the world can raise its fist and point its weapons against me, and all Christ has to do is speak away. Word and they're annihilated. And whatever situation we find ourselves in, and it looks like nothing can get me out of this, nothing can meet This need. There's not a power on earth that can possibly help me. Don't you ever doubt God's power. God is able. God can step in, He can meet that need, He can change that circumstance. He can absolutely do what needs to be done. God is able. That's what he's telling them. And the third thing that I think applies to us. We must never abandon God's purpose. God raised up Israel. God raised up Abraham and through his offspring, the nation of Israel to be a witness for him. He said in Isaiah, I think it's 55, ye are my witnesses. Talking to Israel. Now Israel blew it. They completely destroyed their testimony. God set them aside. Now he's working through the church. But there's a day coming when God's going to set up Israel again. And his purpose for them, their existence, will be fulfilled You read, I think it's Isaiah, it says that people will come to the Jews seeking knowledge of God. And during the tribulation period, Israel is going to be attempting to Testimony of the goodness and power and grace of God to all the world. You and I get in situations, and I tell you, there may be dark days coming. I don't want to be a prophet of doom, but I'm just saying Just because we escape the tribulation doesn't mean we're going to escape persecution. Amen? Doesn't mean we might not go through some tough times in America. I'm praying for a country, praying God sent a revival, but it's possible things could turn against us. Are you following what I'm saying? But we must never ever lose the purpose God has given us To be here, to be a witness of the goodness and graciousness of God. In fact, we can be a clearer testimony for the Lord when things are going bad. Than when things are going good. Anybody can praise the Lord when the bills are paid. Anyone can praise the Lord when everyone in town likes you and supports everything you do. You praise the Lord then. But what about when everyone thinks coming down on us? Things are dark and tough. Hey, how about saying, you know, the Lord's still good? Jesus still save you and take away your sin. You can still have the joy of the Lord and have purpose and meaning in life, even if the whole world hates you. So three I leave with you. Number one, don't take your eyes off of God's promises. Number two, don't doubt God's power. And number three, don't abandon God's purpose. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord. And these last days, these times of the Gent