If you would go to Matthew chapter 27. Matthew 27. If you would, while you're turning there, I'd like to meet with the deacons and trustees just for a moment after the service this evening. And uh just uh something I need to touch with. Base with the bow. We'll just meet down front here after service of deacons and trustees. Matthew chapter 27 Three preachers were having lunch together and they got talking and one thing led to another and next thing you knew they started confessing their sins one to another And one preacher said, I gotta confess, guys, uh I've been stealing money from the church. And um I uh I have to admit it and uh he says it's thousands of dollars. I just can't see to help myself. The other guy says, well, the other picture says I have to I need to confess I need to tell uh admit that I've been having an affair with uh a lady in the church and it's just awful and I need to stop and the third preacher says, Boy my they said, What's your sin? And what's your advice? He says, uh my sin is gossip and I can't wait to get out of here. And tell everybody what's going on. Sandy Schofield told me that joke. Matthew 27 verse number three if you would follow along down through verse five. Then Judas, which had betrayed him, of course the Lord Jesus When he saw that he was condemned, he repented himself and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders. Saying, I have sinned in that I have betrayed innocent blood. Was that a correct statement? Yes, yeah. And you notice it says he repented himself. And they said, What is that to us? See thou to that. And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple and departed and went and hanged themselves. Judas was an unsaved man. Judas never was saved. He did not lose his salvation. He never was saved. He betrayed the Lord Jesus, innocent blood, as he said. The Bible says he repented. Corinthians tells us there is a godly repentance, and there is a worldly repentance, worldly sorrow, that leads to death. And so Judas repented here, but he never found forgiveness, and he ended up taking his life. If you would come to John chapter 8. John chapter 8. And I'm going to begin reading in verse two. This is a familiar passage. You've read your Bible much at all. You're Familiar with this story, John 8. Beginning in verse 2, the Bible says, And early in the morning he came again to the temple, and all the people came to him, and he sat down and taught them. And the scribes and the Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery. And when they had set her in the midst, they say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act. Now Moses in the law commanded us that she should be stoned. But what sayest thou? This he's this they said, tempting them, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down and with his finger wrote on the ground as though he had heard them not. And when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him cast a stone at her. First cast a stone at her. And again he stooped down and wrote in the ground. And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last. And Jesus was left alone and the woman standing in the midst. When Jesus lifted himself up and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? Hath no man condemned thee? She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. Can you imagine? The shame that this woman felt as she was brought before the Lord Jesus Christ publicly exposed this awful sin. Jesus does not defend her sin in the least. We understand that. But he does defend her from the self-righteous accusations of the Pharisees. They all leave, and I always point this out every time I make reference to this incident, it's very interesting to me, the end of verse number nine, the woman remains standing there with the Lord Looks like to me that as soon as she could, she would have hightailed it out of there and gotten out of the limelight and gotten away from that as fast and as far as she could have, but she doesn't do that. She stays standing right there with the Lord. That indicates to me she was trusting the Lord to forgive her and to deal with this incident. And of course he does. But he says in verse 11, Neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. I want us to go to one more reference. 1 Corinthians chapter 11. 1 Corinthians chapter 11 and verse number 31. Of course, we're familiar with this passage. We make reference to it almost monthly as we take part of the Lord's Supper. And the instructions are given here. There's some serious warnings given concerning taking part of the Lord's Supper unworthily in an unworthy fashion. And the Lord makes a very powerful and significant statement, or the Bible gives us here, in verse number 31. For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged. I want to speak tonight on a little unusual for me, but I think it's I think it deals with the subject that we've been looking at in this matter of forgiveness. First of all, extending forgiveness to somebody who has said or done things that have hurt us deeply. And then as last week we looked at seeking forgiveness when we have said or done something that has hurt someone else deeply. And how to go about that and the approach of that. Now tonight, I've entitled the message this: Freedom from Self-Condemnation. Another way of saying it, I think, would be would be being able to forgive myself for something I have done. Been able to forgive myself. Let's have a word of prayer and I'll I'll share my thinking with you here and uh some principles from Scripture I think will help us in this matter. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we um Look to your word for help, for direction in the issues of life as they come up, this matter of sin. Lord is something we deal with in a very personal level, very intensely sometimes, and we deal with uh as we interact one with another. Lord, we've tried to cover various angles from your word on this matter of forgiving and being forgiven. Now, Lord, it's a little different subject tonight, so I'm asking for your special grace. Your special assistance and teaching. I would yield my will to yours again tonight. I present my body anew. I ask that you would fill me with your spirit. And help us to have a clear perspective on this matter of forgiving ourselves and what that means. So help me now, I pray, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. There are, as far as I can see, my understanding, there are two types of guilt that a person can experience. One is genuine guilt for something done wrong, and the other is what I call false guilt. Genuine guilt is the result of violating a scriptural principle. God has given us a conscience. And that's a good thing. The conscience is an internal mechanism God has put in our soul, in our very being, it's an internal mechanism to assist us, to help us be aware of, and to deal with our sin. Ideally, our conscience, when we violate a scriptural principle, we sin, ideally the conscience kicks in immediately and makes us feel guilty. Um it is uh, as I said, a mechanism, an inner sense of right and wrong. Now, the problem is sin came in and our conscience, the Bible says, can be seared. It can be, it can malfunction. And that leads to the second type of guilt, false guilt. But looking at genuine guilt, I would say the overwhelming majority of guilt That we feel is genuine guilt. If I am feeling guilty over something, the chances are there's something there that needs to be dealt with. Um we should never ever ignore guilt. I think the safety assume if I said something I walk away, I said, Oh, you know, I really feel bad about that. It's safely to assume I probably said something I shouldn't have said, or said it in a way I shouldn't have said it. And I need that guilt needs to get my attention and I need to deal with it. So When when somebody feels guilty, if they generally are, is what I'm trying to say, okay? Most of the time, overwhelming majority of the time, if somebody feels guilty about something, they probably are Now, as I said, our conscience, which produces this guilt, ideally it would be flawless And it would always be correct. But sometimes we can do something wrong and not feel guilty about it Huh? Has that ever happened? You ever did something? You just it didn't feel guilty. That conscience breaks down sometimes. And sometimes we'll feel guilty about something and we didn't necessarily do anything wrong. A false guilt. False guilt, I believe, is rare, but can be the result of, I think, two different things False guilt. I'm going somewhere with this, so hold on. False guilt can be the result of I I worded it this way, a perceived violation of a scriptural principle. In other words, I can think I'm doing something that the Bible forbids And feel guilty of it when in reality the Bible doesn't necessarily forgive that. I can be taught something wrong. Sometimes, this usually isn't the problem, but sometimes you get in churches where they have unscriptural standards. Standards that are not based on the Bible, and they'll have standards of right and wrong that are not scriptural. And so they'll say things are right that really aren't, and they'll say things are wrong that there's nothing wrong with them Sometimes it may be a misunderstood standard. The Bible teaches something, but it's misunderstood and misapplied. For instance, and you understand, I'm certainly not criticizing anybody, I'm not attacking any other group. Please don't misunderstand. I'm just trying to illustrate something. There are certain groups, as I understand it, within the Amish community That feel very strongly you have to wear a certain collar shirt. Wear a blue shirt. Am I anybody here familiar with the Amish? I think there's a certain group that you need to wear. Am I correct, Brian? You know it's And I would imagine that there are some within that. If they would wear a different color shirt like some of us here are wearing, they would feel very guilty about that. Follow what I'm saying? My father, my grandfather was a very Conservative Mennonite, very conservative. And when Kathy and I were married down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, my grandparents came down for the wedding. And my grandfather came and he forgot his suit. He had left it hanging at home. And so he was about my size, at my size at the time. And um Uh I said, Grandpa, you could wear my suit. Just wear one of my suit. Well he always wore a suit without a collar and the backward thing and no tie. And um I offered it to him. I said and uh boy he hesitated, hesitate, I wasn't even thinking, I just said you can wear my suit. And finally he says, you know, I really wouldn't feel right doing that Now let me ask you a question. Is there anything wrong with wearing a nice suit? No, there's nothing wrong with that. There's no scriptural principle forbidding that. But he felt guilty doing that because of what he was taught Now, in my mind, that would be a false sense of guilt. There's no reason to feel guilty about that And there's a number of illustrations I could give. Sometimes it's an unscriptural standard or it's an un misunderstood standard. They misunderstand what it means to be worldly, maybe. uh you know you can't you've got to paint your bumpers black or that's worldly. Uh there's that's a misunderstood scriptural principle. And then they feel guilty about that, or it may be Holding up an impossible standard to live by. Sometimes people will expect of themselves just an impossible level And uh and if you don't live up to that man you just feel like a total failure and you feel guilty all the time. So that is one type of false guilt, a perceived violation Of some scriptural principle. Another type of false guilt, and this is what I want to get to this evening, is this an unacceptance of a forgiven violation In other words, I've done something, I've sinned. The woman taken in adultery. I've sinned And I feel guilty justly so. I confess that for sin. God has forgiven me, but I do not accept the fact that God has forgiven me. And I hold that sin against myself. You follow what I'm saying? Really, if God says He's forgiven me, but I do not accept that I've confessed it, I've forsaken it, I'm remorseful over it, I've repented, but I just walk around and I think God cannot forgive me for this. There's no way I can be forgiven for this. What is that really? If God says He's forgiven me, but I don't accept that, what am I doing? I'm doubting God. In fact, it boils down to a lack of faith in what God has told me Now, I've used this illustration several times over the years, but when I first went down to Bible college, I was down there and I was just so overwhelmed. Uh I was just a new Christian, about a year old, and here I am s uh farther away from home I've ever been and uh trying to live for God, trying to do right, I'm on this Bible college un uh campus, university campus, and uh man I thought everybody here was the most godly things since uh Moses, you know, and and I'm down there trying so hard. I had set up this impossible s expectation from myself And I was down there just a few months and I did something wrong. Now it wasn't major, I didn't rob a bank or anything like that. But I did something wrong. I knew I displeased the Lord And I'll tell you, for about two hours I walked around that campus. It was dark, I can still remember it in my mind. I walked around that campus confessing that over and over and over and over to God. God, I'm sorry that was wrong. I'm sorry. Can't believe it. And I just went on, God, and I confess it, and I confess it. After about two hours of that, I got in a I think it was a library somewhere. I was back in a corner by myself and I was half crying, I was confessing it, and finally I got my Bible out. I looked at 1 John 1. 9 and finally the Lord just dealt with my heart And it was Dennis, if you confess your sin, I am faithful and just to forgive you. Now just take it at face value. Take what I say to be true. I've forgiven you. And boy, what a relief that was. God has forgiven me. But for that period of time, I could not accept the fact that I was forgiven, and I would not forgive myself. That is what we're talking about here tonight. To condemn myself if I've done something wrong. And we're talking about serious stuff now. We made that clear in previous messages. To condemn myself when I have scripturally dealt with the sin. In other words, I've confessed it, I've repented, I've forsaken it To condemn myself when I have scripturally dealt with what the Bible tells me I'm supposed to do is just as wrong As condemning another person who has thoroughly dealt with their sin, confessed it and forsaken it. And so if there's someone else who's done something wrong, and who hasn't? And they've confessed their sin, they've forsaken it, they've repented from it. If I can let me ask you a question, is it wrong for me? to continue to condemn them if they've confessed it, forsaken it, and repented. Yes. It's what the Pharisees did. They condemned everybody. It's what they did to this woman taking adultery. They condemned her. Jesus, I don't condemn thee, neither do I condemn thee. Go and sin no more. So to condemn another person who has confessed, repented, forsaken that sin is wrong. And for me to condemn myself after I've confessed and forsaken repentance of sin is just as wrong. So self-condemnation. Take your Bible with me, if you would, and turn to Romans chapter 8. Romans chapter 8. Now maybe I'm talking to some folks who say I never thought that way, in fact, I think pretty highly of myself. Well, if you think you stand, you better take heed. Look at Romans chapter 8 and verse 1. There is, therefore, now, what's the next two words? No condemnation. To them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. So, the Lord says here's a person, they're saved. They've can they've sinned, but they've confessed it, they've forsaken it, they're not walking after the flesh, they're not living on in their sin. There's no condemnation to them Now, whether it's myself or someone else, there's no condemnation. Unjustified self-condemnation to not forgive myself, to not accept what God has, the forgiveness God offers me, and to continually condemn myself for something in my past, I think it manifests itself several ways. One is this continued sense of guilt over something that's already been dealt with Two, I think sometimes it will manifest itself in a in uh the mentality of perfectionism Somehow I have to be perfect to make up for that failure that I had in this area. So I'll make up with that by being absolutely perfect in every little thing. And uh that cannot, that sometimes is not a healthy thing. I think sometimes self-condemnation manifests itself in spiritual immaturity. A person doesn't grow because they're just so become so consumed with their own failure. They'll never be able to go on and grow and give of themselves to others. They may become a workaholic. Again, spiritual workaholic with the mentality, man, I've got to do this and this and this and this and try and make up for this wrong I did. Uh because uh only way God will forgive me, I have to this and I have to work at this and man they're just working themselves to death trying to make up for something that they've already been forgiven for Sometimes I think it's depression. Just give up. God, I'm unforgiven. Rest of my life I'll never be able to be forgiven for what I've done. And they just give up Sometimes they become judgmental, I think. I think a judgmental attitude is more a result of not dealing with the sin correctly than of of not forgiving myself for it. I found usually those who want to condemn others so quickly usually have something in their own life they're hiding and and covering up somewhere. So you have somebody that's always going around condemning everyone else. Generally, there's something hidden in their life that uh has not been dealt with. So why do some people find it difficult to forgive themselves? Number one, I think a distorted view of self. Indicates is a reason people sometimes find it hard to forgive themselves. Somehow we think we're above this type of sin. Somehow we think we and we say it this way before it happens. Oh, I would never, and then fill in the blank. Ever hear anybody say, I don't know how she could have done that. I would never do that. Well, you better watch out. How in the world could he have stooped that low? I would never do that. And somehow we get the idea that we are above. This type of sin, and then when we end up in it and come out and we think, man, I could never be forgiven for that Again, take your Bibles, and I made reference to this statement here a few moments ago, but turn to First Corinthians chapter ten real quickly with me. First Corinthians chapter ten This ought to be underlined in your Bible. 1 Corinthians 10 and verse number 12. We have a distorted view of ourselves. Somehow we think that we are above The sin that we end up committing. Notice verse 12. Wherefore, let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest what Lest he fall. Wait a minute. We need to understand something about ourselves. The seeds of the most vile sins ever committed rest in our very own hearts. You and I have these the just as sinful a nature as any other person that has walked this planet We are sinful beings. Jeremiah tells us that our heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. And we need to understand, we are not above being able to do this. It is very possible that any one of us could do the most vilest of sins. And so we need to watch out for a distorted view of ourselves. In fact, I have found that those who understand how sinful their heart really is generally are much more careful about falling into the sins than others who think they are above it and end up walking blindly into it. Does that make sense? So when we understand how sinful our heart really is, then we can say, wait a minute, I need to be very, very careful. I need to make sure I keep my standards in place. I need to make sure my personal convictions are Bible-based because I know how sinful my heart is And I ho know how easily I could cross that line, and I have got to be on my guard 24-7 But when we get a distorted view of ourself, then we think, oh, I would never do that. And we become proud and self-righteous. Then when we fail, we fa I find it difficult to understand forgiveness. A second reason I think sometimes people find it difficult to forgive themselves, not only because they have a distorted view of themselves, but sometimes because they have a distorted view of their sin Somebody says, well, I think I I had a guy tell me years ago, he says, I think I committed the unpardonable sin. The fact of the matter is, now think with me here. The fact of the matter is, there is no such thing as an unpardonable sin. God does not pardon sin. He punishes sin. God pardons sinners People, what sin has God ever pardoned? None Jesus died for all of the sins of the world. There's not one sin that has not been paid for. Jesus Christ paid it what? All So he didn't pardon any sins. God doesn't say, oh, that sin there, I'm going to pardon that sin. No. The wages of sin is what? Death. Period. Across the board. No exceptions. God does not pardon sin. God pardons sinners And I must understand, I must not have a distorted view of sin. If I am a child of God, if I've sinned against God grievously, I've hurt somebody. And I come to God, I confess it, I agree with God, I forsake that sin, I repent of it, and uh I go on for God. I need to understand that God God has not pardoned any sin. He's already paid the price for that sin. It's already been punished for. Listen to uh Psalms 103. 12 tells us that our sins God has taken and placed as far as the east is from the west. How far apart is the east from the west? It's immeasurable. There is no way. In other words, they are completely out of our reach as far as God's concern. Isaiah chapter 38, 17, God says he puts our sins behind his back. What does that mean? That means he is never going to give them attention again. They are behind his back. Isaiah chapter 44 and verse 22, he says our sins are blotted out. Used to sing a song with the Bible time kids, My sins are blotted out, I know. My sins are blotted out, I know. They're buried in the depths of the deepest sea. My sins are blotted out, I know. And we thank you very much. You don't get very su solos from me, but Isn't that a wonderful thought? God has blotted them out. I got my concordance out and I looked up that word blotted. I like this. You know what it means? To be obliterated. Completely blown to smithereens. It's like putting them on an H-bomb and setting it off and they're completely vaporized. Micah chapter 7 verse 19, the Bible says that God has put them in the depths of the sea. 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to what? Cleanse us. Cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Not cover them up. They're still there, just unseen. No, they're completely cleansed, completely removed. God uses word pictures all through the Bible to try and get us to understand how thoroughly He deals with and removes our sin. And when we have something in our past, and it may be very serious It may be going out as a young person and getting drunk and driving through a traffic and killing a family And coming to Christ, finding salvation later, but for the rest of my life, never forgiving myself for what I did on that awful night years ago. I need to understand That God's forgiveness is so thorough and so complete that God can and will forgive even the vilest of sins. It's a matter of faith. He thoroughly deals with and removes our sins. I think we would be shocked if we knew the skeletons that were in people's closets. Of years gone by. And what we need to understand is how thorough God's forgiveness is, how complete How completely God deals with our sins, how thoroughly He removes them. Now you say, Brother Ledman, I understand all that. I've heard the messages I've heard what preachers have said, I've read the verses, but how do I get victory over this? How do I free myself from self-condemnation to just hanging on to that and bringing myself down by the past. Here, let me give you a few thoughts and I'm going to end. Number one, how do I, how can I be free from self-condemnation? By the way, condemnation is the opposite of forgiveness. If I'm condemning someone, I'm not forgiving them. And if I'm forgiving something, I'm not condemning it anymore. Alright, number one, I must make certain of my own salvation. I must make certain of my own salvation. First and foremost, I need God's forgiveness I can forgive myself all I want, but until I find God's forgiveness, it's not going to do me a whole lot of good I need to come to God in repentance and faith, knowing that I've trusted Jesus Christ and that my sin record is erased, that I've been made a new creature in Christ, and coming to God God does not ignore our sin. He does not just pass over our sins. He died for our sins. And we simply receive what he has done for us. And so if I'm going to have victory over some horrible thing I've said or done in the past. First thing I need to do is make certain of my own salvation. Know that I have trusted Christ and that He has forgiven me. Number two, I must make certain that I have forgiven others. How hypocritical to deal with my own unforgiveness and then not extend it to others. I must be sure that I have forgiven others. Often self-condemnation is rooted in self-righteousness. And I think I deserve to be treated better than what they're treating me. And I deserve to be treated better than I treated myself. I deserve better than how I've acted. No, no, no. We all deserve to go to hell, is what we deserve. I humble myself before God and I extend forgiveness to others who have sinned against me. So if I want to be free from self-condemnation, make certain of my own salvation, make certain I've forgiven others. Number three, I put this down: thoroughly confess and forsake all known sins. Now here may be a source of the problem. We may want to, we're maybe struggling with unforgiveness of ourselves, maybe because we're still holding on to some sin. You know, and we we like the pleasure of that sin that we get for a season, but we don't like the guilt it produces. And we don't necessarily like the consequences of it. And if I want to be free from this cloud hanging over me, this guilt that's just dragging me down to something in the past, make sure. I've thoroughly confessed it. Make sure I've thoroughly forsaken that. 1 John 1. 9, great verse for every Christian. If we confess our sins, that means to agree with God. Listen, confessing our sin is not giving information to God. It's not telling God what I've done. God knows what I've done. God Lord, you know, boy, I said something hateful at work to the foreman the other day. God says, is that so? I missed that. Wow, I'm glad you told me. Doesn't happen that way, does it? Oh, you know, I said something I shouldn't have said to the boss. I called him a bad mean. God says, I know. That's not confessing. Confessing is agreeing with God as to what his attitude about what I did was God, that was wrong. That was a pitiful testimony. I was a sorry representation of a child of God. I agree with you, Lord. What I did was awful. It was sinful. It violated your holiness. To confess my sin to God is not giving God information. It is me getting my attitude in line with God's attitude about what I did. So I must thoroughly confess and forsake all known sin. And then number four, and I like this one. To be free from self-condemnation. Maybe I've done all that, and you say, Brother, it just gets me so down what happened. Accept God's statements about myself as a believer. And boy, I tell you, we do a whole series on this. And I didn't write down the whole list I had, but I put a few down. As a believer, I am a child of God. God is my father. I am God's child. He loves me Now, I think we all understand this, but I feel like I need to restate it. Not everybody in the world is a child of God. Jesus said to the Pharisees, religious men, ye are of your father the what? Devil. They were unsaved. So God's not your father. And so if I know Christ the Savior as a believer, I hold a very unique uh uh I hold a very unique position as a child of God. And that means something. Not only am I a child of God, I'm a new creature. 2 Corinthians 5:17 says. Ephesians 2. 10 says, I am God's workmanship. Romans tells me I am justified. 1 John 1 tells me I'm forgiven. Colossians tells me I'm complete in Christ. Said, Brother Lesman, you don't know what I've done. Brother Leslie, you don't know how badly I feel over what I've done. I think that to feel remorse over something we did in the past is a good thing. That will help us not do it again. But to continually hold myself guilty is not a helpful thing I need to understand God is forgiven. I'm his child, his blood has cleansed me, God has put this behind his back As far as the east is from the west, I'm a new creature. I can get up and I can go on for God. Am I sorry over what happened? More than you will ever know But I will not allow myself to be condemned by myself. God says there's no condemnation. to me if I'm in Christ Jesus. I'm not going to allow that. I am sorry. I'm regretted. I'm as remorseful as you can be. But I will not condemn myself anymore I'm going to take what God has said and believe it to be true and go on as a child of God. Does that make sense? Self-condemnation. I don't think it's as common as what uh psychiatrists would like to make us think. But It's very real. And it boils down to a lack of faith in God. Just not taking God at His Word. Forgiven. Forgiven Forgiven. That's what God says. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless us, Lord, help us. To deal with our sins as they come up, Lord, help us to deal with them thoroughly and biblically. And Lord, what you say is true, help us just take it at face value. I know, Father, consequences are part of it, and we have to live with them. Lord, we don't have to live with a sense of condemnation over our heads for the rest of our lives. Regardless of what they say and do, we don't have to be that way. Help us, Lord, with our heads bowed and with our eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I just really need God to help me to take him at his word? The disciples said, Lord, increase our faith. That was in the context of forgiveness. And I wonder if there's some this evening say, Preacher, I really need God the strength of my faith in this matter of maybe forgiving someone, of finding forgiveness, or just dealing with something in my past. I need God to strengthen my faith and help me to take him at his word and go on. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. God will help me. God bless you. Number of hands around. Now let the Lord have his way. Take him at his word. Father in heaven, bless our imitation time now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.