James chapter 4, a little boy, daddy sent them to bed. It's time to go to bed. They had their devotions, prayed together, got in bed, sitting there five minutes, and he cried, Dad, yes, will you bring me some water? No, you had your chance. Time to go to bed. Get to sleep. About five minutes later goes by. Dad, can you bring me a glass of water? I said, no. You had your chance, go to sleep. If you ask again, I'm going to come in and give you spanking. Five minutes later goes by. When you come in to give me a spankin', will you bring a glass of water? How many had a kid like that? How do you how do you deny that? James James chapter four. I just want to get right to the point tonight. We're just going to look at this one verse. Boy, this is uh I I I don't know anybody that has this verse as their life verse. This is a very pointed, very challenging verse here where the Lord confronts us. and uh very deals with a very very serious issue and uses very strong language in this verse. Of course we were leading up to this in the first three verses of chapter four Where he's talking about wars and fighting among you because of your first of the lust of the flesh and the lack of prayer. And so now he makes this statement. And uh having said that, let's look at the verse Chapter 4, verse 4 of James. The adulterers and adulteresses. Now he's writing to Christians. He's writing to saved people that he has a spiritual leadership over. And he's using this language, ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God. And he states it in such a way that they should be aware of this. This should not be an issue. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the what? Enemy of God. I want to talk tonight just a little bit on this verse on friendship with the world. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us and challenge us. And let's pray and ask the Lord to give us an open heart and a yielded spirit As God confronts us here. Father, I ask you to bless our little bit of time we have in your word. Lord, the testimonies and the hymn history, the singing has all been such a blessing. The fellowship before Lord, today's been a good day and we rejoice in your goodness to us. We love the Lord's day. And I pray as we finish this day out and we get into our work week here, that you would just one more time today speak to our hearts. Tonight I pray you'd challenge us. Lord, I ask especially tonight that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I pray you give us as a church and as individuals, open hearts, willing spirits, I pray we be pliable and moldable clay in your hands. And Lord, you can take out of our lives the things that need to get out. And Lord, you can add into our lives the things that need to be added. And I pray, Lord, that the Satan would not get to victory, but Christ would. And so please bless now and have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think a couple of the ugliest words in existence, two of the ugliest titles in existence are adulterer and adulteress. Um, I don't think any one of us here tonight would want to be identified as an adulterer. I don't think any of us would want to be labeled an adulteress. Those are ugly terms. Those are horrendous. uh words to be applied to a person. Of course we've been preaching on this by no design of mine, just I trust the providence of God. We've been preaching on this on Wednesday nights as we're going through the Sermon on the mound and the Lord says, you know, he uh you've heard it said of old that that uh that uh about that should not commit it thou shalt not commit adultery, but I say unto you, whoso looketh on a woman to lust after had committed adultery with her already in his heart. And so we've been dealing with this at length, and now here it is, it comes up again. But this is a little different concept here. Of course, we all understand an adulterer or an adulteress is someone who has been unfaithful to their spouse. Someone who has someone who loves a person other than their spouse in a in a intimate way Someone who gives themselves to someone they have no business giving themselves to. Someone outside the marriage bonds. An adulterer, an adulteress is someone who gives their affection to someone other than their spouse. Intimate, endearing affection. To someone other than who they are married to. So it's an ugly term. It's a horrendous sin. God speaks about it at length throughout Scripture. Adultery is a devastating sin. It destroys marriages. It destroys families. It destroys ministries. Any of us that have been in the ministry any length of time, we know ministries that have been destroyed by this horrendous sin. destroys testimonies. Two ugly words, adulterer and adulteress. Nobody, nobody in my realm of associations associates would want to be identified as one as an adulterer and adulteress. Now having said that we come to our context and it's a little different aspect, just as horrendous Just as repulsive, just as ugly, but a little different aspect. What he's talking about here in verse number four, when James says, under the inspiration of God, he adulterers and adulteresses, he's Talking about spiritual adultery. In other words, he's addressing the issue of being unfaithful In this case, not to the spouse, not to my marriage partner, being unfaithful to my God, my savior. Who gave himself for me and loved me, being unfaithful to my Savior. He's talking about the spiritual adultery of giving my love and my affection, not to the one whom I'm committed to, not to the one whom I trusted as my Savior, but giving my love and affection to the world. To another than the one who deserves it and who I owe it to. Spiritual adultery has the idea of being involved with the world. The world's sinful pleasures rather than being involved and committed to my Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. This concept of spiritual adultery is a major theme throughout the Old Testament. I have a number of passages written down in my notes, and I have scores more that I referenced in preparing for this where God addresses Israel. and the horrendous sin of their spiritual adultery with their God, who is referred to in the Old Testament as Israel's husband. And how Israel would love the world in ways that they were only to love God. And how Israel became intimate with the world in ways they were only to be intimate with God. Committing spiritual adultery. Israel is referred to throughout the Old Testament as an adulterous wife who wanted to have both God and the world. Wanted to have God as their husband, but nevertheless still have a relationship and involvement with the world. And they wanted to ride the fence and have the best of both worlds. I want the blessings and the protection and the fulfillment that comes to having a relationship with my Heavenly Father, but I also want the pleasures and the excitement and the thrill of being involved with the world. Spiritual adultery. In fact, there's an entire Old Testament book addressing Israel's spiritual adultery. The book of Hosea What a heart-wrenching story that is. We've preached through it a number of years ago. But Hosea is a young man, a prophet, called to being a prophet, what we would refer to today as a preacher boy. I've worked over the years fairly uh at length to some degree with preacher boys through Ministry of Neighborhood Bible Time and young men. And every one of them had a vision of what God was going to do and how they were going to live for God and serve God. And they had dreams of great works that God would do. And every one of them, with a few exceptions, had some young lady that loved God. And they were going to marry this young lady, many of them engaged already, and they were going to marry this young lady, and they were going to serve God. They were going to do great things and advance the cause of Christ. They were going to see souls saved and build churches and be flaming evangelists. And they had great dreams. And we fanned those dreams and we encouraged them to trust God. And here you have Hosea with those same dreams, no doubt, those same hopes, those same visions. And he marries a girl that from the get-go is unfaithful to him, an adulterous. God told him that's what was going to happen. In fact, that was his purpose in life, is to us to be an illustration to Israel. How their spiritual unfaithfulness to God, their spiritual adultery, how that hurt God so deeply. And God was illustrating what Israel was doing through the life of Hosea. And the hurt that Gomer brought to the heart of this prophet of God. With her unfaithfulness, her infidelity, or her adultery. And God says, that's what you're doing to me, Israel. When you're unfaithful to me, when you love the world and the things of the world and the pleasures of the world, and you engage in that and you you indulge yourself in that. He says that's exactly that's doing to me exactly what Gomer's unfaithfulness did to Hosea. And of course Hosea being a man of integrity, a man of faith, a godly man, he was faithful to his unfaithful wife. And he was committed to his uncommitted wife. And he remained true to her. In fact, he cared for her. As she's out running around, he would make sure from a distance that she would be taken care of. Until finally the day come, he buys her back off the slave block, uh beaten and abused and physically uh of little value to anybody. And he buys her back and he takes her in, he loves her. What a heart-wrenching story, but at the same time a beautiful story of God's love and faithful to us, even when we are unfaithful to Him. And God's integrity to keep His word, even when we fail to keep our Word. And so when James addresses the believers here in his book, and he says he adulterers and adulteresses, he's touching on a theme that Israel was very familiar with. Israel had been guilty of this very sin, and now he's addressing believers. And we find them in the very same condition. Loving the world when they should be loving the Lord. Involved in the world when they should be faithful to their Savior. And indulging and intimate in the world's pleasures, in the world's sin, and they should be faithful and pure to their Lord and Savior. I want us to look at a few truths given here, a few thoughts from this passage. The first thing I want to address tonight is the identity of the world. What's he talking about when he says he are adulterers and adulterers? Know ye not that friendship of the world is enemy of God. Whosoever there shall be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. What's he talking about when he says being a friend of the world? Well, we can eliminate a few thoughts right away. We know he's not talking about the planet. The world we live on. He's not talking about the mountains and the rivers and the streams and the plants and the birds and the fish. He's not talking about the planet. When he says that being a friend of the world, that's pretty obvious. He's not even necessarily talking about the people who inhabit the world. In fact, the Bible says in the most famous verse in all of Scripture, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. God loves the people who live on this planet so dearly, as we all are very aware of, he loves us so dearly that he gave his own son to die and suffer the judgment of God, eternal hell for every single person. Every single sin that every single person has ever committed. And he says the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts, and God puts a love in the believer's heart. For the people of the world that they would come to know our Savior and they would come to know Christ. So when he says friendship of the world, he's not talking about individual people necessarily God loves the world. The Bible says that Jesus was a friend of sinners. We're to reach the world with the gospel. So what is he talking about? What does he mean when he says that Being a friend of the world is to be an enemy of God, spiritual adultery and mobs being friends of the world. What he's talking about is simply this. He's talking about this world's value system He's talking about this world's what the world's priorities are, the world's focus, the world's pleasures. Now, I don't know if I'm able to communicate what I mean clearly, but when I When I try and understand the world in this aspect, it's kind of like, and see if you you follow what I'm trying to say here, and I I'm I'm when I was studying, I was kind of grasping for words to say what I'm thinking But almost like a uh the the flesh, the sinful nature in corporate form. You follow what I'm saying It's like all of sinful nature of mankind, that whole sinful nature that every one of us as individuals have as a core of our being, our sinful hearts, but it's in it's corporate, all put together. How many folks follow what I'm saying? Explain to me, alright? If you figure it out, tell me what I'm talking about. But you follow what I'm saying. It's the sinful nature, all of mankind's sinful nature put together. And the priorities That that produces the values that come as a result of humanity's sin corporate sinful nature the the the uh principles that they live by, the focus that they have, the mindset So there is a part of this world, the world system, we might call it, the world's values and principles, he says That if I'm a friend of this world's values, this world's principles, this world's pleasures, if I involve myself in that, if that's a fr what I'm a friend with, I'm I'm comfortable with that, I'm a companion with that. I'm committing spiritual adultery. I become the enemy of God. So the identity of the world here Is the sinful nature of mankind, its values, its priorities, its focus? So that's the identity of the world. I want to touch on secondly in this verse the iniquity of worldliness. Of adopting this world's values, of adopting this world's priorities, of engaging and indulging in this world's sinful pleasures and activities The iniquity of that. Now God gives us some very strong language when he addresses believers being friends with the world. In fact, there's three passages in particular that I want to go to. We could go no doubt to scores of others, but I want us to look at three of them just quickly this evening, if you would. Now keep your place here because we're going to end up back here, but go with me to Romans chapter 12. It's where we were this morning. Romans chapter twelve, verse number two. 2, for sake of time, we'll just look at verse 2. While you're getting there, I think we're familiar, verse 1, he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, and you present your body as a living sacrifice, wholly, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And of course, there is simply a call to be faithful to our Savior, as opposed to being unfaithful, opposed to being adulteress Adulterers with our Savior. We're faithful. Present our bodies, living service, holy, acceptable God. It's a reasonable service. Then look what he says in verse number two. Very first statement, right out of the box, he says, and be not what Conformed to this world, but being transformed by the renewing of your mind. That you may prove that which is good, uh uh what prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God It says, be not conformed to this world. The word conform there has the idea of taking on its appearance, taking on its form. And if you look in there, he says, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That sheds a little more light on what he means by being conformed. In other words, adapting my thinking the way this world thinks. Taking on this world's mindset. Thinking the way the world thinks. Reasoning the way the world reasons. Coming to the conclusions that this world comes to. He says, don't be conformed. Don't allow your mind to think the way the world thinks. I'm telling you, this world is messed up. This world is messed up. And for a Christian Someone who claims to be a child of God, to be conformed to the thinking of this world and start thinking the way this world thinks about what is right and wrong. About what is true and false. And even today, as to what even what I even am and what I even am as a person. For the life of me. For the life of me. I cannot imagine why in the world a Christian would want to start thinking the way this messed up world thinks. We have God Almighty. We have the truth of Almighty God available to us. We can think clearly. We can think correctly. And yet all around we find Christians, ministries, preachers being conformed to this world. He says that is spiritual adultery. To abandon the truth of God for the perversion and the nonsense that this world comes up with and the ridiculous questions this world asks. Spiritual adultery. The iniquity of worldliness. When I start thinking the way the world thinks When I start rationalizing the way the world rationalizes, when I start using the world's reasoning I am a worldly Christian. I am a worldly Christian. God, in no uncertain terms, says, be not conformed to this world. But be transformed, renewing of your mind. Get that mind back where it's supposed to be. Get your thinking back in line with the truth. And this world is out there in darkness, grabbing and asking some of the most ridiculous questions in the world, having no idea what's right or wrong, what's up or down, what's in or out, even what they are And for a Christian to be conformed to that is sin, is worldliness. If you would turn with me to 1 John chapter 2, he addresses this subject of the world. And 1 John chapter 2. You now have to go back past James to get to 1 John, and then we're going to come back to James. 1 John chapter 2. And look at verse number 15. I in my Bible, I have a verse 15, 16, and 17 highlighted, marked in my Bible, underscore. I highly recommend that. This is By the way, you're not going to hear too many if any preachers on T preaching on this subject. You're not going to hear too many, if any, preachers in modernistic churches preaching on this subject. I'm not trying to blow my own horn. But if you don't want preaching on worldliness, there are a lot of other churches you can go to, you'll never hear a word about it But if we're going to preach the Bible, and if we're going to preach verse by verse to the Bible, we're going to preach on worldliness. Look at James chapter 2 and verse number 15. I don't know how you can get any clearer than this. Love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, The love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of light, is not of the Father, but is of the world And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Love not the world. When we love the things the world loves, When we desire the things the world desires, when the things of the world are more important to me than the things of God, When I am willing, listen, when I am willing to sacrifice or ignore or set aside my convictions for a little bit of the pleasure that the world offers I am sinning against my Savior. That is worldliness. That is spiritual adultery. Strong words, strong passage. But we cannot ignore it. Not if we want to be right with God, not if we want to please our Savior. When I love the things of the world, when I love the world's music and the world's entertainment, the world's ungodly activities and events, when I love that, When I should be loving my Savior. Or even worse yet, when I try and love that and simultaneously love my Savior. It's worldliness. Spiritual adultery. A woman cannot love another man in the same way she should love her husband and love her husband at the same time. That is unfaithfulness. There was a stupid song. Ungodly. Most of these songs the songs the world puts out are ungodly. I'll just put it that way. You say, oh, I know one that isn't. Well, good. I got a whole hymn book full of ones that are godly. I don't need the wor I don't need to pick through the world's garbage to find some little song that might be okay. How'd you get me off on that? That's not even what I'm preaching on. When I love the I forgot even what I was talking about. Love not the world. Here's what I was saying. You have a man that wants to love a gal at work, but he also wants to keep and enjoy And have the security of love for his wife, that is an unfaithful man. Come on now, help me That's an unfaithful man. You say, Oh, but I love my wife. I love her. I just love her also. That's ungodly. There was a stupid song, Wicked, Ungodly Song, came out years ago. I mean ungodly. I shouldn't even mention it. But the song was torn between two lovers. That is as wicked as the day is long. That's what Israel tried to do. They tried to love God and love Jehovah, but also they want to love the gods and the pleasures and the sinful things of the world. They wanted the security and the blessings of God, a relation with God. They also wanted the pleasures and enjoyments of the world. And God says, you are committing, you are an unfaithful wife, you are committing adultery against me. Strong words Strong words. Come back if you would to James chapter number four. I'm glad you said what you said earlier, Paul, because I'm a little more confident now preaching the things you said here. James chapter 4 and verse 4. Now Romans 12 told us that we're not to be conformed to this world. We're not to take on this world's thinking, this values, this world's priorities, its mindset. First John said that uh uh we're not to love the world. We're not to enjoy its sinful pleasures, indulge ourselves and fall in love with this whole world and uh things of the world, the lust of the eyes, the lust of the flesh, the pride of life. We're not to indulge that, we're not to engage in that. We're not to do that. All of this is uh is worldliness The love of the Father is not in that. That's not of God, he's saying. That's not what the love of God produces. God's saying, my love for you does not produce a love for the world. And now in James he says we're not to make friendship with the world. Friendship with the world was enity to God. Enmity to God. What does it mean to be friendship with the world? We had conformed to the world, loving the world. What is the idea of being a friendship with the world? It simply means this, a companion of the world. Here, here, oh boy, this is where we're dealing with in Christianity today. It has the idea of fitting right in with the world. Just fit in. Tell you what, if we are comfortable, if we're okay and we're comfortable Doing the things the world does and behaving the way the world behaves and engaging in the things the world engages, if we're comfortable with that, if we're okay with that, we are friends with the world. Whether we want to admit it or not, we can get mad and we can say, oh. But the fact of the matter is, friendship with the world is enmity against God. To be a companion of the world, to fit right in, to agree with the world's opinions, to agree with the world's and engage and enjoy the world's endeavors and the world's entertainment and the world's pleasures You say, what? Is a Christian not supposed to have any fun? Can a Christian not lighten up? Sure. My Bible says that in the presence of the Lord there's pleasures evermore. I'm telling you, the joy and the blessing and the happiness and the fulfillment and the pleasures that God gives his people outweigh the pleasures of this world 10,000 times over. You know what? If I find my enjoyment and my pleasure and my happiness from the Lord, I can sit in a preaching like this and it doesn't bother me one bit. In fact, I like it. But if I'm engaged and indulged in the pleasures of the world, and I'm a friend of the world, and I'm comfortable out there rocking and rolling and drinking and carrying on with the world and I'm okay with that, brother, this kind of preaching bothers me. Gets under my skin. You know why? Because I'm a friend of the world. To be a friend of the world means to be a companion of the world, to fit right in, to agree with the world. Here's the point I'm trying to make, and the Bible shows us here. Worldliness is a heart issue. It's where my love is, it's where my affection is. Where my loyalty is, where my endearment is, is it to the Lord and the Lord alone? Or do I try and spread it out and divide it between the world and the Lord? And that's unfaithfulness. I've been reading in my devotions all this week in my morning, I've been reading through Isaiah. And over and over and over, God says this: I will not share my glory with another. I will not share my glory with another. You know what he's saying? You're my people. I'm not sharing you with the world. How many people bristle at the idea of sharing your spouse with someone else? I mean it's a horrendous even thought. I'm here to tell you it's exactly times a thousand the way God feels about you and I and our relationship with the world. I don't know this, don't read anything into this, but I'd venture to say somebody in the sound of my voice, whether here or through uh electronic means one way or another somebody on the sound of my voice knows what the sting of infidelity feels like Somebody know I know I'm uh talk somebody knows how that feels. Have someone been unfaithful. The sting. And I'm telling you, God is using terms that says, that is what your love for the world does to me. Our God grieves over his people loving the world, sharing their devotion to him, that should be to him and exclusively to him, and sharing it with the world. What is worldliness? What is the world? It's this world's pleasures, a value system, priorities, its thinking. Worldliness, loving that, is sin. It's a heart issue. To conform to this world's values, to love this world's pleasure, to be a companion to this world's activities and lifestyles is Brother Koblenz, you went to Temple, right? You were ahead of me. He's a lot older than I am. Yeah, but he was down at Temple. I tell you, one thing I appreciate so much about there was their motto. Distinctively Christian. You know what God wants every one of us to be? Distinctively Christian. We don't fit in with the world. We don't even want to. We love the Lord. I love my Savior. There should be a clear distinction between a believer's thinking, a believer's behavior, a believer's values. and what the world's behavior and the world's thinking and the world's values. There should be a clear distinction. I just thought of this, uh, heard the illustration years ago. I've used it before, but a guy was on a train and they were sitting and a bunch of the people around and And they were drinking and smoking. He was kind of minding his own business. And this was years ago and a couple of guys came around. They got the cards out. And they threw him a uh a hand uh what do you a hand of uh a hand, is that right? And they stacked them up there and they all picked their cards up. Alright, I'll put a buck in. They start throwing money. And he just sat there, didn't had his hands down, had his arms down like this under the table. He sat there, he didn't pick them up. They said, well aren't you going to play? He says, no, I can't. Said you can't? Why not? He says, I don't have any hands. They said, what? I don't have any hands. Yes you do, they're right there. And they pulled his hands up. He goes, oh, those aren't mine. I said, what do you mean they aren't mine? He says, I'm a Christian. These are God's hands. And they would never do that. They would never do that. Hey, these are God's feet. There's some places and some things these feet ought never do. They ought to be distinctively Christian. Our hands should be distinctively Christian. There are some places our bodies ought not to go. Why? Because they're not ours. They've been bought with a price. They're the Lord's. They're distinctively Christians. There are some things, there's some things that ought not to be going into these ears. Come on now. Some things ought not to be gone in these ears. Not if I'm a child of God, I'll be distinctively Christian. It's a heart issue. What do I want to be? What do I want to be? Am I going to be out and out for Christ? Or am I going to play with the world? I'm going to be unfaithful. I indulge the world. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity with God? Whosoever will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. That's what James says. Then the last of all, the enmity of the world. That word enmity is a chilling word. An enemy of God. Wow. Do you ever have someone you met them? I mean they're just tough and hard as nails and you say, boy, I would never want to get on his wrong side. Anyone here know what I'm talking about? Um I know a few women like that, but um I don't want to get on their wrong side because they tear you up. I wanted to say something about my mother-in-law, but I won't do it right there. No, she's sweet. I wouldn't want to be on the wrong side, but she's sweet. Tell you one thing, none of us want to be. None of us want to be on God's wrong side. I don't want to be God's enemy. Did you ever read the Bible, what happens to God's enemies? Good heavens. You know what James is telling us here? If I love the world, if I'm a friend of the world. If I'm comfortable and I can fit right in, I'm just one of the world out there jigging it up with the world. He says, you're an enemy of God. Yikes. That's the word that came to my mind as I study this is chilling. To be an enemy of God, to be an enemy Enmity with God means to be in opposition to. I got looking it up and how it's used, it means to be hostile against. In opposition to God. God's people in opposition to God. There is no neutral ground in our relationship with the world. No. There's no compromising, there's negotiating, there's no nuclear deals with the world. No! I am out and out for Christ and Christ alone That's what he's saying. No neutral ground. No neutral ground. We must take this issue of worldliness very, very seriously. Very, very seriously. How many people remember the Susan B. Anthony coin? Susan B. Anthony Darville. They quit making that back Was it the 80s, 1980s, something? I think they quit making it. Do you know why they quit making the Susan B. Anthony Dollar coin coin? You know why they quit? Because nobody was using it. You know why nobody would use it? Because they kept mixing it up, thinking it was a quarter. How many people remember that? Anybody know? And people were getting burned and they were losing money and others were wow nice they gave me four dollar coins back instead of four quarters and they people get mixed up The dollar coin was too much like the quarter, who was what was much cheaper and much valueless, much less value. And so he said, we're going to quit making it You know what happens when a Christian becomes worldly? The world starts mixing us up with one of them. And our testimony loses its value. And our influence loses its value. And God says, that hurts me. That is an opposition to what I'm wanting to do. Listen, God challenged my heart on this. Worldliness is so deceptive We are in the enemy's territory. We are immersed in this world's values and priorities. We are immersed in it. We can have I talked to somebody the other day they got hearing aids electronic hearing aids they can put the radio on their phone and it'll wirelessly broadcast into their hearing aids and they can walk around Rocking out. And nobody even knows they think they're epileptic or something, you know? And they're just pumping the world into their brain directly. God help us as Christians to take this seriously. God challenged my heart and as pastor of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, I don't have to tell you this. I love you dearly. Every one of us, I love this church. And one of our biggest enemies is the world. And we cannot befriend the world. We cannot engage the world. We cannot be companions of the world. It is our enemy. This world is no friend of grace. Rock and roll singers and country and western singers, and a lot of your quote-unquote Christian singers, are no friends of God. Friendship with the world is enmity to God. Charles Spurgeon said He said, suppose a man stabbed and killed my brother in cold blood. What would you think of me if I became buddies with the guy that killed my brother? And I wanted to be like him, and I wanted to dress like him, and I wanted to go out with him and carry on with him. He said, what would you think of me being friends with a guy that killed my brother? He said, why in the world would I want to be friends with the world that killed my Savior? Why do I want to look like them? Why do I want to act like them? Why do I want to think like them? Why do I want to be associated? How would I feel comfortable with them? Friendship with the world is emity. Adulterers and adulteresses. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us tonight. Lord, this is hard. I pray that every one of us would take seriously this matter of worldliness I pray you'd help us, every one of us, to take seriously this matter of our devotion, our faithfulness, our loyalty to the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray for great conviction, God. I ask for great conviction. I ask for revival in my heart. A revival of loyalty, a revival of distinction and separation from the world, a revival of separation to the Lord Jesus. From our youth all the way on up to the pastor and throughout our church. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher? Preacher, I want my heart and life to be loyal to the Lord Jesus. I don't want to be a friend of the world. I don't want to fit in. I don't want to look like it. I don't want to act like it. I don't want an Thing to do with this world, not its value system And you say, preacher, pray for me that I'd be out and out for Christ. Out and out for Christ. How many like that by the uplifted hand? That's what I want. Tell you, some of us it's going to cost us something. Some of us are going to have to make a decision like Robin was testifying. We're going to have to say, no, I'm not doing that. I'm not going along with that. I'm not going out there. I'm not doing this I'm not going along with this. I'll be faithful to Christ. Maybe young people, you've got to make a decision which way you're going to go. You want to go in the darkness and the confusion and the nonsense of the world, or you want to be Christ? Secure and sure and clear in your mind, the joy of the Lord in your life, the blessings of God. We've got to decide. Father, bless our invitation now. You know our hearts. You know where we're at. Help us to make right decisions. We ask this in Jesus' name. Let's stand again.