Verse one through seven. We started looking at this last week. I want to pick up where we left off. Verse one of chapter forty six. And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba and of and He came to Beersheba and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I And he said, I am God, the God of thy father. Fear not to go down into Egypt, for I will there make of thee a great nation. I will go down with thee unto Egypt, and I will also surely bring thee up again. And Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes. And Jacob rose up from Beersheba, and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father and their little ones and their wives in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him. And they took their cattle and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob and all his s seed with him, his sons and his sons' sons with him His daughters. Now let me just stop there because I'm probably not going to have time to get to that later. But it says his daughters. How many daughters do we know that Jacob had? This one, Dinah, was the only daughter that we're told. So what is he talking about here when the Bible said he's taking his daughters with him? Granddaughters or daughters-in-law is no doubt what it would be referring to there. So that's an issue for some people, but it's a very simple explanation. His daughters would be his daughter-in-law's Daughters, is it daughters-in-law or daughter-in-laws? Daughters-in-law. Let's pray. Father, we ask you to bless now our study of your word I pray we could learn some principles here. I ask that you would open our hearts and minds to your word, that we could see these truths that apply to our lives. We need your Holy Spirit to do that Lord, and so I ask again tonight as every message, I pray that it would not be my reasoning or or uh my understanding, but Lord, I pray it be your Holy Spirit using your word through me And applying it to our lives. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray that you would fill me and speak through me and help us to respond in faith. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right. Jacob now has been instructed by his sons. They filled him in. What's going on with Joseph? They say we he wants us to come on back down. He's a little skeptical. He doesn't believe. In fact, he says, I don't believe it, that Joseph's still alive. But there was one thing that uh caused Jacob to believe that that changed his mind, convinced him that Joseph was still alive. What was that one thing that convinced him? He saw the wagons They had sent the wagons up from Egypt. The Bible says there at the end of chapter 45, when he saw the wagons, then he says, it's enough. Joseph is alive. I'll go to Egypt. And so now he's packing up and he's getting ready to go. If you remember last week, if you were here, uh we noticed the commencement of his journey, and this was a big move for the family to pack up and uh uh and what they have and head down to Egypt. It's a big move for the family, but you remember we also said it's a big move for I Israel as a nation. This is a key turning point in the offspring of Abraham, in the family of Abraham, as we're three generations now from Abraham. And now the family is moving down to Egypt, just as God had told Abraham they would. They're going to be down there. They're going to enter Egypt as a family, but they're going to come out of Egypt as a what? A nation. And so this is a very key key event when the f the whole family, all of Abraham's offspring at this point, they are transporting, they're moving down uh their uh re um what's the word I want there relocating to Egypt big big move for the nation of Israel And on the way down, if you remember, Joseph stops off at Beersheba, and um uh uh uh it says there in verse 1, and came to Beersheba. That was his old stomping ground. A lot had happened there. He was familiar with that. He lived there for a period of time. And so he stops there and he makes some sacrifices to God. And that's where we pick up, where m the the thoughts we had here. First of all, let me get my outline going here. First of all, the commencement of his journey. Then we had the concern of Jacob. Where he wanted to stop and just spend some time with God, get back in touch with God. Now, that's where we're picking up tonight. The confirmation from God. If you would, look at verse number two. Now, verse 1, he makes this sacrifice. And during that night, he made the sacrifice, they go to bed, they go to sleep. And during the night, God spake to Israel in the visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob. I thought it was interesting, and I don't want to spend a lot of time on it, but it's interesting that God repeated his name twice. Jacob, Jacob And you find that over and over in the Bible when God speaks to someone. Remember Samuel when he was young? Samuel, Samuel. And he does that over and over and over to get people's attention. Well, here he says, Jacob, Jacob. And Jacob's concern about going to Egypt was a legitimate concern. There was more to this, I believe, than him just being afraid of relocating. And all the disruption. Remember he's 130 years old at this point. How many people you're getting up there and you don't like the idea of having to move? Anybody like that? Yeah, I dread that And uh I don't want to move. And so, but here he is, 130 years old, he's moving. But I think there's a lot more to his concern than just that. Um And one of those concerns, probably a major one, although we're not told directly, but I would think a major concern is the fact that both his grandfather And his father moved to Egypt. And it was a bad experience for both of them. Both of them, when they started to go to Egypt, when Abraham went to Egypt, Isaac started to, they got out of the will of God. They were going out of the will of God. And both of them had negative experiences. It took its toll on their family when they went to Egypt. And I don't know all that Jacob's thinking is, but there's no doubt in my mind He knew about his grandpa going to Egypt and his grandpa lying about his grandma being his sister. Remember that And then comes back with Hagar and all that that resulted in. And then his daddy went, started to go to Egypt. If you would, turn with me to Genesis chapter number 12. Come back to chapter 12. And notice a couple things here. Now, no doubt this is in the back of Jacob's mind as he's concerned about this move to Egypt. Grandpa went down there, daddy started to go down there, and it was bad for both of them. I don't know about this. Look at verse number 10, Genesis 12. It says, and there was a what? Famine in the land, and Abraham went down into Egypt to sojourn there For the famine was grievous in the land. So what caused Abraham to decide to go to Egypt? A famine. All right, come over to chapter 26. And notice with me verse number one. Genesis 26, verse 1. Now look at this. And there was a famine in the land, besides the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech, king of the Philistines, unto Gerah. And the Lord appeared unto him and said, Go not down into Egypt. Don't do this. Dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of. Sojourn in this land, so I will be with thee and will bless thee. For unto thee and unto thy seed will I give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I Swear unto Abraham thy father, and I will make thy seed to multiply the stars of heaven, give thy seed, and all the give unto thy seed all these countries, and thy seed, and all the nations of the earth, because that Abraham obeyed my voice, kept my charge, commandments, etc. And then Isaac dwelt in Gera. Now he's going to go down to Egypt. God says don't go there, so he stays here in Gera. But look what happens. And the men of the place ask him of his wife Huh. And he said sh she's my what? Sister. Liar, liar, pants on fire. She is my and uh for he was feared to say she is my wife. Um lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me for Rebecca, because she was fair to look upon. It comes down there and then he's sporting with her and they notice it. And how come she said she's your sister? Well, I was afraid of you, and it goes on down there. The point I'm trying to make is this. The thing I notice here is both Abraham He went down to Egypt. There was a famine. He went down to Egypt, lied about his wife, soiled his testimony terribly with the Egyptians. They rebuked him. ends up bringing Hagar back. Then his daddy, there's a famine, he goes at least uh attempts to go down to Egypt. God intervenes say, no, don't go down there. Stays there. And he has the same issue with Israel. Now here you have Jacob and what's going on at this time in the land? A famine. The same thing as his daddy and his grandpa, and he's going down to Egypt. You agree with me? If that was me, I'd have some second thoughts about this, right? Wait a minute, I don't know if this is a good idea or not And so he very wisely, as we noted last week, he stops and he makes some sacrifices, and he's seeking the Lord, and I think he's looking for confirmation from God. Is this okay for me to go down there? And so he gets this confirmation from God. So a few observations I make about the Lord here back in chapter 46. The first thing I notice is that God responds to Jacob's sacrifice. Verse 2, and God spake unto Israel in the vision of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob, and he said, Here am I. God was observing Jacob's actions. He knew where he was, he knew what the situation was. And when Abraham stopped at Beersheba and made that sacrifice and sought the Lord, God was watching. God was paying attention. God was listening to Jacob's prayers. And then God responded to it. He was paying attention to Jacob's concerns. I'm glad. The thing I took away from that is I am glad that God pays attention to what's going on in my life. We're not off God's not off somewhere doing his thing and we're down here doing our thing and we gotta yell and holler like the prophets of Baal to try and get his attention And find out what's going on in our life. We can, like Jacob, stop on our journey, stop and seek the Lord and bow before God and uh seek his will, seek his face, and God pays attention to that I guess what I'm trying to say, I don't know what you're going through, but I know this. God knows what you're going through. And God pays attention. I like what Jeremiah chapter uh twenty-nine verse uh thirteen says, and ye shall seek me and find me when ye shall search for me with all your heart. If we want to know God, we can know Him. If we want God to know God's will, if we seek Him and trust Him in faith, God will lead us and God will direct us. God knows our heart. God knew Jacob's heart here. And Jacob sincerely wanted to know God's will. There's no doubt about that. He knows our fears. And God knows our concerns. He's paying attention. And we can trust him to help us just like Jacob could trust him to help him. As far as I can tell in studying the scriptures, this is the last time that God speaks to Jacob, at least directly Seven times before God had met with Jacob and interact with him. Most of the time he's making them, most of the time, when God spake with Jacob before, he was making promises Reaffirming the promises he had made to Abraham and to Isaac, and he's reassuring Jacob, these promises are still good And I'm going to meet with them, but uh this is the last time. And the something else I noticed there, notice how God refers to Jacob. What name the name he uses to refer to Jacob. He doesn't refer to him as Israel. He refers to him as Jacob. Where did Jacob get the name Israel? God gave it to him, remember? He was wrestling with him. The name Israel means a prince with God. He wrestled with the Lord and and uh prevailed. And uh God changed his name from Jacob. The word Jacob means some planter or trickster or or uh uh um uh sneaky has that idea. And God doesn't, when he speaks to Abraham, when he calls the or to Jacob here, he doesn't use the name that God gave to him. He uses his birth name Now, I wonder why the reason was for that was, and we're not told, but I want to I surmise, I think, I wonder, if God isn't trying to remind Jacob of what he used to be. Now the reason why would he do that? I think the reason God would do that is he wants to remind Jacob of his past self-reliance. Remember, Jacob would trick his way out of any situation. He'd get himself in a pickle. He'd get himself in a bad place, a bad situation. And he'd lie and sneak and trick his way out of that with his brother and with Laban. And I wonder when God says Jacob and and Jacob hears God refer to him as Jacob Trickster, sneaky. I wonder if God isn't saying, Jacob, remember, you always relied on your own sneakiness before. No more of that. Now you're going to rely on me And I w I I don't know, but it's interesting he uses the term Jacob. And uh I wonder if uh he's trying to get Jacob to remember all that God had done for him And God had changed his life. He's still limping around on that thigh, remember, when he got this name. And so he uses his birth name, and we're not told the exact reason, but I suspect. God's wanting to remind Jacob, hey, listen, no more trusting in yourself. I've got this. I've got this now. Isn't it good to know when God's got it? God says, uh don't worry, uh uh uh Dennis, I've got this. I've got this. So number one, God responds to Jacob's sacrifice. Then I notice, number two That God removes Jacob's fear. Look at the first part of verse 3. Verse 2, Jacob, Jacob. He said, Here am I. Verse 3. And he said, God speaking, I am God. The God of thy father, fear not to go down into Egypt. Um First thing God does, he clearly identifies himself. Now, do you think Jacob knew that that was God talking to him Sure, he knows God talking to him. Like I said, he had seven times before he'd interacted with God. But God's making a statement here. God's making a point. He says, Jacob, I am God He's reminding and the word God there, it's the Hebrew term for God, Elohim. It means the all-powerful one. The one that is perfect and complete in power. It has the idea of being sovereign, being in control. And God says to Jacob, I am the one that's in control. I'm the one that has all the power. I am God. And he's identifying himself as the one I believe, as the one that's most powerful. I think he's making it very, very clear to Jacob that who he's dealing with, God, is the wisest In existence, he has perfect wisdom, he has all the power, and he loves them dearly. He loves them dearly And I think of those three attributes of God. Number one, God is all-powerful. He is able to do for us what we need done. He loves us, and he wants to do for us what needs to be done, and he is wise, he knows what's best for us. I I've used I've what's that? Amen. And uh I I've I've mentioned this before. Do you ever have uh those of us who have kids Did you ever have your kids you loved them and you want what's best for 'em? Anybody like this? You want what's best for them? Somebody said pick your favorite kid, and then I realized later they meant of my own. I didn't I thought It could be anybody, but um but anyway, um man, you guys are a tough crowd here tonight, I'll tell ya. But we love our child and I want what's best for my child. But sometimes I want what's best for my child, but I don't know what's best. Have you ever been in that situation? I don't I don't been. What do I do? I don't know what's best. And sometimes we want what's best for our child, and we know what's best for our child, but we don't have the means to do it. I don't have the ability to do what's best for my child. But that's never a problem with God. And that name Elohim assures us, one, that God loves us and wants what's best for him. God loved Jacob and wanted what was best for him. God was all perfect in wisdom, all wise. And he knew what was best for Jacob. And he was all powerful. And whatever it was, God could do it. God could do it. So when God says to Jacob, I am God, I am Elohim. He's making a profound he's identifying himself in a very power profound, powerful way. And uh and reassuring um Jacob. He's removing his fear. So he identifies himself, first of all, I am God But then he doesn't stop there. He goes on and says, I am God, the God of thy father. He's reminding Jacob, hey, what I did for your daddy, I can and will do for you. Jacob saw firsthand Isaac's faith in God. He saw his daddy trust God. He saw his daddy allow God to lead him and provide for him and take care of him. In some cases, supernatural ways, and bless him in tremendous ways. And God is saying, I'm the God of your daddy Isaac. And he trusted me. Jacob saw firsthand Isaac's faith in God. He saw firsthand God's faithfulness to Isaac, his daddy. And he's saying to him, I'm the God that did all that for your daddy and took care of him and led him through his life and met his needs I can do that same thing for you. Same thing for you. I look at, and I'm again as a little personal illustration, but I look at my daddy's life. And his walk with God and what God did for my daddy. And how my daddy trusted God and God honored that and blessed that. And I tell you, I'd like to have that in my life also And we look back, Derek and I have been talking about the old time preachers and what God did in years gone by. And that God that did that in those great revivals, in those great days going by with our forefathers, I'm telling you, he's telling Jacob And I'm telling you, he can do it again. He's still that same God. And when he says, I am God, the God of thy father, he's saying, I'm the God, I'm still God. What I did for your daddy I can do for you Now here's the question I had. Do our children see our faith in God? Do our children see God working in our lives? If God would say to our children, I am the God of your daddy, what would our children say? Who? Am I the, uh, what God did my daddy have? What God did my mommy have? You're the God of my daddy, you're the god of my parents Or would they say right away, Oh, I know exactly the God of my daddy. I saw my daddy, trust him, I saw what God did for my daddy. In other words, do our children see God working in our lives that he can use us for a reference for our children. That's what he's doing. He's giving his daddy as a a reference for Jacob. And so he eliminates his fears. He removes Jacob's fears by identifying himself as the God, all powerful God, and the God of his father. Number three, I notice he Restates his promise to Abraham. Look again there in verse number, the last part of verse three Fear not to go down to Egypt, for I will there make of thee a great nation. This is the same promise he gave to Abraham. This is the same promise he gave to his daddy And he's reiterating it again. Come back to chapter 12 with me again, if you would. Back to Abraham. Chapter 12. And notice with me verse number two. Now this is right off the bat. Verse 1, the Lord said unto Abraham, Get thee out of thy country, from thy kindred, from thy father's house, unto a land I will show thee. Alright, so Abraham's leaving Ur of the Chaldees, he's heading to this land that God's going to show him. But then look at verse 2, the very next statement. God speaking, I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse them that curse them that curseth thee. And in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. By the way, that last statement there, God will bless them that bless uh Abraham and his offspring, and curse those that curse Abraham and his offspring, that is still in effect today And we have to be very, very careful, and I I hope our country and and others are very very careful about what we say and how we treat Israel. If I understand Matthew correctly, I believe nations answer to God for their treatment of Israel. And God said, I'll bless them that bless thee, I'll curse them that curse thee. Is Israel flawless? No. Are they human and do things that we would not approve of? Absolutely. But regardless of the fact, they are still God's people. And there's statements being made in our country, even among the conservative element of our country, very, very critical of Israel, and I say we need to stay far away from that We want to bless Israel. We want to support them. We want to pray for the peace of Israel and peace of Jerusalem. And so we have to be very careful. But God had promised Abraham, I'm going to make a great nation out of you. He made that same promise to Jacob's daddy that he would make a great nation of him, and now he repeats it to Jacob again. I will there make of thee a great nation. In other words, God had a plan. God had a purpose. God knew what he was doing. Jacob could trust him. He might not understand everything that's happening to him. He might not have all the answers to why God was allowing certain things to happen. He may not have a clear It might not have been cleared his mind exactly what God was doing, but God was assuring Jacob, I still, I'm in control, I have a plan, I know what I'm doing, there's a purpose for all of this happening Would you agree with me? That's great assurance. That's great confidence to know that God's in control. He knows what he's doing. He's allowing things in my life that I don't fully understand, but God does He says, I'm going to make of you a great nation. He's a purpose. God was not caught off guard when this famine hit He knew exactly what was going on. He allowed it. It's part of his plan. God did not have to improvise. Did you ever get in a situation you thought we were going to do a certain thing and then things didn't pan out and so you had to improvise and come up with something else? Plumbers do that, I know that. Builders do that Uh preachers have to do that. That's part of life. Hey, I'm glad God never has to improvise. This is all part of the plan. Jacob, Jacob! What I promised your grandpa is still in effect. What I promised your daddy is still in effect. My word is still good. I'm here to tell you tonight, God's word is still good. And I just throw this out, we don't need new versions of it. We don't need to alter it or change it, it's still good. God didn't change his promise in any way, the wording of it or anything. I'll make of thee a great nation. And so God had a plan, God had a purpose, God had made a promise, that promise was still good. I'm glad God doesn't forget his promise. I'm glad he doesn't abandon his plans. And another thing I notice here is God very seldom operates the way we anticipate he would operate. Anybody here ever pray for something, then you figure out in your mind how God's going to answer that prayer? Lord, I need $10,000, and then you start watching the mailbox. You know, some inheritance. I found out that God very seldom does things the way I anticipate him doing it. Um I always think of this, Jonah, when he's out there on the ship and he's trying to hide from God. You know how they you know how he got exposed? Some sailors throwing uh pulling lots. To see whose fault it was. I guarantee you, that's the last thing Jonah ever dreamed of, that God would expose him by a bunch of sailors pulling these lots and his lots strong. So God very seldom operates the way we think that should do it. So in other words, let's just pray, let's follow the Lord's instructions, and let God do it the way he thinks it should be done. And don't dictate to them and anticipate. Just trust them. Just trust him. So number one, we notice that God responded to Jacob's sacrifice. God was paying attention. He was observing All that Jacob was going through when he cried, he heard him, he responded to him. Then God's working to remove his fear And says, I'm God, I'm the God of your father. You saw what I've done before. I'm still doing that. It's still good. Then he restates his promise that he had made to Abraham. I have a plan, I have a purpose, I know what I'm doing, trust me. And then number four, he reassures Jacob of his presence. Look again there at verse 4. I will go down with thee into Egypt. Jacob, I'm going with you. You got my presence with you. I will also surely bring thee up again, and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes. I think it's interesting. God assured him that he's going with them, but a couple of things, God didn't tell him. God didn't tell him how long his people were going to be in Egypt. They end up being there 400 years. God didn't tell Jacob that. He says, I'll be down with you and you're and someday you'll come back up out of there. But I'm going to be with you Um, I don't know about you, but I'm glad I don't know what tomorrow I don't know what tomorrow is. You know? There's stuff There's stuff we may face that if we knew it now, we'd worry ourselves or we'd get too excited. It's good enough to know that God's going to be with us tomorrow We may have to go through some valleys, we may have to face some storms, we may be stuck in Egypt for 400 years But the fact of the matter is, if we're in God's will, He's never going to leave us, He's never going to forsake us, He's going to see us through it. He says, I'll be with you. So God doesn't tell him how long they're going to be down there, 400 years. And the other thing he doesn't tell him is how large his family was going to become. Whenever they come up out of Egypt, and the estimates vary, But most estimates of the number of Jews coming out of Egypt was anywhere from one to three million Jews coming up out of Egypt. Now there's 70 of them. 400 years later, there's going to be upwards to three million of them. God doesn't tell Jacob that. He just says, I'll be with you. I'll be with you. And God doesn't tell us what's going to happen tomorrow or next week or next year. He just says, I'll be with you. I'll know about you, but I'd be perfectly fine if the rapture took place tonight I would be as happy as could be with that. I would I would be fine with that. If they had a volunteer, I said this a couple months ago or so ago, if they had a volunteer rapture tonight at 10 o'clock, I wonder how many of us would show up I'd be glad to go, huh? But I don't know. If the rapture's going to happen tonight, I don't know if it's going to happen tomorrow or next week or next year or next decade or next century But I know this. God will be with us. We had the presence and promises of God will still be there. And that's what he's assuring Jacob. Jacob, all Jacob needed to hear was this. Everything's going to be all right, Jacob. I'm going to be with you. I've given some promises to your grandpa. They're still good. I'm all powerful. I can take care of you. I can meet your needs. I love you. And it's going to be alright. And I'm going to be with you through all of this. I'm right there. I'm right there. I wonder how less, and I'm preaching myself as much as anybody, but I wonder how many of us would worry a whole lot less if we could see the Lord right there with us. You know what I'm talking about I looked over and there he is sitting there. You know, he's there with me. How many uh how about when you go to soul when you're knocking on that door? If Jesus was standing right there beside you. Yeah, we'd be a lot more confident. The fact of the matter is he's as much there, whether we see him or not. He's as there when we don't see it and not seeing them as he is if we actually saw them. He says, Jacob, I'm with you. I'm with you. I've got this. Everything's alright. I kept when I was studying this, I kept thinking that little song. Everything's alright in my father's house. In my father's house. In my father's house. Everything's alright in my father's house where there's joy, joy, joy. How many people know that song? How many people want me to sing a solo? I'm not going to do it Everything's alright in Egypt's house. Jacob's gonna be alright. Say, oh I gotta face this. Oh I gotta go. Everything's alright. If the Lord's with us, it's alright. It's alright. So God uh he responded, he he gave confirmation to Jacob, it's gonna be okay, you going down there. I know your daddy Your grandpa went down against my will, it cost him. Your daddy started to go down against my will, and he messed up and all that whole thing But this time I'm with you. It's okay. It's part of my plan. He gives confirmation to him. And then last of all, I notice there in verse number 5 through 7 the commitment of Jacob. He says, all right, let's go. We're going. Look there at verse 5. And Jacob rose up. He heard from God. He spent the night there. God speaks from that night, gives him all this confirmation. Next morning he gets up and he says, Boys, uh load up the truck, we're heading to Egypt. Not the truck, the wagons. And um and the sons of Israel carried Jacob, their father, and their little ones, and uh and their wives. In the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry them. Notice they put Jacob in the wagon. Why would they put Jacob in the wagon? He's an old man. He's 130 years old. He's tired. He's worn out. He's weak. The boys say, Daddy, you get up in the wagon. We're putting you in the wagon. Jacob was an old man. Jacob was a broken man. He had multiple failures throughout his life. He'd look back, no doubt, he'd look back over his life and think of things he did, things he said and took that weren't his. God worked it all out, but still. Anybody know what it's like to look back and see some failures in the past? I tell you, if we dwell on that, it can overwhelm us. It can really drag us down. Jacob was a broken man. He had a life of multiple failures. He had family troubles Just terrible difficulties. He had been through trials. So here you have an old man, 130 years old, weak and tired and broken and heavy heart, a broken man. And he's packing up and he's heading for Egypt. Even though he was old and he was broken, he had the promise of God. I'll take care of you. He had the presence of the Lord. I will go with you. And he was going, doing exactly what God told him to do. He was in the perfect will of God. If we can seek those three things, seek the presence of God. Say, God, I need you with me. I want you with me. If we become convinced of that, I have the presence of God in my life. If we will get the promises of God and hold on to them In the darkest hours, when there's total confusion, if I know God is with me and I have some promises of His And then determine I'm going to do what God tells me to do. And be in the perfect will of God. I'm telling you, we can go through the deepest valleys with complete confidence. if we get those three things. Did you get that? Hold on to the promise of God, understand the presence of God, and make sure I'm living in the perfect will of God. Whatever comes my way, I can stand strong, I can be fixed, established in my goings, and know that it's going to be alright. Jacob packing up and moving down. It's a bigger event than just saying, all right, let's go. This was big. And God confirmed to him that he was in the perfect will of God. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you would help us. To hold firm to your promises, like you reassured Jacob, I pray, Father, that you would help us understand your presence in our life, even in the darkest times, even when we don't understand. And then Lord help us not to lean on our own understanding, but in all our ways acknowledge you and let you direct our ways, just like you did, Jacob. And I believe everything will be alright if we'll just do those three things. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, preacher, I tend to lean on my own understanding a bit, and I need to start just trusting God's promises Anybody here, and maybe some of us here, we tend to explain away those promises. Well, that couldn't uh why don't we just take them at face value? God said it, God promised it, settle it I wonder if there's some here forget that we have the presence of God with us. We get gone, we get all worried, sick, we get fearful, and we forget. Oh, wait a minute, God's with me. God's with me. And then making sure that everything we do lines up with the Word of God, that we're in God's will, doing what He says. And I'll tell you those three things. Get us through. Father blessed our invitation. Help us to get all these in place in Jesus' name. Amen.