Bibles to Exodus chapter three. Oh wow, you're gonna stay up here. That's a little intimidating. So if I say something wrong, you're gonna kick me off. Is that what it is? Okay. No, I'm really nervous. Exodus chapter Wow, there's a lot of people here. Exodus chapter three. Sitting in the front row, you never know. And uh you're tired, aren't you? How many of y'all are tired from your vacation Bible time? Is that what it was called? Neighborhood Bible time. Okay, we'll get you out. I promise you'll be home before ten. Okay, that's a promise. Exodus chapter 3 and then find Exodus chapter 33. Those two passages of scripture, Exodus chapter 3, and then Exodus chapter 33. We are from Gaylord, Michigan. And uh he's pastored our church for 31 years. Uh Grace Baptist College is 15 years old. It's beginning its 15th year. of ministry. Our students, we've graduated over 200 students are all over America, all over the world. We have missionaries in many foreign countries. uh servants in many different states and uh we're excited about what the Lord's doing. We're a small Bible college, but that allows us to be able to uh minister to the young people one on one on a lot of on a lot of uh occasions. We Um I don't know if I'm an administrator or or a parent half the time. And uh uh but that's okay We love the kids and we bring them to Gaylord or the Lord brings them to Gaylord and we try to treat them like our children. And uh We try to treat them like young adults who are related to us. Right? Is that better than children? Yes. And uh uh no, they're great kids and uh uh we we have a good time with them. Uh it's not uncommon for them to stop by the office and have a question. They all have my cell phone number and uh my wife's cell phone number. Uh my wife is the academic dean at the college and she's extremely intelligent. And that's very intimidating uh as her husband and uh 'cause I'm supposed to be her boss, but she's way smarter than I am. Uh But uh we do we do uh the best we can to educate the children in ministry t the young people in ministry and uh uh we have pastoral theology missions. uh secondary and elementary education uh degrees, um a degree, uh associates degree in home and family ladies, that's supposed to Teach you how to be a good wife, I guess, and decorate the home and all that good stuff. Uh secretarial programs and so forth. So uh we have a variety of different ministry degrees Uh we had it we had a young person years ago was filling out uh paperwork for registration, asked us where our criminal justice department was I said it's down at the sheriff's office, because we don't have one. And uh most of the people get to know them uh by wearing orange jumpers. But But we have a good time and uh we love the kids. Uh we're very involved in their lives and uh they come to the house on occasion. Uh my wife just this past semester took the girls on a resale shop trip uh to Traverse City, which is about an hour away, and I think she said there were like sixteen resale shops in Traverse City. I think they hit eleven of them. And uh uh so uh she took them tubing, uh snow tubing down over at Boyne Mountain, and uh they have a good time there. And of course we have the different events, we have camp meeting at our church that kicks off the school year and then we have a uh a ladies conference uh every year and the young young people the college students get to help out in that We have our team spectacular, which some of you have been to, and uh uh that the college students help out in, and uh so lots of things. And uh uh I don't know. If you have questions, ask them. They're the ones who can tell you for sure what college life is like. I go home at night. And uh uh but they Uh they live there. Uh we do have dormitories. Uh the girls have a dormitory just uh a mile from the campus. Uh the guys there's two houses just south of the church that we own And uh so they live in the houses. So it's it's more of a uh we even try to make the girls' dorm a little homier um uh setting uh so it's not like a big room with bunch of beds in it, you know what I'm saying? And uh try to make it as feel as much at home as possible. College would be great if you if you didn't have to do two things, pay your bill and go to classes. Other than that, it's a lot of fun. So uh but anyways, it's a joy to be here. Thank you for having us again, Pastor, and for taking such good care of us. And uh for housing us. And we're gonna we're gonna be around tomorrow, gonna sightsee a little bit, and uh maybe push one of them off a mountain or something. So Give them one of those flying outfits. You ever seen those things where they jump off mountains and fly? It's just what is it Woody says? It's falling with style. And uh so that's what we're gonna Maybe bungee jump. Yeah? Would you do that? Jacqueline says no. The others say yes. And uh we're gonna dangle Jaclyn over water because she doesn't know how to swim Just for fun. Y'all are tired. Y'all are tired. This is a tough crowd. So Exodus chapter number three. And we'll look at Exodus 33 right after this. Exodus chapter 3. We'll start with verse number 4. The Bible says this. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see God Or to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses, and he said, Here am I. And he said, Draw not nigh hither, put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground. Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And I want you to pay attention to this last phrase. In verse number six, the Bible says this, and Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God. That's very important in context of the message tonight. Now look at Exodus chapter 33 and verse number 11. Exodus chapter 33 and verse number eleven, the Bible says this, and the Lord spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp, but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle, and Moses said unto the Lord, See Thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people, and thou hast uh and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me yet Thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight. Now therefore I pray thee, if I found grace in thy sight, show me Now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in thy sight, and consider that this nation is thy people. And he said This is God, he said, My presence shall go with thee. I will give thee rest. And he said unto him, If thy presence go not with me, carry us not up hence. For wherein thou uh for wherein shall it be known here that I and my uh and thy people have found grace in thy sight Is it not in that thou goest with us? So shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth. And the Lord said unto Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken, for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I know thee by name. And he said, I beseech thee, show me thy glory. I want you to look at verse number 11, where the Bible says And the Lord spake unto Moses face to face as a man speaketh unto his friend. I want to talk to you for a few minutes on this topic tonight from fear to friend. From fear to friend. And let's pray together. Father, you're so good to us. Thank you, Lord, for being the God that you are. Thank you that you want to have a relationship with us. And Father, I thank you for this church. Thank you for their hard work this past week and the many souls that were saved. Now, Lord, help us, Lord, to know you a little bit better tonight. Lord, help us to understand you a little bit more, that we may continue to influence the lives of others. We pray in Jesus' name Amen. Here in the passages that we read, the Bible says in Exodus chapter 3 and verse 6, and Moses hid his face. for he was afraid to look upon God. And in verse eleven of chapter thirty-three, and the Lord spake unto Moses, face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. And there was a transition that took place from chapter three. to chapter 33. And chapter 3, of course, is the burning bush experience. And in that burning bush experience, Moses wouldn't even look at God. He wouldn't look at the burning bush. He was afraid of him. But in chapter 33, God says that we're friends. As a man speaketh to his friend, they were talking to one another. In every relationship, there are stages. In every relationship there's stages. You know that's true. Married couples, you know that's true. In every relationship, there's there there's uh stages. Fellas, remember? You remember when you first saw her? Now I know guys you thought she chased you because you say that you tell people that don't you? Yeah I was I was I was so good looking she she she chased me And she finally caught me. I finally caved. That's what you tell people, isn't it? Because of your ego. But remember when you first saw your wife? And you said, Wow. I wonder if she'll talk to me. I wonder if she'll go out with me. Whatever that means. I pastored in Ohio. We had bus kids. They were 12 and 13 years old and they would say they go, yeah, I'm going out with them. What does that mean? They're 12. Where do they go out to? Hey, I'll pick you up on my bike. You can ride on the handlebars. We'll go down to the whippy dip and get some ice cream. We're going out together. Well guys, you uh you you saw and You finally worked up the courage to ask her out. You went through stages. It's great working with college kids. It's great watching them build relationships with each other. Noah, you ready? Okay, here we go. Jacqueline has a boy, a young man. Josiah has a young lady, Angie has a young man, and then there's Noah. He's all alone in the world. Still seeking, still praying. I do that all the time, that's why I asked him. He loves it. Girls, d yeah how many of y'all l young ladies, girls, you you you you don't have a significant other yet? You don't have that guy that's found you or you found him. Come on, be honest with me, it's okay. Nobody Okay. Well there's like a seven-year-old, five-year-old back there. She doesn't. You're not you're not not willing to admit it? Here's what I tell the girls preacher. When a guy walks up to you and and it's kind of an awkward situation and the first word out of his mouth is um Get ready. You better have an answer ready because he's gonna ask you out. You y you know it. I was just I was just last week, Sunday night, I was uh held a dor meeting and and there was this guy that was just hanging out and hanging out and hanging out because there was a girl that was just kinda hanging out and hanging out and I c I could feel it. I knew it was coming. Once I vacated the room, um and it did, it happened. Turned him down flat Just struck a nail in it right away. Um Yeah. He says, um and she says, okay, I guess. Let's see what happens. They go on some college activity and you watch them. And he's trying to strike up a conversation. If she's interested, she'll talk back. If she's not, it's a one-sided conversation because she's given one-word answers. How are you, Fine? You know guys like your wife does when you get home and she's kinda mad at you? 'Cause you left your dirty clothes on the floor, didn't get in the hamper. You didn't put the dishes where they're supposed to go. Or whatever reason that she won't tell you. One-word answers. What did I do? Nothing. That is a lie from the pit of hell. Nothing. What's wrong? Nothing. And so they they build a relationship. And and ladies, believe it or not, you're in charge at the beginning of the relationship. Because he's chasing you. So you can turn him down or you can say, okay, and that relationship grows and they start to like each other Jacqueline and her young man never used the word like. What did you use? A door He'd say he'd say I adore you and she'd say I adore you too. Isn't that sweet? And then came the time when he was gonna say, I love you. I love this story. I think it's great. I wouldn't have thought of Brent. He's just a quiet guy And he said, I adore you, and she said, I adore you more, and he said, That's impossible. Because I love you. Yeah. I'm getting all tingly just thinking about it. And of course she waited a long time, like thirty seconds. But you watch those relationships grow. Everybody goes through them. Friends, I have a best friend in all the world that I went to high school with, and I don't know how it happened, but we became friends, and that friendship grew into a brotherhood. That is i y you you can't you can't break that relationship. Now he lives in Ohio and I live in Michigan and we see each other maybe once every other year, but man we pick up right where we left off. And it's a great, great thing. Everybody goes through stages of relationship. We go through stages of relationship with the Lord. And what what I want us to understand tonight is there's three steps, I believe, in our relationship with God. And what I want us to do tonight is I want us to think about What relationship, what stage of the relationship are we in, and what stage can we move on to? Or what stage can we strengthen? If you would tonight, take your Bibles and open them to Psalm 111. Psalm 111. And verse number 10. We've had a little bit of fun tonight, but I want us to think about our relationship with the Lord tonight. Now, I know you've worked hard, but sometimes while we're working hard to serve God, our relationship can slip a little bit. The easiest place to get wrong with God is in Bible college. Because they're working hard, they get up early, they go to class, they go eat a bite for lunch, they get uh uh they they they get back to the dorm, they change their clothes, they go to work They they work a second shift job, sometimes a third shift job, they're getting back later just in time to get ready to go to class And then they uh then they go to class and then they eat lunch and then they go to work and then they get back and they're late and they go to bed and they get up. And they're just in this motion, this machine that keeps going and going and going and going, and then there's they're studying for ministry, and then there's no time for God. And we do the same thing. We work our job, we come home, you gotta veg for a few minutes, so you come home, you relax a little bit. You have dinner, you spend some time with the family, you watch some TV, you go to bed, you get up, you go to work, and it's just a cycle. And we come to church And I don't want this to sound wrong, but we pay our homage. And then we go home and do it all over again. But there's gotta be there's gotta be a time when we stop. I I I've said this to the kids a a lot, the young people a lot. Living a Christian life isn't hard, but it has to be done on purpose. It's not that difficult to be a Christian, but you've got to think about it. And you've got to do it on purpose. We've got to get up and read our Bibles on purpose. It's just not going to happen. We're just not going to lay on our Bibles at night and wake up spiritual in the morning. We've got to read our Bibles on purpose. Whether it's in the morning before you go to bed at lunchtime, whenever you do it, we've got to read our Bibles on purpose. We've got to pick it up and we've got to open it because everything else in the world is going to be pulling at us if we don't. We've got to pray on purpose. We've got to pray on purpose. We've got to set some time aside. However long it is that you have, we've got to set some time aside and pray. Buddy, when I was in Bible college preacher, they'd have in probably you too. They'd have preachers come in and say, I get up at four in the morning and pray for three hours And then you have another preacher that says, I get home at night when I'm all alone before I go to bed, and I go to bed at three in the morning because I pray for three hours. Now, if you did that, you'd never sleep So it's whatever works for you, but you've got to do it on purpose. You've got to set yourself some time, you've got to get your prayer list, and you've got to set time for it, and you've got to get away from everything else Put the cell phone away, get away from the television, and yes, get away from the family and spend some time with God on purpose. He wants that. Psalm 111 and verse number 10, the Bible says this: The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, a good understanding have all they that do this commandment or do his commandment, his praise, endureth. Forever. The first stage in the relationship with God, I think, is fear. Who was it that said the little the little girl, the little boy said, I don't want to die and go to hell? They were afraid. They were afraid of hell. But people are afraid of God. Because sometimes they get the impression that God is a bully. He's sitting up in heaven on his throne. He's got a long white hair and a white beard, and he's got a lightning bolt. And he's waiting for us to mess up. So he can throw it at us. Hey, so-and-so messed up. Woo-hoo! Look, guys, what I did. But that's not the God that I serve. My God is our heavenly Father. Who loves us. I got the impression, preacher, that God's not a worse parent than I am He's a way better parent than I am. He's long-suffering and merciful and gracious. Now you back him into a corner, and he may have to discipline us But he disciplines us out of love so that so that we'll get right. He's a God that loves us. When I was a young person, I claimed to be saved. I told people that I was saved. But to be honest with you, I was scared to death. Scared to death. I was scared the rapture was gonna come. And I was gonna get left. Honestly. I would be at home by myself. My parents and siblings would all be gone, and I would worry. Especially when they didn't get back when they said they were going to get back. Because remember I I we couldn't just pick up the phone and call them or text them. Only rich people had phones in their cars. And we weren't rich You know how they do? If I got really, really, really, really worried, I'd pick up the phone and I'd call a relative. That I went to church with us and I was really, really certain they were saved. I had my cousin Terry, her and her husband Tom. I had their number memorized I'd pick it up, I'd call it. I knew Terry was a stay-at-home mom, and uh uh if she'd answer the phone I'd hang up. That was the purpose for the call. One to talk to her, just make sure she was there. No lie. They didn't have caller ID back then. Didn't even have answering machines back then It rang for a while, they didn't pick up, you hung up. Well she'd answer, I'd hang up, because I knew she was there, it was okay. I wasn't going to say, hey, this is Greg, and I'm afraid the rapture came, and so I just thought I'd call. Make sure you were still there. It sounds like you are, so we're good. But I was scared. I was scared. But God doesn't give us the spirit of fear. Give us a spirit of love, of power, of a sound mind. We don't have to be afraid of God. Fear is caused by two things. Number one, by lack of knowledge. The less we know about someone or about something, the more we're going to fear that person or that situation. I was talking to somebody just the other day. They said they were afraid of heights. I said, you're not afraid of heights. You're afraid of falling from heights. Getting up there is easy. My mom, Cedar Point, anybody know Cedar Point? It's an amusement park? Back in the day when we were kids, they still have those gondola things that go across the park. I haven't been there in a long time. And I think they still do. And we got my mom on it, and she was afraid of heights. And there was a pole that had seats, and there was a pole in the middle of it. And she'd squeeze that pole, white knuckle squeeze it. I'm like, mom, if this thing falls, the pole goes with it. Holding on to the pole solves nothing. But it made her feel good. Listen, the less we know about God, the more we're going to be afraid of him. That's why we have to build a relationship with him. How do you do that? We get in the book. And we let the Spirit of God speak to us and tell us how wonderful our God is, and how gracious He is, and how merciful and kind He is. I was afraid of my dad for a long time. Not afraid to like call it crawl up in his lap when I was a kid, but when he spoke, and he spoke in a certain tone. But the more I got to know him, the nor the more I found the reason why he used that tone. The second reason why we fear things is by lack of understanding. If we don't understand who a person is or why they do what they do There can be fear. In either case, we'll fear what's going on, what's going to happen, or we're going to fear who someone is. See, the lack of understanding, the less we understand about God, the more we're going to be afraid of Him. So there's a purpose for everything in God's mind. Everything that He allows to happen, there's a purpose for it. It's our responsibility to get in the book and find out what the purpose is. And I think if we study the Bible long enough and hard enough, we'll find what that purpose is. And by and large, the purpose is this: there's somebody out there that needs your life experience. See your life is not for you, it's for somebody else. From the youngest person in here to the oldest person in here, the thing that the Lord, the things that the Lord allows in our lives, it's not for me. My life is not for me, it's for these guys right here. They get tired of hearing the illustrations, I'm sure, and the stories, because I've only lived one life. But the fact of the matter is your life experience is for somebody else. So that you can relate to someone, so that you can talk to someone so they can feel comfortable in your presence. My first year of Bible college, my grandfather died. My second year of Bible college, my mother died. My third year of Bible college, my grandmother died. I was afraid to go back. But they were all sick and and and we knew uh grandpa was kind of sudden, but mom had cancer and we knew that uh time was short and grandma had cancer and we knew that time was short. After I graduated from Bible college, we went to West Virginia, and uh uh I was in Beckley for a little while, and then I was in Point Pleasant for a little while, and when I was in Point Pleasant, uh our second son was born, Joshua. He was born in in Point Pleasant, West Virginia. He's a mountain man, I guess is what they call him, right? Huh? Is that what they call him? Mountaineer, sorry. I'm a buck guy, sorry. I'm a worthless nut, and uh so After he was born, my wife got sick with a flu. Couldn't get over it. So she went to the doctor and found out. The doctor listened to her heart and found out that she had a heart disease. And uh the Lord moved us from Point Pleasant, West Virginia to Mayo, Michigan. M Io, Mayo. And it's a little bitty town, you can't get there from here. Seriously, uh there's just there's nothing there but a grocery store and a restaurant and a and a flashing light. And uh well while we were there pastoring the church, my wife collapsed and passed away, 31 years old. Had a five-year-old and a two-year-old. I'm thankful that they're boys. They were boys. If I'd had a little girl, I probably wouldn't have known what to do. But the Lord took her. And that was very difficult. And through the process of time, the Lord brought another lady into my life, and we've been married for 23 years now, and have three more children, and the Lord's been good to us. But I have a life experience that can help somebody else when they're going through a difficult time. You have a life experience that can help people around here. See, the more we understand God, the more we'll be able to get through difficulties. And the more we're going to be able to help people. Again, that's why we need to be students of the book. We ought not fear God. We ought not run away from God. We need to run to God through difficult times Look at Proverbs chapter 1. Proverbs chapter 1 and verse number 7. Has anyone drank out of any of these glasses? Did you try them? No backwash? Proverbs chapter one and verse number seven. The Bible says this: the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. The word fear in this verse is a word that means reverence. Many times in the Bible, the uh the this word is used to tell us that we need to revere or respect the Lord. So first Part of a relationship with God is fear. I want to trust Christ because I don't want to go to hell because I'm afraid God doesn't send anyone to hell, by the way. We send ourselves there by not trusting him But I'm afraid of what God will do. And so, or we get saved and we do what we do because we're afraid of God. You don't read your Bible, God's going to judge you. If you don't do this, God's going to judge you. If you don't do that, God's going to judge you. Now look You were a baby. So baby Christians don't know any better. See, we as Christians who have been around a while might judge a baby Christian, but God doesn't. God wants to see them grow. And so He takes time with them and nurtures them along. The second uh uh phase or stage of a relationship with God in my mind is respect. The more we get to know someone, the more we should respect them. Respect is a part of the relationship that causes us to want to know that person better. If we respect someone, we'll want to hear what they have to say, and we'll want to understand what they're saying The people of Israel feared the Lord when they saw what he was doing in Egypt because of the plagues and all of those things, and now they'll begin to respect The Lord because of what he's doing for them. Moses' relationship with the Lord will deepen at the Red Sea because now the Lord has not just defeated the enemy, he's delivered the people. The people of Israel just didn't see what God can do to people. The people of Israel now see at the Red Sea they can see what God can do for them And they crossed over on dry ground. And they say, man, isn't God good? Man, don't we have a great God? Don't we have a wonderful God? Did you see what He did for us? We crossed over on dry ground, and when the Egyptians tried to come with their wheelless chariots, because God knocked the wheels off of them, that shows how stupid the Egyptians were. Honestly, if your wheels get knocked off of your chariot and you still try to go through the mud in the middle of a of the Red Sea, that shows you got a screw loose somewhere Because you think they would have stopped. I don't have any wheels. I can't go. And bless those horses heart. Pull on wheel as chariots. You ever think about that? Go! On dasher and dancer. Go And they're struggling and the water's coming and the mud, the ground's getting muddy, and then the water comes crashing down on top of them. And the people of Israel are like, man, what a great God. Did you just see what happened? And I want to know him better. Wanna know him a little bit better. If my look, if my God can do that. With the people of Israel, what in the world can he do in Oakland, Maryland? Don't miss the miracles of God. How many people trusted Christ? Did you say forty? Forty five miracles This week. It's a miracle. For somebody to trust in God. A child birthed into the family of God. I don't care how old they are. That's a miracle. Don't miss the miracles of God. Don't miss them. God can do such great and mighty things. God promised to deliver the people from their bondage, and the Lord followed through on his promise. God promised to send Jesus to die on the cross for our sins, and he followed through. on the promise, our respect or reverence from the Lord will grow when we recognize all the promises that He's kept in our lives. Because respect comes with the following through of promises. There's not a promise that God's not given that he's not followed through on. That deserves our respect. That deserves us to want to know him better, to spend more time with him. To find out exactly who he is and what he wants to do with us. Do you understand that the God who created the universe wants to have a relationship with you? I don't get it. I don't get it. I don't know why I would want to have a relationship with me. A perfect God. Wants an imperfect person to have a relationship with him See, if that were you or me, if that were you or me, we'd find somebody else to have a relationship with. That's not who our God is. He wants to have a relationship with you, individually. Corporately as a church, but you individually, tomorrow morning or tonight. He wants to talk to you through his word. And he wants to hear what you have to say through prayer. Talk to him. Talk to him Talk to him. We have fear. We have respect. Now turn your Bibles to Proverbs chapter 18. You're already in Proverbs. Proverbs chapter eighteen and verse twenty-four. I just took a drink out of a different cup. One on each end. Preacher, the one in the middle. So I haven't touched. I can have that one next. Proverbs chapter 18. In verse 24, many of us know this verse. And a man that hath friends must show himself friendly. And there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother. We go from fear to respect to friendship. The Lord wants to be that friend that Sticks closer than a brother. He wants us to have that deepening relationship with him so that we can talk to each other as a friend speaketh to a friend. And the Lord spoke to Moses face to face as a man speaketh unto his friend. You have that friend? You know that person that you talk to and man time just slips away. You spend maybe it's at a fellowship or maybe a church family that you y'all get together and You you have dinner together at say 6 30 or 7 and before you know it it's 10 o'clock. Oh man, I gotta go. You know, it's one of these, honey, let's go to bed so these people can go home But you have you have that relationship. You have you have that relationship with that person and you just you're spending time with them and time slips away and it's like man I gotta go You ever have that time with God? Just you and Him. You're talking together and you're spending time with Him. And all of a sudden you look at the clock and say, Man Lord, I gotta go. I gotta go to work. I'm gonna get in trouble. I'm gonna be late. Lord, I gotta go. That's the kind of relationship God wants to have with us. He wants to be our friend. You know that friend you tell everything to Now guys, you're acting macho like no, we're guys. Guys can go in a fishing boat all day long and not say anything to each other. And get home and say, man, that was fun. But guys, you really do. You have that friend. You remember the guy growing up when you got in trouble, he was right there with you, or vice versa? You told everything to him. Ladies, you had that friend you told everything to. That's who God wants to be. God wants to be that the one that you tell everything to Just talk to him. Now we pray in public. Our dear most gracious Heavenly Father. Thou art, thou art, we sow, and that's okay. But that's not how I pray in pot private. Because I'm talking to my father. I didn't go to dad when I needed ten bucks and sell the most gracious dad He just said, What has happened to my child? Now I'm not saying be disrespectful. Well man, we ought to tell God everything. Well, I had a good day today. Thanks. Well, I'm looking forward to what you have for me today. Thanks for, I hope when you get out of bed in the morning you say thanks for another day. Thank you, Father, for letting me wake up today, because there's someone somewhere that didn't We were just at a church preacher in Colombiana, Ohio, and they had a cookout last night, and we were at the preacher's house and the guy showed up. Pair of shorts on. He's got a prosthetic leg on this side. And he's got brace on his leg on this side and his he's all swollen up by his knee. He's carrying his his uh lawn chairs. And a preacher told me today, said he was wor he was he worked for the worked for a road crew. And was working, had his truck here, and he was working, and a car came and wasn't paying attention and ran off the road and pinned him. between his truck and the car bumper and immediately severed one of the legs and crushed the other one. Told him he never walk again But there he was. I'm not going to live in a wheelchair. He was walking. Praise the Lord. Mamma, just kind of, Father, thank you for my legs. Thank you for the ability to see. Some people can't. You tell the Father everything, that's what he wants. He'd rather you talk to him than look at a phone see what's going on on social media. It's what he wants. Here's Moses. He's talking to God. And he says, Lord, show me thy glory. Show me thy glory. And God and God says, Moses, I I can't, you can't see my face. Now this is God the Father. This isn't an Old Testament appearance of Christ. Because I believe if it was an Old Testament appearance of Christ, he said, okay, here I am. Remember Joshua, the captain of the host of the Lord? Remember Abraham, the three angels, one was Christ, and two others went down to Sodom. Abraham's talking to him. Will you not kill him for 20? Remember that story? Stock in the old test. This is God the Father. And Moses says, Show me thy glory. And God says, Moses, you can't see my face and live. But here's what I'm going to do for you. Moses, I want you to go over here. And I want you to stand there. And what I'm going to do, Moses, I'm going to put my hand over your eyes. I'm going to walk by you. And when I take my hand away, you'll be able to see my back. And Moses says, I'll take it. And from that time forward, when Moses came off the mountain, he had to put a veil over his face. Because his face glowed and it kind of scared the people. And you go up on the mountain and he'd take the veil off and he'd talk to God And he'd come down, he put the veil on and talked to the people. And he'd go up to the mountain, he'd take the veil off and talk to God. And he'd come back down, he'd talk to God as a man speaketh to his friend, and he come back, and he'd have the veil And talk to the people. I want us to understand something tonight. Everybody knows if we talk to God. They can see it. They can't see the glow like Moses had. But they know. Young people look at me. Everybody knows if you have a relationship with God or not Mama Dad, everybody knows if we have a relationship with God or not. Because it shows on our face. I'm here to tell you tonight, after working all week with young people, many of you, you're wore out. Let me just remind you that God wants to have a relationship with you. He's the best friend we've got He's the best friend we've got. Maybe you're here tonight and you say, Brother Ewan, I'm at the fear stage. Let's move from the fear stage to the respect stage. That means we need to get in the book. We need to understand God. We need to find out who He is better. We need to look for the miracles of God and look for the fulfillment of His promises so that we can move from respect to friend. We just spend all day with him. You spend all day with him. You don't have to leave him. I don't want this to sound wrong, preacher, but let's not be Catholic and leave him at the church when we walk out. Let's take him with us. Sake him home with us. Hey young people, what would it be like at your a at your house if if your parents knew that you had a relationship with the Lord? My youngest son is twenty years old. He'll be a f uh a a junior at at the college this coming year. And I love it when I I don't knock. It's uh when I now I have daughters I knock before I go into their rooms. I have a my son I don't knock. It's his room. No, it's my house. He gets to live there. Now I might I might go and then walk in. I don't wait for come in But the greatest thing in the world is that when I do that and I walk in, he's sitting on his on his bed reading his Bible. I don't do it on purpose to catch him, I do it because I want him to cut the grass. But he's reading his Bible. Mom and Dad, is the last time you caught your kid reading his Bible? No, he's called to preach. He's a junior in Bible college. I hope he reads his Bible Well, young person, when's the last time your mom and dad caught you on your knees praying? Mom and dad, when's the last time your kids caught you on your knees praying? Grandma and Grandpa. God wants to be our friend. Let's move a stage tonight. Say, well, I'm already a friend of God. Let's make it deeper. Let's make it deeper. Let's spend more time with Him. Let's move from fear to friend tonight. Father, thank you for your goodness. Thank you, Lord, for the book that you've given us that we can look to. Father, that we can read. Father, that we can know you better. Lord, I pray each and every person in this room tonight will decide that their relationship with you is the most important relationship they have. From the youngest child to the oldest adult in here, may we all become your friend. And Father, that we may have a great relationship with you. And Father, may we be the influence in the lives of other people that we need to be because of it. Father, bless the message, I pray, in Jesus' name. Pastor, you come. Hey preacher, God spoke to my heart tonight. This walk with God, my relationship