All right. Um one second we have set up here. I've uh I really appreciate the opportunity to preach, Pastor, and I I I really uh I think that's uh it's a big it's a huge blessing we'd be able to. Um A lot of uh a lot of assistant pastors get to preach maybe once every six months six months. And I get to be in here once every month or every couple months and that and it I don't know, it it feels good. I think I'm getting better Or weirder, um, depending on who you talk to. I've uh I've talked to a lot of people and um usually their reaction after is like that was a great sermon You're a weird preacher. Or, you know, when they're nice, they're like, oh you're unique. And when they're dishonest, they're like I don't get it. I just don't get it. And um I've been told I've been told uh one of the sweetest ladies I know, um, this was a long time ago, but I felt like I'd done really well in my sermon And uh not not to be prideful, but sometimes you're like, well that that time I actually like everything went good. Um my fly was up, everything was good. And and then She comes up and she's like, you'll get better. So if you try to insult me, you can't, because that was that cut me so deep. I'm so scarred because of that. So uh But um if you turn Matthew twenty-six, uh thirty-three through thirty five, Matthew twenty-six, thirty-three through thirty five, Pastor asked me the title of my sermon, um, like on Wednesday, so you could put it in the bulletin, and I have no idea what the title was I I didn't find out till I didn't really get for sure what I was preaching until about Thursday, I guess it might have been early Friday, but I was pretty sure on Thursday what I was gonna preach, but I really didn't have a title for it. And I kept on uh I kept on uh just uh thinking about that. And I finally came up with a title this afternoon. I've actually had this sermon for uh, I don't know two or three years and I've never put a title to it. And then once I put the title to it, I was looking and I was like, that's good. And I was like I should probably change some things. So I ended up retyping out the entire thing. It's not hard because, you know, half of its verses, and that's just copy and paste. And retyped out the entire thing so it fit my title. So uh you guys better like this title because it took a lot of work Sermon might be no good, but uh the title is uh I spent a lot of work on, but uh this is a sermon that has been on my heart for a long time and uh And it I don't know, it this is a passage of the Bible, and it's actually three passages of the s of the Bible that mean a lot to me and that say a lot, I think, just about the Christian experience. But in Matthew 26, in verse 33, it says, Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended. Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, that this night, before the cockrow, thou shalt deny me thrice. Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples. Another uh passage uh says uh shows Peter saying I uh I'll go into I'll go into death and prison with you. Prison and death. Uh this is in The prediction is in, I believe, only three of the Gospels, but Peter denying Christ, and I could be wrong on that, but Peter denying Christ is in all four of the Gospels. Now let me read Luke 22, 54 through 62. And you don't have to turn there if you don't want to, but I can't, I'll give you a second because I hear pages flipping. Luke 22, 54 through 62. You know hold your place in Matthew, that'd be great. If not, um I'm gonna read it again, so. All right, so Luke 22, 54 through 62. As long as you guys want to know one of the reasons I'm a weird preacher, according to people, is because I don't like using lapel microphones. And I'm gonna be real honest with you right now, it's not because I'm against lapels It's because I don't know what to do with this arm if I'm not holding a microphone. And and I'm completely honest, if if I if I if that's why I don't use the pulpit mic, that's why I only use the handheld mics is because this arm would literally just stay here the whole time, like this. And it'd be and it'd look ridiculous. But I look much less ridiculous when I have a a microphone, I guess. And you guys laugh, but you have no idea how serious I am. I got I got I didn't get marked down a grade, however I did get that was my when I took uh homiletics in college That's the only thing that they've really marked on was, what are you doing with that arm? They're like you have alligator arms, they're just up here the whole time. So since then I've gotten this arm out here a little bit more, but this arm just is stubborn. So Luke 22. By the way, Luke is a great uh book of the Bible. It's actually my favorite of the Gospels. John is amazing. I mean they're all great. I really like Luke just because I'd like his perspective. But his chapters are really long. If you guys read through Luke, you'll be like, dude, man, you're putting 60, 70 verses in these bad boys. And I know that wasn't technically his doing, but still it's is that if you guys want to talk about Luke, Luke makes long books of the Bible or long chapters of the Bible. So then they took him, or then took they him. And led him, and brought brought him into the priesthouse, and they're speaking of Jesus, and Peter followed afar off. And when they had kindled the fire in the midst of the hall, and were set down together, Peter sat down among them But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him And he designed, saying, Woman, I know him not. And after a little while, another saw him and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not. In about the space of one hour, after another, confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth, this fellow is also with him. For he is a Galilean, and Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he spake, the cock crew And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord. I would send him before the cockrow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And Peter went out and wept bitterly. That's a powerful passage of Scripture. All the Bible is powerful. But certain parts of the Bible just get into your heart and make you feel uneasy, might be the word I would use. Because if you really are feeling what Peter is feeling right here, denying Christ and then And then God and then Jesus actually looking at you? While he's, and I don't think he's on the cross yet. But he is being led um from one place to another as Jesus was, and he looks over and he sees Peter and Peter goes out and waits bitterly. Now here's here's the uh kicker The time difference between Matthew 26, 33 through 35 and Luke 22, 54 through 62 Is a few hours. Not too long at all. And some say, and a lot of people say this, and I'm not here to disagree with them. Because I could totally be wrong, and if I'm wrong, there's a lot smarter than men than me. Some say that Peter denied Christ out of fear. Fear what will he would be done to him. And I think that's a valid point. I think he was fearful. Because A, I don't think anyone is just like, oh yeah, all these people that hate that guy inside right there I'm gonna act like I'm with him. I I just I see how that could be fearful. I can see how he could be afraid for his life, considering they were going to go and kill Jesus. But I don't think that's why he denied Christ. Because if he was that afraid, he probably shouldn't have gone into the um this is the temple, I'm sorry, uh in the high priest's house He probably shouldn't have gone in the courtyard anyways, you know what I'm saying? Like if you if it was really fear that kept him from saying who he was, he probably wouldn't have gone out at all. But maybe I don't know. But here's what I think. And like I said, I could be wrong. I don't think it was because he was fearful that he denied Christ. I think it was because he was bitter at Christ. Now why do I say bitter or bitterness instead of fearfulness, instead of fear? Because when Jesus was to be taken, and when all the officers And all the Pharisees holding weapons about to take Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. And the disciples only had two swords. You guys remember this? It actually says in the Bible. They're like, Jesus is like, you guys are gonna need swords. And they're like, alright, we got two swords. He's like, that's enough. And there's all these guys with weapons and torches. And they're coming to take Christ Now if I got two swords, and there's even if there's twelve of me, or thirteen of me with uh Jesus, but Jesus was gone, so I guess back down to twelve. If there's twelve of us, and there's say fifteen, sixteen guards and other people, and they all have weapons, and we only have two weapons Let me tell you something. You're in trouble. If there's a time to be fearful, it's when you're about to get hit with weapons. And now I'll tell you this, you're like, do you know this is a fact? Yes I do. You want to know why? Because yesterday I spent seven hours getting beaten with foam swords. I I I this is not gonna be a very long sermon because I can barely walk. I asked my wife, it was I am in so much pain right now and the funny thing is so is all of our teens except for Elaine. But all of our teen because Elaine used a spear and you'd be sitting there and she's like six yards away and she's like BAM And you're dead and you're like, how'd that even happen? But the rest of us are in a lot of pain. We can barely walk. And it's and if I it's not because the swords hurt if you think I'm a bad use pastor, which I probably am, because I'm letting them hit people, but that's not why it hurts. It hurts just because I apparently when you you like are swinging swords at people and spears and other knives and such, you're using muscles, your war muscles that we've never had to use. But I will tell you something. Had I only had two swords and we did this one game, there's catch the flag. Except the problem was, if you were on the other team's side, they could kill you, but you couldn't kill them So your sword was useless. So you just had to run from them. Well we the those of us who tried to attack first, we lost. Just so you know. And the reason is Because if I was in a group, and there were 12 of us, and only two of us had swords, and there was a group of 15, 16, all the way up to maybe 30 guys, and they all had weapons. We would lose. And Peter, although he might be bold and brash Was not stupid enough to know that on a day-to-day basis, two against two weapons versus 16-17, you're gonna lose. Peter wasn't stupid. He knew that. So if it was fear that made Peter deny Christ, then he would have been fearful at this point. But you know what the Bible says? This is why you gotta love Peter. In John 18, 3 through 11, I'll just read it to you. Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, Come sit there with lanterns and torches and weapons. And therefore, or Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth and said to them, Whom seek ye? And they answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. And Jesus saith unto them, I am he. And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them. As soon as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward and fell to the ground. That's kind of cool. Then Jesus said unto them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. And Jesus said, I have told you that I am he If therefore ye seek me, let these go their way, that they that the saying may be fulfilled, which he spake, of them which gave us sorry, of them which thou gavest me, I have lost none Then Simon Peter, having a sword, drew it, and smote the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear, and the servant's name was Malchus. Then Jesus said unto Peter, Put up thy sword into thy sheath The cup which my father has given me shall I not drink it. So if you guys are so let's uh let's look at the situation. It's night. They have torches. Fire bad. Fire scary. You know what's scary than swords? Fire and swords. That's what's scarier than swords. And they have these torches and they have lanterns and they have swords and they're coming and they only want one guy and they want Jesus of Nazareth. And so Jesus says, Who do you want? And they said, Jesus. And he said, great. And he's like, that's me. And they fell backward and he's like, okay, guys. And so which which could mean they like fell backward because they were like fearful. Or could mean they're like, alright guys, we gotta reply this. They weren't supposed to just tell us who he was and who's supposed to give himself up. So like plan alright, come back He's like, who do you guys want? Jesus. He says, that's me. Now take me and let these people go. Jesus really didn't want bloodshed is how I take this. He didn't want any of his disciples to die, because that was foretold None of his disciples were supposed to die before him. Is what I'm assuming that uh verse means that of the of the ones you've given me, none of I have lost none. So he's gonna like he wants his disciples to live because they're gonna start the church. They're gonna start they're gonna be the missionaries, they're gonna be the people building um building on Christianity after he leaves. And Jesus knows this So yeah, he's gonna let them go. But Peter is like, dude, I don't care if there's a bunch of 'em. And he takes out a sword and cuts off one of the guys' ears. Now, I don't know how many the has anyone ever fenced in here? Did any fencing? Okay. But I didn't see anyone raising their hands. So I fenced actually. I fenced in college. And I was I was actually okay at it. I wasn't terrible. Um but I wasn't any good either. But I wasn't terrible. Cutting off someone's ear is really hard. Like I now this guy might have had big flappy ears. Therefore making it I wasn't looking at I was just I was just I was just getting pastor involved. I wasn't saying anything about pastor, right? But He might have big ears, so maybe it would have been a little easier. But I know from experience not only in fencing but from getting beaten yesterday, cutting someone's ear off is very difficult, which means one of two things. A Peter was a terrible shot because he was going for either the neck or the head and just missed and kicked the ear. Or it was a warning and Peter was actually pretty fantastic. And I think that the I think it's the latter I think it was actually fantastic and it was a warning because it's hard to miss a neck or a head and hit only an ear. I don't know. Maybe I'm wrong. That's what I think So Peter is not, it may be afraid, but that does not stop him from acting. It doesn't stop him from showing them I'm going to defend Christ with my life. You know what he said when he said, I'm going to die for you, God? He was actually or Jesus, I'm actually he was going to do it. Don't ever say Peter wasn't ready to die for the gospel, wasn't ready to die for his Christ, because he was And if you guys don't believe it, it was at that moment right there, when he was about to lose. And then you know the other disciples were like, who gave Peter a sword? Did you give Peter a sword? Like, I'm sorry, I just he asked for it. He thought I was gonna cut some fish or something and they didn't See and they're mad at him. 'Cause none of the the other ones are just I don't know who else had the sword, it was probably John, because you know they were the two leaders, you know, John and Peter. And John was just like Jesus told us stay back, I'm gonna stay back, man. I'm not saying J that John was afraid, because John was a great man of God, but Jesus said to stay back, I'm staying back. Peter's like, no, I'm just gonna kill him. And the great thing about Peter is he wasn't afraid and he was ready to give up his life for God. And then a few hours later, he denied even knowing Christ. He denied ever walking with him. Why? Because he got bitter. And here's the reasons I think he got bitter. He let his efforts feel unappreciated. Peter risked his life. All the other disciples, Jesus wanted them to stay back, he wanted them to flee. But Peter said, no, I'm going to defend, I'm going to honor my word. And I'm going to do I'm going to use my life to defend Christ. And then he risks his life. And then he actually sheds blood for Christ's name. I don't know how often uh Peter would ever shed blood. If he's if he cut off someone's ear in one strike. I'm thinking he had before. I don't know much about Peter as far as his life before Christ, but I'm thinking he'd done it before. But I know he hadn't done it for like three years, three and a half years at least And he decided he was going to shed blood for Christ. He was going to risk his life for the cause of Christ. And instead of a thank you, he gets reprimanded. Instead of um Instead of an explanation, or or I mean a full explanation, Jesus did no wrong in this situation. You need to know uh you need to know that that is the truth. He did no wrong. But Jesus also didn't sit down with Peter and be like, all right, I have to do this for this reason, this reason, for this reason. And so, you know. Jesus said, stop it. You're doing wrong. Put your sword away. And instead of saying thank you, instead of an explanation, he got nothing. He got told to put his sword away, and then Jesus picked up the guy's ear and put it back on. So it was like he didn't ever do anything And Peter felt unappreciated. He just put his life on the line and got told that he was doing something wrong. As I said, Jesus did nothing wrong, but you also, but I also can understand Peter's Peter's disheartening. God, you said, God, I told you I was going to defend my life for you. Or I'd give my life for you And I and I tried to give the biggest sacrifice I could give. Even you said that the biggest sacrifice someone could could give was for a man to lay down his life for his friends, and that's what I was going to do for you. And instead of saying thank you for defending me. He said, put thy sword and thy sheath. Sheath. And the thing is We may have never been in that exact situation. Because none of us are probably, unless you're like really good makeup and you're really old, I don't think any of us are any of the disciples who are there. So none of us have been in that exact situation, but I think we've all felt unappreciated. I think we've all done our very best. And then felt like it was completely unappreciated, and no one noticed, and no one cared. In fact, in fact, we might have done our best and then gotten in trouble for it. Let me give you an example. You could have been spurned while uh while teaching a Sunday school class. And and then and then you ask, wh why is this happening to me? I'm I'm the one who decided to take the take the uh initiative. I'm the one who decided, you know what, I'm gonna do something for God, I'm gonna take a Sunday school class, and then The kids are just terrible to you. I'm not saying they will be. I'm just saying and then and then you get to the point where like the kids are awful to you. And you're like, God, I'm trying to do something good here. Could you at least let them make them listen I'm trying to do something good here. Why are they treating me badly? I I get here early, every Sunday. Why to teach these little snaps? I refrain from kicking them every single Sunday, even though I want to And I and I study for my Sunday school lesson and and no one cares. No one thinks me. Now this church is actually very good about making people feel appreciated. I will say that. But no matter how good someone is about feel making you feel appreciated, you can always feel unappreciated. I'm just gonna let you know that. Just like I was someone at the beginning of a relationship. Um I'd I would die for my wife right now. No bones about it. And I think I'd die for the gospel as well. Um I'd die for both, but I would die for my wife right now And I'm sure every husband is felt that way one point or another, but I also know that our divorce rate is like 56%. So how do you go from die for them to hatred? I just want to know. Krista doesn't know either. She's like, I don't know. But um But it's this unappreciation. And the dwelling on the unappreciation. You may have wanted to go into the ministry. Listen, there are people who who want to go to the ministry. They in fact they sacrificed a lot to go into ministry. They they gave up their job and then they moved their family and then they wanted to go into the ministry and they were going to do something great for God, and then all your plans and your finances and everything just falls apart And you might look at God and say, wait a king? I sacrificed for you. Shouldn't I get something in return? I I gave up things for you. Just give me something. Just give me something, God. Give me a danger, give me some appreciation, God. I I tried Maybe you uh maybe you sacrificed yourself for this church, or church week in and week out. And go by. And I like I said, it's hard to believe that happens in this church because we're usually pretty good about thank yous, but it can happen. I'm not gonna say it can't. Because I'm human, past is human, and I I think you're all human. There's some weird ones here, but I think most of you are human Then and we can make mistakes and people can go by and not get appreciated. And you sacrifice yourself week in and week out and week in and week out. And you get tired, and no one realizes why you're tired. No one looks at you and says, uh, and and is like, well, why why Okay, so I have a problem. Apparently I look more tired usually than I actually am. I don't know why. Because I'm usually not that tired. I just yawn a lot And so I don't know what about hymns, man, but I'm singing hymns. My mouth gets like, right here? And then it's like, oh I should yawn right now. Your mouth's already open And my brain's like that's a good idea. And I'm like, ah I'm yawning. I shouldn't be yawning. I'm not trying to yawn. I'm not even tired. I've been up for it's and it happens at night too, so it's like I've been up for like ten hours, I'm not tired. But the fact is, you do get tired. And and no and and you don't get any recognition. And you know you deserve recognition. In your heart, you I deserve recognition And you're just like Peter. And you drop you drew your sword for God and were told to put it away. That your efforts, although noble, were not only not needed, but sometimes a hindrance to God. And you feel unappreciated. And you get bigger at God working for God Maybe his afterwards fell unappreciated. Maybe he got bitter because he knew the power of Jesus. That wasn't being used at that moment. Matthew 26, 51 through 53, and behold, and we've already read this in another gospel, but and behold, one of them which Whereas Jesus stretched out his hand and drew his sword, this is Peter, and struck the servant of the high uh the servant of the high priest, and smote off his ear. Then said Jesus unto him, put up again thy sword in thy place. For all they that take the sword shall perish by the sword. Thinkest thou that I came now that I cannot now pray to my father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? So twelve legions, legion, let's say a legion is worth about two thousand. P says, listen, Peter, put away your sword. Don't you know that If I prayed my father, I can get 24,000 angels to come down and defend me. 24,000 is a lot. And considering they're angels, that's pretty boss. Let's be honest. That's awesome. And Peter, I think, believed that Jesus could give those 24,000 angels. I think Peter believed it with his whole heart. But you know why Peter got bitter maybe? It might have been. Could have been his uh he felt unappreciated, but it might also have been because he didn't see the twenty uh twenty-four thousand angels. This man that he was following, this man that he said was a son of God, this man that he They they was gonna set up a kingdom on earth. Because that's what you know the disciples believe. They're like, this man was gonna throw all all three years away, all three years that he'd spent with Peter and the disciples, Peter felt that Jesus was about to throw it all away. And go and die. But but Jesus, can't you send down angels and just fix this You see, I think Peter believed it because man, Peter had seen some stuff. Peter had seen Jesus heal the lepers and the blind. He saw Jesus have control over disease. And if Jesus had control over disease, that means that he could give diseases. I don't think Jesus ever did, but he could give diseases. And so Jesus knew that if he wanted, or Peter knew, he could strike him with blindness. I think Peter was pretty sure about that. He was also pretty sure that uh you could see him cast out demons. He saw him calm the storm with his words. He saw him multiply food. And Peter was like, dude, you could multiply our two swords. And he saw him walk on water. And the first day he met him, he saw him control fish. By the way, fish are dumb. You can train dogs, you can't train fish. But Jesus could. And he'd seen all this, and Jesus just said, listen, I can get 24,000 angels anytime I want. And Peter said, Yeah? Are you going to? And Jesus said, No. And Jesus just kept walking. And Peter knew that Jesus had this power. And he just wasn't using it. You see, it could have been because he felt unappreciated, but I think part of it was because Jesus wasn't doing all that he could. Peter felt that Jesus wasn't doing all that he could for Peter, or for even Jesus Why doesn't God use his power to always help us out, especially when we ask with pure intentions and complete faith? This is what Peter was wondering. Peter wanted him to call down the uh 24,000 angels, the 12 legions of angels. I think partially because And Peter didn't want to die. But also because Peter didn't want Jesus to die. His intentions were pure. And I think he believed he would. And we get to that same spot. Where we believe Jesus that God will do something for us. We believe, listen, God, I'm asking in full faith, and I'm asking, I'm asking for this thing. And it's not a bad thing, God. It's a good thing. It's something so I can help you, God. Not because I can use it for evil. It's not a it's not a it's not uh I'm chasing after my own lusts. I'm asking this for you, for your ministry. And pastor might say, man, God, I want to grow this church to uh I don't know 300 by next year. There's nothing wrong. And he might ask in full faith. And maybe a pastor asks that in full faith. And that's none of that request. That's a great request. Why didn't God just do it? God has the power. Pastor I believe he has the power. You all believe he has the power. Peter was in the situation. Jesus had the power, but he decided not to use it. And Peter got bitter because he wanted to know why Jesus didn't act for act on his pure request. Sometimes you wonder why God doesn't kill your disease when you begged Him to God, it's not like this disease is any doing any either of us any good right now. Why don't you take it away? We know you have power over the sick. And you can ask in full faith, and nothing happened. Why does God allow cancer if we ask for it to be gone? Why does God let us struggle financially when He is so rich, He owns the entire earth Which means he owns everything. And yet we don't and yet there's times where we just we we're just getting by. And you're like God, I'm asking you to help me. I'm asking you to fix this. And I'm not I'm not asking it for my own sake, God. I'm asking it Because I I believe in you and I and I want to do your work and I wanna and I wanna keep going and it would just be easier if you did this and this and if you just help me here and But it doesn't happen. God has power over every single molecule in this universe. And so let me ask you, why doesn't He just help us? And I think that was Peter's seat of bitterness. And I think Peter hated Christ for a few moments. Just like um I was talking about my wife and I was talking about divorce and just like that divorce of uh how someone who actually they wouldn't have gotten married would probably have remained very good friends Most people, if they don't if they get married, if they just stay unmarried, um would still probably remain good friends. But you see those people who get divorced, they go from love to hate. Rarely, and I know it happens, but let's be honest, rarely does someone go from divorce to getting divorced to being like, Yeah, they're cool. We we still go out and hang out sometimes go to like the ballgame together. I don't see that happening. Because Peter had all this emotion, all this love, all this respect, all this dependence on Jesus. And then that bitterness turned straight hate. And he didn't. He wasn't part of Jesus' crew after that. He didn't want to be associated with them. I think he still cared for Jesus. But he was so mad. Because Jesus didn't appreciate what he'd done. And Jesus wasn't even using his power to save himself. And that's all Peter wanted. And Peter cared about him, but he was so angry with God Jesus. He was so angry with Jesus. And so he followed him. And he denied being with him because he didn't want to be with someone like that. Peter's actions, they were bold, and then they were reprimanded. And Jesus didn't even help with this arrest. Just as as Jesus had been by Judas, I think Peter might have felt betrayed by Jesus. But here is where we need This is the part of the sermon where I want you guys to listen to. Peter was wrong. Peter may have had reasons to be bitter, but Peter was wrong. Peter may have felt unappreciated, but that's no reason to deny Christ. Peter may have felt like Jesus wasn't doing everything he could have to help Peter and Jesus himself out, but that was no reason to stop following Jesus. But do you know why Peter did it? You know why Peter became um bitter? I just give you the two reasons I think Peter became bitter. But here's the reason why that even crept into his heart at all. First of all, he was wrong because he was prideful. Listen, Jesus had told them quite a few times, I have to die Now they never wanted to hear this, so I don't know if they forgot or if one of them was playing Sudoku. But I know he told them that he had to die. But Peter said, I'm not going to let you die. And although his intentions were pure, he he he cared for Jesus. Jesus was right. Jesus was right to die. But Peter said, no, I'm going to die for you, Christ. I will I will go to death with you. And Jesus said, and I don't know if Jesus Alice didn't say this, but that's not my plan for you. That is not my plan for you. But Peter took it into his own hands and said, whether it's your plan or not, God, I'm going to go for it. And then that pride turned into that seed of bitterness when it turned the wrong way. Another thing is that Peter was impatient. You see, the reason we get bitter, and I believe this wholeheartedly, but one of the reasons we get bitter is because we're impatient. We don't know what God's doing, and we don't wait a long or wait around long enough to find out Um we had um someone in our nursing home ministry get saved this week. It was awesome. She's like she was like old, right? She's little. No, she she's a very nice lady. She's Catholic. Um and uh and I thought she probably won't remember it next week, but God will, so that's all that matters. But man, we we went through we went through the week before with her too, but she hadn't she decided not to accept Christ. But this time she did. And she it took us a while to get through it because she just she had questions about what everything meant, and she had those questions like two or three times. Because she forgot that she was awesome. But she wanted to get saved. She wanted to find Christ and be with Christ. And that was great. Here's the thing. I know that part of her life. Right there. I mean, I I know I guess when she started attending our services um probably a month ago. every week um at the uh nursing home, but that's all I know of her life. I don't know why she remained Catholic all these years. I don't know if she has friends that uh that have prayed for her to get saved. I don't know if friends have died before she got saved, and they were hoping she would. And I don't know if they had thoughts like, well, God, why isn't she getting saved? I've been praying, I've been trying to witness. I don't know if that's how it is. But this is what I do know. She got saved last week. And she was seventy I think sh she was seventy six or eighty two or something. One of those high numbers, man. Like I mean low numbers, low numbers. One of those low really low numbers and No, she but you know she but she was uh no she was actually I I I think she's in her eighties, but she's uh she's that's eighty years of living this life without Christ. And why someone may have asked why God Why won't you make her get saved? Or why won't you let me witness to her? Or why something else? All I know is that she's saved today. Luckily in that instance I got to see the end of it instead of the beginning of it. Because I'm not sure I'm patient enough. I am not sure I'm patient enough To watch that all the way through and not get bitter. I hope I am, but man, say there's someone who's been praying for her since she was twenty. Whew. They had to wait a long time. I don't know if y'all can do math, but that's like it's a while. It's like three of me, okay. But um they had to wait that long. And maybe they died before they saw it? And I got to see it. We cannot be impatient with God. I've told this story before, but I'm going to tell it again because I don't like it. Um my uncle, my great uncle. Um He is uh he's a good man, I like him a lot. But he was a he was not an atheist, he just hated God. There's a difference. And he thought he didn't care if there was a God or not. He hated God. He was raised Catholic. And he uh he had some problems with his father. His father was Catholic. He thought that w that's what religion is. I don't want any part of it So for forty years he hates God. He has a daughter. Now um now I knew I I knew Uh she was my second cousin, and I met her several times. Uh we weren't real close. My dad was much closer to her um than I was, but she passed away five, six years ago. Now at that moment Because remember, we live on a moment-moan basis. And the decision you make in that moment cannot be undone You might be able to fix what happened, the consequences. You can fix consequences sometimes, but the decision the decision itself you can never go back and redo a moment. So in that moment when she died I can imagine and m my dad's not this uh isn't that isn't this carnal, but I can imagine s my dad, who's a saved man, being like Man, and kinda like broken because this man already hates God and then he took away his daughter at a young age. And if you look at that moment, and if we and they and and if we like Peter just zoom on on one specific moment, moments like that, it's easy to get bitter end. Moments when there's a death in the family, when there's a sickness in the family, when something's wrong, it's easy to get bitter in because right now we're zoomed in and we're so focused on what's going on now, we're not patient enough to be like, alright, what's the big picture Let me tell you the big picture. Yes, my dad, who was uh he was just the uh um the youth leader at the time. He was in charge of the youth group. And uh he asked my dad to come to the funeral, and my dad's not a pastor at all. And uh I don't say that bad because he's just not a pastor. And my dad knows that and I know that, but because we go to church, my Uncle Tom thought he was a pastor Because everyone that goes to church is obviously a pastor. But this is how little he knew about God, right? So he says, Hey, can you come to the funeral? My dad's like, no, but I know someone who can. So he gets my pastor uh at the time. And um He's like, alright, fine, you you can use your pastor, but here's where I don't want I don't want any mention of God at the funeral. Now let me tell you something. Pastor, is it hard not to mention God at a funeral? Yes, that's like like if for pastors, that's kind of a deal breaker. Like that's like Really hard to do. I don't I don't know if you guys know this, but like really hard to do. My pastor, uh very good man, decides, alright, and he he takes it on, takes the challenge on. Doesn't I I I honestly don't remember the funeral that well. Very vague about everything to not to offend my uncle. My uncle after the service comes up to him, gives him a big hug. And he's like, Yeah, that's great, you know. From that point on, my my uncle loved my pastor. He didn't care about God, but he loved my pastor. And so every time he would be down in our area, which was about once a week, and on Wednesdays, who would have thought? He would come to our church just to see my pastor and us. I think he went came to see me somewhat. But mostly my pastor. I don't think he cared about us. But um But he came to see my pastor. And then he'd bring and then he'd bring uh my Aunt Eileen with him. And uh it's great, right? Just cool, they're coming to church uh on Wednesdays. He ends up getting saved. And then she ends up getting saved. And now they're in a church. And they're super faithful. And um and I my my question is if if if we wouldn't have been patient Man, that's a seat of bitterness. That's I guess not a question, but if we're so focused on what happened back here, we can start a seat of bitterness. Think about God, God doesn't use microscopes. God sees everything. God looks at it not from a moment-to-moment basis, but from the basis. He looks at everything. Our lives, second by second, are just numbers on a dotted line. And we're so focused on what's going on in our little dotted line area. Ten dotted lines this way, ten dotted lines that way, and that's all we care about. But God sees everything. Peter got bitter because he focused on the moment, because he was impatient. Because he was prideful. Because he thought his ideas were better than God's. And lastly, and I need to wrap up, Peter got bitter because he was ignorant This goes a little bit with the last one, but he was ignorant. Listen, by the way, ignorance I don't believe is a sin, just regular ignorance, because there's you can be ignorant about everyone is ignorant about something, alright? I'm ignorant about cars. Super ignorant. I'll be completely honest. And I'm ignorant about everything. Family. But um I hate actually I hate basketball. I'm just gonna say right now, I hate basketball. I think it's a stupid sport. I don't understand it. Um no, I know. And actually that's not true. I don't like basketball because I'm short and fat. That's why I don't like basketball. All right. But uh here's the thing. And I and I'm uncoordinated with my hands. But other than that, it's a great sport. Um and I'm very good at it, other than those two things. But um He doesn't know about i I'm ignorant about some of the rules about basketball because some of them are stupid, but I'm ignorant about them. 'Cause like football is like well you knock them down. Basketball's like you knock them down and everyone's like, ooh, hell. What what Life lessons. Anyways, I'm ignorant about a lot of things. And ignorance about things isn't a sin. You know what I'm really ignorant about? In fact I'm s I I'm so ignorant about I I can't even begin to tell you what's gonna happen. The future. Man, I can't tell the future with a darn. I try, I just fail I'm like, you know, sitting there, I'm like you know, Saturday nights, lottery numbers, I'm just gonna like fourteen seven I I can't tell the future, guys. I'm ignorant. I just don't know it. I just don't know it. I'm ignorant of God's will for the future. I just don't know it Peter was too, and there's nothing wrong with being ignorant. But there is something wrong with that ignorance turning to bitterness. You see, if Peter would have seen would have known what God's will was, like his whole will, that the reason he had to die was for our sins and his sins and to save the whole world, I don't think it wouldn't have been better But Jesus didn't feel fit to tell it or didn't need to tell him that. In fact, Jesus, there's no reason for Jesus to tell him that, because that just wasn't the plan. And because he didn't know that, he got bitter. You were going to be ignorant about the future, and things are going to happen. I can tell you one thing about the future though. And I'm I'm gonna give you guys a hint. Because I'm um like I said, I can't tell the future very well, but uh but I got this part. Alright? I'm turning to I'm gonna turn to a bioverse and it's gonna tell you guys some of the future. Well there's a by the way, there's a whole book in the back of the Bible on the future, but that's beside the point. We're going to go to the book of Romans, and we read this this morning, but we're going to read it again. And we're going to go to verse 28. Romans 8. 28. And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to their to his purpose. Now, I don't know whether Peter, like this verse obviously wasn't around when Peter was in the Garden of Gethsemane. But he did spend time with Jesus. And he should just know, listen, everything is going to work out for good. to them that love loves God. Everything's gonna work out together for good. So listen, if you're focused on, if you're ignorant of the future, that's okay. But what I do know about the future is it's all gonna work out for good. For those of us who love God, all gonna work out for good. That's what I know. So in with that mindset, It doesn't matter how ignorant I am of the future. All that matters is it's all gonna work out. So you're gonna get bitter because you're prideful, because you think that your will is better than God. You're gonna get bitter because you're impatient, because you want God's will to come quicker, but you're probably gonna get Better because you're ignorant and you don't need to be, because it's all gonna work out in the end. Everything works out for good in the end. Listen, you might feel unappreciated, and I understand that. You might feel underappreciated by God, but just a heads up, he gave his life for you That thanks enough. You might feel um like God isn't doing enough for you, but you don't know the whole scope of the situation. You don't know what's coming down the line. You don't know why things are happening. So instead of being angry and ignorant, you need to just be like, all right, well it's all gonna work out together for good. I know that's hard. That's a hard truth And it sounds like a fun truth, actually, that everything's gonna work out together for good. But it's not that fun when things aren't working out. But it is the truth. All things are going to work together for good to them that loves God. Peter, I I feel a little bad for Peter because this was, you know. When you talk about Peter, you know, he didn't say, What do you know about Peter? Peter, like, oh, he denied Christ. Peter did a lot more than that. But I think they put it in all the gospels for a reason. Because they don't want because and I think Peter would be okay with him putting in the gospels because he doesn't want you to do the same thing. If if Peter has one regret in his life, I'm assuming this is probably it. Be bold. Don't get bitter. Peter fell from his boldness to his bitterness very quickly. But remain bold, but don't be ignorant, don't be prideful. Sorry, don't be impatient, don't be prideful. And know what's coming. Because what's coming is good. Amen. Let's bow our heads. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. I don't know what's going on in each individual life, but I know this. God is working. God is leading. He's involved in our lives. And a lot of times we don't understand what he's doing. We don't understand why he lets something happen that he lets happen. We don't understand why he does things the way he does. But we can't get to fall into Peter's trap. We gotta have faith in him and trust him and wait on him and let God have his way. How many would say, preacher, tonight, there's some areas in my life I really don't understand and they're kind of hard to swallow what God is allowing in I'm making decisions. I'm just going to trust him and wait on him and let him have his way. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around. That's part of God working in our life And he does that. And we are ignorant in many ways. Let's bring those things to the Lord. Let's ask God to give us that grace to trust him and wait on. Let's stand together.