Samuel Chapter One Very Familiar Story I kind of like preaching familiar stories because I like to see what else I can dig out of them. And so I like to look at things a little differently. We're familiar with it. This, of course, is the story of Hannah, who is childless. She is, of course, now in sorrow for that. Uh she goes up with her husband and of course her uh the other wife of of Al Kinah. And uh she goes to uh there and uh and uh and of course she's concerned In verse number 9, let's start there. It says, So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest sat upon the seat of the post of the temple of the Lord. And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto the Lord, and wept sore. And she vowed a vow and said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look upon the affliction of thine handmaid and remember me. And forget not thine handmaid, but will give unto thine handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head And it came to pass as she continued praying before the Lord that Eli marked her mouth. Now Hannah, wh she spake in her heart, only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard. Therefore Eli thought that she had been drunken. And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? Put away thy wine from thee. And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit. I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the Lord Count not thine handmaid for a daughter of Belial, for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief I have spoken hitherto. And Eli answered and said, Go in peace. And the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him. And she said, Let thine handmaid find grace in thy sight. So the woman went her way and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad. Let's pray, shall we? Our Father, I'm so thankful again for this time together. Lord, what a blessing it's been already today Lord, this week has been an encouragement to me. I'm thankful for this church. Thankful for the stand that it takes in this community Thankful for the leadership that the pastor provides and Lord his burden for the souls of people around the world having this missions conference. And Lord, I just ask God as we kind of start the close of it. Lord, let us just begin, Lord, with our new faith, new outlook, new hope, new desire, new direction. And to see greater things accomplished in the days ahead. Lord, we thank you already. Now meet with us this morning. We pray and we'll thank you already for what you'll do. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. Here we of course we find uh the very familiar story, Hannah and uh uh her uh uh other lady, and I I'm I'm not good at names, but uh I think it's uh uh you you might help me with this one. Uh Penaya, does that sound good? Close good enough? I I uh biblical names, I usually skip over them I don't like to be embarrassed. But anyway, there are there they've come up and they're celebrating And now uh Hannah Ahana of course is looking. She sees of course that uh uh Benaya uh has the uh children and she has none. She's sorrowful for that. Now let me just give you a word of advice, men. I think Al Kina here said something that is really stupid And uh it doesn't help. Look at verse number eight. It says, And then Elkinah her husband uh to her, said Elkinah her husband to her, Hannah, uh, why weepest thou? Why eatest not thou? And why is thy heart grieved? Now here's what he said. Am I not better to thee than ten sons? Am I not better than anything else? I mean, look at me I told my wife that and she said, huh? So don't uh don't think uh that, all right. Uh But anyway, I want to see some things out of this passage this morning very quickly, and I hope that you'll understand. Notice first of all the uh Hannah's provocation What provoked her? What provoked her to get a hold of God? First of all, in verse 7 and 8, we find that she is barren. She has no children. She's Weeping, she's sorrowful. Back in biblical days they had enough knowledge to realize that the Messiah was going to be born and it would come through the line And so to a woman, the most important thing for her to have is a man-child. And uh because they were hoping that that would be the Messiah, that God would honor that And so for a woman not to have children, especially a man child, it would be looked upon as a curse That she had been cursed of God. And so she was sorrowful of heart. She needed God to do something Let me say something to you this way. I want you to look at something. Take your Bibles to Genesis chapter 30 real fast. Genesis chapter 30. And look at verse number one. Genesis chapter 30, verse number one. It says, And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children Rachel envied her sister and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die. The burden was she wanted so badly children, or that she would be willing to literally die herself. that every soul that we have a part of winning to Christ literally becomes a child, a son, or a daughter spiritually that we have So we have children, spiritual children. Paul and Timothy. Timothy was his spiritual child. And so when we get to that point, we need to have a desire to have spiritual children. That is the burden. That's why we have this missions conference That's why you run bus routes, that's why you go soul winning, that's why you preach the gospel to every creature when people come, is so that there can be people who are saved, come to know the Lord as their Savior, birth into the family of God and through that become spiritual children. And in this idea, Hannah is so c and she's looking at physical children, but in a relation to that, we ought to be so provoked So uh uh burdened that we desire as a church, as Christians, to have spiritual children That's why we have the missions conference. That's why we take up faith promise. That's why we we put it invest those dollars. into sending missionaries to different places so that they can win people to Christ that we'll never meet, so that one day when we get to heaven, there will be several hundred thousands. Wouldn't that be exciting? Spiritual children. We ought to desire that. It ought to be the burden of our heart. It ought to be that which drives us. Notice what it says in verse number 10 of chapter 1 of Samuel. It says she was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord and wept sore. When's the last time you really wept over a soul getting saved? When was the last time as you thought about that faith promise card and you looked at it and you begin to think about what impact, what influence I can have into the the missions program and evangelism around the world and it became such a burden you begin to say oh God give us children oh God give us souls for what we invest That's what we're supposed to do. We ought to be burdened over that. That ought to be the reason we come to church. Listen, I like the fellowship here. I like the song service. I like the choir this morning. Wasn't that good? I like the special. I like every part of it. I like just getting together and eating. I mean I'm a Baptist. Someone once said where two or more Baptists are gathered, a chicken must die. And so And so I like to eat. But the reason I come to church is not just for the fellowship It's not just for the food. It's not just for the fellow the music. It's coming so that I can be charged. I can be challenged. I can be provoked into wanting to see people get saved. And that ought to be why we're here this morning. What caused her to go to the Lord in the grief and bitterness was that she desired children. Oh, that we would have that burden for children as well. Then I want you to see not only her what provoked her, but look at the prayer that she gave in verse number 10. And so she was in bitterness of soul and prayed unto the Lord and wept sore. And she vowed a vow and said, O Lord of hosts. If thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thine handmaid, but will give unto thine handmaid a man-child, then I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life. And there shall no razor come upon his head. Oh, the prayer that she gave. Notice the provocation. What provoked her, having no children, prompted her to go to prayer. Amen. That's what she did. She said, I can't handle this. The Lord has shut my womb up. I don't understand it physically. I don't know how to do it, but I know the one who can. And so I that that burden pushed her to get a hold of God. That's what our burden ought to be. That's what our burden ought to do to us when we know that we want to see souls saved. I told my church when I pastored, I said, I I I would love to see somebody walk the aisle every Sunday morning and get saved. I'd love to see the baptismal waters stirred every Sunday with somebody being baptized who had been saved. But I said that's not going to happen unless we pray for it. And that's what our burden is as a church. Listen, it's good to love your preacher, and he is a good fellow to love, and I'm thankful for his friendship. But I want you to understand, you don't just come here to honor Him. You come here to get a hold of God and to pray and to be burdened and to seek God to see some souls saved It led it to that area. And that was what we ought to do. Leads us to prayer. Leads us to prayer. I remember years ago, there was a fellow that was coming to the church over in Harveston, and uh it was clear and evident that he was not saved And uh I'd go by, I'd witness to him, and uh he would say, Well, someday, preacher, someday I'm gonna do it. Uh I just like the church, I like the fellowship, like the people. I I'll keep coming, but someday I'll get it settled. Boy, that just broke my heart because I said, Man, I don't know how long it's gonna be. How long is it gonna be before Jesus comes and then it's gonna be too late? And I started really burdened about praying for that man. And it wasn't long. He came in one Sunday and sat in the back, as he usually did. And I'll be honest with you, probably the worst message I ever preached. I know I probably preached some bumper boomers here, but I really preached a bad one. And we know when we preach a bad one. But that invitation was given. He got up, walked down the aisle, came forward, got saved. And I'll tell you what happened. I'll tell you what it did. What accomplished that. It wasn't my preaching. It wasn't the choir singing. It wasn't the fellowship of the church. It was because I was provoked enough and burdened over his soul that I went to the Lord in prayer. Oh, we ought to pray. We ought to pray for those men aboard those ships. We ought to pray for those m those uh Mormons out in Utah. We ought to pray. for those orphanage orphans down in South Africa, that God will get a hold of their hearts and do something and stir them so that they can accomplish some wonderful things. These folks want some children, amen. And we ought to desired. She was provoked and led to prayer. And then notice the promise that she gave in verse number eleven. It says she vowed a vow. And said, O Lord of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me, and forget not thine handmaid, but will give unto thy handmaid a man-child. Now here's the promise. Then I will give him unto the Lord all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head. She was so provoked, so burdened over not having a child. Now think about this. This is what really amazed me. So burdened about not having a child. That she went to prayer and prayed God would give her a child, and then if he would answer that prayer, she was willing to give that child back to the Lord. That's pretty good faith, isn't it? What an accomplishment. She believed that God could do what only God can do And she trusted the Lord. You know, sometimes. I know when we started, I said the other night, uh, Friday night, I believe, when we started in Faith Promise, we looked at what we could do And we hadn't caught the vision of what God would have us to do. We started with $5 a week, but we saw how God just constantly met that need and bur blessed us. And so we increased it and we increased it and we increased it. I want you to understand, it's not what I can give, it's what God wants to give through me to missions. It's out of what I have, yes, but it's trusting God to meet my need beyond that And God can do it when we get a hold of God and we say, God, if you'll increase, if you'll do something for me, I'm going to do something for you. Oh, I'm not excited. How many of us don't raise your hand? How many of us have ever prayed for a raise I know I have. I prayed for needs. But what did we do with the rage that we got? Did we hold it in? Or did we willingly say, Lord, you blessed us? I'm going to share it back with you. The promise I'm going to give back a little bit. Take your Bibles and look at Philippians chapter 4. Philippians chapter four Look at verse number 19. Probably all of us could quote this verse. Well, let's go back up a little bit. Look at verse number 16. It says, for even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity, not because I desired a gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. But I have all and abound, I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odor of a sweet smell. A sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. Now listen to this. They gave out of the burden they had. Verse 19, but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. He's going to supply all of our need, and it's according to his riches. It's not, here's why I want to get to this. It's not out of his riches. It's according to his riches. If I went to your pastor, who's a very wealthy man, and I said, uh, I know that you're worth millions. I know it's a secret, but I know big secret. But I need a hundred thousand dollars. And you look at it and you say, well, you know what? Yeah, just reach right in. I'll take the check. But that would, but he's got multi-millions So it's not hurting him one bit to give me that amount of money because it's out of what he has. But according to the Bible, it's not out of what God has. It's according to his riches. He owns the cattle on a thousand hills He owns everything. He can give whatever is needed, and it is not going to diminish him one bit. He's wealthy beyond measure. He can do whatever, and all things are needed. And that is how God supplies my need. I want you to understand, my wife and I have given the missions for all these years. We've never missed a meal. You can tell that We've never had a problem. We put two kids into Christian school all the way through, into Christian college, all the way through. And I don't know where the money came from Brother James gave me his cold, so But the key is that he is he will meet our need. That's where she went to. She went to the God who owns everything. Nothing's impossible for her God, and nothing's impossible for our God. Some people say, well, I can't give to faith promise. I cannot but give to faith promise, because God just blesses us beyond it. And that's what we ought to do. Notice the provision here that we find. Look it over at verse number twenty. I didn't read it earlier, but look at verse number twenty. It says, Wherefore it came to pass when time was come, about after Hannah had conceived, that she bare a son. And called his name Samuel, having, saying, Because I have asked him of the Lord. I want you to understand. Here's Hannah. Burdened, no children, looked down upon, maybe even ridiculed by her uh mate there, the uh Penial And she is sitting there thinking, Oh, what can I do? She goes by faith to the Lord, the one who can answer She shares her burden. She trusts him to do what only God can do. Now she is conceived And she now has this son. I'll tell you what happened is God looked down and he remembered her faith. And God blessed her. You know, the Bible says that the just live by faith. And I believe with all my heart God blesses faith. The greater the faith, the greater the way God blesses. I'm not talking monetarily. I'm not talking about physical things maybe we can hold in our hands, but just to to give us those things handfuls on purpose along the way. My God can meet all needs. That's what he does. He remembers our faith. He remembered her prayer. Aren't you glad that we have a God that remembers our prayers? He knows everything. Someone once said, Well, I wonder if God's going to answer my prayer. I found out a long time ago. God is seldom early, but he's never late. He's always right on time. Right on time. Whatever I need, whatever my burden is, whatever my Uh necessity is God may not meet it ahead of time, but when the time comes, he's always met that. He remembered that and he provided for her. What she asked he she asked for a male child. Aren't you glad God didn't say, well, I think you need a female. I think you need a daughter. God gave her the what she asked for. That's my God. He meets our need. And then notice. And I like this. In verse 28, it says, Therefore also I have lent him to the Lord as long as he liveth. He shall be lent to the Lord, and he worship the Lord there. We go back to verse number 11. You'll notice that she bowed a vow. She told the Lord, if you'll give me a male child. I'm going to lend him to you. He'll live all of his days in the service of the Lord. He she made a vow. God answered that prayer. I don't know about you, but if I was this woman, In the situation of that burden of wanting to have a child Because of the uh looking being looked down upon and and all the rest, and wanting to have this child, and I prayed to God to get it, and God answered that prayer Boy, I'll tell you the truth, it would be very hard for me to take that child and then to go through and to give him to the Lord and say, okay, I'm turning loose. He's all yours now. Why? Because I want a child. But she had vowed about and she honored that vow. She paid her vow. I think so often the devil tempts us. to keep what God promises to give us. As He blesses us, sometimes we say, you know, Lord, if you would just give me a $10 raise this year, I'm going to give it to Faith Promise. And then God gives us a $10 raise, and all of a sudden we say, boy, I could buy that big yellow pickup truck that I want. And then sometimes we slip back. We ought to be willing. Listen, in a moment you're going to fill out a faith promise card. In a sense, you're honoring God and saying, this is what I feel God wants me to do this year for worldwide missions. You're making a Pledge to God. And not a pledge, but a commitment. Are we going to honor that all year long? We certainly ought to. And we ought to do it. I want you to see something else, and I'll be finished this morning, because I know we have other things to do. I want you to look at chapter two. And I'm trying to find the verse right off the top of my head. But as she brings that Samuel to the Lord and gives him, I want you to realize That God not only met what she asked for, but he exceeded that by giving her five more children. That's a pretty good return, isn't it, on one? Five more children. And I can't find the verse on that terrible. I should have had it written down. I am so sorry for that 21. Ah, thank you. And the Lord visited Hananiah chapter 2, verse 21, so that she conceived and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel grew before the Lord. A five percent return for one. That's God's blessing. God honors us when we honor Him. That's what God wants from us. Oh, Lord, give me children, lest I die. I prayed this week that through this missions conference, that the Lord would call somebody into missions. I prayed this week that through this mission's conference somebody would come to know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. I want to see people get saved. I want to have children when I get to heaven, spiritual children. And then ought to provoke me to get on my knees and say, Oh Lord, give me children lest I die. I want to have children. And the way we can have those children is by sending forth missionaries, keeping those buses running, going out soul-winning, handing out tracks. Letting God use what he can use. So let me ask you this morning: are you provoked enough? Are you burdened enough? About people who are slipping out into eternity every minute, every second of every day, without knowing for sure that they're going to heaven. Are you burdened enough about it to begin to pray Say, oh God, bless the Muscoves as they go over and work on those ships. Give them souls, Lord, for their hire Bless the the Howards as they working with those uh folks down in the uh the Mormons and Lord uh let them build a work that's going to be glorifying and souls being saved, children being raised up Bless the by-release. Lord, I want to see souls saved. You ought to pray for your preacher every day. You ought to pray that God would get somebody to put in his path. You know what I try to do every day, and I don't always accomplish it, but my one of my goals every day is to say, Lord, would you put somebody in my path today that I can witness to Because we ought to have a burden for souls. So how's your burden? Are you provoked enough? What are you going to be doing for missions? That's one way to help. It's going to be evident in how you do your missions this year. Father, I want to thank you for Jesus. I'm glad that we can call on you, cast our care upon you, knowing that God, you hear our prayer and that you're burdened over wanting to see. You want to see souls saved. You want to see people being birthed into the kingdom. And Lord help us to have that burden, to be so provoked as this dear lady was, Lord, as she brought before you this petition. And the burden with a broken heart, and you honored that prayer, and then rewarded her as she Fulfilled her vow. Bless, I pray. Use us as a people, as a church, use this dear church in the days ahead to see some great and mighty things accomplished for the cause of Christ. We thank you and we praise you for all that you do in Jesus' name, Preacher. My desire, I know I'm saved, I know Christ, my desire as a believer is that God