Chapter 46. I want to read the first seven verses of Genesis chapter forty-six. Joseph has sent his brothers back. They've showed told Daddy that Joseph is alive. He's seen the wagons. And uh so now he says uh ye in verse in chapter forty-five at verse twenty-eight, and Israel said, It is enough, Joseph my son is yet alive, I will go and see him before I die. So that's That's the context. Then we pick up in verse 1 of 46. And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night and said, Jacob, Jacob, and he said, Here am I. And he said, I am God, the God of thy father. Fear not to go down into Egypt, for I will there make of thee a great nation. And I will go down with thee unto Egypt, and I will also surely bring thee up again. And Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes. And Jacob rose up from Beersheba, and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father and their little ones and their wives in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry them. And they took their cattle and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob and all his seed with him. his sons, his sons' sons with him, his daughters and his sons' daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt. I've got some titled the message from Canaan to Egypt. And we're not going to look at all seven verses tonight. Actually, I think we're only going to get to about verse number one tonight. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God. And Lord, these Old Testament events that you've preserved for us thousands of years later, we just ask that you would help us to learn from these. They're in samples you told us for our benefit, for our exhortation. So I pray we can learn from this event here in the life of Jay uh Joseph and particularly at this point his daddy Jacob. That you would teach us. Open our hearts and minds. Help us to understand. Help us to see things here that you have for us. And so, Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. Ask that you would fill me with your spirit, dear Lord. You'd be the teacher, you'd be the preacher. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Jacob is afraid. Alright, if you've noticed there in verse number three where God is speaking to him, I'm jumping ahead a little bit. We'll look at this in a future message a little more in detail. But notice what God says to him. He says And he said, verse 3, I am God, the God of thy fathers. And what's the next statement he makes there? Fear not to go down. That tells me that Jacob was afraid He was afraid to go down to Egypt. He was afraid of what all this involved. But his fear in uh he his before he was afraid of losing Benjamin. Now there's an element of fear about making this big move, but what I'm trying to get at is this. His fear of losing Benjamin, that's been erased, because Benjamin's back with him But this fear he's dealing with is now beginning to be governed by his faith in God. Fear is a very real enemy to the life of faith. And by the way, fear doesn't go away. You think, you know, little kids, little Freddy cats, little kids. But the fact of the matter is, our entire life we have to deal with fear. I figured by the time I reach I'm 64, by the time I reach age 64, I wouldn't be afraid of nothing. I think I'm afraid of more stuff now than I was back 40 years ago Fear is a very real factor in life. It's a very real factor in the Christian life. And it can be, if we allow it, it can be an enemy of our faith We can allow fear to control us. We can allow fear to govern our actions, our thinking, and we lose faith in God. You maybe you've heard this, I've heard this said on occasion by preachers and reading and studying, but I've come across this statement, faith and fear cannot coexist. You cannot have faith and fear. They cannot exist. In other words, faith is the absence of fear, and fear is the absence of faith. Anybody ever hear anything along those lines over the years? Sure, I've heard that. I've heard preachers say that. I disagree with that. I do not believe that's the case I think a lot of times we have to exercise faith in God in spite of our fear. A lot of times we have to exercise faith in God in the face of our fear. In other words, I'm very afraid, but I'm making a conscious decision. I'm going to trust God anyway. If you would, keep your place here because I want to look at verse 1. But come to Psalms, the book of Psalms, and chapter number 56. Psalms 56, and if this verse isn't highlighted in some way in your Bible, I'd highly recommend it. Psalm 56 and verse number 3. Psalm 56, 3 And by the way, this is a good verse to commit to memory. We use it for children a lot, but I tell you, I find myself quoting it very often. Just take the whole box back there, Dave. Just hear the whole thing There we go. Psalm 56. 3. Notice this. It says, What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee. Now look at that very carefully. He says, what time I'm afraid. I looked up that little phrase, what time, I'm afraid. It means in the midst of. Or while it's going on. Here we find that David says, he says When I'm afraid, that's when I'm going to trust God in the midst of fear. This isn't the idea. Oh, I need to get rid of my fear, then I'll trust in God. Doesn't work that way I can have tremendous fear, and yet I can still trust God in the midst of that fear, not want to replace it. Paul said in 2 Corinthians chapter 7 verse 20 uh let me let me back up here. Let me make this let me ask you this first. Uh how many people would agree with me Paul was a man of tremendous faith? I mean, phenomenal is faith in God, unshaken. And uh is a testimony example for all of us. In 2 Corinthians 7 and verse number uh 5, he says this: without were fightings, and within were fears This great man of faith. And yet he dealt with fear. He dealt with fear. We cannot, what I'm trying to say is this: we cannot allow our fears to keep us from exercising faith. I can be afraid and yet still trust God. When I was young, and I've referenced this before over the years, But when I was young, um we always swim. My mom was an avid swimmer. She loved to swim. I I don't remember us any living anywhere we would where we did not have a swimming pool of some sort Either uh you know, above ground, in ground, everywhere we every place we lived, we had a swimming pool and and significant size swimming pool. Mom loves swimming And when I was very, very small, I mean very, very small, maybe uh Brooklyn younger, uh young younger than Brooklyn, I was very small. Mom was teaching us to swim. She wanted all the kids to know how to swim And by the way, I think that's a good thing. Every kid ought to know how to swim. Everybody ought to know how to swim. You know how she taught us how to swim? She wasn't quite that brutal. Um what she would do is she'd get in the pool and she would have us uh and I'd be standing on the edge of the pool. Alright, we had a little platform built there and so I'd be standing there on the edge. She'd be down in the water and I'm just this little you know I'm just little. I can still remember there in the backyard. And uh she would say, come on now, jump, I'll get you and jump She was just getting us used to jumping in the water. I was terrified. I knew I was going to die. And she would say, I promise you I will catch you. And in the and in the midst of that fear, absolutely terrified I just trusted her, I had faith in her, and I jumped even when I was afraid. If I would have waited until I wasn't afraid to jump, I'd still be standing on the side of that pool. I was terrified And so it's not like, oh, I'm afraid, I I gotta get rid of this fear before I can trust God. No, in the midst of the fear, what time I am afraid I will trust in God. We had soul-winning training And um I that that's uh uh it's an exciting thing to learn how to share the gospel and witness with folks. And I'm thinking of two fellows in particular And uh over the years that went through the training, this is back when I was doing it, went through the training, and then we would go out and knock on doors And one one time it was Mike Stubler. He was just learning how to win souls. He taught the class later, actually. But uh we were out over here in Mount Lake Park on 135 And um uh we were knocking on doors and I was doing it, he was standing there, I said, All right, it's your turn, give it a shot. He was so scared. And uh he knocked on the door and a lady came and He I mean it was memorized, verbatim. He would say our little spiel, and uh I'm just standing there and I'm praying, Lord, help him, Lord, you know. And uh finally he goes through there and asks the questions. The lady responded, she was very nice. And when he was done, she looked at me and said, Well, how do you do? She knew what was going on. Poor old Mike was scared to death and knocked on that door, but he did it anyway. And what time he was afraid, he trusted God and he knocked the door. And Mike became a tremendous soul winner. He won a lot of people of the Lord. He was especially effective in the nursing homes. And others, I'm thinking another one, where literally his knees were shaking. I was standing behind him watching him, and his knees were just going like that. But he trusted God anyway. I remember we came here 1993 as pastor. I was scared out of my mind Come and be pastored. I was overwhelmed. There's no I don't know how to do this, but I knew God called us. I knew it was God's will. And so we came here and I just I said God I'm gonna trust you. You said that I can be confident that what you that what you've begun you'll perform. And so So the point I'm trying to make is this That uh we in spite of fear, we can still trust God. In the midst of the fear, trust God. So come back to Genesis there, 45, and uh Jacob is afraid He was afraid of losing Benjamin, and God got him through that. Now, there's obvious fear about moving down to Egypt And um and uh so uh um he trusts God and he's going down there. He's still fearful, but he made the decision to go forward. And uh I think that's one of the keys to Christian growth. So don't let our fear keep us from growing. Don't let our fear keep us from being involved and being used of God step out. You say, boy, uh, I think God might be wanting me to work a bus route or teach a class or Or go soul wedding, and uh, but I'm just too afraid. Listen, what time? And let me say this. Whatever we're afraid, that's a good time to trust God So, oh I'm scared. Okay, good. That's a good time to trust God. And by the way, I'd rather have a soul winner or a bus worker or a Sunday school teacher that's a little bit afraid And is trusting God that one that think and then than having one that thinks, oh yeah, I can handle this. This is no problem. I can do this. Which one's going to be trusting God more? The one that's a little anxious, a little anxious about it. So Jacob's afraid, but he trusts God. He sees the wagons. Joseph is alive, and he says, all right, we're going to step out and we're going to go Now I got several points here. I just want to look at two of them here. I broke this down several into four thoughts, but I want to just look at two of them this evening. Number one, I want us to notice the commencement of this journey The commencement of Israel, Jacob's journey back down to Egypt. Look at verse 1. And Israel took his journey with all that he had. This is a big move for Jacob. He's moving to a foreign land. This is a foreign culture. The Egyptians are not like the Hebrews. They talk a different language. They worship a false god. They have a whole different set of values. Their morals are not the same as these Hebrew folks are. I mean, it is a completely foreign environment that Jacob, his boys, and their family is moving into. And so this is a big move for the family. And the challenge for Jacob and the family is to maintain their identity in a foreign land. In other words, the challenge is going to be is to come down to Egypt, bring everything, all their family, everything they have. I mean they are uh move. This is a major move on their part and get into Egypt without becoming Egyptians. You follow what I'm saying? Maintain their faith in Jehovah. Maintain their identity as the people of God in the midst of a culture and a nation that is anti-Jehovah. Sound familiar? I think that's the same challenge for the people of God all through the ages. As for you and I that know the Lord and churches that believe the Bible and stand for the Word of God that claim to be the people of God is to maintain our identity as the people of God in an environment that is very anti-God. And to maintain those standards and maintain our faith and maintain our walk with God. In other words, we are to be the salt of the earth. Do you ever notice this when you put salt on something? Salt is fundamentally different than that which you put it on. And I've said this before, but how many people here like to put salt on your eggs? Yes, pepper, salt and pepper. Um did you know that Job liked to put salt on his eggs? There's a little quote in Job that he put salt on his eggs. And so you're very biblical if you put salt on your eggs Um, how many people like to put salt on their tomato sandwiches? Pepper. Salt and pepper. By the way, you make a tomato sandwich and when you're eating it, if it isn't a sloppy mess You didn't do it right. Right? If it's all clean and neat, then you're that's not real. That's something's messed up. But we're to be salt, and you I never yet have seen egg I've never seen anybody selling egg-flavored salt It would be meaningless, right? Um how many people put salt on your corn a cob? Oh yeah. I never saw anybody have sweet corn-flavored salt Why would you do that? It would be meaningless. In other words, that salt needs to maintain its identity. It needs to maintain its uniqueness as salt, or it's ineffective on what it's placed on. And that's true for you and I in 2024 as Christians. We are to maintain our distinctiveness As the people of God, because the more we become like the world, the less effective we are in influencing the world. Like the Ron Hamilton song, if you want to make a difference, you've got to be a little bit different. And the challenge for Jacob and his family is to get to Egypt and to maintain their distinction as Hebrews. Maintain their distinction as the people of God. And to be honest with you, they do a pretty good job We see them later on when Moses shows up and they're still identified as Hebrews. So this is quite a challenge for them. To move the family down into a very strange land with strange ways and strange values and in many ways very ungodly principles So it's a big move for the family, but this is a big moment for the nation of Israel. This, I believe, is the second stage of Israel becoming a full-blown nation. At this point, Jacob and the twelve boys, and extended and the rest of the household, at this point, all they are is a very large family. Seventy folks in the family. Now some of y'all go to reunion, you got more than that. But it's a large family at this point. Nobody would describe Jacob and his family as a nation at this point. Would you agree with me? They're not a nation, they're just a large family. So this is the first stage in Israel being transformed from or this is the second stage I should say from Israel being transformed from just a man named Abraham And some of his offspring, his large family, descendants of Abraham, uh son and grandson, uh great-grandkids of Abraham To becoming an actual full-blown nation that is still in existence to this day and will be in existence in the millennial reign. The first stage in this transition from an individual to a nation was when Abraham was when Abraham left Ur of the Chaldees back in chapter 12, verse 1 and 4, God called Abraham out of the U of the Chaldees. He says, I want you to go to a land. And he didn't know where he was going. That was the first stage. The second stage is right here, where now they've been in Canaan, the land that God had promised to Abraham. They've been there now for years. And now the entire family of Abraham, his offspring, all of them, none are left behind except for Esau and Ishmael. But the direct line of Israel, uh the nation of Israel, they're all moved down into Egypt. And Jacob Lee is leaving for uh Canaan, uh leaving Canaan for Egypt. So that's the second stage. First stage, Abraham out of Ur Cadiz to Canaan. Second stage, uh Jacob and the gang Down to Egypt for a period of time. When do you think this third stage would be when Israel becomes a nation? Yeah, when Moses, under the leadership of Moses, they come out but out of Egypt. It's a nation at that point. That's not a family, that's a nation. Under the leadership. So this time down in Egypt, what I'm trying to say is this: this time down in Egypt was necessary for the family of Israel to become the nation of Israel. What if they had not, what if, now this is speculation on my part, so bear with me a little bit and humor me a little bit. But what if they'd have stayed in the land of Canaan and none of this selling Joseph to uh uh down to the the merchants selling them in Egypt and Potiphar and prison and Pharaoh and and uh um uh uh the the seven years of plenty and then the famine. What if none of that would have happened? They'd have just stayed up there and uh and multiplied as a family in Canaan Now this is what I think would have happened. Now this is total speculation. This is this isn't what happened, so I'm just speculating. I think probably the family would have multiplied And they would have spread out, and they would have dispersed, and there would be no coherence to the family. They would have just spread out and went their separate ways. Um how many people here, your family? Uh they're all spread out all over the country. Anybody here? We're boys in Missouri, Tennessee, I got a cousin out in Colorado. They're spread out everywhere I think, this is me, I think if Israel had not gone down, if the family of Israel had not gone down to Egypt, they would have stayed there, they'd have multiplied, they'd just dispersed, and it would have been very, very difficult for them to become an actual nation. However, with God in his wisdom having them come down to Egypt, Joseph, and then bringing Israel, Jacob, and the boys and the family bringing them down there Now they're going to be down there for several hundred years. And they're going to multiply, and they're going to multiply, and they're going to multiply, and they're going to multiply However They are not going to disperse because they are forcibly contained as slaves to the Egyptians. You see where I'm going? They can't disperse. And they're in this containment, and they're multiplying and multiplying and multiplying Until finally the right time comes, God sends Moses, and boom, they come out of there, and they're this huge, powerful nation that has to be reckoned with. And so I think the lesson I'm learning from this, I got thinking about J uh Jacob coming down to Egypt and the significance that that event is in the history of Israel. It's huge. And I think it's a necessary stage for them here, here's what I'm trying to say. It is a necessary stage and experience for the nation of Is for the family of Israel to become what God intends for them to be, the nation of Israel. Question their time in Egypt, pleasant or unpleasant. It was terrible. They're persecuted, they're afflicted. They're abused, they're taken advantage of, they're slaves. But yet that was necessary for them to be what God intended that nation to be. So what's what's the lesson to learn from that? I am absolutely convinced that sometimes you have to go you and I as Christians have to go through some very difficult times, some unpleasant experiences, so that we can grow and be the people God intends for us to be. I don't know about you, but I look back over my life as a Christian the last 45 years, and I see the times when I was tested, I see the times when it was the most difficult and most unpleasant Those are the times I grew in my faith the most. Those are the times I look back, I see God changing me and molding me and making me the most. And so this is a a necessary part in the history of Israel, and it's a very uh big moment, significant moment in the history of Israel. If there was no Egypt, the family would not The family would grow and disperse, there'd be no unity, there'd be no structure, and there would be no nation of Israel. However, because of the confinement and the testing and the fires of Egypt When they eventually delivered, they are what God ultimately intended. They are the nation of Israel. The nation of Israel. Before we came here as pastor, I spent three years in Boulder, Colorado uh working out there and we left. I was in before that we were in Indianapolis. I was youth pastor there for four years. And then we left there and our initial intention thinking was that we were going to come to West Virginia from Indianapolis and we're going to start a church. In fact, we're going to start a church, my plan was start a church down in uh Webster Springs, West Virginia, near Burgu. However, I was like a foreigner in there. I was from Philly. I walked in there and we canvassed and we did some work and it just never came together one God's will. So we did a few things. So eventually we ended up out in Boulder, Colorado. That was not really what I wanted to do. And I got out there and and and hear me out before you make judgment on what I'm saying, but I got out there and it was not what I intended, it was not what I expected I printed millions and millions of ribbons, which I really enjoyed, and I worked in the office. And I did some rally, I did a lot of rallies, I did some preaching out, but I knew God called me to pastor And the whole time I was there, I felt like I was contained. I felt like I was tied into something that I really wasn't called to do. But you know, I look back, and those three years were absolutely tremendous in preparing me to be pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist. One thing I learned from Brother Holmeshire, I learned to pray. That guy was a man of phenomenal prayer. And I learned the power of prayer. And I learned to wait on God. I learned to wait on God. And a lot of lessons I learned But what I'm trying to say is this, those times in our lives when it seems like we're confined, to times in our lives where we're disappointed and it's difficult and it's not what we wanted, it's not what we imagined, it's not what we had hoped for. A lot of times, those are the periods of time that God uses to direct us and to mold us and make us and help us grow in our faith. And I see that happening to Israel. The nation as a family becoming a nation and Egypt was a vital part of that, a necessary part of that development. Even though it was so unpleasant. Very, very difficult. See it seemed like it's forever, but nevertheless, God used that to make a nation. And so, number one, I notice the commencement of this journey. Israel took his journey with all that he had. And came to Beersheba. And that's my second thought and the last one for tonight. But I want us to notice the concern of Jacob, the commencement of the journey. They packed up and they're on the road And uh big move, uh little anxious, no doubt, but he's trusting God, and uh a significant, though they don't realize it, a very significant time in the life of the nation of Israel, the development of the nation of Israel. But now we notice the concern of Jacob. Look at the second part of verse 2. It says, and he came, they came to Beersheba. And offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. So they're all packed up, they've got everything on these wagons that Pharaoh had sent up with the boys to bring them back down. all their uh furniture and the refrigerators and and uh everything's all loaded up on the wagons and they're riding down there and they're making a way uh from up in Canaan, they're coming down towards Egypt, and they get to this place called Beersheba, and Jacob says, Hold it, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, stop, stop. We're going to stop here. It's about a week's journey from where they were And he stops in Beersheba. And I'm sure Jacob was excited to see Joseph. Would you agree? I'm sure he was very excited. Anybody here always e excited when you get to see the grandbabies? Yeah, the kids are away. You don't care about the kids. You want to see the grandbabies? But you're excited to see them, see the family. He hadn't seen Joseph in years. And there's no doubt he's excited, but he's anxious about going down there. At this point in time, best I can tell, Jacob is about 130 years old. He's an elderly man. And um Change sometimes for the elderly, sometimes change is difficult and unpleasant. Anybody getting there, the older you are, the less you want things to change. Anyone like that? Don't move my chair. That's where I want my chair to be. Don't move it, right? I don't want to change. You just don't you just don't like change. You don't like change. And he didn't. Dad ate the same every Tuesday he ate a certain meal. Every Tuesday, every Wednesday had a certain meal. I mean he was regimented. And sometimes elderly folks don't like change too much, and here is Jacob at 130 years old, and they're moving everything to a completely foreign land. And he's a little anxious about this, and so they get about a week into the journey, and he stops the caravan, and he just wants to be sure that he's doing the right thing. I think he just wants to be sure that this is God's will. And so he stops in this place called Beersheba and he offers sacrifices up to the God of his father. Would you agree with me? Jacob is far from the ideal father. I mean he is far. He is not the nobody would say Jacob is the ideal father. I never heard anybody preach on a Father's Day sermon, be like Jacob. Right? He certainly was not the ideal man of God. However, he makes two wise decisions here, I believe. He stops in Beersheba. The first of all, he stops at a very special place, this place called Beersheba. The word itself means the well of an oath, or sometimes they'll define it the well of seven oaths. And this was actually the place on the southern end of Canaan. It was the most southerly city or uh town on the in the land of Canaan when you left Beersheba, going south, you ended up in desert, and you head down to Egypt. So it was the southern border of the land of Canaan. And um it was where Abraham had dug some wells. Does anybody remember reading? in Genesis, and Abraham digs this well and uh becomes a big issue with the locals there. About whose well this is. And they get fussing and fighting about it. And so finally Abraham offers seven uh uh uh lambs or something for a sacrifice And says, all right, here, I'm going to give you these lands. This is your well, uh, and uh we'll leave it be. So that happens at Beersheba. Abraham digs a well there. Isaac Comes back to that same area years later, and he gets in a fuss with the locals over the wells. That's Beersheba. That's where Jacob is stopping. It ended up being where Isaac's family lived when Jacob was small at home. It's where he left when he went. Remember when he stole? Remember when he stole Esau's birthright? And he goes high-tailing it out of there over to Laban? That was from Beersheba. That's where he was at when all that took place. He left to find a wife over at Laban's house. This is, remember Hagar? This is where God appeared to Hagar, the same area. It's where God appeared to Isaac. This is a very significant area. Jacob stops at his own home, his stomping grounds. He spent a lot of time here. He knew this area. There was some emotional attachment to this land of Beersheba And he stops there. I don't know what the boys are. They're like, you know, what's the deal, Dad? Let's get down there. Come on, let's go. We got a long journey. No, no, no. We're stopping here. So he stops at a very special place, and then he performs a very significant act. Notice again in verse number one, it says, and came to Beersheba And offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac. Abraham had altars. Everywhere Abraham went, he built altars Isaac had altars. Isaac built a number of altars. You don't read about too many altars that Jacob built. You don't find Jacob making altars around. Not consistently and not for a long time. And I think Jacob's traveling down. This is huge change. Everything's different. And he's getting down and he sees Beersheba. And his mind goes back to his grandpa, Abraham. And he thinks about his daddy, Isaac. And they would build altars and they would pray and they walked with God and they knew the Lord and they had tremendous faith and Israel had gotten away from that. And Jacob had gotten away from that. And I think he's coming back to his roots. And he says, you know, I need to get back to what grandpa had. I need to get back to what Daddy had, that faith that they had, that walk with God that they had, something down inside his heart and soul, when he saw Bathsheba, said, I need to stop here I need to get back to what grandpa had and what daddy had. I tell you, it'd do our churches and our country a heap of good. We'd get back to what grandpa had. That faith in God, and that our daddies had. He builds an altar and he offers up a sacrifice to the God of his father. It's been a long time since Jacob offered up. It's been a long time since Jacob's built any altars. It's been a long time since Jacob's offered any sacrifices. A long time. It's been a long time since Jacob got alone with God. God met with him. What is an altar of where he built an altar and he offers this sacrifice up? What is an altar? An altar is a place where God's people meet with God. Churches have altars. I think churches ought to have an altar I've just got the idea in my head years and decades and decades and years ago. And anytime the Word of God is preached, there ought to be an invitation to come to an altar and meet with God at the altar. Now, question, do you have to kneel at an altar to meet with God? No. Jacob could have talked with God riding in the wagon. But there's something about having a place where I get before God with the sole purpose of meeting with God. and interacting with God and pouring my heart out to God and God speaking to me, instructing me and guiding me. There's something about having a place. I think every individual Christian ought to have their own personal altar. There ought to be a time and preferably a place where you and I get alone with God. And we let God speak to us through His Word, and we pour our heart out to God. And Jacob's coming down, he sees Beersheba, and he says, stop, hold it, let's stop here for a little bit. And he goes, builds a little altar, and he gets some sacrifices, and he gets with God. And we'll notice next week the coming verses, God speaks to him. And God gives them direction and God gives them assurance and God encourages them. Why? Because he got alone. He remembered what Grandpa Abraham did. He remembered what Daddy Isaac did. He says, I need that in my life. Things are happening. I don't understand. There's so many changes. I'm anxious about going down here. I need to get with God. I need to get with God. An altar is a place where God's people meet with God. An altar is a place where God's people sacrifice to God. We get alone with God and we give of ourselves. Paul told the believers in Rome, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living Sacrifice. Get along with God. Say, here I am, God. God, I give you myself. It's a place of surrender. It's a place where I recognize God's holiness and God's authority over my life, and I bow before him and say, God, you are God. I am not, you're the potter, I'm the clay. Jacob builds an altar. It's a place of surrender of self to the Lord. It's a place of submitting my will to God's will. Jacob's on his way down. We know he's anxious because God says to him in verse 3, I am God, the God of thy father. Fear not to go down to Egypt. Jacob was afraid. And what he's afraid, he decided to trust God. He exercised faith. He sees Bathsheba and he stops. He did something he hadn't done for a long, long time. He builds an altar and he gets alone with God. He lets God speak to him and he lets God direct him and encourage him and lead him And this is what I want to end with, and I wanted to allow time to look at the rest of the verses, but I want to end with this. When's the last time you got alone with God? Just you and God And maybe an open Bible and say, God, I need you to speak to my heart. I need you to show me and direct me. And you poured your heart out to God and told God, I tell you, I think I think our lives would be a whole lot different. If we would learn to establish a personal altar on a daily basis where we get alone with God. Now if you have a special place, that's great. But somewhere, sometime during the day, get with God. Let Him speak to you through His Word. Pour your heart out to him. I have a specific chair I like to sit on early in the mornings. I get up, and that's my chair where I read my scripture. I get on my knees and pray. Sometimes in the summer I like to go out back on the deck. The problem with that is I get watching all the birds and everything, I get distracted. But just a place that's good where I can get alone with God every day. Every day. Morning's the best, I think. And get back to the You know, back used to be years ago, uh Christians had a personal walk with God. They read their Bibles, they prayed. You know, I think it'd make a big difference I think it'd make a world of difference if our families, hus mom and dad, husband and wife, have a place, an altar, a family altar It's what they used to call. And get the family together, and we're going to meet with God, and we're going to let God speak to us as a family. From his word. And we're going to pour our hearts out together, mom and dad and the kids together. That's called a Christian home. Family altar, family altar. My grandpa had one. We've tried to have one with ours when the boys were growing up. Kathy and I we pray together I wonder how different our families would be. I wonder how different our marriages and homes would be if we just learned to humble ourselves together as a family with an open Bible and pour our hearts out to God. What a difference that would make. What a difference our churches would be. If all the members of church had their personal walk with God. You follow what I'm trying to say? It'd been a long time since Jacob got alone with God. He comes by the old homestead and he says, no, no, no, stop. I need to get back to something that hasn't happened for a long time. God blesses them, God speaks to them. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to help us to learn from Jacob's decision here to build this altar and offer up these sacrifices. And I pray you'd stir our hearts as individuals, as families, as a church, to have a time and a place where we get together before you and we kneel, humble ourselves before you. Offer up ourselves as a sacrifice. God take us and use us. Lord, help us to reestablish that. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed tonight, how many would say, Preacher, I need to get back to that old personal altar. Is there any like that, Preacher? I need that time alone with God. Maybe it's been a while. Maybe you're in the daily habit. God bless you. But we just need to make sure that's there. And maybe there's some say we need to get this family altar going, husband and wife, mom and dad and the kids. Just praying together as a family, as a unit, and seeking God's blessing and seeking God's leadership. I want to challenge and encourage you to do that. And God help us as a church anytime the Word of God is given, God speaks to hearts that the old altar is open, and we can meet with God and do business. Father, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name, amen.