When I was talking to him, he was a truck driver. And uh he was also an assistant pastor in his church. On the weekends he'd work as an assistant pastor during the week he drove truck. He stopped up at the Kaisers Ridge Little Sandy's truck stop up there. And he said, I've been picking up the Sword of the Lords for about a year now that you have up there in the truck stop. He said, the more I read the Sword of the Lords, the sermons in there and the teaching, he said, the more I realized the church I was attending wasn't going by the Word of God. He went through and gave me a list of things that were not being done that the really the Bible uh requires of a church and some things that were being done that the Bible forbids And he said, The sword of the Lord has opened my eyes and he said I've been confronting and a and and I think he did it in the right way, but trying to get the church on track from his position And he said, last Sunday, uh, they asked me to leave, resign as position, and he said, do you know any churches? And he told me where he was, uh, good churches that I could get into. and uh work there. So the the object of the ministry is not to disrupt churches. The object of the ministry is get people on the right track. And God's doing that under Dr. Smith's leadership. He's been doing that for many, many years for the ministry of the sword of the Lord. I'm so excited that we can partner with them and have a part up here in this little corner of the world. And share with them the influence on the country that the sword has. And um I'm just thrilled, Dr. Smith, uh what he's doing, what God's doing through him, and the fact that he's our friend. That means the world to me. So let's get our Bibles out and he's gonna bring our message to us. Pastor, thank you. Thank you so very much. I uh just as a postscript of what he said just now Uh I don't even know that I've told you this. I know we've talked a few times about some uh individual responses off of your efforts in putting the sword in these truck stops and grocery stores wherever you've got them But I think I'm safe to say that I'm getting a letter, an email, or something at least once a month. From either residents here in this area or truck drivers. Uh I mean it's been constant uh for for a good while now, for I don't know, several years. And um In fact, there's there's a couple of people uh just recently here in the area who live here, got copies written to me. um some questions and sometimes jockeying back and forth with me a little bit because they are not on track with us And uh, you know, and uh you know, every letter that I send them I say now, you know, you ought to go over to Mountain Lake, you ought to go over to Mountain Lake, you ought to go over to Mountain L Because you're going to do so much with a letter. But if you get 'em to come and look Just try it out, you know, and uh so uh what we're doing together is is good stuff and and I'm I'm grateful for it Uh Pastor, if it's okay, I got another presentation I'd like to make. All right? I mean this is anniversary Sunday. I mean we gotta do some things, right? Now uh this is 50th anniversary for the church How many years you've been here? Nineteen years. Alright. This one has his name at the top, big letters. And it says, on this 23rd day of September 2012, we celebrate the 50th anniversary of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and we begin the 18th annual Sword of the Lord Conference here. At the same time, it should be noted that you have served the church for 19 years. Throughout the years, you have given yourself to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church unselfishly. And unreservedly. You have been God's man in this pulpit, heralding Christ and holding high the banner of God's Word, the Bible. At the same time, you have been the pastor, God's shepherd of the flock, servant with a warm heart and a wise touch. Romans 13, 7 says, honor to whom honor. And it's right to give honor to whom it is due. And all of us believe to you, Brother Leatherman, it is due in full measure. And uh I told him we had just a little bit of a of a uh glitch in putting this together, which I didn't discover until tonight. And so we're we're going to correct this, and the the last piece of this will say, for your steadfastness, your unshakable faith Your energetic excitement and your leadership to this good church. We express our appreciation And pray that the years ahead will be more blessed than ever before. Amen and amen. As always, your friend, Shelton Smith. You know, somebody has to lead. And God designed it so that a church would have a pastor. And the pastor's job is to lead. And the rest of us find a way to fit in around that and work together. And uh because I've been coming here a long time, uh I remember some things over the last years, uh the first year or two that I was here. Uh Monday night, Tuesday night, we'd have just a handful of folks. I mean a tiny little handful. And some of you were here and some of you remember that. Uh but but things were things were building and growing and you know and you you see what's happening now and it's exciting. It is exciting, believe me And uh and I'm grateful for it. And uh thank the Lord for Brother Lederman and and his leadership and his dear wife and and their family. Now I want you to turn tonight to Hebrews chapter number twelve. Brother Lake, it's good to see you. And I hear that you're doing a fabulous job over in uh Let's see, it's not Obama w it's um Romney, West Virginia. That's right. Yeah, yeah. Well, I I I c I couldn't I couldn't help doing that to you. I I I was uh of course I know where you are and know uh all that, but but I it just dawned on me in the midst of this campaign. I I thought, well I gotta say something But I do hear you're doing a great job over there and uh I'm excited to hear that and God bless you for being here tonight. Now, uh what what I what I want to do tonight Will have just a little bit of a flavor that I hope will be appropriate for this day. And maybe you'll think about that as I walk through this the next few minutes. Hebrews chapter twelve, verses one and two. Wherefore now remember when you see that word wherefore in the Bible, uh you look back. From that. And what's just in front of this, chapter eleven, is that great, great roll call of the faithful. And after making that great roll call in chapter eleven, verse twel uh one of chapter twelve says, Wherefore? That is, considering all that. Looking back to all of those people, wherefore? Seeing we also are compassed about With so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us. And let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. Pastor, is this one okay? Just remind you then The passage talks about a cloud of witnesses, and there's a great list of them in that previous chapter. And it is as though that they are clouding above us. They've gone on ahead of us. They're in heaven already. And they have an eternal view of things now. And we have their testimony, thrilling, reassuring testimony, in that chapter They're already there and you and I are on our way. We only have a partial view of things, but they have a full view. And as we look and listen, I mean they're looking down from up there, and we're down here looking up. And what verses one and two say is that you and I should listen up to what they have to say. I mean, the program for us until we get there with them. Should be built upon and uh somewhat governed by the testimony of those who have gone before us. And so this verse says we're to lay aside the weights, the hindrances, and we're going to run the race that we ought to run as we serve the Lord. Do what we do between here and eternity, between now and then. We should lay aside the weights. The weights. Now, uh, it'll mention sin in the same verse, and in just a moment I'll note that. But when it talks about weights here, I mean sometimes people encumber themselves with things that keep them from running a good race, and it's not necessarily sin, but it's just something that doesn't contribute to the race and maybe even impedes their ability. To run a good race. If you look at it, you know, like um, well, I have I have in my garage a couple of well they're not barbells, but well they're little tiny ones. They're the hand hand version. They're just they weigh about a pound or pound and a half apiece. Something like that. And uh and I go out there almost every night when I'm home. I go out there and I get those little bells, and I I do this and I do this and I swing them back and forth and so forth. And uh uh you say, why do you do that? I don't know. I just heard that I should, and so uh, you know, uh You know, whatever whatever good it does, it's doing. Now uh it's only a pound or a pound and a half Sometimes after I've done that, I walk out the driveway and walk out in the street, and I walk a block or two in that direction and a block or two in that direction, and and I walk that back and forth several different times. Now, if I'm going to make that walk, let's just suppose that I take my little tiny barbells and I just say, ah, I think I'll just carry them along. Now you you wouldn't think I mean I I've tried this and you wouldn't think that extra three pounds Would make all the difference, but I'm telling you, you walk two blocks that way, two blocks back, you'll come in the driveway, put them down before you walk the two blocks that way Just because you are encumbering yourself with some dead weight. And so if you want to be at your best in the service for the Lord, then we have to think about all of these things that we don't put in the sin category. It's amazing how many times I've heard people say, Pastor, I just don't see anything wrong with, and they'll mention something that they are into that they want to do. Don't see anything wrong with it, and there it may not be a sin. But if it causes somebody else to stumble or not get as right as they ought to be. You know, I'm I'm awfully concerned about I mean, I see a lot of our churches today that are uh, well, we're not quite where we were the last 50 years, but I tell you what we've done. We've gotten over here close to the edge. Close to the edge. I I mean I mean saw that far from where we were the last fifty years, but we we've gotten over here close to the edge. And uh, you know, now it's awful it's much easier right now for me to trip and fall than it was a couple minutes ago when I was standing over there. And so we we get ourselves in position sometimes to stumble, to trip, to fall, to mess up, to not get it done, simply be Oh, is there anything wrong with me with me standing here precipitously? No, there's nothing wrong with it. But uh the last the last two summers, early in the summer, I I took I took my wife to the Rocky Mountains. We had a big anniversary. Coming up last year and I took she wanted to go to the Rockies and so we went to the Rockies and I booked two weekends out there preaching the churches out there and and she and I toured the Rockies and what we got done she said I'm not done so we went back again this year And uh I have a uh I have a I think it's a form of motion sickness. In fact, standing where I am right now, the depth between here and the floor is about all I can handle. If it were, say, this high and I stepped up here like this, I I'd I'd have to back away because things start to move on me. And we we were driving, Brother Fox, in those mountains. And some of those roads in those mountains are there's a I mean they're blacktop, but but they're narrow And uh you know, traffic going both ways, and and sometimes it's two and three and four and five thousand feet down into the valley. It looks like straight down and no guardrails Now, I am not about to let Betty drive. That girl is one of the most aggressive drivers I'm telling you, she has got a lead foot. I am not letting her drive in those mountains. She sh honestly, she doesn't have the sense of danger. That my paranoid mind tells me she ought to have. So I'm not letting her drive. But I I got I got this stuff going on and and I mean just just driving along if she'll say oh look off over there and as soon as I look off over there my world starts going this way and I'm driving So I'm driving five miles an hour, eight miles an hour, traffic builds up behind me, and I don't care. Now sometimes I preach for Brother Don Chitty out there has a big church right on the edge of the Navajo Reservation. And uh they took us up to uh Mesa Verde. Some of you have probably been there. And we started and and Don, Brother Don, he didn't he didn't know about my A lot of people think I'm but anyway, we we're we're s we're starting to drive up that's like about eight miles to to to get up there in the road winding around He's sitting over here on the right side and he said, Are you all right? I said, Oh yeah, I'm fine. He said, No, you're not either. Pull over, I'm driving. You know, he picked up on it right away. Now, I I mean, you know, you can get yourselves into all kinds of things and and I I can say, oh, it's it's no big deal. Yeah, it is a big deal And if you don't function like you, I mean if you don't plug in some wisdom all at once, you can do something that will cause you to not run the race like you want to run it. Now he says lay aside those hindrances, whatever disadvantages you, whatever puts you to disadvantage, put it aside. So that you can run the race. Because if you're weighted down, I mean whether it's habits or whatever it is, if if you're if if you let yourself be weighted down, You're not going to do what God would have you to do. Now, second thing he notes here in verse number one is also lay aside the sin. Which doth so easily beset us. And sin is a besetter. It besets. You know, right now, the baseball season, and I'm telling you, the Baltimore Orioles are on a run. And I'm a big Baltimore Orioles fan. And uh so uh I I'm I mean I'm you I I know you think I'm not a good Christian, but I'm just telling you I'm a baseball fan. And I'm gonna tell you this. If I owned a baseball team, if I were the oil of the Orioles, Or Lord forbid some of those other terrible teams. If I own one of those teams, I would get right in front of my players and I would say You you you use steroids, you're out of here. MLB may may suspend you for 25 games or 50 games, but I'm telling you, you steroids steroids, you're not playing for me. You smoke cigarettes, you're not playing for me. You drink liquor, you're not playing for me. You go to those hockey talks and hang out on Saturday night late and get yourself in trouble like a lot of them do, you're not playing here If I own the team. You say, well, that's that's pretty hard-hitted. The Bible says, in regard to the Christian walk, lay aside the sin Yes. Whatever misses the mark, just lay it aside. And uh don't do it. You say, well it's it's hard, it's difficult. I I know I know all that. But once you and I are in the family, once we're born again, we need to be running the race. Right. And running the race. I I mean this this term race here, it's like a race or a or a fight, uh like a boxing match or whatever. And he says we need to get in that. We need to enlist in the race, enroll in the race. You know, I'm not a runner. I know some of you probably are a runner, and God bless you if you are, but I'm not a runner. I'm barely a walker. But I'm not a runner. But I've noticed some things about those of you that run. Runners run in all kinds of weather. I mean, there are people in my neighborhood, I'm telling you, they are slapdab crazy. I mean, I mean it drops down like it's gonna do tonight to 35 degrees or something. And the next morning, whenever I leave the house at the crack of dawn, I walk out and here they are, you know, barely dressed. Running in the neighborhood in all kinds of weather. And no matter what other people think about it, I mean people like me say, Man, you are nuts. They don't care. They'll be out there the next morning running again. And uh, you know, it just doesn't matter to them. Whatever comes or goes, those those folks get out there and they run. And I just pray, God, give me some of the spunk that some of those folks have When it comes to doing what we're supposed to do for the Lord. Help me not to get sidetracked. Help me not to take pressure. Help me not to be intimidated. Help me not to react when people mock or laugh or slam the door. Help me. To just do what this passage says and run patiently. Journeys long. You and I have a goal in mind, and we need to persevere and endure and compete and just know that even at its longest, the race is somewhat brief. Now, when you and I run patiently, we just stay at it and stay on course the race that is set before us. You know, the the church is God's idea. It's not something that we came up with. It's God's idea. And the running of the race ought to be done like God says, run the race. You know, if you if you take one of these marathons, and let's suppose that some of us signed up for it and we're standing there waiting for the starting gun to go off. And I said uh now you guys go ahead and you know run like everybody else gonna do and they'll they'll have certain places where you turn and so forth. I think I'm going to do my own thing and uh I just feel like I want to run through the bleachers in the grandstand and uh and uh you know uh maybe maybe I'll take some shortcuts that some of you won't take and And but I'll be here at the finishing line. I'll be back on time and you know I'll I'll be but I'm gonna go do my own thing. You know what's gonna happen to that runner who does that if I were to do that in a race, you're gonna be decertified, disqualified. Say, well, I got across the finish line first. Yeah, but you missed some things in between. And consequently, the race was not handled the way that the race was laid out to be handled. And uh we sometimes get the idea, I hear people, it's like I can I can do this thing any way that I want to do it. It's just whatever I want, however I feel. I had a guy say to me just the other day, he said, look, he said, I have liberty in Christ, and he said, I can do whatever I want to do, and I said, No, sir. The liberty that we have in Christ is not the liberty to take charge of our life. I mean, we've already demonstrated we can't handle that. The liberty that we have in Christ is to sign up and let him be the commander in chief of our life. And whenever we follow the plan, do what he says, then we are running the race the way the race is supposed to be run. Now, we get here to this great passage, and we get those instructions coming immediately after That Hebrews chapter 11, cloud of witnesses, who I think are really like counselors for us. Like counselors. Now, if I need advice, what better place to go? Than for those who ran the race, ran it successfully, and somebody has written a chronology, a biography. Of how they did it. And we got it right here? And you say, Well, well well what what are those guys saying I'm glad you asked, because uh in my mind's eye I I I see a bunch of them as laid out in here, and I I think I'll just see if I can call on them and see what they would tell us The first one in the list is Abel. You know, from the book of Genesis, guy named Abel, he was the first martyr in the history of the human race and uh and it was his own brother who killed him and and and able his life was snuffed out Well why? Because he did what he was supposed to do, and his brother was looking for a shortcut and didn't like the fact that his brother had done things right, and so his brother killed him Abel, if you'd step up to the balcony of heaven and look over and just give us a little piece of advice, what would you tell us, dear Abel? He would say, I think God has specific instructions and they ought to be followed. And even it brings trouble in your life, you go ahead and do it. It is worth it. You do what God has said that you ought to do. And if I heard Abel say that, I'd say, Thank you, sir. I'm so glad. I appreciate your counsel. And I would look back, and who would I find next? Well there's a guy named Enoch. Enoch is the guy who is famous because the Bible says about him that he walked with God. Enoch, would you step up to that balcony, look over, tell us something tonight? What would you tell us? Enoch would say, You walk with God. It'll please God. You'll be happy about the companionship and the communion that you have with God if you will just walk with Him. You know we have a lot of folks today. A lot of folks today who talk about Christian things and they uh some even in positions of leadership and they do not walk with God They're like professionals in what they do, and they go through the motions of it, but they're not walking with God. They do not have that daily communion with the God who made them And Enoch would say, You better walk with God. You better walk with God. I thank him. Ask him to step back. And the next person coming up In this great roll call of the faithful is a guy named Noah. Noah, I like Noah. Noah, what can you tell us, sir? And Noah would say, Don't you be afraid to go about doing the work God gives you to do. Your neighbors may mock you. Your business associates may pronounce you to be a fool, but whatever they say or do, you follow God's instructions. The journey may be long. It may be decades long, but you stay at it. It may be discouraging, but don't despair. There'll be a lot of people who will not hear you. But you be true to God, and Noah would say, while you're at it, get your family in. Get your family in. Nobody else may go, but you get your family in. You know the day that Noah went to get on that ark. You know who with him? Mama Noah. Those boys, Shem, Ham, and Japheth. And Mrs. Shem, Mrs. Ham, Mrs. Japheth. The eight of them. That was the that was the Noah family. They were the ones that got on the boat. I'm telling you, Noah would say You stick with those little ones back in the nursery. You stick with those kids in the children's church this morning. You stick with those teenagers and you see to it. That they get in. The whole rest of the world may die and go to hell, but you get your family in, Noah would say. Noah steps back, and there's another Old Testament character, and one of my favorite ones, a little boy, a young man named Joseph. Joseph steps to that balcony and looks over to give us counsel. Joseph, what can you tell us about how to do this thing? And Joseph would say, Ah, you may have some people mess with you. You may have some people who will betray you. You may have some people who will be absolutely ugly to you, and some of them may be your own family. But Joseph would say, Don't you get bitter when things go sour. Don't you get bitter. Don't you give in when the pressure comes. You remember Joseph is the one that his own brothers betrayed him. Threw him down into that pit, eventually pulled him out, sold him off into slavery. Uh Joseph nothing nothing to indicate Joseph got bitter. Evil that wound up off down in Egypt and an ungodly woman down there betrayed him, I mean treacherously betrayed him And again, Joseph did not get bitter. He made no allowance for bitterness. And Joseph would say to us, don't sacrifice your conscience. Leave your coat if you have to and run. But don't sacrifice your conscience and your morals on the altar of immediacy. Don't do that. Don't just live for the short run. Don't just live for the moment, Joseph would say. You live with eternity in view, and it'll help you. Joseph steps back, and Moses is next in that line. Moses is the most revered among the Jews. He is the most revered of all of the characters of the Old Testament You go to Israel, as I've done several times, and some of you probably done as well. You go to all of those little shops where they have that olive wood stuff carved. They'll have statues of Christ and statues of Moses and statues of this and that and the other. And I have in my office A couple of sets of those little olive wood deals about Sohai that that I purchased in Bethlehem or in Jerusalem. And every hey listen, you gotta look, you gotta watch But I'm telling you, those Jews, those Jews in Jerusalem to this day, when they carve those things, they make Moses about that much higher than Jesus or anybody else Every one of them I've ever seen. They just do it. It's subtle, but uh but it's there, and you say, why do they do that? Because they revere Moses for the great man that he was And if Moses were to step up to that balcony and speak to us, what do you reckon he would say? Well, I think based on what I see here, he would say, Don't you fear suffering? You gotta walk with God, serve God, don't fear suffering. You know, some of us we've had it so good for so long. And uh it's like, oh, if we have to suffer, oh you know, may need to get used to it, folks. Dear Moses would say, it's better to be with God's people than it is to be with the world. He would say, you esteem the riches of Christ greater riches than whatever it is the world has to offer. Moses would say, You may come to a place where the waters look deep. You count on God. He'll roll the waters back. And not only will he roll the waters back, but he'll roll them down again and drown the enemy when you need him to. Moses, what happens when I get hungry? He says, Well, you just you just go where where he says you follow him and he'll feed you. You know, you just do God's bidding and and he'll he'll he'll take care of things. Sometimes, you know, we read the stories of Moses and All of the things that are therein, and we act as though that it's something dead on the pages of the Bible and that there's no modern counterparts for it. There's no way that we could look to God and get answers to prayer. Dear Moses would cry out to us, and I believe with many tears he would say that God who was God when I was there, God is the same God today, and you can count on him. I believe he would. I look in that role call of the faithful, and there's somebody else stepping up. And it's a woman. It is a woman. And her name is Rahab. Rahab, what would you say to us? She said, I just got one thing to say. You be sure to trust the blood. Trust the blood. Just know that the efficacy of the blood is absolutely altogether sufficient, and you trust it, and you'll be fine. There are others who came later. Beyond the era that is chronicled here, I think about John the Baptist. If John the Baptist could step up John, dear servant of God, what a saint you were, what a soldier of the cross you were. Tell us what you will. John the Baptist would say, he would say, You stand up to be counted, even if it cost you your head. Stand up to be counted. Betty and I were having a little conversation on the phone today about a couple of things And she said, and rightly so, she said, do you know, she said, it's looking like that in America the the the dismissive attitude about free speech It's coming to the place. She said it's almost as bad as it is in some of those Arab Muslim nations. Because I mean you speak out something about Homosexuality, uh I mean, especially if you're somebody who's known and you speak out about it, guess what? Oh, they'll be on all the news. Oh, did you know what they did? Oh, oh, and they're gonna apologize right now And there is this, I mean the all this hate speech, uh uh hate hate crime stuff, all of that, it's designed to shut people up. Runs in the face of the First Amendment, and we're moving rapidly to adopt the standards that are in place in places like Saudi Arabia. Now, John the Baptist will say it may cost you your head, but you stand up to be counted. Do what you should do. Speak up There they go. I gotta have them, Pastor. I can't can't see my way. I was I was down in North Carolina in July at Calvary Baptist Church in King, North Carolina, and got in a got in a full way and they they'd set a glass of water right here. And I didn't realize it, but it had just a little incline on it. And I pounded the pulpit. That thing started sliding. It was a hardwood floor. It came off and shattered that glass. And that big glass of water. I mean it went scattered all over the place. There it goes, Amen. Ah, sometimes. John the Baptist, he has something to say to us. Dear Stephen in the New Testament, who wears the martyr's crown, you'd say, Stephen, was it worth it? He would say, was it worth it by his death? Well, I mean I mean he's he's killed and within days Saul of Tarsus is a convert. Do you think there's a connection there? There is a connection there. And sometimes the price we pay, we can't figure it out. We can't understand why the price has to be paid. Stephen would say, let them stone you if they insist. God will be honored in it. You asked the Apostle Paul for a little advice. In fact, I think he'd give you a bunch of it, wouldn't he? He'd say, don't be disobedient to the heavenly vision. Fight the good fight. Finish your course. Preach the word. Endure afflictions. Be a good soldier of Jesus Christ. He'd tell you all of that. Tell you what, if I needed advice on prayer, I think I'd want to talk to Dr. John Rice. If I needed counsel on soul winning, I'd I'd look to my predecessor, Dr. Curtis Hudson. If I want to know something about faith, I think I'd see if Lester Moloff would come up and say something. There's all kinds of things that I could get from Harold Seitler and Oliver B. Green and a bunch of those dear servants of God who've already gone on to heaven. I had a conversation with a leader. A leader. A leader. Somebody in our movement. A few months ago. And he said, We're patterning after the youthful. And he mentioned his hero. He said, We're his hero. He said, We're patterning after him in his youth, not in his old age. And I said to him, My soul. I said, Where and who did you ever know who knew everything that he needed to know and who had things together in his youth? If you're going to follow somebody, follow somebody who's got a little gray hair. Or maybe. Hey. America's gone youth crazy. Now, I remember when I was a youthful preacher, and I thank God for the privileges that I had even as a teenager and as a young adult. But I'm telling you, in those days in my life, I was looking at every gray head that I could. I was looking at every bald-headed man, every bald-headed preacher I could, Pastor. I'm I'm pick I'm picking on you But but I'm telling you, I'm looking to the guys who've got a track record. I don't know everything. I want to know what these guys can tell me. And some somebody who has just hatched That's not the chicken you want to follow, I'm telling you. Look to John the Baptist, look to the Apostle Paul, look to the giants of yesteryear. So I'd love to be a champion. Well, God can make you a champion. You say, well what what's God gonna do? Listen, God is all about regeneration and restoration and reconciliation and restitution and revival and renewal and resurrection. I mean, headed to the rapture, headed to the revelation, God is about all of that. And you and I learn that not from somebody who is just getting rolling. We learn that from these heroes who paved the way and paid the price. Pastor, I like what you did. Talking about the founder here. I don't know the man, never heard of him before today. But he paid a price. And you stand on his shoulders today. And Pastor made it very clear that he was honoring him today, and rightly so. Folks, the track record, uh uh uh the track The track is set. And you and I, I mean, if we leave the track, we're gonna crash. Yeah. But if you and I just I mean we want to be joyful, we want to be happy, get with the program. Get with the program The Bible says the gifts and calling of God are without repentance. That just means there's no turning back, there's no sidetracks, there's no detours. Just stay on track. Betty and I had our fiftieth wedding anniversary a few months ago. See, I can't believe that. Well believe it. I signed her up for another fifty. She said, Well well I'll tell you what she said. She said she said we'll never make that. I said, Okay, so maybe we miss it a couple. I mean if if the guy who shoots at nothing hits it every time? Right. And so I just said, hey girl, let's sign up for another 50. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You got a good history. But the trumpet hasn't sounded yet. You say, well, I'll never make another fifty. Well, why don't you sign up for whatever it is you're going to have? Sign up for it. Just say. I'm telling you, I've been I've been to the altar in place after place across America when my heart was was warm and and my spirit was weepy And and I I just said, oh God, if you need somebody, I'm signing up all over again. I'm committing myself all A fresh and anew. And dear God, if you if you need anybody, I'm I'm volunteering all over again And here on a day like today, between now and eternity, right here, right now, every day, all the way to eternity. Ah, folks, let's not weary. I know things are in a mess. I know the country is awash with all kinds of garbage. But I'm telling you, these are great days to serve God. You know, in my travels out around the country, in all kinds of situations, I'm finding people are amazingly open. What I have to say to them. Amazingly so. Yesterday I'd already gotten on the airplane in Nashville And uh they'd said the plane was gonna be full and and uh So I I get on early because I'm a frequent flyer and so I get privileged to get on early and go back and get my seat where I sit on every flight. And uh I'd already settled in and I looked up and and here comes evangelist Lou Rossi. But Lou lives in our city. He's a close personal friend. I didn't know he was gonna be on the same flight I was on. And uh he he didn't see me and he he started to he started to take a seat about four or five up and and I just called out and I said, Dr. Rossi! He didn't hear me, so I said it out louder. He turned, oh he said. See, I said, watch come on back. I like flying with the airline that lets you sit anywhere you want to sit. It's called Southwest. The greatest airline in the world. And uh just throw that in for free. Done a lot of laboratory work, I know. Uh but anyway, Brother Rossi came and sat down and and uh Uh he got over and got the window seat and I said, well, I said they said it's full, but I said it may not actually be totally full and I said maybe if we just look busy here, nobody's sitting in the middle seat. Well, I said if somebody comes though, I said I'll spit over in the middle seat. Let the guy have the aisle seat. But I said, no, no, no. He said, I'll sit in the middle seat and we'll let him out the window. So I said, Oh, okay, whatever you want to do. Sure enough, here comes the guy. Plane was totally full So I got up, Brother Lou got up, we let the guy have the window seat. And uh Brother Rossi and I were talking for the first 30 minutes or so. And uh I I knew and he knew that he was going to do what I do on every flight with the people who sat beside me. And so we we got our altitude and and he turned and started talking to that guy I heard the guy say, I'm a Roman Catholic. Now, you say, well, what did Brother Rossy do? He didn't quit. In fact, while he was talking to the guy, I'm sitting there in my seat and I just close my eyes. And I begin to say, Lord, help Brother Lou to have the words. Amen. Help that guy to have the warm heart. I mean I couldn't I I'm not where I can get to him, but he was. So what do I do? I do what the silent partner is supposed to do. I pray for my buddy. Brother Lou must have talked to him for 20 minutes. Guy was full of questions, but he was warm. Young businessman, maybe 35 years of age. And uh we were flying, and about the time they started the descent, coming into Baltimore, that boy bowed his head. Lou led him to Christ. When he finished, Lou turned around, introduced him to me. I asked him a couple of questions. He was just as warm as he could be about the whole deal. Now, I tell you that just to tell you. People are open. That's right. They are open. A lot of them are open. Oh, you running some folks who you know, but there's a lot of people open. Right. And the day the day that we live in, I mean this is a good day to serve God. This is a good day to be in the business of the king. This is a day When you and I can have the blessing and the favor of God, when we can do the things that we dream of doing, and God will help us to do it. I salute you. 50 good years. Well, I don't know when the horn's gonna sound, but until between now and until it does. Let's just keep going. Keep at it. And press on. And if God gives us another 50 years, Pastor, if it's all right with you, I'm going to go ahead and book myself for that hundredth anniversary. Hey, whether we're here or not, let's pray. If the horn hasn't sounded Let's pray it won't get off track. Keep doing right. Following the counsel of these great heroes that are in the Bible. Stand up with me. Let's pray. Our father, we need times to renew. That's a part of what this conference is about. We need times to re-fire. Stoke the fire. Pour a little gasoline on the fire. That's part of what this conference is about. And so, Lord, I pray, not only for tonight, but for tomorrow, Tuesday morning, Tuesday night, that you'll just do some grand things. Let all of us be refreshed, stirred up, renewed, revived, because we've been together. And Lord, now in this service, I pray that we'd all be willing to take the counsel of these giants who've gone before us. And Lord, help us to hear their counsel and plug it in where we live, where we work, where we play, where we go to church. I pray that you'll help us to do that. And Lord, I'll thank you for what you do. And I ask you, even now, to stir and move in our midst, and give us, I pray, willingness to find our way to these altars and say yes once again to you. I pray that you'll do it. In Jesus' name. Frother Fox, if you'll play, altars are open, and I'm going to ask you to just do God's bidding.