Thank you, Mark. Now there's some preliminaries. I'm a little slower and and more obvious than the preacher is. I'll go ahead and try and oh, it's on. Am I on, Sam? Can you hear me? Am I coming through? Yeah, okay. Uh there are so many times when I I have spoke Dozens and dozens and dozens of times. Maybe hundreds, okay? And I've always thought that my voice alone projected enough volume that you could hear it. Okay? But uh the pastor insists on the sound system, so I will defer to our pastor. Oh, by the way, if you have your bulletin and you want to open your bulletin To the first page. On the upper left hand side, okay, you will see You will see a picture. The man is your pastor. He has a white shirt on. He's wearing a tie. Okay. He has glasses, but there's one noticeable difference. I have hair. Okay, I have hair. I would like to do a couple other little preliminaries here this morning. Uh Tom Sharon We're going to give you a vacation today. I'm not going to pick on you today like the pastor picks on you. I have somebody else to pick on. And I've already warned this person and he said okay and that's Ed Davis. I think he was saying i okay to something else, but But he said okay. So if I if I want to pick on anybody I'll I'll uh I'll pick on I'll pick on Ed. Uh this morning I have to tell you this. It is humorous, okay. This morning I was sleeping. The the alarm went off at seven o'clock. Alarm is on Sandy's side of the bed. Usually she gets the news at seven o'clock. She turned the she turned I didn't hear it come on necessarily. I was sleeping so well, but she turned it off, and when she got up, I knew she was getting out. I turned over and went back to sleep At uh twenty-five minutes after seven this morning, I heard the phone ring. Uh when you hear the phone ring at a time when you never expect it You think about bad news. I was thinking that perhaps something uh occurred with Sandy's mom. Uh I was thinking, oh, it's maybe it's the wrong number. But uh Sandy comes in the bedroom and I'm just starting to I'm not even awake yet. I'm I'm still laying down. She said Kathy needs to talk to you. Kathy says, Preacher's sick this morning, would you speak? Okay. In my stupor of trying to get awake, I said, Well, yeah, yes, I'll I'll do that One of the one of the things that my dad left me some things and gave me a legacy And it wasn't a whole lot, but one of the things that my father taught me, which has served me well, is that when someone asks you to do something If someone asks you to be in a wedding, if somebody asks you to to speak at a uh at a at a funeral service, to say something at a funeral service, or be a pallbearer, he said, when somebody asks you for a service, he said, you never say no. And so I I said yes, I'll go ahead and I'll go ahead and speak uh this morning. Um when the preacher asks, I'm one of those guys that I have trouble, I I can't say no. Uh it's just one of those things. I I'd be afraid that my uh my my uh my ancestors, my dad, my grandfather would would would rise up out of the grave and come around and almost beat me to death if I said no. So I I don't say I don't say no. This but this morning it it's ti it's a typical Sunday When the pastor's not here. When the pastor is here, I don't know if some of you have ever looked at your watch. I think most of you have, because I know I do. Pastor gets up to speak about ten after eleven. But when the pastor's not here, something happens, and we do things faster. And I got up to speak at five minutes after eleven. Now I will tell you, and I will give you an illustration in just a second, I am fully prepared To speak. Okay? Fully prepared to speak. Do not think. Just get it out of your mind if you think you're getting out of here early. Because the preacher's not here. Just forget it. It's not going to happen. Back in the 70s, my father-in-law, who was a preacher, asked me one Sunday afternoon. He said, I have a service this afternoon, little old wooden country church out in West Virginia And he said, there's not many people there on a Sunday afternoon. It was service was at 2. 30. And he said, but how about going out there and speaking? I said, okay. He said, well, you know, he he told me this the day before. And he said, now these people really like preaching. He said, so he said, whatever you say and how long you say it makes no difference to those people. They really like preaching. I said, okay, Pap. I'll do it. Sat down and I say, well, I have a sermon, and the sermon is given two different occasions. Okay? Because it takes an hour and a half to do the sermon. Okay? So I give them 45 minutes of that one sermon. We get up. My father, my father-in-law led the devotional part of the service. That was 45 minutes long. We sang, took the offering, had testimonies, all kinds of stuff. 45 minutes. He said, now Brian's going to get up and speak. So Brian got up and spoke. I spoke for 45 minutes. And there was only 12 people there. My father-in-law, myself, and 12 other people It was it was a wonderful service. I don't know. S some of you probably grew up in situations like this. I hope you've all had the experience. You go into one of these little wooden churches out in the country somewhere Have you ever noticed the acoustics of the building? You can put six people in one of those churches, and it sounds like you have a choir of 200. when the singing starts. Because the sound bounces off the wall, bounces off the ceiling. It fills the whole church and goes out the windows. Okay, so I w I was it was wonderful. I spoke for 45 minutes and I looked out at my audience. One of the things I was taught When it comes to public speaking, is to analyze your audience. But analyze your audience as you are speaking. Okay, so I I looked out and went, wow, everybody still got their Bible open, they're still listening and everything. I said, well, Papa said they wanted it, so I just went into the second half Of the sermon. Spoke for another 45 minutes. I was tired. I won't say exhausted, but I was tired. And I gave the invitation. We had a final song. And I went down and sat right where Lisa Cole is. Right there. There was a lady, an older lady, sitting behind her. And Pap says, Well, we're going to sing one more hymn as our closing hymn. And as we started to sing, she tapped me on the shoulder. And she leaned up to me, and this is her, I'm not lying, I'm not making this up. This is absolutely true. She tapped me on the shoulder and she said, Brother Brian. You didn't have to cut it short on our account today. We had no place to go. I said, my goodness, uh Hack was right when he said they like preaching. Okay, but I'm not gonna speak for an hour and a half, but it's a temptation. I'm going to do something. You all know the pastor's testimony. What's the pastor's testimony? When did he get saved? 1979. What time at night? 1030, right after, thank you, LeBern and Shirley. Okay. I've been with the I've been a a part of this church long. For quite a while, over six years, almost six years, I guess. So that um today I'm going to give you a part, a part of my testimony as we go along. Pastor can give his testimony and we've all heard it and know it. So I'm going to give you a part of my testimony as well. This morning, if you have your Bibles, I would like you to turn with me to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5. And verse twenty two Now don't think that because of what Pat read in John chapter fifteen I'm going to give you a sermon about fruit bearing. I'm not. I'm not going to do that you but I will talk about it. And don't think that I'm not going to talk about apple trees. Okay? Because I will. Because those that's a common illustration and something I'm familiar with. But in Galatians chapter 5, I want to start there with verse 22. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith. Meekness, temperance, against such there is no law. And they that are Christ have crucified the flesh with the affections. And lust. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we pray, Lord, that you would be with us and guide us in this service this morning. Give us the words that we need to hear, Father. I ask, Lord, that you would use me in some small way, Father, to speak your word this day Bless us as we are here this morning. Be with the pastor as he is ill, Father, and unable to speak. These things we pray and ask in your name. Amen. In the last five years I have started thinking about some different things When I open my Bible and I start reading, there are occasions where I take scripture that's familiar. And concepts that are familiar to us in the Christian life. And I start thinking about them in a different way. I want to speak about one of those things this day because I think there are times I don't know if this will be helpful or not to people. I pray that it is. But I think there are some things that we don't quite get the correct understanding of. I'm not blaming any preacher. That stands behind this pulpit. I'm talking about us. And I say us as one that sits where you sit. Sometimes I think we just don't get the the full understanding of it. And I'm Coming around in my mind to this idea of a Christian bearing fruit. If you look at Galatians chapter 5 You'll find nine things. Okay? Love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. I want you to notice that, okay? Notice that. Those are all personal characteristics. Those are all personal characteristics. Paul writes this letter to the Galatians and talks about fruit bearing, and he talks in terms of personal characteristics. Okay? Now, if you do not have any of these personal characteristics, As a part of your life. I will tell you right now, according to the Word of God, you are not bearing fruit. You are not bearing fruit. You can come to church. You can go to Sunday school, you can participate in the program of the church, but that does not mean you are bearing fruit. The fruit of the Spirit deals with personal characteristics. Okay? Personal characteristics. I I can't stress that enough. I want you to get it in your mind, get it through into your heart Okay, the idea that if I am a Christian, if I say I am a born-again Christian, these things, some of these things Need to be alive in my life. Actually, all of them need to be alive in my life. To one degree or another Now, granted, I sit where you're sitting, and I say, well, you know, I I have uh love, okay. Yes, I'm happy. Peace, yes, okay. Long suffering. Oh my goodness. Okay, I don't know about you. Patience is not sometimes One of my outstanding characteristics. Okay. I can be very uh impatient. Sandy would tell you this. She gets impatient with me. She'll be telling me something, and I'll I will get impatient with my wife. And say, okay, you're telling me what are you telling me? In other words, get to the point of what you're telling me. I am not patient. Gentleness? I could say I'm not gentle, but then I don't know about that You don't see me with my grandchildren. Okay? So maybe I have some gentleness. Goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. Notice, notice, okay, there is nothing there about your personal characteristics as they relate to the outside of your body. That's very, very good. That's very, very good. I consider that very very good. Okay I asked Sandy this morning on the way out the door, I said, well, how do I look? She said, you look good. I said, do I look extinguished? Okay, I use that word. I don't know, I I don't worry about looking distinguished. Believe me, I don't think any time in my life I have looked distinguished, you know. But I I I do know that I look extinguished. You know what extinguished means? When you extinguish a fire, what do you do, Ed? Put it out. I'm on my way out. Okay? That's what my looks like. That's what I look like. I'm on my way out. Okay, so I look extinguished. But none of these characteristics relate to the outside and how we look. They're all on the inside. They're all in the inside. How do I know I have these characteristics? Well, those characteristics need to come out in what you say. Where you go, what you do, that's how these characteristics come out. The fruit of the Spirit. Paul says, we need the fruit of the Spirit. We have the fruit of the Spirit. We have to be practicing the fruit of the Spirit. I'm going to make if the preacher's listening. I asked Kathy this morning if the preacher was listening. She said, No, he's asleep. I hope he's still asleep. Because not only will he be sick, but he might have a stroke after I say this thing. Okay? The fruit of the Spirit Is not personal soul winning per se. The fruit of the Spirit Is the characteristics that are inside of you that come out in your relations with other people? Love, joy, peace, meekness, long-term. Suffering, all of these things. That is the fruit of the spirit. Now, I will tell you this: before you can do any kind of soul winning or witnessing to anyone, You must have the fruit of the Spirit inside of you. Okay? What do people want? What do people want? What's unsafe people want? They want to be able to see something. They want to lay their hands on something. So they're not looking at you. And whether your hair is combed and what kind of clothes you have on necessarily. They're looking at you as what kind of personal characteristics are coming out of you. And if all that comes out are things that are questionable from your mouth, or not proper, if all that's coming out through these hands are things That have nothing to do with godliness. If the only place you're going, these feet are taking you, is places where Of questionable behavior, or even, shall we say, neutral behavior. Just because I walk into the fellowship hall at Walmart Does not mean I'm a Christian or not a Christian. That's a neutral place. That's a neutral place. Because just because I'm there, my feet take me there. Does not mean I'm a Christian or not a Christian. The fruit of the Spirit comes from the inside. One of the things when I was a young man One of the things that I, and I still have a little bit of a problem with it, is when I meet somebody. That I really don't know personally, and they say, Oh, I've heard of you. Well the first thing I want to do is it's impossible. I would like to get real small. That's impossible. Okay. I would like to withdraw within myself, because I think, uh, okay. Uh well what have you heard? And I used to get an answer like this. Oh, I heard you're a nice guy. I hated that. Nice guy, a nice guy. You know, it it's a compliment. But it's a compliment that means absolutely nothing. It's absolutely nothing. What does it mean when somebody calls me a nice guy? Do they see the fruit of the Spirit? Maybe not. Jesus saying, oh he's he's a nice guy. He's uh he's okay. You know, so I used to hate that. I used to hate to hear that He's a nice guy. Sandy will tell you, I have uh vented to her on numerous occasions when somebody has told me, I am a nice guy. I said I don't want to be known as a nice guy What I want is, I want people to see the fruit of the Spirit: love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, meekness, temperance. That's what I want them to see. As I get older, okay, as I get older, and you you older people, not the young people, not the I'm not talking to the people that are under 45 here, that's the young people. Okay, but as you get older you start to realize with unsaved people when they say, Oh, you're a nice person They have nothing s they don't know the Bible. Most of them don't know the Bible. And so they say you're a nice guy. That doesn't mean that they don't see. the fruit of the spirit in your life, they just don't call it that because that's a term they're unfamiliar with. And these words that we talk about right here, as personal characteristics, They are also they they they may not use. They just may not use those things So they say you're a nice guy. So I have tempered my reaction when somebody says you're a nice guy. I've tempered my reaction as I've grown older. Okay. But you need the fruit of the Spirit before you can do any kind of Christian witness Before you can take the gospel anywhere, you have to have the fruit of the Spirit in your life. You have to have the fruit of the Spirit in your life. Now let's go to the Gospel of John, chapter fifteen John chapter fifteen. The pat the part that Pat talked about I am the true vine, my father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that bears not fruit he takes away. Every branch that bears fruit he purges it, that it he prunes it, it might bring forth more fruit. Notice how Jesus doesn't talk here specifically about the fruit of the Spirit. What's he talking about? In actuality, Jesus is talking about a grapevine. Because that was something that people would be familiar with. Today we might be more familiar with a tree, okay? A fruit tree, an apple tree, a peach tree, a plum tree, a cherry tree, pear tree, whatever. Okay? We might be, and so Jesus is using that illustration. The tree grows. Where is the tree's root? Where is the tree's root? It's under the ground. There's there's a the I could I could give you so many applications for illustration. You can't see the tree's root, okay, unless you dig it up. Okay. It's under the ground. But it has to have a root. You expose that root, you cut it off from the root, it dies. Jesus is the root. Of your life. If you are a born-again Christian today, Jesus is the root of your life. You want to know that? You understand that. I'm taking you places that we have been before that you know of and you're familiar with, because I'm going to take you a place to a place where I hope you consider something you've never considered before Okay? Now what does a fruit tree do? Naturally, it brings forth fruit. And what is the fruit? What is the fruit that it brings forth? Love, joy, peace, meekness, long suffering, gentleness, meekness. That's the fruit it's supposed to bring forth. Okay? I want to talk about something, and we're going to go to the book of Psalms. Just for one, just for a couple verses. I want to talk about something that I want you to consider. Okay? The tree beings brings forth fruit. We have a tendency, and I I'm not criticizing the pastor or anybody else that's in this pulpit when they talk about bringing forth fruit. When it's bringing forth fruit and talking about winning people to Christ I'm not going to criticize that per se, but I want you to understand what I want you to do is understand the process. Of winning people to Christ. Because it is a process. It is a process. Okay Let's turn to the book of Psalms, chapter one. Psalms chapter one. Nice You might have memorized this. A lot of people do have it memorized. Psalm chapter 1. I've met a lot of people that say, I'm going to memorize scripture. And I've had people that Have been very, I know some people that are very ambitious and decided that they're going to memorize the book of Psalms. And I know some people that have memorized the first hundred Psalms. However, I don't know anybody that's ever gotten past Psalm 119 Okay, Psalm 119 is the longest chapter in the Bible, the longest psalm. Okay? Okay? I'm going to read down through the first three verses of Psalm chapter 1. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. Would you say this man is a saved man? Yeah. This man's a saved man, of course. His delight is in the law of the Lord And in his law doth he meditate day and night. Okay? Yes, he reads the Bible. He studies the Bible. He not only reads it, he meditates on it. He studies it. Okay, verse three. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water And he shall be like a tree. Now, I happen to believe that the Bible is like a puzzle. To a Christian, to a newfound Christian. A Bible is a puzzle. And you have to start putting it together. I don't know about you, but I've tried I I like puzzles. Jigsaw puzzles? I like jigsaw puzzles And I like jigsaw puzzles to the point of obsession. When I start doing one I cannot, I mean my mind's on doing that puzzle. Okay. Three o'clock in the morning I might still be doing that puzzle. 5 30 in the morning, I might still be doing the puzzle. Okay? I'm obsessed with it because one of the things I'm obsessed with is how things fit together. It's the same way with the Bible. And I want to present to you something. What is your life? Your life is a tree. Your life is a tree The man here, godly man, saved man, he shall be like a tree. As a Christian, you are a tree One of the things that the fruit tree brings forth is supposed to be fruit. I'd like to tell you a little bit about myself. In nineteen fifty-two, in the spring of nineteen fifty-two, I was four years old. My mother and father, who are living just outside of Boston, in a place called Medford, Massachusetts. We were living in GI government housing built after World War II. All these millions of people, men, mostly some women. Came back from World War II, and where were these people going to live and start their families? Well, the government started building what they call GI housing, GI apartments. We lived in an apartment there. Okay? I have some memories of that apartment, and like most kids, most of my memories are not entirely happy ones. Okay? Okay. What do you remember when you were four years old? Do you know what you remember? Well, you remember the time you did something bad. Okay? And dad had to come along and uh and apply that hand to the to the uh to the seat of learning. Okay Oh yeah, that's what I remember. I remember some things like that. But in that spring, we just we moved. Mom and dad moved to a house on my uncle's farm. Now, it's tough for me to tell you about my uncle's farm. We lived on a uh uh a very old, original New England homestead. Okay We lived in a colonial house, you know, one of those white houses with we had green shutters. And it was three stories high, all the bedrooms on the second floor, had an attic in it. And we lived on my uncle's farm. My uncle lived right beside us in a house that was exactly the same we were. It was laid off just slightly different inside. Okay? But it was from the same blueprint. Okay? When somebody built a house, they just built two of the same thing and put it right there. I have a man that I called my uncle, lived across the street from my uncle that lived beside me. It was his brother. And by by marriage. He was not my blood uncle, but I called him Uncle. That was Uncle Bob, Uncle Robert. And he lived across the street in the original farmhouse on that farm. Now I'll take you back a little bit. The original farmhouse in New England was built in the late 1600s or early 1700s. And that that original farmhouse, which was beautiful, it had been remodeled. It had the fireplace in the living room and the one in the dining room and ones that had been closed off upstairs. Beautiful, beautiful. place. But it was built well before the Revolutionary War. Uh I was always fascinated with the history That at when the American Revolution started and Paul Revere rode out of Boston saying, the British are coming. The British are coming. Okay? He didn't get to that farmhouse But when he got to Lexington, they started ringing the church bell. And you could hear, when I was a kid, you could hear the church bell from the Congregational Church in Lexington at my house on Sunday morning. It was five miles away, but you could hear it. Now there's so much noise that you can't hear something a half a mile away a lot of times. But you could hear and I was fascinated because the man that lived in that farmhouse, okay Grabbed his musket and started for Lexington and got there about ten minutes after the initial shots were fired. in Lexington Green. My Uncle Robert lived there, just between his house and the big barn. We had a they had a big barn all put together completely with wooden pegs. Not a not not a nail in it, okay, all wooden pegs. And in that barn was a place When I was a kid, you know, barns have a fascination for kids, especially they love to get in barns. And especially if you have different lofts They love to get a rope, you know, and climb from one loft to another, and swing from one loft to another, and break open a few bales of hay So you can jump out of one loft into the bale of hay. I was no different than that. My uncle also had some greenhouses, but between my house where I lived and the greenhouses was an orchard. At the one end of the orchard, when my grandfather retired from work, my mother's father, my aunt's father. My grandfather lived at a trailer there in 1955 till the end of his life at the end of the orchard. So in a sense we were a close family. My mother lived there, her sister, my grandparents And almost all the other relatives were within four or five miles of where we lived. So we were close family. And it was a farm Now you go up to New England and think of a farm today, you don't think of very much. But when I came to Garrett County in nineteen sixty-eight There were places in Garrett County that look exactly the way I grew up in Massachusetts. Fields, woods, swamp, ponds, okay, that that kind of stuff. For for a kid growing up, I I thought as I grew up I almost lived in paradise. Wonderful. Wonderful. But when I was 12 years old, the field beside our house was taken up by construction work. They were building a church. Big church. One of the things we used to do was right in the corner of that field, right off of our front yard, was where we set up home plate. And we played baseball in that field. And we had a fella, we had a fella that could hit the ball and bounce it off the roof of that church. I mean it was a couple of days when guys were nailing shingles on and baseballs came bouncing off the roof of that church, and of course we scattered very rapidly. Okay, lest uh some angry workmen come around. Church. Church. I didn't grow up in I grew up, my mother took me to church. They sent me to church. And I would tell you that any Sunday school teacher. Anybody that's taught Sunday school in this church over the years, whether you're here, I don't care how many years you've taught You have never had an ornary kid, an ornry boy in your Sunday school class that was worse than Brian Schofield. I was a teacher's nightmare. Teachers used to go on vacation after Sunday and having me for 45 minutes in Sunday school Okay, there were teachers that we I literally drove out of the job. Okay. After a while, when I was starting to get old enough. I informed my parents, I'm not going to church. I didn't get anything out of it. I didn't, you know, I I never heard the gospel. I never, the Bible never made any sense to me. So I quit going to church. But there was this church beside us. When I got into high school, I was a sophomore in high school. My father knew some of the people that went to that church. I knew some of the people that went to that church. There was a man there at that church that invited my father out to, I'm going to give you the name, what they called it. They called it Fishers of Men. It was an evening dinner, three times in the fall, okay, September, October, November, and then in uh January, February, and March Okay, six times a year when the men of the church put on a dinner and they would invite As you would expect from hearing that word, fishes of men, they would invite many of their unsafe friends in. Wonderful dinner. I mean uh it was a man, they always had a bench to have a man's dinner. there, you know, what I call a man's dinner. I mean steak. I mean it wasn't one piece of chicken. Okay. It was a half a chicken. Okay. Um you know it was it was it was good food, a lot of it, and there was a speaker. There would be a speaker. Uh I would tell you that some of the finest speakers available in the country and some of the most famous men, okay, that Spoke at that Fishers have been dinner. People I heard like uh a man you probably you've never heard of, Nelson Blount. Okay, this man was a multimillionaire several times over. Um he had connections with Steam Town. uh up in Scranton Wilkes Berry area. Okay, some of the trains up there he had bought. He just went out and bought 'em. Some of the steam locomotives. And he had uh the Ederville Railroad on Cape Quad, which another place in Vermont, and and he spoke And I was there to hear it. Other people I I did not hear of, and maybe some older people will recognize the name. R. G. Laterno. R. G. Laterno was in a construction business. He gave away about 90% of his income went to the church. I mean, when he tied, it wasn't 10%. He kept the 10%. Okay, 90% went to church admissions. Great men of God. This man would invite my father to come. To those dinners. Sometimes my father would go, sometimes he wouldn't, and one day, the last dinner of the year in March. My father said, Why don't you go with me? So I went. I heard the gospel for the first time. I didn't understand it, but I was curious. Very curious. Come that fall, I was a junior in high school. Dad said, You want to go back? I said, Yeah, yeah, I'll go back. I'll go back. I went back in September. I went back in October. First part of November I got a call one night at dinner. We sat down for dinner at six o'clock. In our house dinner was six o'clock. If you were there, you ate. If you were a minute late, forget it. You didn't eat. Okay? That was the rule in our house. I got a call. Mom answered the phone. She said it's for you. I asked Dad, is it okay? Yeah. Go talk. So I went to talk. This man's son, two years older than I was, and I knew him well, was on the phone and said, Hey, we're having a youth rally. Would you like to go with us? We're going to Boston for this big youth rally. Youth rally? What's a youth rally? I didn't know anything about that. He said it's I said when? He said Saturday night. I said, Oh my goodness. I got nothing Saturday night. Oh what am I going to say I didn't want to go, but I found myself saying yes. Got back to the table, Dad says what? I said, well, I I said Dave and I mentioned his last name. I said Dave called me Yeah, he said, what do you want? He wanted me to go with the youth group to this youth rally. I said, okay. That said, yeah, he said, that's okay. So, Saturday night came. I got, I mean, Saturday night in the 1960s, when you were over to a youth rally. You wore a tie and a sport jacket and a shirt. Sometimes you didn't wear the sport jacket, but you always wore a tie and a shirt. Then I I didn't want to stick out like a sore thumb. I wanted to just sort of you know, like a lot of people I just you don't understand this when you look at me, but I wanted to fade into the background. Those were days, okay, when I was Many pounds less than what I am, and I could do it. Okay. So I went. I got to the church. I said, I've not been in this church before. I didn't know much about it. I just thought the people were kind of I just thought, you know, uh, you know, they're f friendly, but you know, they may be s Like all churches, there's people that's not friendly. I get in there and I noticed a side. We met in a youth room. The choir, the youth choir was singing that night. There was about sixty choir members and about, oh, maybe fifteen or eighteen that weren't in the choir So there was about eighty kids in the youth, eighty eight there was more than that. There was almost a hundred kids, but that night there was eighty kids going to Boston And when we went to Bob, we didn't have a bus. So everybody just piled in cars. You put six, eight people. If you had a station wagon, you put twelve. Okay. In the car you we drove, we drove into Boston. But there was a sign on the bulletin board of the youth room just before you go out, and right beside the bulletin board was a door that went out to church. I've never forgotten that sign. The sign said this does God seem far away? Who do you think moved? Wow. I said, wow, yeah, I I didn't know what it meant, but it's always stuck with me. It was it stuck with my mind that night. We got into Boston, and here it is, 600 kids in this church. Park Street Church in Boston, very famous church. And it was a A meeting and the meeting was Boston Youth Time. It was an organization. It was run by a man that became very dear to me. The man's name was John DeBryne. He was the pastor of the Ruggle Street Baptist Church in Boston, Massachusetts. John DeBrine was at that time was oh I'd say mid-40s, but dynamic. Really dynamic. And that night they had a guest speaker, and the man's name was Jack Wirtson From Ward of Life in New York City. I didn't know these guys. I sat down. I was kind of out of place because you know where they led me. I mean right up to the front of church. I sat on this side of church, but I was only about six pews back from the front. The fellow I was with, Dave, said, Oh, he says, we have to sit up here because we're singing as part of Jack Watson's radio broadcast at 7:30 tonight. I said Said, okay, we have to be able to get to the stage and get off the stage, huh? Okay, that makes sense. Well I sat there. They went through the preliminaries, went through the the radio broadcast. Jack Wertzon did his radio broadcast after that. I'm getting ready. It's over. No, it wasn't over. Jack Wortz had only just begun to speak. And he spoke to the youth. I don't remember everything about his address. What he said that night. But I felt something inside. I can't describe it even now, because I couldn't put it into words then. But when the invitation was given, when the invitation was given, he said, if you're interested in receiving Christ, raise your hand. I raised my hand. We all stood up and started singing. Okay, I said I said I said, what I said to myself, what's going on here? What's happening here? I questioned it in my own heart. What's going on here? I don't know. We stood up, we started singing, and he said, I would like those of you who raise your hand just to come forward. We'd like to talk to you. We have something for you. Would you come forward? I thought my jaw broke because I thought it hit the floor when I heard that. I said, I can't do that. I can't go forward. I can't I'm I'm not going forward. I can't go forward I'll tell you how I knew my salvation was real. As I said that to myself, as I said that to myself. I prayed a little prayer, and my little prayer was this: Lord, I don't know if I can go forward. At the very instant, I don't mean I mean there wasn't a split second between that and the fellow beside me leaning over and saying You know, if you want to go forward, I'll go with you. I said, this is real. This is real. He had to run to stay with me to get up to the front. I just I just pushed him out of the way and I was up at the front and and then He was with me. And that was the night I got saved. That was not a popular decision in my family. Mom and Dad say, Well, we like you going out with those kids because those kids are nice kids. But we don't want you messing with anything that they believe. So you know what I told my mom? Sorry, mom, but it just happened. And you know what? This is the first time in my life that I was confronted by what I felt was reality. This is reality. I now have fellowship with my God. I got home that night, told my parents what happened, went to my bedroom. Okay, and you know what I started doing? I started reading the Gospel of John. They gave me one of these little Pocket Testament League Gospels of John. It was something where you could fit in your shirt pocket And I started reading that and reading that and reading that. I wore that book out. I read the Gospel of John about six times in two days. I couldn't get enough of it. That's when I got saved. That's the part of the testimony I want to give you. But the important thing was this. There was a fella That fellow got up this morning in New Hampshire. That's where he lives today. There was a fellow that invited me. Lives in New Hampshire today. He got dressed. And he's in church this morning. He's in church this morning. This fella has a physical impairment that relates to his speech. Okay? He is not what I would call, or what anyone in the Christian church would call a great witnessing Christian. He doesn't go out necessarily on soul winning because people have a hard time understanding what he says Okay? But I know one thing. He witnessed to me. And you know what he is? Psalm one, he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water that brings forth fruit in his season His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. When I look at the fella that invited me out that night, became a very good friend of mine Okay. Uh yeah. I'll I'll tell my I might tell you this if I have a second or two. He became a tree. There are a couple of other situations that he was involved in. But he's not one dozens of people to Christ. Because of his speech. But he can invite someone to church. But he's a tree. I want to get you to think this morning of yourself as a tree. You are a tree. The fruit you bring forth is found in Galatians. It's found in Galatians. What purpose does witnessing have? You know what you've got to do as a tree? You know what you're witnessing is when you win someone else to Christ? You're planting another tree. You're not bringing forth fruit, you're planting another tree. That's what you're doing. So that tree can grow and bring forth its own fruit. There's only two ways you get a f fruit from a fruit tree. Okay? Most of us Most of us are very, very much like what we find in Romans, where Paul talks about The wild olive tree that was grafted in. Most of us have lived part of our life, and we were sort of grafted in. We are sort of grafted into the root of Jesus Christ. Maybe a little bit later in life, maybe a little bit early, but we've been grafted in. The other way you bring forth fruit is when that fruit comes off the tree. Six months later, there's a little seed right in the middle of that, of that fruit. There's a little seed Okay? This is the part of soul winning that we do not give any attention to. There's a seed in that seed cavity, and that seed will sprout. That seed will sprout and grow another tree. Tom Sharon was out to make cider a couple years ago, and On my garden, I told him, what do you do with all the leftovers from Aikensod? I said, I throw it on the garden and tiller it under. And I said, I told him, I said, in the springtime, I had just hundreds of apple seedlings that'll sprout up in April and May until I till my garden again. And he asked me for some of them. I said, yeah, I'll get you some. I said hundreds, thousands of seedlings. Palmer's got some seedlings in his house. And he told me that right now those seedlings, this was in the fall of 2010, but right now those seedlings are that big. How far away are they from growing and bringing forth fruit Years. I mean years. And unless you give a lot of attention in fertilizer and water and cultivation, okay, you're ten years away From getting any fruit. But that's how the tree multiplies. You either graph something in, put in a good thing, or you get that seed planted. There's only two ways. When you show forth the fruit of the Spirit, there should be a seed there And maybe that seed will grow. But like a lot of people that sit back and say, well, my testimony is enough to show other people that I'm a Christian. Yeah, it might be enough, but I'm going to tell you what. It's an awful long process. And some people will never get it. Okay? We need to graft people in, get people. Twenty-five, thirty-five, forty-five, fifty, sixty. And we need to explain to them the Word of God and graft them in, not only into the church of God, but into our own congregation. So I want you to think of a couple of things. One, the fruit of the Spirit relates to your personal characteristics. You want somebody to see Christ, then you you better have the fruit of the Spirit in your heart. Will it bring people to Christ, just like my friend Dave? Yes, it will. But it's a long process. But there's also another way. That's what the pastor talks about when he talks about soul winning. There's another way. We go out and we tell people about Christ and we ask them to make a decision. We invite them to church. We invite them to the wild game dinner that's coming up next Saturday. You have somebody you could call, somebody you could visit, somebody you know, invite them out. Okay? Invite them out. Use use the mouth. Okay? Invite them out. Okay? That's how we do soul winning. Soul winning isn't necessarily the fruit, because you're going to wait a while. Before there's fruit in some people's lives. I know people that have made a profession of faith in Christ, and it's been four or five years before you saw fruit. Sometimes you see a lot of fruit right away. One of the people that I know and you all know that I saw I wasn't here when he got saved, but he brought forth fruit right away. That was Mike Stubler. I mean, he brought forth fruit right away. Okay? So whether you're doing it for the long term, or whether you're going out personal soul winning, it's all soul winning It's also winning if you show forth the fruit of the Spirit. And that's what the fruit of the Spirit is. My goodness. I've got to quit. I have to quit. Uh you know, it's funny. I'd like to give you the next forty-five minutes right now. But I'm not gonna do that. I'm not going to do that. Okay? All I want you to do is consider this. Consider it. What kind of trio am I? Now there is a place in Scripture where you might have a tree, like there was in my backyard when I was growing up that my grandfather planted. And he planted this tree and he made four graphs on that tree. He took the four branches and made four grafts on that tree, and that was the most beautiful apple tree you'd ever want to see. But we never got an apple off of it Never. Two years ago when Sandy and I went by my home place, the apple tree is gone. Somebody finally realized it's not any good. We're going to cut that thing out. Well, it's about time because the thing was fifty years old or more. Okay. So they cut it out. It's a shame for you as a Christian.