Galatians chapter 5, if you would notice with me verse 22 and 23. I'd like for us to read these two verses together in unison. These are a list of the fruit singular of the Spirit. And if you have it there, begin reading with me in verse 22. Ready? Here we go. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace. Long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, against such there is no law How many people would say with me, well, I sure could use some of that fruit in my life? I want to speak this morning on joy. A fruit of the Holy Spirit. Now, last Sunday we began a series, a summer series, preaching series. I like to do this sometimes in the summer, just a little few weeks, and we're preaching on joy. Summer of joy is what I'm calling it. Last week, we preached on joy in the midst of trials And this week I want to preach on joy, a fruit of the Holy Spirit. I'll just kind of give you a little insight here, what my thinking is. Considering it all joy when we fall into diverse temptations, that's not the easiest thing in the world, right or wrong. I mean, just I'm going through, man, I'm going through it's hard. I'm supposed to consider this joy. Today, I believe the passage we're looking at today tells us how That can take place. Joy is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. So let's pray together and we'll look at this here and ask the Lord to help us. Father. And Lord, it's so good to be in your house, so good to be with your people. And Lord, we love you, and we need you, as Mark sang. We want to be a shining testimony, this old world, of what Christianity is, what salvation is, what it means to be a child of God. Lord, we need your help to do that, to live that out and see this fruit in our lives. I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. God, I know my own sinful heart, and Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body. I have nothing of myself that would be of any spiritual value to anyone, so we it needs to be from you, Lord. And so again, I yield my will and present my body, pray that you would speak through me, that you would be the preacher, that you would convict us and teach us, lead us, direct us, encourage, and challenge us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I was saved, as you know, back in 1979, May 7, 1979. I began going to church right away. Just God put that desire to go to church and be with God's people. I began growing. I love the preaching of the Word of God. Man, just teaching and preaching. I just wanted to learn. And there was an illustration that preachers used back then. I hadn't heard folks use it in a long time. I do every now and then But illustrating what the Christian life is like. And I believe it's based on true story. I think it's an actual event. Back in the early days of our country As Europeans were coming here and settling. There's a lot uh there was Christians, there was missionaries who were targeting the American Indians And they would go and uh try and get the gospel to them. And there was some had tremendous success. There was a lot of uh Native Americans that had heard the gospel, believed, and got saved. And many of them actually became missionaries themselves. You don't hear much about that in history, but nevertheless, it's true. And uh There's one Indian that had gotten saved an Indian chief, and he was teaching others, and they were talking about the Christian life, and he made this statement, and this is what struck me. Years ago, it's always stuck in my mind. He made this statement. He says, Inside me. There is like two dogs that fight each other. One is a light dog and one is a dark dog. And they fight and fight and fight. One wants me to do evil and do wrong and sin against my Savior And the other one wants me to do right and honor the Lord and please him and live for God. And somebody asked him, they said, Shape, which dog wins? And he said, The dog I feed the most. Is the dog that wins. You know what he was referencing? He was referencing the conflict in the life of a believer between the old sinful nature, what we call the flesh, and Paul talks it here in Galatians, the flesh versus the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit, that conflict back and forth. It is important, I believe it's important for every believer to understand that within your heart and soul, and within my heart and soul, there is this lifelong conflict between the Holy Spirit of God and between my old sinful flesh. Now, we talk about the flesh, we're not talking about the muscles and bones and and blood and and organs and uh um uh uh sinew and tendons and um what else makes up your body? uh fluids and toenails. We're not talking about We're not talking about the physical flesh, the physical body. When the Bible references the flesh, it's talking about that sinful nature that all of us have. Now we're talking to saved people. If you're here or you're in the sound of my voice, you're tuning in, and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, you don't have that conflict. All you've got is the flesh. We'll talk about that here in a bit. But for those that know the Lord Jesus Christ, the Savior, we have that conflict. How many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. How many people know what I'm talking about? That conflict? Well, wasn't saved long. When I got saved, wasn't saved long. Brother, there was still that old uh uh they used to call me Denny. That old Denny was still there. And brother, and I tell you, it threw me for a little while. When I first got saved, I thought, what in the world? I wanted to live for God, I wanted to do right. Tell you, when I got saved, it was all in for Christ But I had this part in me, this dark corners of my soul that still would draw back to those old sinful things. And I had to learn this lesson, that that's a lifelong conflict. If you would, look here in Galatians chapter 5. Come up to verse number 15. Paul addresses this He says, but if you bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another. This I say then. Now look at this: walk in the spirit, and you shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. You have a choice, you have a decision. What am I going to feed? What am I going to give attention to? Now look at verse seventeen. Here's it's important to understand this as a believer I don't believe a person is going to grow very strong and be very successful in a Christian life if they don't understand this truth right here. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit. Now, what do you notice about that word spirit there? As a capital, that means it's referring to who? The Holy Spirit of God. The flesh, that old sinful nature, lust. Against the Spirit. And look at this. And the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, against the flesh. And these two, and these are what? Contrary one to another. The word contrary there means set in opposition to one another. The lines are drawn. The battle lines are drawn. The flesh The old sinful nature on one side and the s Holy Spirit of God on the other side. They're contrary one to another. So that you cannot do the things that you would. Paul talked about that in Romans chapter 7. He said, the things I want to do, I know I should do. I find myself not doing and things I shouldn't do. Oh, I end up doing them. Paul's Paul's talking about this conflict, this this contrary, this this battle line between the flesh and the Holy Spirit. Now that word lust there, we think, we hear the word lust, we think of sensual desires and sensual, uh lusting, uh uh we think of that. The word lust itself simply means this, to have a strong desire for, to intensely desire And what he's doing, he's explaining here that the sinful nature, my flesh, wants to control my life, wants to rule my life. And the Holy Spirit of God intensely desires to control me and and uh fill me and and bear this fruit in my life. And so we have this conflict going on. uh one with another. And so I think it's important to understand that. Then he comes down to the passage we read here a little bit ago and he he uh uh describes the characteristics of these two opposing forces. Look with me again at verse 19. And he says this, the works of the flesh. Now that word works, I circled it in my Bible. It means this, what my sinful nature produces. It's a word that would kind of come from the idea of a factory and it's producing something, what it spits out Some of our men worked down at GM uh in Baltimore years ago. And that factory would work there and it would spit out. It would produce cars. That's what came out of that factory Some ran all right, some didn't. But uh uh I'm gonna hear about that, I guarantee ya. I'm gonna get hate mail on that one. But uh it's what it produces, it what comes out. And Paul is saying that this old sinful nature that you and I as believers still possess, it's still very much alive This is what it produces. This is what when the flesh is in control, this is the works you're going to see. Now look at the list here: adultery. Fornication. Uncleanness. Lasciviousness basically means lawlessness. No restraint. Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, I mean, just here and there, into this and into that, no consistency, emulations, wrath Strife, seditions, heresy. False doctrine. Heresy is a work of the flesh. He envies murders, drunkenness, revelings, and such light The works of the flesh, what my sinful nature produces. Now look at that list that I read through there very carefully, very distinctly, and there's something not mentioned there There's one thing that we are preaching on in our little summer series. I'm trying to do everything I can to help you to get what I'm at. It is not mentioned there. What is it? There's no word of joy or anything even remotely similar to joy. Here's my point. This old sinful nature is incapable It's incapable, my sinful nature is incapable of producing any joy in my life. Any joy in my life. Oh, the old sinful nature can get you laughing. There's a world of difference between laughing and being joyful. Amen or not. Tell you, some of the people who laugh the most are the unhappiest. These guys on Hollywood and on the uh TV and stuff, uh these comedians. Did you ever notice a lot of them, not all of them, but a lot of them, drunkards Take their lives. They're miserable. Why do you think television shows, and I don't watch them, we haven't had cable a long time, I don't watch a lot of these these uh these these um uh what are the The sitcoms, I'm telling you, most most probably all of them are filthy as can be. But you notice they always have a little laugh track down there. Because people wouldn't laugh at it if they weren't prompted to do so. My point I'm trying to make is this: this whole flesh will not give you and me joy. We have a world full of people. I hate to say it. We've got Christians are running after the lust of the flesh. Try and find some happiness, try and find some joy, try and find some peace down in their heart and soul. And I'm telling you right now, it will never happen. Never not going to happen. Because the flesh is incapable of producing genuine joy. Oh, you can laugh. Oh happy. Oh I'm so happy. I got a new house. Oh I got a new car. I'm happy. Oh I got my truck started. I'm happy. I haven't got my truck started yet, but um so I'm not happy You know what happiness is based on? What's happening around me. As long as things are my way, the bills are paid, I'm Healthy, I got this, that, the other. Oh, I'm so happy. And it's always something else we're gonna have to get. I need a bigger house, I need a fancier car, I need a faster motorcycle, I need a uh a more expensive purse I need more shoes. Then I'll be happy. It's never going to happen. The flesh cannot produce peace and joy So he goes down this list here, and by the way, there at the end of verse number 21, he says, They which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God. What he's saying is, those who live like this, this is their life, and there's no conviction, there's no resistance. From the Holy Spirit, uh living like this. Uh you can claim to be saved all you want, but if a uh I'm saying this. The Bible teaches this, you can be claimed that you can claim to be saved all you want But if you can live like this list here, and there's no conviction, there's no work of the Holy Spirit confronting that Paul says your claim to be a child of God is illegitimate, Hebrews chapter 12. There's no chastening, there's no Holy Spirit conviction there. And so he gives this list of works of the flesh, and noticeably absent, particularly in our concern right now, is this joy. It's not there. You can't help but look out at our world. There is an absence of joy in our world. Right or wrong. Absence of joy. Absence of joy. There's anger. There's wrath. Adultery, fornication on every hand. I tell you what the sad thing is, so many Christian homes, Christian hearts and lives, and sometimes even in churches. There's an absence of joy. There's an absence of this fruit of the Holy Spirit. And there's so much works of the flesh. And so our challenge is and our and our our our focus here in this series is how can I as a Christian As a child of God living in this world that has such a vacuum of joy, how can I have that? In my own life, in the uh in uh when uh trials come, how can I count it all joy when I fall into diverse temptations? How can I rejoice when I have an old sinful nature and I live in a world like this? Well, the Bible tells us that we can. We can have that. Look at verse 22 again. But he contrasts, here's the works of the flesh, ugly, ugly less, nasty. But verse 22, but The fruit of the Spirit. Now, the works of the flesh, that which the flesh produces, this is what it'll produce. This is what you get when you let the flesh in control. But the fruit of the Holy Spirit, this is what the Holy Spirit bears. This is what the Holy Spirit doesn't produce, it just grows. The fruit of the Holy Spirit. The works of the flesh is that which comes naturally without the presence of God in my life. But the fruit of the Holy Spirit of the Spirit is what God produces in my life through the presence of the Holy Spirit in my life. This isn't something I work up. It's a fruit of the Spirit. I got a little apple tree in my backyard. Brian helped me. This was, man, how long ago was that? Five years probably? Planted that thing Yeah, maybe. Uh I got my first apples this year, finally, uh through much patience and endurance and long suffering. I finally got and there's three apples on it. I am so excited. I got three apples. I go out and look at that thing. I say, what in the world's wrong with you, apple tree? Where's the apples? You know, and that apple tree was out there going like this. I'm trying so hard. No. I've never seen an apple tree straining to try and produce apples. You know what? They just grow. They just produce. And so this is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. You say, preacher, you're preaching on being joyful and having joy, a summer of joy. And man, there's so many things going on, so many discouraged things, so many fearful things going on. I am trying so hard to be joyful. I'm telling you, that ain't gonna work This is not something we work up. This is not something we strain, I'm going to be joyful. If I die, I'm going to be joyful. No, no, no. This is something that who? God, the Holy Spirit, bears this fruit in my life. The Holy Spirit does this. This is, in a very real way, a supernatural act of God. It's not what I do. It's not a human product. It's not a human, there's no program. All right, we got a program for producing joy. Come every Monday night Come here. Uh all right, this is the Joyful Anonymous. Uh we're gonna have this program. Follow these steps and you'll be joyful. Who's here tonight? Hi, I'm Bob. Hi, Bob. There's no program that produces this. This is God does this in the heart and life of the believer. This is the presence of the Holy Spirit. It's not something I work up, it's not something I can produce. It's something God does. Now, the Holy Spirit of God is very, very important in the life of a believer. I don't know if we talk about the Holy Spirit and teach and preach about the Holy Spirit as much as we ought to. I was talking to a preacher friend yesterday, about an hour on the phone, called me up He's preaching a sermon on the Holy Spirit. He said, Pray uh he said, Brother Leatherman, I just want to uh run this by you, make sure I've got this right. I said, Well, if it agrees with me, it's right, of course And uh it was about the Holy Spirit. And he nailed it, I thought, but um preaching on the Holy Spirit. And he made this statement, as we were talking, made this statement. He says, you know. I'm afraid we've neglected on teaching and preaching on the Holy Spirit as much as we ought to. You and I, as a Christians, are as dependent upon the Holy Spirit living the Christian life as we're dependent on God the Father. We need the Holy Spirit of God in our lives just as much as we need the Lord Jesus Christ. We need the Holy Spirit in our lives to help us live the Christian life, to produce this fruit, as much as we need Jesus Christ to save our soul in the first place. He said, without me, you can do nothing. Lord, I need you, Mark saying. Say, how can I be joyful? Lord, I need you. I need your Holy Spirit. to produce this fruit in my life. And so it's the Holy Spirit is vitally important. If we study the New Testament particularly, actually study the whole Bible, and I don't uh this is a little aside, I don't want to get off on this But if we study the New Testament in particular on the Holy Spirit, there's some things we learn about the Holy Spirit and his role in our life as Christians. First of all, one thing we learn, and again, I'm not going to go reference all this. I can preach another sermon. I can help you know if you have a question, I'll answer later. But one thing we find that the Holy Spirit does, the moment I get saved, the Holy Spirit of God indwells me as a believer The moment I trust Christ, May 7, 1979, 10:30 at night, kneeling by my bed, I call on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior. That instant, the Holy Spirit of God took up residence in my body Uh preacher said you've got a holy tenant living in your body, the Holy Spirit of God. And I tell you I learned that in the discipleship, the months following, uh, two fellows discipled me and I learned that but I never got a hold of it until I was in Bible college. Excuse me, and um one day in doctrines class this came up and man it hit me like a ton of bricks The Holy Spirit of God, the God that spoke this universe into existence, the God that is all-powerful This morning I read in my devotions Solomon was dedicating the temple, and he knelt and he lifted his hands and he made this statement to God. He said, The heaven of heavens cannot contain thee. I was looking at the stars in the sky last night with my new eyeballs, and I thought, man, all that's air, and it God is bigger. Than this universe, the immensity of our God. And it dawned on me, he dwells inside my body, in the person of the Holy Spirit. That's amazing. I mean this very humble but good looking body here The Holy Spirit of God indwells right here inside this chest. And if you're saved, he dwells in you too. Man, that's a game changer right there. How can I have joy in this in my situation? I'll tell you I have joy in this situation. You got an all-powerful, eternal, immortal God dwelling within you in the person of the Holy Spirit. And the other thing we find if we study about the Holy Spirit in the New Testament is this: not only did He indwell me the moment I got saved, but the Bible says in Ephesians that he seals me until the day of redemption. I love that thought. Sealed. Kept secure till the day of redemption. And again I want to talk about that, but we don't have time. Indwelling of the Holy Spirit, the ceiling of the Holy Spirit. That's a once-for-all event. God indwells me. He seals me, it's settled. But then he go on, and we find the Bible, and particularly in um uh Acts, but in Ephesians, he mentions it, the filling of the Holy Spirit. How many people ever heard a preacher preach about being Filled with the Holy Spirit. Yeah. I prayed just a few minutes ago. I do every time I preach. Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. That simply means this. The Holy Spirit takes control, and there's no room for the flesh. There's no room for my own will. It's all the Lord taking over. And so the filling of the Holy Spirit for the believer. You study the Bible and you find out this: that as a believer, I can grieve the Holy Spirit. You know, God's emotional. God has emotions. We can please Him. And we can grieve the Holy Spirit. I can make God say it Now that's mind-boggling. But through, and if you study it there in Ephesians, it has to do mostly with how I talk. Attitudes and stuff like that. I'm telling you, some stuff that comes out of the mouths of Christians grieves the Holy Spirit of God. Things we say about each other and about other people. So I can grieve the Holy Spirit. Also, the Bible teaches, New Testament particularly, that I can quench the Holy Spirit Now what does that mean? The word quench means to suppress. Put down. Oh, I was mowing grass. I was so thirsty, I had to get some water and quench my thirst. Put it down and squash it and um uh uh Suppress it at first. We can take the Holy Spirit. I've seen it, I'm I hate to say it, I I wish I had other, but I know I've done it myself. Holy Spirit, God speaks to my heart through a passage of scripture or something. And he prompts me to do something and uh my own sinful, selfish, no, I'm not going to do that. And I resist the Spirit and I say no and I quench him. I've seen it preaching, I've seen it Preach and give the gospel, give an invitation, folks to be saved. I could give you illustrations, folks that sit there and I can see their thoughts just like I'm watching a screen. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Quenching the Spirit, the Spirit of God's prompting someone to go and get saved, trust Christ, and they resist it and they quench that spirit. I found you do that long enough, and the Holy Spirit says, All right, I'll not bother you anymore. So the Holy Spirit's role in the life of the believer, he indwells us the moment we're saved, he seals us He can if we allow him to fill us and empower us to be a witness and to live for him. We can grieve the Holy Spirit by how we act and things we say. We can quench the Holy Spirit when he convicts us and prompts us and tries to lead us. We can quench him. And the one other one is what we're at now: the fruit of the Holy Spirit. The Bible teaches that the Holy Spirit of God, indwelling you and I, can and will, if we walk in the Spirit, bear fruit. In our lives. Spiritual fruit. And my, what a list of that fruit there. Now it's interesting, he says, fruit singular. Not fruits of the Holy Spirit. And singular. All aspects, all of these lists here: love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. All that is one fruit, but it has characteristics, various characteristics. I like oranges. I don't know if anybody likes oranges. I like to eat them. I like to put them out for the Orioles. Orioles come and eat the oranges, I like to watch them. And um it gets expensive after a while, but uh uh but you take that orange and you peel it off, and it's one fruit, but it's made up of a lot of what Different segments there. There's little uh those little um uh s sections. Um thank you And uh you pull that apart. I think that's kind of what the Holy Spirit, what the Bible is telling us here about the Holy Spirit. He bears fruit in our life, but there's all these characteristics of that fruit. I think this. I don't think we can pick and choose which of these fruit, these characteristics of the fruit we want. In other words. If the Holy Spirit is bearing this fruit in my life, they're all going to be there. Not just this one and that one. In other words, you can't bear it you won't have the fruit of the Holy Spirit of love And the joy be absent. Or the temperance be absent. Or the goodness be absent. They're all they come in a package. You get one, you get them all. I don't think you can pick and choose. And I think it's interesting here if you look at this list, what's the one on the first named in this list? What aspect of the fruit? Verse 1. Love. You say, what well that doesn't matter what order it's in, just because that's first, that doesn't mean anything. Oh, you don't know God very well if you think that way. God does everything on purpose. And it's not just a coincidence that love is the very first one listed in these characteristics of the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Love, why would it be first? Why would God list love as the very first one? Well, a fellow came to Jesus one time and he said, Lord, he said, Master What is the greatest commandment? What was Jesus' answer? Greatest commandment is this: thou shalt love the Lord thy God. But he didn't stop there. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength, with all thy mind. And he didn't stop there. And the second is like unto it. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. You know why I think the first characteristic of the fruit of the Holy Spirit listed is love? Because that is the chief of all Christian characteristics. Love. In fact, I don't think you're going to have any of those other characteristics there until the fruit of love comes. The love is in place. If I don't love God, I don't love my neighbor as myself, I am never going to have joy. Pacher, I just can't seem to. I just can't get joy. I'm just miserable all the time. Well, try loving God. Try loving others. Try loving your enemies. I heard a preacher years ago said a lady kept coming to him complaining how miserable she is. I'm so unhappy. I'm so miserable. Finally, she was driving him nuts. Finally says, I'll tell you, this is what you need to do. You go home and bake you a bunch of, she was had blueberry uh muffins she would make is you go home and make you a couple dozen blueberry muffins. By the way, that's not bad advice if you all I know somebody that would help. But uh he said, you go make a couple dozen blueberry muffins And you go down to the nursing home, you go room to room, and you just give them to the people there. You talk to the people a little bit. That ain't gonna help me! Stormed out A week later she came back, she go, preacher, I got thinking about that, and the Lord dealt with my heart. And I went ahead and followed your advice. I went down to nursing home. I made those muffins, gave them out to everybody. She says, you know what? It's been the most joyful week of my life. I don't know when I've been happier. I don't have love for God and for others, even my enemies. I'm not going to have joy. You can try and strain all you want. Fruit of the Spirit is love and then joy. Love and then joy. Everything, I believe, every characteristic following this, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, I think all that flows out. Of the love that the Holy Spirit of God puts in my heart and soul for God the Father, the Lord Jesus Christ the Holy Spirit, and for my neighbor. All that comes as a package, the fruit singular of the Spirit. And so our theme, our concern is that second word, joy. Our summer series, the preaching series, summer of joy. I like that thought. Last week, joy in the midst of trials. Phew, that's tough. How do I do that? This week, because joy is a fruit of the Holy Spirit. I don't have to work that up. I don't have to grit my teeth and I'm gonna be joyful if it kills me. That's not the way it works. It's the Holy Spirit of God dwelling inside the believer. The Holy Spirit is I yield to him and submit my will to him. Not my will, Lord, but thy will be done And the Holy Spirit bears that fruit. The love is there and the joy. Um, you're here, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. Oh, you might be religious, you might know a lot of Bible verses. May even be a teach Sunday school. But if you never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, you've never been saved, you don't have the Holy Spirit dwelling in you Anybody listening in online, watch online, if you've not been saved, you're uh you're on your own. All you've got is the flesh. I tell you what you need more than anything in this world is you need to trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Most important issue in any person's life is the salvation of the soul only Returning to Christ, trusting Him as my personal Savior, and Him giving me new life, eternal life. Once that takes place, I have the Holy Spirit. And I can bear this. Let me give you real quick three thoughts on this fruit of the Spirit, joy. Number one, it's attainable. It's attainable. You say, preacher, I don't think I can ever be happy. I don't think I can ever be joyful. That's not true. If you're saved, you have the com every believer has the capacity of being joyful. Doesn't matter what their circumstances are, doesn't matter what their person well I just don't have a happy personality. Yeah, we know. Um But it doesn't matter what your personality is, you can still have the joy of the Lord. You say, preacher, I'm just not naturally that way. I know we're all naturally sinners But we're not talking about what we are naturally. We're talking about the presence of Almighty God and the person of the Holy Spirit, Him producing that joy in my life. Are you with me? Everybody with me this morning? Follow what I'm saying? And so it is attainable. Regardless of the circumstances I'm in. Preacher, you don't know what my circumstances are. Yes, I agree. I probably don't, but I know this: if you're safe, I know who indwells you. And there's not a circumstance the devil's come up with, this whole world's come up with that is greater than the God of the universe. Regardless of our circumstances, regardless of what personality we may or may not have, regardless of our past history, preacher, if you know what I've done, you know why I can't ever be happy. Doesn't matter what you've done. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are new. I'm a believer in Christ. Christ's mercy is new every morning. So what I'm saying is this, joy is possible, is attainable for every child of God. Not because of our circumstances, not because of our personality, not because of our history, but because of who indwells us. Holy Spirit of God. Every believer has the Holy Spirit. Now again, if the person's unsaved, you have no Holy Spirit. You have no fruit of the Spirit. This isn't something I work up. Isn't something that's dependent upon how long I've been saved. Well, if I was saved a little longer, then I Then I'd be have this joy. No, uh a person uh little kid got saved. Uh we had one of our little children was saved here a week or two ago. And uh person saved last week can have the joy of the can have the fruit of the spirit uh immediately. You say a six year old boy can have the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Yeah. Preacher, I'm so old I'll never be happy. Uh you know a hundred and Twelve-year-old grouchy Christian can have the joy of the Holy Spirit, can have the fruit of the Spirit joy because the Holy Spirit dwells within him. Preacher, I've been miserable so long I'll never be happy. That's not true. If you're saved, Holy Spirit will give you joy. Are you with me? So it's attainable. There's no circumstance or situation where a Christian cannot have the joy of the Lord. Say, well, what if they're living in sin? Yeah, repent of their sin, get filled with the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit bear that fruit. If I'm resisting the Holy Spirit, if I'm grieving the Holy Spirit, if I'm quenching the Holy Spirit, I'm not going to have the fruit of the Sp If I yield my will to him and say like Jesus did in the Garden of Gethsemane, not my will, but thy will be done. It's interesting. And in Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 12. Paul had a thorn in the flesh. Anybody remember that? Anybody remember that? He said, I had a thorn in the flesh, painful, and a messenger of Satan to buffet me. Oh, he was discouraged. It made it unhappy. It was the tearing him down. This physical pain that devil was using it just to beat Paul down. I sought the Lord Christ that he removed this from me. And the Lord said, no, I'm not going to remove it from you. I'm putting my own words. He says, but my grace is sufficient for thee. You know what Paul said? Therefore I will greatly rejoice. In my affliction. Do you know what happened? He said, Lord, not my will. If this is your will for me to have this physical ailment, then I yield that to you. I accept it. And the Holy Spirit of God were the fruit of joy in his life. Because he got himself out of the way, he yielded his will to the Lord. And the Holy Spirit could bear that fruit. It's usually one thing a Christian is unwilling to give up, let the Spirit of God fill them. Some sin, some selfish thing I'm holding on to, and God deals with it, deals with it. Finally, when I let go of that, then the Holy Spirit can start to bear that fruit. So it's attainable regardless of past, history, age, uh personality, circumstance. Number two, it's internal I've kind of been beaten this a little bit, but it's important. The Holy Spirit bears this fruit from within It's not an ex- it doesn't have this joy, it doesn't have an external circumstance. Here's the problem: everybody's looking for joy out there. That's why people jump from spouse to spouse to spouse. If I just get another spouse, then I'll be happy. Then I get that one, then I'll really be happy. Then I get that one, I'll really That's not where you're going to find joy. Well, yeah, if I had a nicer car, I mean just go down the list. We tore down all the statues, and we'll be happy. Whatever you come up with. But it it's all it it's all uh uh uh they're looking for joy in all the wrong places It's from within. It's my spiritual condition. It's my spiritual relationship with God and the person of the Holy Spirit who dwells in me. And I yield to Him and I put my will aside and I die to self. And I let the Spirit of God have it. And the Holy Spirit bears that. It's internal. It's internal. As I submit My will to the will of God, the Holy Spirit bears this fruit. All through the book of Acts, all through the book of Acts, you find believers. They're persecuted, they're hated, they're executed, they're imprisoned, they're beaten, they're rejected, they're mocked. You know what you read all through the book of Acts? They had joy. Turn with me real quick. Now I've got a couple minutes left, so turn with me real quick to Acts chapter number five. Acts chapter 1. This is one of the most astounding statements in Scripture, I think. One of them. Acts chapter 5 and verse number 41. I think it would do us all good to dwell on this statement here. These are believers. These are sane people. They love the Lord. They're serving God. They're aggressive with the gospel Verse 41, and they departed from the presence of the council. Now what had the council just done? The council had beaten them, it had threatened them, they had mocked them. Look at verse 40. And when they agreed, when they had beat, and they had called the apostles and beaten them, they commanded them they should not speak in the name of Jesus Christ. And look at verse 41. And they departed from the presence of the council calling the Christian Law Association, and they're going to sue the pants off of those guys for violating their rights. Is that what it says? No. Oh, they were bitter and angry, and they couldn't, they just told everybody how terrible they were treated. No. They departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name. Look what they did. And daily in a temple in every house, they cease not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. How in the world do they do that? I'll tell you how. One then The Holy Spirit of God bearing that fruit in their life. Turn with me, if you would, over to Acts chapter number eight. And um verse number thirty-nine, this is this Ethiopian eunuch. He'd been to Jerusalem worshiping God and left, he was still unsaved. Here's a sad thing. Now this isn't exactly right, but uh I uh he went to church lost and he left church and he was still lost. Went to Jerusalem, unsaved, he left. But he did get a copy of the Word of God. And he's coming back, and the Holy Spirit of God leads Philip miraculously over to catch up with this eunuch in this chariot, and he gets up there, he shows them from scripture how to be saved, and the old boy gets saved. He's from Ethiopia. And look at verse 39. And he wanted to get baptized, so he got baptized. By the way, look at verse 38. He went down into the water. That's immersion. Amen. And he just poured on his head. And the eunuch and he baptized them, verse 39. Look at this. And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip that the eunuch saw him no more, and he went on his way, what? He's always saying, what's different? I'll tell you what's different. Presence of God in his life. He trusted the Lord. Now he's going back to a pagan countries. But he's got the Holy Spirit. He's rejoicing. Let me give you another one here, real quick. Look with me at chapter 16, Acts chapter 16, verse 25. Acts sixteen, verse twenty-five. We know this story. This is Paul and Philippi. And uh this gal gets saved, and um this damsel gets saved. She's possessed of a devil and got her owners uh a lot of money and she gets saved and cast the devil out and all of a sudden now she's not making any money and they get mad they throw 'em in prison and um Look at verse 24, who, having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison and made their feet fast in the in the stocks. Verse 23, they laid many stripes on them, cast them into prison. And then look at verse 25. And at midnight Paul and Silas griped and complained. No. They got wrathful and angry. They plotted to murder them. No, that's the work of the flesh. That's how the flesh responds. Look how they responded. Midnight Paul and Silas prayed and what? Sang praises. Sounds to me there's a little bit of joy there, huh? That sounds to me like fruit of the Spirit. How can they have joy? They've just been beaten with many scapes. And we don't understand the severity, the violence of that. The gore that's involved in that. And then cast in the inner prison, the worst part, and then put in stocks. This is the lowest of the low, the worst they could possibly be treated as prisoners. And they prayed And sang praises. What I'm trying to get at is this. All through the book of Acts, you find people that are treated horrendously. And they're rejoicing. Why? Because the joy was not based on their external circumstance. Joy wasn't based on how they're treated. Their joy was based on what was inside them, the presence of the Holy Spirit and the fruit. Last of all, uh not only is the joy that the Holy Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit joy, available and eternal Uh internal, but it's beneficial. But it's beneficial. We don't have time to look at this. We're not talking about some superficial happiness here. Don't worry, be happy. No, no, no. This is a settled, peaceful, deep joy that the Holy Spirit of God produces in my life And I'll tell you, it is beneficial. In Nehemiah chapter 8 and verse 10, Nehemiah told the fellows that were working with them. They're under attack, they're being slandered, their lives are endangered, and he said this. The joy of the Lord is your strength. Joy of the Lord. I tell you what, you're you and I are much better off if we just yield to the Holy Spirit, let Him produce this joy than if we're trying to fight and and get things lined up and get our circumstances so that where I can be happy if all these circumstances I gotta get this lined up and then he needs to stop doing that and she needs to start this and I need more money and this has to be that way. And it's never gonna happen You're going to be miserable your whole life. If I die to self, say, Lord, not my will, thy will be done. Fill me with your spirit. I yield to you. Holy Spirit brings that. And I'll tell you, our witness is stronger. We have less stress. I found, I noticed there that not one of the fruits of the Spirit is stress. Or depression, or anger. And it's beneficial. We're a whole lot better off. Um A fellow in the third century, that'd be around 400 A. D. , somewhere around there, shortly after Christ, a fellow was sentenced to be executed. And they found in archaeology, they found a letter that this fellow wrote to his friend the night before he was to be executed. Now I don't know exactly where, somewhere in the Middle East there. And he wrote this letter. The night before they're going to execute him. And I don't know how they uh were going to execute him, chop his head off or whatever. But this is what he wrote. Listen to this We live in a bad world. He's writing to his friend the night before they're going to take his life. We live in a bad world, an incredibly bad world. But I have discovered in the midst of this world a quiet and holy people who have learned a great secret They have found a joy which is a thousand times better than any pleasure of a sinful life. They are despised They are beaten and they are persecuted, but they care not. They are masters of their souls. They have overcome the world. Listen to this. These people are the Christians. And I am one of them. You and I live in a bad world. Incredibly bad world But if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, we have dwelling within us the Holy Spirit of God. And we can have a joy Regardless of the world that we live in, we can have a joy that the pleasures of this world can't touch. We know Jesus as Savior. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us to have a summer of joy. I pray you'd help us to come to the point in our Christian lives where we just give ourselves fully over to you. Just say, Lord, not my will. Whatever you bring into my life, whatever your will is for my life, I'm going to take it. I'm going to let your Holy Spirit fill me. And bear this fruit in my life, all of it. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher My Christian life is not what it ought to be. No, I'm saved, no doubt about it, I trusted Christ. But I find that old flesh. Gets the victory more often than he should. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I can walk in the Spirit and not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. For any like that, preacher, I really need to get serious about walking in the spirit. Any others? How about it? Hands all around. Any others? God bless you. That's the key. That's the key. Not my will, but thy will be done. I wonder if there's some here say, preacher, I I know what this joy of the fruit of the Spirit is. I've experienced it. Maybe some, it's an ongoing thing. That's a wonderful way to live. Maybe you say, I know someone, they're struggling. They're just fighting that, they're just dealing with that flesh. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be a shining testimony They can see what the Spirit of God can do in my life. Maybe that will help them. Not to be a show, but just to be a blessing Is there any like that, preacher? I really want this Holy Spirit's fruit so that I can help others. I can help others. God bless you. Hands over. Now, is there someone here this morning that's not saved? You do not know for sure your sins are given on your way to heaven. I'm telling you, God wants to save you. And the Lord's been speaking to your heart. And this morning, you say, preacher, pray for me. Maybe online. Say, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this settled. I don't want to die. I don't want to live and die without the Lord. I need him in my life. I need to be saved. Any at all? Any at all? Anybody online, if that's the case, please contact us. We can help you. We'll show you from Scripture. How to get that settled. Now Father bless our imitation I ask in Jesus' name. Amen