Bibles this evening I'd like you to take them and turn to the book of Acts. When you turn to this great great book of the Bible, and uh we see the beginning of the church and the foundation of the church The first 12 chapters deals with Peter and those that were working with Peter to reach Jews for the Savior. When you get to chapter 13 through the end of the book of Acts, it revolves around Paul and those that were working with him in reaching Gentiles with the gospel of Jesus Christ. You remember Paul wrote to the Romans and he said to the Jew first and then to the Greek. I like that last part because that includes me Uh I'm not a Jew. Uh I know some Jews, but I'm not a Jew, I'm a Gentile. And uh when the Lord uh laid it upon the heart of the Apostle Paul to write that To the Jew first and then to the Greek. I'm glad that that was the open door for you and I, and many of you sitting in this auditorium, to come to know Christ as your personal Savior. So the Book of Acts is a record of the impact the gospel has. So saved, churches were built. People were baptized, and it's all recorded for us. And by the way, I believe when you read the book of Acts, you're reading what God meant the church to be. What he established the church for, and we certainly need to fall in line with what the book of Acts teaches us. There's four words that when you come to the book of Acts are going to be predominant. It characterizes what you find in this book called Acts. The first word is power. The first word is power. Ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. Then another word that I believe characterizes the book of Acts is the word preaching. Paul went everywhere preaching the gospel. And that's what he means for us to do today. Another word that we might not like as well, that characterizes the book of Acts, is persecution. When you stand on the fundamentals of the faith and you align yourself with the work of God and what he's endeavoring to do, there's going to be persecution. There'll be those that stand against you. It could be as close as family members that try to keep you from doing what God wants you to do. It could be next-door neighbors. It could be a whole state and government and all like that that stand in opposition to the gospel of Jesus Christ. So there's going to be persecution And then I believe another word that characterizes the book of Acts is the word progress. Progress from the beginning days of the church To the ascension of our Savior and the ongoing work that we find in the early pages of the book of Acts. It was progress to the very day in which we live. But I want to center on a verse that is extremely important to every one of us. And that is verse number 8 of the very first chapter. The Bible says, And ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and you'll be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, Judea, and Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. When I look at that passage of Scripture, that verse of Scripture right there, I see a promise. The promise of power. God says, I'm going to give you power in order to do what I want you to do. But also contained in that verse is a privilege. That power is to be used to fulfill a privilege that you and I have, and that is to be witnesses unto him. It's a privilege to witness for the Lord. That'd be a good place to say amen right there. It's a privilege to do that. It gives us the power that enables us to do it. And the privilege to witness to somebody else is certainly ought to delight the heart of every one of God's children. So we have the word power. We have the privilege of witnessing. And then there's the purpose. Why did God give us that power? And why did He mean for you and I to be witnesses? It's so that everyone in our world could hear about Jesus. Do you see it? Power to witness, to tell others about the Lord, so everybody could know about Jesus It's the last words that Jesus spoke before ascending to heaven. His last words. Ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and you'll be witnesses unto me to all of these areas So our responsibility is to fulfill the plan that God has given to us. We'll speak a little bit about that, but before we do, let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father. I pray tonight that you would open our hearts to receive what you have for us. May the Word of God go forth in power and demonstration of the Spirit of God. May our wonderful, blessed, Savior, be exalted. I pray, Father, that we would make him known to the world that they too might be saved. Thank you for this mission-minded, aggressive church that is focused on reaching people for Jesus Christ. Pray that you'd bless them for that, Lord. Pray that Brother Boltz would have the support that he needs to get back to Guyana and continue the work that you've laid upon his heart. And all the missionaries that this church supports, I pray, Father, that you'd bless them and use them. And that may there be a tremendous harvest of souls. when you finally called us home to be with you. Open our hearts tonight and we'll thank you for what you do, because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. We not only have a ministry in the church, but I believe the Lord intended for you and I to have a mission to the world. We need Sunday school teachers. We need bus workers. We need those that will work in and through the church to accomplish what God has planted this church for in this community, in this area. But he also means for this church to have a mission to the world, reaching out to the world with the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. And no one that is saved by the grace of God and the part of this church is excluded from that mission. The Bible says, ye It doesn't say all the women are to do that. Doesn't say all the men are to do that. It doesn't say the church staff is the only one that is to do that It says, ye shall receive power. So every one of us tonight are to be involved in not only the ministry of the church, but also the mission of the church. As a matter of fact, the Lord tells us in the book of 2 Corinthians chapter 5 that he's given us the ministry of reconciliation. Do you know that every time you pass out a gospel tract, you're ministering the ministry of reconciliation? Every bus that this church runs It's a ministry of reconciliation, the youth group and the program that you have for your young people And them going out and visiting and the church family, going out into the community visiting. That's a ministry of reconciliation You and I are involved, and all of us are to be involved in that ministry that God has given to us. And what is exciting about that passage of Scripture, God not only gives us the ministry, but he gives us the message that we're to communicate in that mission and ministry of reconciliation. To reconcile means to be changed in your relationship with God. Aren't you thankful for the day that you were reconciled? I feel a shout coming on right there. My mind goes back many a day to that day, that hour, that moment that I trusted Christ as personal Savior. I've never regretted that decision. And I'm thankful that someone told me about Jesus. That has spurred me on to tell others about the Lord as well. Reconciliation is the objective work of God Almighty through the Spirit and the power that He gives to us to carry out that mission. God was in the ministry of reconciling man to himself. Through the work that Jesus did on the cross of Calvary. And so when Jesus left this earth, he said, I'm going to give you power to get this job done. I'm going to give you a privilege to be a witness. And I'm going to give you a purpose and place that you're to carry out that plan and that obligation. So my question to all of us tonight, how do we do that? How do we fulfill the ministry and the mission that God has given to us in the local church? There's four simple things that I want to give you tonight. We'll try to get through this tonight as quickly as we possibly can. I know we've had a big day, a long day, and uh I said before, this is one of the busiest churches that I've ever been in. And I rejoice in it. I wish every church could come here and be trained. I really do. I I mean that from the bottom of my heart. I wish every church could come here and be trained to do what this church is doing. That's a sidebar. That's not part of the message. Now back to my message. How do we do this? How do we get this job done Well, the first thing that I want to say to you this evening is that you and I must function on God's power. We're not going to get the job done if we don't have the power of God working in and through us. Now, he said, I give you that power, but we have to cooperate with the Spirit of God in order to utilize that power. We don't suppress him, we don't deny him, we don't quench him, we don't upset him. We work in cooperation with the Spirit of God With the power that he has available to us. Ye shall receive power. If I understand my Bible correctly, everyone that is saved has the Holy Spirit living in them Are you with me tonight? Every one of us have the Spirit of God living in us that are saved by the grace of God. If the Spirit is there, and he is Because the Bible says, without the Spirit, you're not saved. We have the power that He has available to us as well. That word power is the word dudamis. It means dynamite. I often say that all of those Roman booklets that you're putting together, that's the dynamite of God And they're looking for a place to explode, for someone to light the fuse, for someone to carry the message and Place that stick of spiritual dynamite into the hands of individuals that need the Lord Jesus Christ. And when they began to read that, the power of God, the dynamite of God, begins to expand Explode in that person's heart and can bring them to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. We need that power to utilize the spiritual gifts that God's given to us. We need that dynamite, that spiritual power that God has given to us to serve Him passionately. We need that spiritual power of the Spirit of God working in and through us in order to witness successfully for the Lord. So the first thing that I would say to you tonight, if we're going to accomplish the job that God has sent us to do, we need that power working in and through our life in order to accomplish that. You'll not be effective in your faith promise giving without cooperating with the Spirit of God You can make a promise tonight, but if you don't allow the Holy Spirit to work in and through you and be yielded to him You'll fumble the ball and fall by the wayside every time. So we need that power. It's the drawing power of our Savior that brings people to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's that gospel message that we give to others that draws them to a saving knowledge of the Lord. Jesus Christ. It's the word of God that he uses in order to enlighten the eye and open the heart and convince. Aren't you thankful the Bible's a convincing book? Boy, when you begin to read it, it just convinces you. It really helps you to know the things that God wants you to know. The early church operated on that power And accomplish great and mighty things for the cause of Jesus Christ. I need to be filled with that power. I need to be controlled by that power. I need to release that power in cooperating with the Holy Spirit of God in and through my life. So how do I get the job done How do we faithfully fulfill the task and ministry of reconciliation, not only locally, but globally? How do I do that? Well, I must function in the power of God Almighty. The second thing that I would say to you is that I need to fulfill God's purpose. What's God's purpose? Well, he told us in Acts 1. 8: a witness. A witness. Do you know what a witness does? It just simply tells what he knows. It tells what you know. What do you know about your salvation? Well, I I I know that it was the Lord that saved me. It wasn't my church membership that did that. It wasn't my preacher that did that. It wasn't my good works that did that. The Lord saved me. I can tell somebody that, can't you? I can take them back to the day that I was saved, and I can tell them that I was a church member I I even sung in the choir. I think the choir was glad that I got out, but I I did sing in the choir I I was involved in the youth group and a as a teenager and and uh gone to the church quite I went Sunday morning and Sunday night and Wednesday night, but I was lost as lost could be. So Sunday I was the goody two shoes Monday, I live like the devil. I can tell people that church members need saved. I've heard people say many times, well, I I'm a member of such and such a church. And I said, you know, I was a member of a church. And I went to church and I was involved with that church. But I come to realize that I was lost and needed a Savior and come to know Christ as my Savior. I I know this, He's forgiven me. I can tell somebody that. The Lord forgave me. Have you sinned? I'm talking to you now. I want a response now. Have you sinned? Oh yeah, we're all sinners. That's what the Bible says. But I can tell somebody how you can be forgiven. I can tell that Tell you something else I can say. I know that he keeps me. I can tell somebody that. I come to Christ. He forgave me of my sin. He keeps me With his power, he protects me, he provides for me. I can tell somebody that. And it's interesting as you begin to unfold those things, telling somebody what you already know How it resonates with them. And then you get to tell them what he's done for me. I feel the shout coming on right now. He can do it for you. He can do it for you And people get saved as a result of that. Just telling them what God has done for you. He's not called everybody to be a preacher. He's not called everybody to be an evangelist. He's not called everybody to be a teacher. But I know one thing he has called everyone that's in the family of God to do, and that's witness. Witness. He's called us all to be a witness and tell others about the Savior. So we witness in the power of God, simply telling the good news of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So how do we get it done? I function On God's power. How do we get it done? I must fulfill God's purpose. I'm a witness. Third thing I'd say to you tonight is that I need to follow God's plan. I need to follow God's plan. Now here's where the rubber meets the road. This Sunday is all about faith, promise, giving. We've come together as a church family. We've come together as a group of believers in Christ Jesus. To fulfill the very plan that God has. What is that plan? Well, he told us in Acts 1. 8, you're a witness I give you power to do it, and I want you to tell the whole world. I want you to witness to the whole world. So if I'm going to get the job done, I've got to function according to and fulfill the plan that God has given to me. I've never been to Guyana But I plan to do a few things that is going to get me presence in Guyana. I want to help Ray Boltz. I want to place scriptures in his hands. I want to get him Bibles to give to his people. The plan of God is simply that we, if I can't go, he can go, I'm going to stand behind him in order to be my representative. In Guyana. That's what faith promised giving is all about. If I'm not gonna go, then I need to give so he can go. Are you following me? It's just as simple as that. Everybody from the front row to the back row can do that You say, well where where am I gonna where am I gonna get any money? You young people, you little kids, where are you gonna get money? Let me help you with that How old are you? Thirteen. Whoa. I'd have never guessed that. I thought you were twenty-one. Is that your dad? Did you ever ask him for money? That's your mom. Did you ever ask her for money? You have Did you ever ask your mom, Mom, could you give me some chores that you might be able to give me a quarter or two? That's how you can get some money. Mom, I I I will I will do the dishes tonight. Would you give me a quarter for doing that? You say, man, you're cheap. But kids can do that, can't they? Look look around all these people here. Just turn your head around, see all those people. Some of them have money. Maybe they need you to come over to their house to do their dishes so that they can pay you to do that I I've seen young people that have laid hold of faith promise giving and have looked at multiple ways in order to get a few dollars in order to give to the work of God I was preaching recently down in North Carolina and uh uh I was telling about the need of Bibles and that uh uh with with a five dollar five dollar contribution we can put two two Bibles in the hands of somebody Uh that was presented Sunday morning. Sunday night, this little boy came up and he had a y you ever see one of those um uh Sticks of uh MMs, uh the little container of MMs, they are perfect quarter holders A quarter fits neatly in there. It'll hold about $5 worth of quarters in there. And he come and he presented his quarters. in that little container. To put a Bible into somebody else's hand. Listen, I caught hold of this this morning. That holds more than five dollars worth of quarters. I found out from the Secretary where I can get them. And I I plan to get me a whole truckload of them. And everywhere I go, I'm going to say, fill that up. We'll put Bibles into the hands of individuals. Why? Why would you do that? God has a plan. I've been called to fulfill that plan. And if I can't go to the field, I want to make sure that somebody can go on my behalf To represent me in that field in order to fulfill the plan that God has given to me. He said, Here's what I have: I have a promise of power for you. Here's what I have. I've got a purpose for you. You're to be my witness. I've got a plan in order for you to fulfill that purpose, and that is you either go or you give that someone else can go on your behalf. Oh, suppose you refuse the call of God, you're disobedient. Well, suppose I refuse to take part in providing a means for someone else to go. You're disobedient. You see, that's pretty hard hidden. I don't care. You're disobedient. You either go Because God said you're a witness, and I want you to be a witness to the world, or you're going to have to give that someone else can go on your behalf. So, how do I get the job done? I'm going to have to function on God's power. I'm going to have to fulfill God's purpose, being a witness. I'm going to have to follow God's plan to go to my community. And to go to the continents of the world. As simple as that. And then the fourth thing If I'm gonna get this job done, I'm gonna have to have God's passion. God's passion. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. I had caring parents, but no one cared for me like Jesus. I've got caring friends. No one cared for me like Jesus. I've got kids No one cared for me like Jesus. Those little grins? Oh, when they jump up in your lap and hug your neck and kiss your cheeks and say, I love you, Papa I'm glad they care. No one cared for me like Jesus. We have four great grands now. Love them to death. Nobody cared for me like Jesus. If you're going to fulfill the very plan that God has to reach this world, you're going to have to get a glimpse of His passion. I'm going to have to have that passion in my life. And it's nothing more than seeing people the way Jesus sees them. Blind, lost, without hope, captivated by the devil And Jesus had passion for them, provided the means for them to be released from it all. How how do you determine your passion? Show me your checkbook and I'll tell you what you care about. You say, well that's getting a little bit personal. God's already seen it. I don't have to see it Just take a good look at your checkbook sometime. See where your money's gone and what you're doing with it. It'll show you what you care about. Jesus said where your treasure is, there's where your heart's going to be also. You don't develop a passion and care in your life without investment. He didn't say it the other way around. If your heart is in it, then you're going to invest in it. No, he doesn't say it that way. He said you do the investing, then you're going to be caring about that. You'll be caring about these missionaries when you invest in them and send them off to a world to tell others about the Lord Jesus Christ. Paul was one of the most persecuted Christians that walked the face of this earth. He was stoned, put in prison, left for dead, shipwrecked, abandoned, faced all of those things. But this is what he said. None of those things move me, so that I can tell the gospel, present the gospel, preach the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. You want to take part in faith promise giving? Good. You're gonna have to have God's power to do it. Want to take part in faith promise giving? You're going to have to fulfill God's purpose that He has for you. You want to take part in faith promise giving? Then you're going to have to follow God's plan to do it here and to do it there. And if you're going to take part in faith promise giving, you're going to have to have God's passion and see people the way He sees them. That's the only way we're going to get this job done. I want us to stand with our heads bowed and our eyes closed tonight. Pianist is gonna begin to play in just a moment. Are you a witness? You telling others what Jesus has done for you? Are you involved in His plan? Endued with His power? Functioning with His passion? Maybe you need to come tonight and say, Lord, I need more of that power. I'm weak. I'm I'm needy. I need your help. Maybe you just need to come and say, Lord, fill me with your passion that I can see people the way that you see them. How God is moving on your heart. I trust that you'll listen to the Spirit of God. As a pianist plays tonight