So anyway, if you would, notice verse number 11, Psalm 16. I'd like for us to read this together in unison. Psalm 16. Verse number 11, ready altogether. Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Notice right in the middle of that verse, he says that in thy presence is fullness of joy. Wonder how many of us can say that we are now living, experiencing fullness of joy in our life David said we can. David said he did. And so let's look at this. We started last week. We're doing a series, preaching series, Summer of Joy, and we're studying what the Bible says about joy. So let's pray together real quick. And we'll look at this. Father, again, we bow before you before we get into this message. And I'm asking, Lord, that you would enable us, help us, teach us the importance of joy in the Christian life. And I pray it would not just be something we read about in the Bible or sing about in our hymn books, not something we just preach about. But Lord, I pray with all my heart that this fullness of joy that you refer to here Would be experienced in each and every one of our lives. Lord, we need you to do this. And Lord, I need you to speak through me this morning So I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and with all my heart I pray you fill me with your Spirit, that you be our preacher, and that you change our lives. Lord, uh help us live above this old world and the circumstances. And uh and to uh uh to have this joy and be a testimony. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Summer of Joy is our sermon series. I'm calling it And we're studying what the Bible says about joy. And I'll tell you, uh from my perspective, from my end of this, I have thoroughly enjoyed studying what the Bible says about joy. Now if you remember we started off with a sermon and I called it um Joy in the Midst of Trials And we went to James, where he says, count at all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. Knowing this, that trying your faith worketh patience. So we found out in studying that that it is possible for you and I to have joy even when we're going through difficult times, even when we're going through trials, even when we're going through storms. Even when we're facing a national health crisis, we can still have the joy of the Lord. And it's very much a decision we make. Count it all joy And then we looked the next week we noticed that joy was a fruit of the Holy Spirit. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Now, if you know the Lord is Savior, if you're saved, what you just said is true, assuming that's true, then you have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within your body. One of the greatest truths in all of Scripture That the Spirit of God, God Almighty, and the person of the Holy Spirit, dwells within the bodies of the believers. And the Bible says that one of the fruits of the Holy Spirit, a fruit of the Holy Spirit, is this joy that God gives. And this is something I don't have to work up. It's not something I grit my teeth. I'm going to be happy if it kills me. It's not that at all. It's something the Holy Spirit bears in my life. It's something the Holy Spirit does. So we looked at that. And then the third week we noticed how to restore lost joy. We found out that a Christian can actually lose their joy. I can lose the joy of the Lord. I can uh um uh a Christian can be very unhappy, a Christian can be miserable And David learned that. David lost the joy of the Lord when he allowed sin in his life. And he tolerated, and he tried to cover it up rather than confess and forsake it. He tried to cover up that sin, and it took away his joy. I tell you, after all these years of ministry, one thing I noticed the most miserable people in the world are Christians living in sin. Even more miserable than a lost person living in sin, because they don't have the chastisement of God. And so David said, Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation. David humbled himself before God, he confessed his sin, repented, forsook it, and God restored that joy So joy can be lost and it can be restored. Then last week we started looking at this passage, and we notice that we can have what the Bible refers to as a fullness of joy. Fullness of joy. A life filled with joy. Now one thing we didn't do, as I was working on the message for this morning, uh it kind of dawned on me we didn't really give much of a definition. Of what the Bible means by joy. We didn't really look at that. So what is the Bible definition of joy? Well, to be honest with you, joy is one of those things that's hard to define. Hard to define. What what does joy mean? It's kind of like trying to define love. You know what it is when you have it. I uh we know what it's like when we have that joy. We we understand when we have it, and we can tell when we don't have it But to define it is a difficult thing. What does it mean to have joy? How do you define that? We know when we have it, we know if we don't have it. We can often tell if someone else has joy. You ever get around a Christian that is just full of joy? A joyful Christian? Boy, you can tell right off the bat. Um I've often talked about this lady back when I was in college down in Chattanooga We had a Sunday school bus route. We'd run it in the afternoons. We'd do an afternoon bus. They ran buses in the morning, brought in kids, take them home, come back. We'd send the buses out again, load them all up in the Sunday afternoon, bring them in, have an afternoon Sunday school. And I was I had was in charge of uh uh the Sea Assembly, it was called, and they ran into the inner city ghettos of Chattanooga. Inner city projects is what they called it. And uh we get in there and I'm talking you talk about poverty, uh you talk about drugs and gangs. Uh it was not uncommon to go door to door through those projects and see syringes laying out along the road and just garbage beer cans everywhere, prostitution, gangs Just everything you imagine an inner city project to be like. And uh we would um they told me when I first started that, they said, now listen, you need to get you a Bible and um and uh carry a bible around with you because they think that you're some sort of uh uh drug detective or something, a narc agent or something, or and you'll get shot. So carry a Bible with you So I called down to the Lester Roloff ministries, he had a big Bible. It was like that big. Big black Bible, hard cover I carry that thing around with me. Yeah, I'm a preacher, right? And um so I survived about five years working in that project. And uh we got in there and I came across one of the dearest, most joy-filled ladies I have ever met in my life And some of you, you've heard me talk about Anna Nixon Tate. And this dear lady, this was back early 80s, and she was in her 80s, probably mid to late 80s then White hair, just a petite little thing, frail, and lived in this apartment here in these projects. And no grass out front, beer cans all around out front. Not from her, but from the neighbors and stuff And we knock on that door, and you go in there, and it was, I called it my haven of rest. And she'd have the Christian station, W D Y N from the college there playing. And uh she'd come in and we got to know her. She'd call me Brother Danny. Brother Danny, come on in. And we'd sit in there and uh we'd talk to her and she She had nothing. I mean an old sofa, just a light bulb hanging from the ceiling, bed back in the room, a kitchen, just a few basic things. She had nothing And uh Nixon, uh Anna Nixon-Tate, Mrs. Tate, I called her, uh, she grew up in Alabama, southern Alabama, back in the early 1900s. And uh worked in the cotton fields, um just of course segregation back there. You talk about racial tension now, there she knew what that was about. And uh married four or five times, husbands died, she'd outlive them. And uh just the sweetest dear little lady. And uh she would say, Brother Danny, she could hardly see. She'd read her Bible, she had one of those magnifying screen uh uh sheets, you know, she'd lay on that And she'd say, Brother Danny, I'm going to quote Psalm chapter 16. Now you look it up. Tell me if I'm saying it right. And I'd get out and she'd quote down through there perfectly. And next week it'd be some other chapter. And next week another chapter. And she'd quote them to me. And then we would pray together. And I'm telling you, that dear lady had nothing. She lived in one of the worst neighborhoods in the whole city. She had no money. She had hardly any possessions But I tell you, she had something a lot of people don't have. She had the joy of the Lord. And to just go in there and be around this dear lady that lived in the presence of God. I told this before, but one time I came by, she goes, Brother Denny, God took care of me last night. I said, What what happened? Ms. Tate. Somebody tried breaking in my bedroom window and I got slipped down on my knees and prayed that God would protect me and they went away. And I said, Really? She goes, yeah. And uh she said, I could hear them working at the window, trying to come in the window. And so when we left, I thought, I'm gonna walk around and look over it. Sure enough, there was scratch marks right there where the screen was pulled out and you could see see where they were trying to get in. And wasn't worried, wasn't scared. She's just happy. God took care of me last night. God protected me I would walk out of there and I'd think, God, I pray you'd give me some of that joy that that dear lady has. We look for joy in everything in the world. We try to find it in possessions and cars and trucks and TVs and everything like that. And that's not where it's found. This is Tate had that joy. You can tell when other people have it. So it's difficult to define what is joy. Here's my attempt in studying what the Bible says. Joy may be a deep-seated gladness that's down in my soul. A deep-seated contentment and satisfaction. Now I'm looking at Mrs. Tate and I'm trying to analyze this joy she had. And one thing about it was this, she was satisfied. She was satisfied. She didn't need the next thing. She didn't need something else. She was content. And that contentment was a result of that joy, was a factor in that joy. I put this down, a delight and a completeness down in my heart and soul. The world tries to produce joy. They come up short every time. The world's joy is counterfeit. The world tries to come up with joy, but their version of joy is temporary. It's shallow. It's fickled. It's dependent upon circumstances. Well, I'm happy if people are treating me right. Well I'm happy if I've got the latest uh uh iPhone. Well I'll be happy if I had some nicer clothes, a bigger house. swim and pull of oh uh if I can uh and and it's all dependent upon other things. That's not biblical joy That's the world's counterfeit version of things trying to produce joy. Um I read uh uh there's a little boy that um uh was kind of naughty and he would get in trouble and his dad would send him up to his bedroom second floor, sent him up to his bedroom whenever he was bad, whenever he was naughty. And so he'd go up there. But there was a fruit tree that grew up beside the house And he would crawl out the window and climb down that fruit tree and go out play with his friends and then come back, climb back up and get in the bedroom before his daddy ever knew he was out. How many people agree? That's naughty Yeah, that's being naughty, do that. One day uh they were at the dinner table and he heard his dad say to his mom, That old fruit tree out there, I'm gonna cut it down. It hasn't had fruit on it for years, it's just taking up space, I'm gonna chop the thing down. Little boy said, Oh no. So he got with his friend, they came up with a plan. They went out to the store and got a couple bushels of apples And they they tied apples all over that tree. That evening daddy came home. He walked in and said to his wife, Sweetheart, I can't believe it He goes, it's a miracle that fruit tree. Yesterday there was nothing. Today it's full of apples. It's a miracle. And he says the most amazing thing is it's a pear tree He put the wrong fruit on. You know what? That's kind of what the world does. God says, I want my people to have joy Deep-seated contentment and satisfaction, not dependent upon circumstances, not dependent upon treatment by others, but a satisfaction, a joy, a contentment. That only I can give. And the world tries to reproduce that. The world tries to come up with a counterfeit. And it's like trying to put apple tree, apples on a pear tree It doesn't work. It doesn't fit. Joy. Biblical joy. I put a couple things down, then we'll look at this verse. I put this down. Biblical joy is unquenchable by adversity. Paul had mentioned, and we won't take time, I'd like to, but 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and 2 Corinthians chapter 6, Paul mentions about having joy even in the midst of great suffering. Even in the midst of great adversity, he said, We rejoice in the Lord. How many people remember in Acts chapter 16 when Paul and Silas were in the prison? beaten severely, brutally, bloody, in stocks, and at midnight the Bible says they sang praises and prayed They had the joy of the Lord, even in the midst of injustice, even in the midst of injury and pain and violence, they sang praises. The joy of the Lord is unquenchable by adversity. I put this down. The joy of the Lord is overflowing in its expression. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, Paul is writing to the church at Corinth, and he's referencing a church that was over in Macedonia And he says, in the midst, and I'm not quoting this verbatim, but he says, in the midst of their adversity and their poverty, they rejoiced in great liberality. In other words, they were poor, they were suffering, they were hurting, they were being persecuted, but the joy of the Lord prompted them to give the missions And to support Paul and give generously to him. I tell you what, you have somebody that has the joy of the Lord, and you can tell You can see it. It comes out in their life. They'll be liberal and generous. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 18 says, Be not drunk with wine. By the way, that's good advice. Be not drunk with wine, but be filled with the Holy Spirit. And then he goes on the next verse, and he says, singing and uh songs and hymns singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. You know what I found out? The joy of the Lord, you get the joy in someone's heart, puts a song on their lips. Puts a song on their lips. Oh, this world likes to sing songs about misery. I tell you, uh this This world's music. I got saved out of rock and roll. I don't have any time for it. And I'll tell you, I uh I'll probably make some enemies on this, but I don't like country and western music either, to be honest with you. Oh, bloom is fire. My wife left me and took off with the dog. Oh, I'm going to go get drunk and it's miserable. And uh give me a break That's the best the world come up with, but I'll tell you, you get a Christian that knows the joy of the Lord, and I'll tell you, there's a song that comes out of the heart that is rejoicing. I love our hymns I love our hymns. So, uh song, liberality, being a blessing. A joyful person is someone that's a blessing to be around. Tell you, we love to go visit Mrs. Tate. Everything in the world could be falling apart in my life. I'd go in and visit Miss Tate. I'd come out of there encouraged. I'd come out just happy and rejoicing. The joy of the Lord. Did you ever get around somebody that's joyful? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Get around them, and you walk away and you just feel better. It's just encouraged. I would like to be a person That has the joy of the Lord and that I can be a blessing to others. Wouldn't you? Wouldn't it be a wonderful thing? Wouldn't it be a wonderful thing of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that we had the joy of the Lord to such an extent it affected our whole community? Wouldn't that be something? The joy of the Lord is a blessing to others. Do you ever get around somebody and they're not joyful? Oh Lord have mercy, get me out of here. And but uh when someone's joyful, we can tell it affects others all through the Bible. You find when God's people got together to worship and to serve Him, joy was characteristic. There was the joy of the Lord there. So how do you define joy? Oh, it's tough to define. But we know it when we experience it. We know it when we see it. We know it when it's missing. That contentment, that satisfaction, that gladness That's down deep in our heart and soul. And regardless of what's going on around, I rejoice in the Lord. The Bible joy is not only possible But Bible joy is expected. So I was studying the Bible about joy. I found out, wow, you and I can have joy. We really can. Real, deep-seated, lasting joy of the Lord. But then I got looking at it. You know what I found out? God expects us to have that. In fact, let me take another step. God commands us. To be joyful. He requires it of us. He expects it of us. Listen to Philippians chapter 3 and verse 1. Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. Not a suggestion, not a advice. It's instruction. He's telling us. Rejoice in the Lord. Listen to Philippians 4 and verse number 4 Rejoice in the Lord always. And again I say, rejoice. That's instruction by God. Telling us that we are to rejoice. God wants his people to be full of joy, to have fullness of joy. uh uh uh there's all verses all through scripture clear commands that we are to rejoice in the Lord. Um uh listen to this Isaiah chapter 61 verse Verse 10 says this, I will greatly rejoice in the Lord. My soul shall be joyful in God. You know what that is? That's a decision Isaiah made. I'm just going to be joyful. I'm going to rejoice in the Lord. My soul is going to be joyful. He wants to obey what God has instructed him. Listen to Habakkuk, verse chapter 3, and verse number 18. Yet I will rejoice in the Lord. I will joy in the God of my salvation. A decision So you and I can decide. Let me give you a little advice here this morning. Stop being such a grouch. I ought to give an invitation right there. You don't have to be so mopey-dopey. You don't we don't have to be all gloomy, oh well nobody loves me, everybody hates me, I'm gonna go eat worms. No, don't be that way. You and I got a decision. God tells us to rejoice in the Lord. It's an instruction. God expects us. And so stop being so self-centered and gloomy and dismal and morbid. Oh, everything's terrible. Uh some people you ask 'em, um, how's it going? Oh and then they tell you, it's terrible every and um And uh so God wants his people to be happy. He wants this to be full of joy. Listen to John chapter 15, verse 11. These things have I spoken unto you That my joy may remain in you, and that your joy might be full. That's what Jesus said, said to his disciples. He says, things I'm telling you, so you have the joy of the Lord, that your joy might be full. Not just a little bit of joy, but full. Listen to John chapter 16, verse 24. Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name. Ask, and ye shall receive. Why? That your joy may be full. God wants us to have full joy. 2 John chapter 1 and verse number 12. Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with pen, paper, and ink, but I trust to come and speak to you face to face. That your joy may be full. God wants you and I to have joy. Now, studying about joy here, I found out it's not only possible, the Bible talks about it's possible, but God expects us In fact, he instructs us that we are to be joyful. Jesus said, that's one of the reasons I'm teaching the things I'm teaching you. John said, This is one of the reasons you've been given the Bible. So that we have that joy. God expects it. I learned something else in studying about joy. Listen to 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians 1, verse 24. Listen what this says. Not that we have dominion over your faith, this is Paul talking to the church there, but are helpers of your joy. For by faith you stand. Paul said one of his responsibilities as the preacher is to help the people of God to have joy. Isn't that interesting? Listen to another one here. In uh Philippians chapter one verse two he says this having co having this confidence That I shall abide and continue with you for your furtherance and joy of faith. He's saying uh I'm going to stay with you so I can help you be joyful. Do you know what one of the responsibilities of the preacher is? Help the church be joyful. Help the church be flu to it. So why don't you some of y'all make it easier for me and just start quit being so grouchy all the time? And um my job is to help the church be joyful. Help the church be joyful And so joyful. Now, I want you to take, if you would, take your Bibles, keep your place in Psalms here. Come back to Deuteronomy chapter number 28. I found a shocking verse And when I first came across it, I thought, I don't know. I got looking at it. Deuteronomy chapter 28. And look with me at verse number 45. Of course, this is Moses. He's about to pass away. He's about to go on. And he's rehearsing to Israel all that God had instructed them, all they've been through. It's his final words. Of course, this is all under the inspiration of God. And in verse number four, and in this whole chapter here, he's talking about how God will bless them and all these different blessings and how God's going to do it. Then he talks about their curse, how God will curse them if they don't trust them. Now look at verse 45. Moreover, all these curses shall come upon thee, and shall pursue thee and overtake thee till thou be destroyed. How many people agree with me? That's bad. Man, this is not good. These curses are going to come over you, they're going to overtake you, you're going to be destroyed. He's talking to the nation of Israel. Because thou hearkenest not unto the voice of the Lord thy God To keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded thee. By the way, disobeying God is not good. It's not a good thing. Verse 46, and they shall be upon thee for a sign and for a wonder, a wonder, and upon the uh thy seed forever, this cursing, this judgment of God. Now look at verse 47. Why would you do this, God? Because thou servest not the Lord thy God with what? And with gladness of heart for the abundance of all things. God is telling Israel here, he says, one of the reasons, you're under the judgment of God, one of the reasons these things are happening to you, because you wouldn't serve me with joyfulness. You wouldn't serve me with gladness. All these things I did for you. I think what God is telling them is this: I have done so much for you. I have blessed you in such abundant ways. That for you to be miserable and unhappy and critical and complaining and gloomy and mopey, I've done so much for you. You can't be happy. You're not satisfied. You can't serve me with joy. In that case, I'll take it away. Take it away. How many folks here God's been good to you? Yeah. I've been around a little bit, some of you in the military, others traveled the world a little bit. I've been some places, they don't have a tenth of what we have. I've been some places where the poorest person in this building has more than the wealthiest people in some of the areas I've been. Poorest person in this building would be considered wealthy in some of the places I've been. And you know what I found? In the midst of poverty, in the midst of uh little or no liberty and freedom You know what I found? I found people have the joy of the Lord. Joy of the Lord. I'm afraid. I I I hate to say this. I'm afraid God has blessed us so much and we've had it so good. We've become so spoiled that if everything isn't exactly the way I want it to be, then I'm not happy. And God says, that's sin. I've been so good to you. There's no reason for you not to have the joy of the Lord. There's no reason for you and I not to be content and satisfied. This is an indictment he's making on the nation of Israel here. Because you wouldn't serve me with gladness. Because you wouldn't serve me. But to a Lord, I was in um we were in uh Central Asia a number of years ago, a couple men in the church over in our adopted country And uh we were having lunch. Uh Ken Fielder, one of our missionaries, went with us, and he had aligned up for us to have lunch with national pastors. Now, this is a country that is very restrictive. No freedom of religion is is very limited. And we were having lunch with different pastors in the church here. Not necessarily our strife, but we just wanted to meet them and talk to them. What's it like here? I'll never forget we sat it was actually a pizza hut We had lunch together in a pizza hut, and that pastor sat across from me and one of his men was with him, and he spoke broken English. And um His wife was kidnapped, taken, hadn't seen her. Restriction, family turned against them, atheists. We got talking he tears. He was telling us a story, tears streaming down his cheeks while he's telling us, haven't seen my wife in two and a half years. Her family came, took her because of because we're serving God, because we're Christians, won't let her come back He says I I I tried to tell the church, I tried to cover it up for a while, I was ashamed of what the church would think, and I just well she's visiting her family finally. He says I couldn't hide it anymore and I had to tell them that uh she's been taken and And he says, I offered the church to resign, and the church said, no, no, you're serving God. This is a price you're paying. We want you to stay. And he would tell us how how in the midst of all that God had given him joy, and God had blessed him, and how he was rejoicing in the privilege of serving God. I think that's what God's talking about here. Rejoicing. Rejoicing. The joy of the Lord. Not only is it possible, but God expects us to have joy. Now, in the time we have left, let's quickly come back to Psalm 16 here, and he makes a statement. We got working up to this last week. And verse number 11, he says, Thou wilt show me the path of life In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. This verse, verse 10 and 11, are actually prophecies of the Lord Jesus Christ, of his resurrection from the dead, verse 10. And I think verse 11 is a prophecy of his ascension to the right hand of God and into the presence of God. So it's a prophetic passage, but it is also David writing under the inspiration of God of his experience. Of his relationship with the Lord. And he points out three things here that I notice in verse 11. First of all, he references the path of life. Now all this is in this context of the fullness of joy. And David says, thou wilt show me the path of life. Now that phrase path of life, what he's talking about is the direction his life was going. Did you ever hear somebody refer to life as a journey? Anybody ever hear that? This life, this journey. That's what David's referring to. He says, Lord, you've shown me the direction my life is to go. You've shown me the course my life is to take, uh the purpose For which my life has been given to me. David recognized that God had a plan and a purpose for his life God had a plan and purpose. Notice it's a very specific purpose. He says, the path. The path. I believe with all my heart. I believe with all my heart. Every single person, God has a plan and purpose for your life. God has a plan and purpose for my life. Very specific I believe every child born into the world, God has a plan and purpose for that little life. He just became grandparent two weeks ago. And uh little Shayla, our little baby. I believe with all my heart God's got a plan for little Shayla. And you your children and every one of us here. God has a plan and purpose for our life. Somebody said to me years ago, they said, Preacher, I was a mistake. My birth was a mistake. My parents weren't married. They didn't mean And it was just uh a one night stand and I became and there's no purpose or listen, it doesn't matter what the circumstances are, if you're alive, God's got a plan for your life. God's of a purpose for your life. And I think that's one of the things that makes abortion such a wicked, ungodly, murderous sin. Snuff out that little life for it ever has a chance. David said, You'll show me you've got a speci you've got a plan for my life, you've got a purpose. Listen, I'm here to tell you, you're never going to have joy in your life, you're never going to know the joy of the Lord until you understand God loves you and has a plan for your life. That is a purpose. There's a reason you're alive. There's a purpose for your existence and for mine. And David said, Thou wilt show me the path of life. David had his ups and downs. David had his repeated failures, but he understood that God had a plan for his life. I thought about Proverbs chapter 22 and verse number 6 where it says this. Raise up a child in the way he should go. You know what that tells me? God's got a way. God's got a path for every little child, every little person. And our job as parents to help them raise them up to know the Lord and live that fulfill that purpose for their life. Thou wilt show me the path, the path. It's a specific purpose. I notice this, it's a sure purpose. He says, Thou wilt show me the path of light. That word show there means make plain, reveal it, instruct me God promises that if we trust him and obey him, he'll lead us, he'll direct us in his will. When I was youth pastor, kids would say, Preacher, how do I know what God's will is going to be for my life? I always said this. This may be oversimplistic, but I always said this. If you'll just do what you know God wants you to do today, then you'll be where God wants you to be tomorrow. Just do today. Sometimes we worry about stuff we have no control over when what we need to do is make sure we're doing what we do have control over. Just do what God's will is for today. Do what I know God says, and He'll direct me. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall what? Direct thy paths Direct eye pass. And so he was confident. He was very sure. Turn with me if you would. Keep your place here. Come over to Psalms 32. Psalm chapter 32. And notice verse number 8 with me, Psalms 32 and verse number 8. Again, this is David. He talked a lot about knowing the will of God and God directing him. Psalm 32, verse number 8, says this: God speaking to David, I will instruct thee. And teach thee in the way thou shalt go. I will guide thee with mine eye. Now look at verse 9. Be not as the horse Or as the mule, which have no understanding, whose mouth must be held with bit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee. I put in the marks of my Bible, don't be so stubborn. Let God lead you. Let God direct you. What is God speaking to you about? What is God telling you you should do? The whole Christian life is simply a matter of trust in the Lord. Let Him lead me. Some of y'all, I'm not a big horse guy. I've never had a donkey. Visit Phil Sherman out there in Eglin. He's got some donkeys out there. I said, those donkeys sure are stubborn. He goes, nah, they're just cautious. I don't know. But uh I don't want to be like a donkey. I don't want the Lord to have to force me over here. What he's saying is, Lord, just let the Lord lead you. Let the Lord just trust him God shows you from his word something needs to be done. Action needs to be taken. Just trust the Lord. Let him lead you. God will show you the path of life The problem isn't with God's leadership. The problem is with our stubbornness, our fear, and lack of faith. And so trust the Lord, follow him, let him lead you. So it's a specific purpose, it's a short purpose. God will show us if we'll trust him. And then it's a successful purpose. Thou wilt show me the path of life. That word life there, I looked it up. This got interesting. It means this, to be alive, of course, but it had it's used this way sometimes: a lush green garden. Um it ha it means a f an overflowing stream. It's it's translated some places revival You know what he's saying? He's saying, Lord, you show me the path of life. And man, my life is going to be full It's going to be lush. It's going to be green. It's going to be a lie. A successful. John 10:10, Jesus says, the thief cometh not, but for to steal, to kill, to destroy And Jesus said, but I am come that ye might have what? Life. And that ye might have it more abundantly. Here's the interesting thing. We think things have to be just a certain way all around us, and all our ducts need to be in a row, and everything needs to be ideal, and then I can have a abundant fulfilling life. No, no, no. God says, no, not that way at all. He says, you just lead me and direct me. If you're in my will, if you're doing what I designed you to do, if you're doing what I uh I give you uh my purpose for your life, you're fulfilling that. Doesn't matter all that around there. You can have a successful life. You know the interesting thing, we get to the judgment seat of Christ. Please hear me. We get to the judgment seat of Christ We're not going to be judged or rewarded by how much money we made. We're not going to be judged or rewarded by whether we were popular or not. God will bless and reward us if we did his will. We're faithful. The most important thing in the world is knowing and doing the fulfill the will of God, fulfilling the will of God. David says, being joyful, having joy is knowing God has a plan and purpose for my life and living out that purpose. Let me give you another one here real quick. Notice he says the path of life. Then he says, in thy presence is fullness of joy. I think in thy presence, I think he's talking about a relationship here, a real sincere relationship between him and the Lord. In thy presence, there's nothing between us. I'm in the presence of the Lord. When I was studying this, I thought of that song: Nothing between my soul and the Savior. All of this world's elusive dreams. David is saying, when I get everything out of the way, Between God and me, when that's sincere, when that's the way it ought to be, it's God and me. Oh, and there's joy. Then there's joy. Joy. You may be at there may be other people out of sorts with you, but if you're right with God, you can have the joy of the Lord You can have the joy of the Lord. A sincere relationship. In a very real sense, our joy is a measure of our faith in God. In a very real sense, our joy is a measure of my relationship with the Lord, my obedience to God. He said, When I'm in the presence of the Lord, there's nothing between God and me. There's fullness of joy. There's fullness of joy. It's a sincere relationship. There's a saturation of joy. I looked up that word fullness. It means this: to be overflowing, to be abundant, to be saturated. Um, do you ever have a sponge? You put that sponge down in the water, what do you do? You squeeze it, right? Get all the air out of that. You and you let it absorb and that thing becomes saturated with water and you pull it out and the water is just flowing out of it That's the picture I get here. When I'm thoroughly right with God, nothing between my soul and the Savior. God says, there's fullness of joy. It just flows out, just oozes out all over. The fullness of joy, saturated. So full of joy that afflictions cannot affect it, storms, other people cannot affect it And then I notice this, it's not just a sincere relationship, a saturated joy, but a sufficient joy. In thy presence is fullness of joy. I don't need anything else I don't need nothing of this world to be happy. Is everybody with me? Following what I'm saying? I know I'm rushing through this a little bit. But um We are so dependent, I keep saying this over and over, we are so dependent on our circumstances to make to be happy and content. And the whole point of this is that is wrong. We're looking at the wrong place. I was flying, it's been a couple years ago. I think Cathy was with me. We're going on a mission trip. And um They come around and they o uh sometimes, depending on the the airline, but they'll come and they'll ask you if you'd like uh would you like a martini Or would you like um some alcoholic beverage? Would you like some wine? And um I I try to, often I will try to use that as a opportunity to witness So this lady came one time, I was sitting there aisle, might have been a trip to New Zealand, she said, would you like some wine or some alcoholic beverages? And uh I said, I said, um, I said, you know, the last drink I had of liquor was uh 40 years ago, May 7, 1979. I said, I haven't had a drop of liquor in all these many years. You know what she said to me? She said, well maybe today's a good day to start again. And I'll be honest with you, I looked at her, I said, you've got to be kidding me That is the last thing in the world I would want to do. And I didn't say this to her, but I thought, why in the world would somebody that somebody finally got victory over something that was destroyed destroying their life, why would you say, here, let's start and do that again? You know why? Because they're empty. Their hearts and souls are empty. They're trying to find something And when we know the Lord is Savior, we don't need the liquor. We don't need all that stuff. There's no room, our heart's saturated with the Lord. And then last of all, end with this. Notice he says, the pleasures of faith. At thy right hand there are pleasures evermore. Now we talked about this a little bit last week, but what does he mean at the right hand of God I think there's two aspects. One is to be at God's disposal. It's what we talked about last week. I'm at his right hand. God can take me and use me. I'm totally surrendered to his will, whatever he wants me to do. And boy, there's real joy. I'll tell you, there is real joy in submission to the will of God. To God, here I am. I dedicate, I'm yours, you can do whatever you want with And there's real joy in that. But there's another idea about the right hand of God, and it is this idea, to be exalted or honored by God. Philippians tells us that Jesus humbled himself, became obedient to death, even the death of the cross, and God hath highly exalted him. And today Jesus is at the right hand of God, and part of that aspect is the fact that God has honored him, his son, for all he did in providing salvation for mankind. And I think what David might be talking about here is this matter of God saying you did a good, you were faithful, and I want to honor you. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. In other words, this is what I'm trying to say. Faith is submissive to God. God, I submit myself to you. Lord, your will, whatever your will is, I'll do it. I'll tell you where a great joy is going to be. I'll tell you where great joy is going to be. We stand before God. We're faithful to him. Hear him say this. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Well done. Right hand of God. Honored by God. I graduated in 1986 from college. Uh the day before my birthday, May 5th, I graduated. And I didn't know this, uh, but at the graduation um Uh of course I graduated from college first in my family to do that, which was a miracle of God that I graduated. I'm telling you I worked hard. I crammed a four-year program into six years. And so uh Seriously. But uh when I graduated, um they had a bunch of different awards they gave out, and they gave out the uh um the J. R. Faulkner Award working in the Busman the street. Dennis Leatherman, come up. Good night. They gave me the J. R. Faulkner Award. And then they had a Howard E Step Award for evangelism. I don't understand exactly Dennis Leatherman, Howard E Step Award, come up they gave it. That included a check for 500 bucks. Wow And so I thought, good night. And then they said, this is the first year we're doing it, the highest award the college gives out, the Lee Robertson Award. And the winner is Dennis Lee Leatherman. And they called me up there. I got him hanging on my wall. I said all that to tell you what a great, amazing person I am and all this incredible stuff. But um I'm telling you I was overwhelmed. I didn't know any of that. And um after the ceremony was all over, people were leaving. We're down front to Highland Park Baptist Church. And uh my family was there, and they all said, lay out all your awards and your diploma. We want to take pictures. And so we had it all across the front pew there, and they're taking pictures, and I was just in awe of what had taken place When it was kind of dying down, my dad came over. And dad wasn't very a huggy type thing. He came over, he pulled me up against him. With tears in his eyes, he said, son, I'm so proud of you. So proud of you. And I tell you, to hear my daddy say that to me meant more than all those awards or all that, and that was meaningless. And my daddy say, I'm so proud of you. I got thinking about all this world, the money we can make and the things we can owe and the pleasures we can get involved in. I'm telling you, none of that compares. The day we'll be able to stand before God and hear him say, well done, good and faithful. servant. Hear my God. Say, well done. I tell you that's where joy is. Anticipate that. David said, at thy right hand, there are pleasures forevermore. There are pleasures forevermore. Faith in God is superior to anything this world can give us. The greatest thing in life, if you don't get anything else, I hope you get this. The greatest thing in life is to live a life of faith in God. To trust him, let him lead me, to follow his instructions, do what he says. The greatest life can be lived. And there's fullness of joy, and there's the pleasure of God's reward and God's commendation. Well done. Life lived by faith. Listen, you can live for this world you want. You can run around after all this world offers. Go ahead. I tell you, one of these days this life comes to an end. What are you going to have? Stand before God. We can fuss and fight and fume and cry and criticize complain We can just say, you know, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to rejoice in my God. I'm not going to let anything get between me and my Creator, my God. God said that's where the fullness of joy is. That's where the fullness of joy is. Adam Iram Judson was a missionary to Burma years ago, hundreds of years ago. And he was just determined to reach these people with the gospel. He learned their language. He translated the scriptures over into their language. And one day a fellow came, one of the nationals, the natives there, came to Adurnairam's house, and he visited with them, just a hut there in the jungles. And he visited them, and when he went home, he told the people there where he lived, he said, I've seen an angel today. And they said, what do you mean you saw an angel? And he says, uh, I saw I saw Aderniram Judson's, and his face was as the face of an angel. You know what Adonai and Judith had? He didn't have a fancy house. He didn't have a lot of money. At that time he wasn't very popular. You know what he had? He had the joy of the Lord. And it impacted this man in such a way, he said, I've seen an angel. I've seen an angel. What do people say? They get around you. Ah boy the joy of the Lord. Some I think it's I think I've seen a devil. Um they saw out an item, I've seen an angel. In fact, uh his testimony had the joy of the Lord so much that the people in that community there in that area started calling him Mr. Gloryface. Mr. Glory faced. He had the joy of the Lord. Our country's in a mess, huh? I don't know what tomorrow holds. I don't know next year what kind of country you and I are going to be living in. But I know this, God's still on the throne. I know this, God still loves us and has a plan for our lives. And you and I can have the joy of the Lord, regardless of what the circumstances are. We'll just trust him. And just decide. He's all I need. Christ is all I need. You and I can have this joy. We can be the glory-faced Baptist. Wouldn't that be a good name The glory-faced Baptist. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these stumbling words this morning. But maybe you could turn a life around, dear Lord. Maybe you could take a life that's empty, unhappy, angry, frustrated. God, you could flush all of that out with your word and with your Holy Spirit. God, maybe you could help us decide. We're going to rejoice in you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some this morning, say, preacher, I'm tired. Tired of living. I'm tired of living a Christian life that isn't what God intends for it to be. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. And I just decide that Christ has all of me. I'm going to live by the book, I'm going to trust him and live by faith. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I don't want to live a life that's That's a inadequate Christian life. Any I don't know if I'm saying it the way I mean. I hope you understand what I'm saying. God has so much for us I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know there's something between me and the Savior. Now that's between you and God. I don't want any to know what it is. You say, I know there's something there that's interfering. I need to get that right. I need to get that out of the way. Nothing between my God and me. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Hands around. I invite you to come and just set old orders, say, Lord, here I am. I want you to fill me with your spirit. I want you to give me that joy. God will do it. God will do it. If you've never trusted Christ as Savior, you can trust Him this morning. He'll forgive you, save you, give you a new life. God will do it. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. As Jane plays a