And um if you'll turn to 2 Kings chapter 5 just real quickly, and this Gehazi is a sneaky fella. And I think he's trying to keep me from preaching on him. And I want to begin reading in verse Number four fifteen. Second Kings five verse fifteen And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, now this is Naaman, and came and stood before him and said, and he said, Behold, now I know that Behold, now I know That there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. Now therefore I pray thee, take a blessing of thy servant. But he said, Elisha, said to Naaman, As the Lord liveth before whom I stand, I will receive none And he urged him to take it, but he refused. And Naaman said, Shall there not then, I pray thee, be given to thy servant two mules of burden of earth? For thy servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the Lord. In this thing the Lord pardon thy servant, that when my master goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, that he and he leaneth on my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon, when I bow down myself in the house of Rimmon, the Lord pardon thy servant in this day. And he, Elisha, said unto him, Naaman, go in peace. So he departed from him a little way. Now this is where Gehazi comes in. But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, the man of God, said, now he's saying this to himself. Behold, my master hath spared Naaman the Syrian in not receiving at his hand that which he brought. But as the Lord liveth, I will run after him and take somewhat of him. So Gehazi followed after Naaman. Now this gets me. And when Naaman saw him running after him, He lighted down from off the chariot to meet him and said, Is all well? And he said, all is well. Listen to what he says. My master hath sent me, saying, Behold, even now there become unto me from from Mount Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets. I wrote in the margin of my Bible beside that a lie. Give them, I pray thee, a talent of silver and two changes of garment And Damon said, Be content, take two talents. And he urged them, and bound two talents of silver and two bags with two changes of garments, and laid them upon two of his servants, and they bare them before him And when he came to the tower, he took them from their hand and bestowed them in the house. And he let the men go, and they departed. But he went in and stood before his master. And Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no whither. I wrote in my marjab Bible another lie. And he said unto him, Went not my heart with thee when the man turned again from his chariot to meet thee? Is it a time to receive money, and to receive garments, and olive yards, and vineyards, and Sheep and oxen and men servants and maid maidservants. The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed forever. And he went out from his presence a leper white as snow Father, I just want to share one thought tonight, so I pray you'd fill me and help me, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. So I studied Gehazi, and again, uh, we're going to be out of here But one thing stood out in my mind, and that was this: the danger of long-term Christianity. In a sense, time is our enemy. As we spend more and more time with the Lord, with the people of God, around the things of God, there's a real danger of allowing My familiarity with the things of God to wear away my respect for the holiness of God. And becoming so familiar that I lose my respect for that which is sacred, and lose the wonder of having a relationship with God. Losing the sense of privilege it is to serve God. You can see that I think in the lives of preachers sometimes, when they become very demanding. It just the church has to do this for them and do this for me and do this for me. And they lose the sense of privilege. Serving God. I respect all the evangelists that come through our church. And I try very hard to weed out any that I do not believe have the character of Christ or portray the spirit of Christ. Um, you know, it's one thing to be a good preacher, it's another thing to be a good Christian. And over the years we have had on occasion Missionaries, or I should say I've come across missionaries, or not missionaries, preachers, evangelists, who I believe have lost The sense of privilege of serving God. Now, I'm not picking on evangelists. I'm sure this is true of preachers. I'm sure it's true of missionaries. I'm sure it's true of Christians in general. But it's portrayed this way. If I'm going to come to your church, I need this, this, this, and this. I need to stay in this quality of motel. I need these quality of meals. I need this, that, and the other. If I sense that in a mission a preacher at all, I don't bring them in I don't want to lose. I don't want to become so familiar with the things of God and serving God, being part of God's family and and and being one of God's children, become so familiar with it that I lose The wonder of it. And lose my respect for that. Gehazi was not an evil man, I don't think. I think Gehazi was basically a good man. But he became so familiar with the sacred things. That his faith became very, very shallow. And he lost the wonder of it. Now I'm just going to give you my first thought, and then we're done. First thing I notice here with Gehazi is a contrast between Gehazi's thinking and Naaman's thinking. Now Naaman just got saved. Naaman was a pagan Syrian, Syrian warrior. He had all kinds of servants. His servants were faithful to him. We looked at this in detail. They were true to him. They were good servants. Now think of Gehazi. Gehazi was Elisha, the man of God's only servant. He had no other servants. What a privilege Gehazi had to serve the man of God. And yet, unlike unlike Naaman's servants, who were good, loyal, faithful, true Gehazi, the servant of the man of God, was deceitful, was disloyal to him, and was greedy. Greedy. Naaman was very generous. He just got saved. He was so excited about the fact that God had healed him of leprosy, and now he knew the true God. And his first response in knowing God was to give. He wanted to give to Elisha an appreciation for what God had done for him. The first impulse on this newly saved man was to give. Contrast that with Gehazi. He was in this to get. What do I get? What's given to me? It's a sad way to show up at church, all right, what are you doing for me today? Huh? We hear preachers say this, people sit back and say, alright, bless me if you can. You know That's Gehazi's attitude. Naaman was sensitive to how his actions pleased God Remember, he said to Elisha, hey, uh, you know, will God pardon me when I go back and my master bows down to this false God? I've got to be there with him, I've got to help him. Will God pardon me? He was very sensitive. To how his actions please God. I look at Gehazi. He was concerned with only pleasing himself. Just what's good for me? One other thing I added here. Naaman was aware of God's omniscience. Naaman said to Elisha, Naaman was aware of the fact that God was going to see him when he bowed down to that false God. God was going. God knew. Naaman was aware of the fact that God knew what he did That nothing he did was hidden from God. This new believer, pagan, just got saved, knows no verses, knows no scripture, but he's immediately aware of the fact that God knew everything he did. Everything he thought, everything he. But here you have Gehazi, apparently been a saved man for a long time, was the assistant to the prophet of Israel. And he completely lost sight of the fact that God knew everything. And it never even entered into his mind that God was omniscient. That he's not going to be able to pull this off. How sad. What a contrast. It's a real tragedy when unsaved people have higher morals than God's people. It's a real tragedy when unsaved people are kinder and more gracious than saved people are I believe it's important with whom we associate. It's very important. I try very carefully in my preacher world of preachers. Associations. I try to be careful. As I just said, I want to associate with men of God, men that have the character spirit of Christ. It's important with whom we associate, but just because we associate with someone godly doesn't make us godly Just because a person is in a good church doesn't make that person a good Christian My condition spiritually is not because of my parents spiritual condition or even my church's spiritual condition. My condition spiritually is a result of my personal relationship with God. Gehazi was the assistant of the greatest prophet, one could argue, that Israel ever had, closely associated with him. Yet he was as carnal as he could get. He was as far from God that this newly converted Syrian warrior was a better Christian, so to speak, than Gehazi was. Isn't that sad? Now here's the danger. I am with this. Some of us have walked with the Lord for a long time. There's not a sermon preached here that you haven't heard the subject twenty-five, thirty, forty, fifty times. You've read your Bible through, you've seen it all, you've heard it all, you've been involved in one degree or another in it all. Listen, let's not lose the thrill of it, okay? I I like I read a sermon in the sword on how to be saved, and I that stirs my heart. I try to make sure it stirs my heart as much as This is the first time I read a sermon on how to be saved. I try my best to get up and preach as if it was my first time preaching, just excited. And giving my heart to it, I don't want to become so familiar with the things of God that I lose my respect. Because when we do that, we're in trouble. And we'll find that out later. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for the service tonight. Lord, I thank you for the testimonies and Chip's report and the hymn history. And God, now we look at the Gehazi. I don't want our church to be involved in missions and soul winning and the things of God for so long that we lose the excitement of it. Or we've had this radio station for 10 years now. I don't want us to lose the excitement of having this opportunity for running buses, giving the faith promise, mission trips. Lord, I don't want us to become like a hazi. And I don't want to, personally, Lord. We're asking for revival. We're asking you to restore the first love The first faith, the first thrill of serving you and living for you. Help us. Heads bowed and eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I sense that in my life, that danger?