Thank you, Pastor. All right. Okay, we got uh our uh Fourth one done, and we've got two more chalk drawings to do. How many like this one? The best another week, let me see your hands. My wife likes it, and that's all that makes any difference. She's she's been wanting a bear for a long time. Just little details that make the difference. Well we finally got a bear. Uh I think that's the first bear I've done here. I really think uh does anybody remember me ever doing another bear here You remember me doing a bear, George? Of what? One or two. You got a better memory most of us. I I don't remember doing any, but uh it's very possible. As many as we've done here, it's possible we've got a bear in there somehow or another. All right, I want us to uh uh let's just uh go to the book of Luke. Uh I think chapter twenty-four. Let's start starting there. Luke chapter twenty-four. We have uh two more services and uh That means if there's any two more nights that you'll uh be able to uh work for the chalk drawings, two more nights you'll be able to uh get some folks here that uh that you'd like to see, you know uh uh exposed to the gospel and I trust that you'll take advantage of those uh the few time a few days we have left and uh Uh trust we're trust that the Lord will not uh uh put too much snow that we'll be able to bear it. All right. So you be sure that we keep that as a matter of prayer Uh I'm in uh Luke chapter twenty-three and I'm looking in verse twenty-seven. Let me see how where that uh takes us to. Luke 23, verse 27. And there followed him a great company of people, and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him. But Jesus turned unto them, said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me But weep for yourselves and for your children, for behold the days are coming in which they shall say, Both Blessed are the barren and the wombs that that never bear. and the paps which never gave suck. And then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry? And there were also two other malefactors led with him to be put to death. And when they had come to the place which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors one on the right hand and the other on the left. And then said Jesus, Father, forgive them, for they know not what they do. And they parted his garments and cast lots, and the people stood beholding And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself if he be Christ, the chosen of God. And the soldiers also mocked him, uh coming to him and offering him vinegar, and saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself. And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek and of Latin and Hebrew. This is the King of the Jews. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, as we once again Come to this portion of scripture that describes that that time when uh Jesus paid it all. I pray that you'd help us. We yield ourselves as best we know how, Lord. You know our needs, you know uh the need of each individual that's here tonight. You know that individual who's here uh uh longing to be saved and and uh yet has never uh yielded himself to you. You know that Christian is going through some hard times right now and and uh needs uh a closer walk with you. And we pray, Lord, that whatever the need of the heart is tonight, that you'll meet that need Uh Lord, you're able and you want to, and it's just uh it's up to us to to yield ourselves and allow you to do the work in our life that's necessary. So bless our time around your word, bless the chalk drawn as we show it in a little bit, get honored to yourself. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen We find in our text a vivid description of the things that took place, the activities surrounding the crucifixion. We noticed that uh uh as we read through those things, we found some guys casting lots at the foot of the cross that was There was uh the centurion was there, there were other of the disciples that had uh gone away, they were they were around the cross, Mary and Mother and And the Mary Magdalene was there. There was different ones who found themselves around the cross. The thing that struck me, I guess, was was how many were around the cross that that really was not there to worship Jesus. They weren't there because they were sad or they were heartbroken because he was dying like his mother was But they were there for their own reasons, just like the ones that were there to deride him, make fun of him, mock him. There wasn't just like those who were at his feet there, blood running down into the into the dirt at that at that point, and yet right there they were casting lots for his clothes. And so that uh brings to mind the thought that that uh there were people playing games at the foot of the cross. And it strikes me that that too uh too often today we find Christians, I can understand the unsafe. You know, they don't care one way or the other. And they make fun of the Christians and they make fun of of you and I who have a higher standard than what they do and And uh, but uh I don't understand the Christians that are playing games at the foot of the cross. And that seems to be what's happening in our churches today. Now you know your own heart and I don't. But I do know this, that sometimes we find ourselves just kind of uh doing what is necessary to get by. We're just playing games when we do that. We're not really soul guys of the Lord, but we just, you know, we're just doing just enough. I know Sunday morning we had uh we had a packed house all you know from front to to the to the rear it was packed out. But it wasn't that way on Monday night, and it wasn't that way on Tuesday night or Wednesday night. Probably won't be that way, possibly. Maybe I'm a m uh one of little faith, but but uh it probably won't be filled up tomorrow night. I wish it would be. But uh you know, but we have Christians that are just playing games. Um they have a a a a kind of Christianity that's sort of uh well sort of a milky milk kind of Christianity. Very little meat in their life, but just uh just that the the milk. Uh I remember they they were talking uh uh today about the about how Christians in other countries uh are s uh well I don't know how you put it uh how Christians in other countries seem to uh to see the word of God more precious To hear the preaching of the word is more precious. We have a friend that that uh matter of fact he's a pastor in the church. It seemed to me like I'm loud. Am I ringing to anybody else? No? Okay. Well let me turn me down then. Uh we have a friend that uh is a pastor down in South Carolina right now. And uh His name is Steve. And uh Steve was uh a missionary, went to uh uh Bel Rush and was there for seven years. And uh the thing that struck me with the stories that he he talks to us about and and describes how it is over there, as far as Christians are concerned. Now we're talking about a communist country, you know, a country that's uh basically is is uh uh part of Russia, you might as well say And uh but they they still have a they have a a uh uh Russian type government, you know, a s a socialistic government. And so there was, I mean they there were still threats of, you know, when they were in that country, they still had Uh they still worried about the KGB coming rushing in, you know, with guns and everything and they had that happen uh a time or two in their meetings. But the thing that that struck me was his description of how how the Christians are. Now, I don't mean to you to compare And uh and when I compare myself with that, I I come up short too. So don't don't think that I'm just beating up beaten up on everybody tonight. Uh because I beat up on myself more than I do you, believe me But he was telling how how that some of these some of these people uh well give they lived miles and miles away. I mean like 20, 30, 40, 50 miles away. And it's not like they just hop in a car and drive to the to the meeting. That's not the way it is. They uh they don't have cars Many of them, most of them do not have cars. And so so they get in a subway or a uh some kind of a train and uh and they ride a rail the to within, you know, so many miles as close as they can get, maybe it's so many within ten miles. And so they have to walk that last ten miles. And so they have to start hours and hours ahead of the meet meeting time and by the time they get there, you know, why uh all right, they're they've been, you know, they've been like three or four hours on the road already And then uh they get into the service. And uh and the the the preacher uh when uh uh Brother Steve uh tells about it, the preachers that particularly would come and visit, that they couldn't get enough of it. And they just they they just uh uh you know listened with every ounce of of concentration they could to every word that was being preached. And then when they get done one message, why say, uh, another message. And another message. And they might be there for four or five messages just to hear the word of God. I have a friend up in in New York. He's the uh president of uh uh Bibles to Russia. And uh uh he's been a friend of ours for a long time. We've supported that ministry and he's put me on the board up there and and uh Uh same thing with him. He talks about when he when he went into Russia here a few years ago and would begin with uh preach why they wouldn't let him stop. Tell us more, tell us more, preach to us longer. And so he would be like a four or five-hour session for just one service. They didn't get har uh tarred and and start checking their watch. They didn't st start listening for their stomach to growl. They didn't slip out of the seat and you know out of the back whenever the They didn't give they they were just so engrossed in in what God had to say in His Word and so interested and so uh so starved, so hungry for the Word of God that they just they couldn't get enough of it. And when I compare myself with that, I think, good night. You know if you sit and listen to a preacher for an hour, you start doing this number No, it's still running all right. We start checking it out. Well, what is that a symptom of anyhow? I'm not saying you have to listen for four hours to be spiritual. That's not what I'm saying. But I am saying that I I think there is something in our churches today that uh that God is not pleased with. And that is the shallowness Of our ability to listen and to concentrate and to absorb what He has for us. He wants us to uh you know to uh what can I say? Uh he wants us to to get every every piece of meat that we possibly can. But then uh maybe some of us are just like those over in Corinthians, you know, where it talks about the the milk of the word and over in Hebrews Talks about the I'd give you meat but you couldn't take it, so I had to give you milk. I'm not saying you're immature Christian. Don't I hope you don't get the wrong idea. I'm just saying that that That's I think too many Christians today in our churches are playing games with this Christianity. We've not really sold out to God. And we're going through the motions and we're satisfied. We've become satisfied just simply because no more is demanded of us than that, perhaps. There's there's let's let's look just first of all, let's let's look at the let's look at the uh At the place of the cross. In verse 33 of chapter 23, there in Luke, it says, When they were come to the place which is called Calvary. There they crucified him, the malefactors on one on one on the right hand and on the other, the left. Golgotha, the place of the skull. The place of death. It was a place where where many times the the uh uh those who were hung there would hang there until their their their the bone just rotted The uh the f flesh rots off the bone and the crows and the buzzards come in and eat and so forth. And uh this is the place where Jesus was. This is where they put him It was a place there uh Yogata is a is a hill that's it's higher than most, and you can see that that hill, that the skull, they called it You can see it for miles, maybe 10 miles or 15 miles, whatever. But they can see that from a long way off. I'm reminded of the verse that says, And if I if I be lifted up, I'll draw all men to me. Millions of people every year walk that same path that Jesus walked because that they believe that he walked up Golgotha's Mountain Millions of people just walk that hill just to just so they can say I was on that hill. There's something about it that just there's it's almost like a magnet That draws people. This place called Gogotha. It was a place of love, and yet it was a place of judgment. It was a place of grace, but it was also a place where where the the law of God was uh was met There's a place of salvation, yet it reminds us of our sin. Whenever we see Golgotha, whenever we see the cross Then it's always a combination of those two. There's something there that uh automatically it speaks to us concerning uh what's inside our heart The condition of it, that sin that does so easily beset us. It's a place where man did his worst, but where God did his best The people at the cross. In Luke 35 it says, and Luke 23, verse 35 it says, And the people stood beholding, and the ruler also with them derided him, saying, He saved others. Let him save himself. And if he be Christ, the chosen one the chosen of God, uh, if he be Christ, the chosen of God. I look at the people of the of this uh of this place, the people of the cross. First of all, there's the government people. There was Pilate there. There was the soldiers that were there. These are guys who who were playing the game of power. Pilate and the soldiers, they had the upper hand of this whole thing. Whatever Pilate said Oh sure, the Jews, they had their say and he had kind of yielded to them. But it was a a game of power that was played there. And then I see it was a uh uh the social failures were there. I see the two that were thieves that uh were crucified, one on each side of it. And you know that there should have been a third one there. His name was Barabbas. And he probably, the three guys together, very likely these were were three, they were cohorts. All of them probably the same But when they when they said should we who should be we release unto you? They said, Give us Barabbas. And what would you have us to do with Jesus? Then he said, Crucify. And so he was taken to the place of Barabbas, placed in the middle cross with two thieves. They were playing the, I guess, uh, the pathetic game. Pathetic because They were, you know, they were they were born just like everybody else. I don't know what kind of a home they had. That'd make any difference. But they were born, they were just they were little babies, you know, and the moms looked at them, they they coochie cooed them, and and everybody went by and said how cute they were and all that stuff, and next thing you know, they were toddlers And they were getting into things they weren't supposed to just like every other kid and they were next to the thing they were juniors and and uh they were running around the you know the the hills of of uh the uh Of Galilee there and running all over the place. Next thing were teenagers and maybe they got mixed up with somebody. I don't know Something that they shouldn't have. Maybe they they started stealing apples at the corner store or something like that. Who knows how how this whole thing got started, but somewhere along the line they became hardened thieves Hard enough that they they deserved, according to the laws of the land, deserve to be crucified. These guys were playing uh a terrible game and they lost they lost. And now they they hang between uh they hang on either side of the Savior. But see, that's why Jesus came for people just like that. That was his purpose for coming. People. of the cross. I see the centurion who stood down and and watched everything take place. And as he stood there uh watching, he listened to the thunder and and the earthquake and the ground shook And uh it's it scared me to death. Like that one that scared me. Now we gotta get that We'll get back. Relax, Pastor. It's okay. He's sweating it out. Is there a little notch or anything? Does it just snap on there? Figure it out myself, right? I'm just saying that the that here were the social social fail failures of the area that uh that were there, uh that uh that had their own little game that they played. And then there was the religious crowd. And the religious crowd, they were, uh, I don't know what that kind of game you'd call theirs, but I I call it the pious game. Because you see they was these were the ones the scribes and the Pharisees and these were the the religious leaders and they were the ones that uh just sort of stood a little bit taller than everybody else, at least they thought they did But they saw in Jesus something different. At least Nicodemus did, and he was one of those religious ones. And their whole game was getting ready to be destroyed. Because Jesus was talking about something more than just the outward appearance. But these guys they they like to stand on the corners and say big long prayers and and use the the thighs and thou so to speak and have people uh look at them and and uh sorta hold them up and and grandize them, make them feel like there's something special. And here Jesus was who had just meek and loathe of heart And that's what he taught. And when he started speaking of the inner hearts, not the outward, but if a man just thinks in his heart. Unless after a woman in his heart, he commits adultery with her in his heart. Then that kind of messes their whole theology up. So here was a group of people that was uh uh playing their own little game at the foot of the cross. Now, then we got another group that's there. The Bible says in one place, in Mark chapter 14 and verse 50, it says, And they all forsook him and fled. When I I I read the word all there, I assume that meant all of them, all the disciples. Every one of them. At one point in this whole process, they fled because of fear of the of the soldiers. But there were some outstanding ones, and of course Peter would be have to be mentioned, wouldn't he? Poor old guy he gets beat up on all the time because he he denied the Lord three times. But you have to realize that this was part of the game that's being played today because there there are people probably sitting out here in front of me that uh backslid But you're playing the game, aren't you? You're here tonight. You didn't really want to be. You'd rather be home watching a I don't know whether it's a football game or not. Is there Nan? She wouldn't have been here if it had been one, so I you know. I'm lying. I'm lying. She happens to like football more than I do. But what I'm saying is that is that uh Peter is Peter is that one who who denied the Lord even though in his heart he didn't want to? He was, I mean, just like most of us are are that way. We, you know, in our heart and our desire is to serve God and to live for God. But boy, it's the old flesh just just so when it gets in there and the next thing you know, well you find yourself slipping a little bit and and and just not carrying out, you know, the desires that the Lord has put in our heart. Poor old Peter, he went through that whole thing, he listened to the cockpit that third time and he realized he'd been had. The devil had got him for sure. And the game he was playing now he's lost that game His fellowship with God is broken. His heart is broken, and fellowship with his disciples are broken. The next thing you know, he's saying I'm going fishing. And the tragedy is that as I read those verses about him going fishing, I read that there was others that followed along with him. And they all go to the boats and they're fishing. And three days have passed, and Jesus has risen from the grave. One day, or this one night, they'd been fishing all night, the Bible said, and they'd caught nothing, and they looked out and saw Jesus on this on the shore. And uh they heard a voice, but they didn't didn't recognize it. And the Bible says they you know they just didn't know it was him. He said, Hey, have you caught much uh you caught anything? And they said, No, we didn't catch a thing. He said, Well throw your nest on the right side. And when they did that, why they caught a drought and Peter recognized who it was. Bible says he he he dove into the water and went to the shore and And there was a scene that took place there that perhaps each one of us need to go through that type of thing. And you know I I find that in my own life that when I have a Peter experience where I've d disobeyed God and and things are just not right between me and the Lord, that there's this other experience that comes along. Where Jesus brings me ashore and lays out a meal for me. And he says, Don, do you love me? And I have to think of that. Whenever he says that to me, I have to think about that. Because see, I know what I've been. I know what I've done. And I have to find out in my heart, is this a game I'm playing or is this just, I mean, do I really love him or not? And I may say, yeah, Lord, you know, yes, I do. I love you. I convince myself I do. I love the Lord. I want to serve him. I want to be what he wants me to be. And then he looks me straight in the eye. And it's hard to look in the eyes of the Lord and and uh and really see yourself because that's what you do. And you look in his face and those eyes penetrate and he says, Don, do you really love me? And I have to really, now I'm digging real deep inside. And I finally I have to come to the conclusion, yes, you know, in spite of it, Lord, I I know what I did back there, but I do. I do love you. And he says, Well feed my sheep, Lynn. Three times. He asked Peter, and finally He got the right answer that he wanted. And I'm not going to get into the agape love and the filio load. I'm not that's not not important to this message, but the truth of the matter is that God God wants us to have that kind of a love and quit playing our games. It's time for us to realize that what's at stake here is so important. It's just like when the disciples came back when we talked about the the woman at the well yesterday and and remember remember they came back and and they wanted to give me something to eat? He said, No, he said, I I I have you know uh Meet my father is especially for me. I and he said, I want you to lift up your eyes and look on the field, because they're white and all ready to harvest. He just directed their focus on the on the right thing And so once again, that's what we need to do here. Whenever we start playing games at the foot of the cross, what takes place is that we take our eyes off of the fields. We play our little silly games that really don't amount to anything. And there's a harvest to be had. The brokenhearted ones that were there at the foot of the cross. That would have been Mary and Mary, the wife of Cleopas and Mary Magdalene. You know, his mother's sister was there. These are just simply, these are people who they they were not playing a game, but they were at the foot of the cross. And then, of course, the last one would have been that centurion that saw the earthquake and he believed and was saved. You see, he realized it was more than a game and decided to quit playing the game and get real. But then we we come to the person of the cross. Can I read just a few things when we talk about the person of the cross? Things the Son of God Jehovah, the great I am, Alpha and Omega, beginning and the end, the first and the last, the word, the man approved of God, a servant, Jesus. A name above all names, the Lamb of God, the Good Shepherd, the Way, the Truth, the Life, Tree Tree of Life, the Tr the True Vine, the Bread of Life, the Rose of Sharon, the lily of the valley, the light of Wow, and I'm just about halfway through and I'm going to quit right now. But that's who he is, the person of the cross. That's exciting. He's a stone, a precious stone, a ransom, the mediator, the redeemer, the faithful witness, the amen, the just one. the Holy One, the resurrection, the offering, the finish of her faith, all of these as this this person of the cross What is the purpose of the cross? Well, 1 John chapter 3 and verse 5 through 8 says this. And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins. For this purpose, the Son of God was manifested that he might destroy the works of the devil. And in 1 John 4. 9 says, and in this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him. You know, I was reading uh the uh concerning the the the cross and and the and the uh the Lord. And I was reading about the robes that uh that he wore. Did you ever notice the robes that uh that they put on him? It's believed that the robe that Jesus wore for his own personal use was a was a blue robe. I don't have anything to back that up. It's just it's just sort of uh Taken for granted that it was a blue robe. And then I noticed that in the scriptures, when you look up the word robe in the New Testament There's three or four different references to the robe that he wore. And in Matthew chapter 24 and verse 28, it was a scarlet robe that he wore. And then I noticed in in Matthew chapter 27 and verse 31, he had on his, they took what that robe off and put on his own robe. Okay? Which I said I I believe was blue. That's a personal opinion, all right? And you'll see where I'm going with this in just a moment. And then you look over in the book of John, chapter 19, in verses 2 and 5, it says that the robe that he had on was a purple robe. So now we have a scarlet robe, we have a white robe, and we have a purple robe. And uh Uh well the white robe is in Luke chapter twenty-three and verse eleven, where it speaks of a gorgeous robe. And whenever you look uh look the word gorgeous up in your uh concordance you find that that it means bright or brilliant or white. So now we have we have the colors. We have his robe that I believe was blue And we have a scarlet robe and a purple robe and a uh and a white robe. And if you look at the colors uh that's back in the Old Testament in the tabernacle, Those same colors are there. The ephod of the high priest, those are the colors that are in that ephod. was the white and the red and the purple and the blue. I believe this just tells the story that that Jesus was the high priest. And when the garments were taken off, he became the sacrifice. And he is our high priest, after the order of Melchizedek, but he's also the price that was paid for our sin. Then he came to take away our sins. That's found in the book of Romans. He came to destroy the works of the devil, and that's in 1 John chapter 3. And then he came to show the Father's love. In 1 John 4 and verse 9, it says, And this was manifested the love of God towards us. Because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through Him. God that loved us first, and then we loved Him. The message tonight, what is it? I guess it it comes right down to to where we are at the where the rubber meets the road. And that is, are we just playing games with this thing that's called Christianity? Because if we're playing games, it's not much more than just plain old religion, just like the Pharisees. We carry our Bible and we you go through the ritual of smiling and and uh talking about how good God is. But have we really experienced the goodness of God? And are we serious about the business of carrying out the Great Commission? I know we've got all the signs. And you know, I see all the evidence of of things that are happening and and I'm satisfied that's not done just uh arbitrarily. I believe that's done with people that have a desire to get the gospel But that doesn't mean because there's some good signs up here that every person that belongs to this church is sold out to God and not playing games. And if you're one of those that's playing the games that we've talked about, why uh I think it's time for us to find a place up here and say, Lord, you know, I want to get serious about this matter of Christianity and the gospel. I want to see something take place in my life. I don't want to just sit at the foot of the cross and cast lots for your robe, but I want I want to be involved in this thing called Christianity and get the gospel to those who are lost. Are you saved tonight? Do you know beyond the shadow of a doubt that you're on your way to heaven? Because that's the first step, is knowing Christ And the second step is a total yielding of your will and your heart to God. I beseech you. Therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your body. A living sacrifice, holy, accept the one to God which is just your reasonable service. We can have our head uh our heads bowed and our eyes closed. Heavenly Father, thank you for this A few moments around your word and a reminder once again of what took place that day 2,000 years ago when you gave your life for us I pray now you'll bless this time of showing the chalk drawing, get honored to yourself, and bless the invitation in a few moments in Christ's name. Amen. And amen. Oh I'm not I would have I would Because if we make an old effort, it's over the end of the day. The hidden effect I I just wanted to bring you closer to the cross tonight. It may be that some of you want to take your place at the foot of the cross. Not to play games, but to get serious Over in 1 Peter chapter 5, verse 8, it says, Be sober, be vigilant. Because your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, walk about seeking him he may devour. There's a time to get serious about this business of the gospel. This business of Christianity, this business of sanctification, this business of a separation from the world to God. There's a time just to get serious about it. Say, you know, I need to sell myself out to God. This is the time to do it Picture of the cross. Lord Jesus. He bows his head in total submission to the Father's will, and he calls upon us to do the same thing. Not my will, but thine be done. Will you do that tonight? If you're here tonight and you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, then tonight I ask you, will you come to the foot of the cross? And when you receive Him, the one who died for you, the one mediator between God and man, the man of Christ Jesus, will you take Him as your personal Savior Heads are bowed and eyes are closed. We can have part of the lights back on if you would please. Their heads bowed and their eyes closed. You've heard the message such as it was. And you know in your heart whether you're playing games with God or not. And if you are, then tonight there needs to be some decisions made. Just that simple. I wonder how many here tonight I say, Brother Williams, you know. I remember when I trusted Christ as my Savior. Maybe it was when you was young or maybe it was when you was old or in between. That doesn't make any difference. But you remember the time and the place And you say, Brother Weaves, I know I'm saved beyond a shadow of a doubt. Would you slip your hand up as a testimony to that? I know I'm saved on my way to heaven. Amen. You can put your hand up Now maybe maybe you couldn't raise your hand. If you couldn't, I'd like to remember you in prayer. Would you let me do that? Brother Williams, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm saved. Pray for me. Would you slip your hand up and let me pray with you about it All right, thank you. Is there anyone else quickly? Perhaps there's some Christians here that say, you know, Brother Williams, I'm I'm saved and I know it. You know, I I I attend church, I do that and that, but but I know I know that that God wants to take me to a to the next level. I want I want to grow in grace, the knowledge of the Lord, and I I need to move up and and uh I know that I've just kind of been playing around Would you let me pray with you about that need? Just lift your hand up. Is there someone like that? Yeah, amen. God bless you. Heavenly Father, you know what needs to be done here tonight. There's some that raise their hands. You know what the need is And I ask you, Lord, as we go into this invitation time, I pray, Lord, that each one of us who know you as Savior would allow the Spirit of God to search our heart to see if there's some area in there that needs to be dealt with so that we can step out of this this game playing mode. And to move into something more serious. Pray that you work in our hearts during this invitation time. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Let's all stand to our feet. Would you please