It's got time. Uh this guy and we've been trying to um learn something from his life and experience and we've flirted all around the edges of 'em tonight. I just want to kinda get it to you out here and and uh get what we can from this fella and then go forward Second Kings chapter 5, I'm going to begin reading in verse 20 just to set the stage. Remember, Naaman had come from Syria looking to be healed because of the testimony of a little maid. Showed up there the king kind of went nuts, didn't know what was going on. Uh finally Elisha heard about it, said Send unto me. Naaman was miraculously healed. And you'll remember that Naaman, in response to his healing, turned to Jehovah for salvation. And the old boy got born again. use New Testament terms. And uh and his first expression was to express gratitude, uh his first response, I should say, was to express gratitude to Elisha for what he did. And he offered him a good bit of finances and various things. Elisha turned them down. And that brings us to verse 20. But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, the man of God said, now he's kind of talking to himself here, behold, my master hath spared Naaman the Syrian in not receiving at his hands that which he brought. But as the Lord liveth, I will run after him and take somewhat of him. So Gehazi followed after Naaman. And when Naaman saw him running after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him and said, Is all well? And he said, All is well. My master hath sent me, saying, Behold, even now there become to me uh f from Mount Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets Give them, I pray thee, a talent of silver and two changes of garments. And Naman said, Be content, take two talents, and he urged him and bound two talents of silver and two banks. with two changes of garments, and laid them upon two of his servants, and they bare them before him. And when he came to the tower he took them from their hand, and bestowed them in the house, and he let the men go, and they departed But he went in and stood before his master. And Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no wither. And he said unto him, Wait not mine heart with thee when the man turned again from his chariot to meet thee? Is it a time to receive money and to receive garments and olive yards and vineyards and sheep and oxen and manservants and maidservants? The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed forever, and he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow. The dangers of long-term Christianity is what I'm calling the Let's pray. Father, please bless. Help me, Lord, to get to the point and help us to benefit from Naaman's tragic uh testimony here. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I pointed out before, there's a real danger in long-term uh uh Christianity. Uh uh time can, if we're not careful, become our enemy. and can chip away at our faith and can wear down our commitment to Christ. I believe Gehazi was not an evil man. I think for the most part he was a good man But he became too familiar with sacred things, the things of God. They had just been around it for so long, he had seen it so much, been a part of it so much, that it became familiar, and the sacred things lost their sacredness. Now if you remember we pointed out last Sunday night just briefly a contrast that we see here between Gehazi and Naaman. Naaman uh is a new believer, so to speak, and Gehazi has been a long-term believer. And the sad thing about these two is Naaman was more spiritually minded in his infant faith. Than Gehazi was in his long term faith. Uh Damon was very sensitive to whether his actions pleased the Lord or not. Noted that in his concern about his master's worship at the false temple and his involvement with his master. He was very sensitive to whether God was going to be pleased. Uh Gehazi, on the other hand, had been around the things of God so long, he lost his sensitivity And he would do actions that he knew God saw and knew that. But yet he had lost it, lost all of that completely. So you have a new believer that is more right with God Than a man in the ministry who's been around for a long time. And uh we've often said that, God isn't so much concerned about how far we've come as to as he is concerned with how we are growing. You follow what I'm saying? You might have a person who was just saved a month ago and they're growing in their faith And be more right with God and be more of a pleasure to God than a person who's been saved for years and has reached a plateau and has just settled down and is not growing at all in their faith I like the new year. It's a time to challenge ourselves, to step forward, set some of these goals or whatnot, establish some uh things we want to accomplish in the coming year So regardless of how long we've been saved, we continue to grow. That leads me to point number two. We had the contrast. And second thing I notice in Gehazi experience here is the covetousness of Gehazi. the covetousness. And we see that in verses 20 through 24. I believe we have an epidemic in America. It is not swine flu. It is not typhoid fever or bird uh what's the other bird flu? Did you hear about the doctor? The guy was sitting in the doctor's office. The doctor walked out, tetanus, measles, typhoid. And the fellow went up the nurse, what was that about? She said, he's the w he likes to call the shots around here. But um But there is an epidemic in America. I think it's an epidemic of dissatisfaction. An epidemic of discontentment. Not satisfied with what we have, not satisfied with our possessions. Gehazi in the ministry, walking with God for a long time, serving the Lord. Yet he became covetousness. He became dissatisfied with what God had provided for him, and he needed and wanted more. No matter how much stuff a covetous person has, it's never enough No matter how good God has been to a covetous person, it's never good enough. There is never any satisfaction. There's never coming to a point Where I am content with what God has given me. It is enough if He never gives me anything more. I am happy with what I have and I am satisfied with that. Covetousness, I believe, is often a major cause of people being in debt, not satisfied with what we have, and always needing more and willing to to sacrifice my future financial well-being so I can have more stuff now. It has caused divorce. Uh somehow that other woman, somehow that other fellow always seems to be better than the spouse I have. I'm not satisfied. With the spouse God has given me. There's always, we always get this idea there are greener pastures out there. You know what you find out? You get in the other pasture, you know what you find out? There's manure in that pasture also Amen. And so this covetousness, this lack of contentment with what God has given me, this lack of contentment with what God has blessed me, it causes debt, it can cause divorce. It can cause job loss. Now listen, I I'm not opposed to somebody who has a job and they have an opportunity for advancement or getting a better position or a little better situation. That's fine But there becomes a danger when it is constantly having to find something better, constantly looking for more, more, more, more, more, and jumping from job to job to job to job. In the end, it seems to me you lose out There has to come a point where this is what God has provided for me. This is what God has given to me. I'm content with this. If he opts to open up another door, if God opts to do that, then fine, but I am satisfied with what he with what he's given me. Contentment. Gehazi was discontented. He was covetousness even in the ministry. Hey, pastors can get that way. The pastor of a church can be to the point where he's not content with what God has given him, the position God has given him, the place God has given him And they're always looking for a bigger church, a better situation, a better setting. Did you hear about the young man when he was in Bible college? He always prayed for a big church and a beautiful wife Did you hear about the guy who prayed that? Finally, years later, God answered his prayer, but differently. He gave him a beautiful church and a big wife. And so uh always looking for something uh out there better and uh listen We need to just get to the point where we're satisfied with what God has given us. Gehazi could have saved a great tragedy in his life, avoided it If he would have just been satisfied with his lot in life, with God provided for him. Um how sad. We spend millions on cosmetics, on diets, on clothes, perfume, medications. simply to somehow get something we don't have. Now I'm not saying all those things are wrong. There's a place for all that But when it becomes I have to have more, I have to look better, I have to be more popular, I have to be something other than what I am That's all evidence of covetousness and dissatisfaction. Uh a fellow's I read where a fellow said he said I spent a fortune on deodorant and found out people didn't like me anyways. And so I wasted on all that. Boy, I am on a roll tonight. They are just coming to my mind. Covetousness. I noticed here in this experience of Gehazi, covetousness often produces A condemnation of those who are content. Look at verse 20 with me. Gehazi, the servant of Elisha, the man of God, said, now he's talking to himself here, but look what he says. Behold, my master hath spared Naaman the Syrian in not receiving at his hands that which he brought. What is he doing to Elisha? He's criticizing Elisha. He's saying, man, name it offered him all this stuff and he doesn't take it. He's saying this. What's wrong with him? Why would he want this? Good, nice. Look at this opportunity. Why is he passing this up? And when a covetous, when a person becomes covetous They will often begin to condemn or criticize those who are content. What's wrong with that? They just don't have any motivation. They just don't want this. They're not, uh, and begin to condemn. Elisha did not need Naaman's gift. God could provide for Elisha whatever Elisha needed. We've already found that to be true as the Shunammite woman provided for him. As God provided in the death in the pot, we talked about that. And over and over, God had provided miraculous for Elijah. He didn't need Naaman's gifts But Gehazi missed that completely. He got his eyes off of the Lord and onto the gifts. And he began to criticize Elisha for not valuing the stuff as highly as Elisha did, as uh Gehazi did. And he began to criticize him. Elisha didn't need Naaman's gift. Elisha was more concerned about Naaman's spiritual well-being than he was about his possessions. And that was Elisha's whole thing. Yet Hazi criticized him. And it's sad here. Look what he says. He says, But as the Lord liveth, I will run after him and take somewhat of him. Gehazi used Elisha's good name. To get Naaman's supplies for himself. Which leads me to my second observation about his covetousness here. His covetous produced dishonesty. Look at verse number 22 with me. Oh, he shows up, he runs after him, and again, I pointed this out before. What a pitiful picture. Gehazi, this man in the ministry, running after the Syrian warrior to get stuff. He talked about below the dignity of a man, a servant of a man of God. And he's running after him. But look at verse 22. And he said, All is well. Look at this. My master has sent me, saying, Behold, even now there come to me from Mount Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets, give them, I pray thee, a town of silver and two changes of garments. What is he doing there? He's lying. I put in the margin of my Bible he's lying. But he's doing more than lying. He's stealing. He is presenting to Naaman. Naaman thinks that he is giving these gifts to two young preacher boys. That is the scenario that Gehazi is presenting. But that is not what's happening. He has become dishonest and he is stealing From Naaman and from these imaginary sons of the prophets for himself. Covetousness will often produce dishonesty When possessions take possession of my heart, the principles of honesty are abandoned When a person becomes covetous, they will do whatever is necessary to get what they want. Naaman was not, or Nah Gehazi was not just lying here, he was stealing. Naaman thought he was giving to Elisha so that Elisha could give to the sons of the prophets when in reality Gehazi was taking it for himself. Covetousness can produce amazing rationalizations for stealing. It is amazing to me as I've been in the ministry over the years. how people can rationalize, how people can justify in their minds, and their minds only, uh taking something that is not mine. How I can rationalize that and boy, you know, Elisha, he was going to give it to Elisha anyway. He doesn't need it. He's the second he's the number one military leader in Syria Good night. Well i it's he's offering it anyway, it's going to waste. And in Gehazi's mind, he could justify dishonesty, he could justify stealing because he loved stuff. And he wanted it. Look at verse 25. But he went in and stood before his master. Gehazi here, stood before his master. And Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no whither. Here's lie number two. Here's the bad thing about dishonesty. Some dishonesty always produces more dishonesty. One lie produces more lies. Someone once said that if you're going to lie, you better have a good memory. Because you're going to have to remember your story the first time if you're going to carry it on for the second time. If you tell the truth, you don't have to have a good memory. Praise the Lord for that. But his lies produced more lies. Now, if Gehazi would have thought this through If he were to just stop and thought this through a little bit, and by the way, that would save a lot of people a lot of heartache if they just stop and think things through, huh? Before we act. He'd have stopped and thought this through. He'd been in this ministry long enough. He's been Elisha's uh servant for a long time. He knew the God he was serving, the power and the attributes of the God that he served If he'd have stopped and thought this through, he would have realized it was impossible to hide his actions from God He can lie to Naaman. He can lie to Elisha, but there is no way he's going to be able to lie to God. And the amazing thing is Elisha is a man of God. And it becomes very obvious to Elisha, through God, what's taken place. You know what's amazing? There is a neat thing about preaching and passing a church. And I'll tell you what's neat about it is how God will use a message to deal with people's hearts in ways I as a pastor have no idea. And how God people uh people in the church so many uh uh oftentimes throughout the years are involved in something or something's going on that I have no idea And uh I preach a message and God knows what's going on in their life, and God confronts it through the message, even though I had no idea. Isn't that something? If Gehazi would have stopped and thought about it, he knew there's no way he could hide this from God. But yet covetousness blinds us to that and become dishonest. So, I noticed the covetousness of Gehazi. And last of all, quickly I want to end with this, the consequences of Gehazi's actions. Now this is where it gets really sad. By the way, someone said, and this is so true, we can choose our actions, but we cannot choose the consequences I can decide whether I'm going to do this or that, but I have no choice over the consequences of that. Gehazi made his choice. I want the stuff more than I want to trust God. Covenants took over him, he became, and he chose to become dishonest. Now the consequences come. Notice the humiliation of exposure. Look at verse 26 And he said unto him, this is Elisha speaking to Gehazi, Went not my heart with thee when the men turned again from his chariot to meet thee? Is it a time to receive money and to receive garments and olive yards and vineyards and sheep and oxen and men servants and maidservants? Now put yourself in Gehazi's shoes. Elisha's standing there. He just stole a bunch of stuff. He lied twice about it. And now, here publicly, no doubt there was others around, Elisha humiliates him by exposing his sin. And I tell you, there's nothing more humiliating than being publicly exposed. Uh dishonesty, uh lack of character, disobedience to God There is nothing more humility more humiliating than public exposure of that. And for all eternity Get this. For all eternity, Gehazi's name is going to be associated with dishonesty and covetousness. My Bible says the Bible's going to last forever. And this is a Bible story. And Gehazi's name is stained. The consequences, humiliation of exposure. What a sad scene. A man of God running after here. And now we find, verse 26, he is not in the ministry, he is in the ministry for gain. But the ministry is not for gain. I put this down in my notes. I cannot live for God and for possessions. Jesus put it this way, you cannot serve God and what? Mammoth. You can't serve God and stuff. Either I'm living for myself and things and the pleasures of this temporary life or I'm living for God. Can't be both. Now here's the danger. Long-term Christianity. I'm around it for so much. I become so familiar with it. It loses its wonder. It loses its all. The the reality and the practicality of who and what God is. I become blinded to that. And I get I I become blinded by the stuff around me. And I fail to see the reality of eternity and the things of God. And he's publicly humiliated. The second uh consequence is humiliation of exposure. And I put down number twelve number two from verse twenty-seven, the horror of leprosy Look at verse twenty-seven seven. The leprosy, therefore, of Naaman shall cleave unto thee. And to thy unto thy seed forever. And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow. Gehazi wanted what Naaman had, and Gehazi got what Naaman had. Leprosy and awe. Not all that glitters is gold. And dishonest gain comes with a disastrous price. And I tell you what breaks my heart often for so many young people. I saw it years ago as youth pastor, traveling in Bible time, as pastor here over the years. What breaks my heart is you see young people who were grew up in church and Around the things of God and know the verses and know the truths and know all the statements and answers, but never see the reality of it and get blinded by the world. And the glitter of the world, and they say, I want what the world has to offer. But here's the sad thing: when we go after what the world has to offer, we get what the world has And it's an empty life, and it's frustration, and it's purposelessness, and it's temporal. And sooner or later we wake up and say, We have I have the world's leprosy I got the world's gold, I got the world's glitter, but I also got the world's leprosy. Gehazi wanted what Naaman had, Gehazi got what Naaman had. Leprosy and all. He had been a Christian, to use a New Testament term, too long. He lost his reverence for the things of God. He lost his fear of the holiness and power of God. He lost his passion for the service of God and he fell in love with stuff. And serving the Lord was no longer a reward in itself. And I I want to be careful. I think there's a place for this. But he got to the point where he had to be reimbursed. Huh? Now listen, I'm all for reimbursing folks and all that. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But we gotta be careful that we don't get to the point where everything I do for God, there needs to be some material gain from it. Right? You follow what I'm saying? I'm telling you, serving God is a reward in and of itself. I use this, and I don't want to put a bad taste in your mouth for evangelists at all. We love our evangelists. And it is a God-given office, and our church needs them. But I tell you, there's a danger in that, and I've seen this firsthand over the years. in that the thrill of the opportunity to preach wears down and suddenly I have to have a certain level of income. There has to be a certain level of financial reimbursement for my ministry. I tell you what, there's not evangel around started out that way Every one of them, and this is true of pastors and preachers and whatnot, every one of them would have paid money for the opportunity to be out there and preach somewhere. But then that gets old. And there's no longer reward in and of itself. Suddenly I need some reimbursement. And um Uh there's been many times. Lou Howe tell you, and there's been a number of times this past year, and I thank God for it, but there's opportunities been out to preach, and it ended up costing me more to go and preach than anything I got out of it But I tell you, that's not why I'm doing it. I'm doing it for an opportunity to serve God because it is a reward in and of itself. Gehazi, what a sad story. And uh let's learn from this. And let's not lose our reverence for God. Let's stay close to the Lord and serve Him with a willing heart and not worry about this old world or our provisions. Just let God take care of us Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless us. Help us, Lord, to learn from Gehazad. Help us to be content with such things as we have. You said that's great gain. And so, Lord, we pray for your help in our lives this coming year. Whatever you send our way, in prosperity or poverty, let us just help help us, Lord, love you and serve you and give ourselves to serve the kingdom of God of kings, with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I need God to help me to be content with my life, with God's provisions, the people in my life.