Walking, we had gone on some vacation. I was we were out by the pool. And uh we were going to get in the pool while I swam in the kiddie end, the the shallow end. I didn't want to die. And so I was walking by there, my brother Kelly, girl's name, my brother Kelly, I was walking by that deep end, and my brother Kelly pushed me in the deep end. That's cruel and unusual punishment. He should be in jail. That's attempted murder. He should be in jail for that to this day. I'm not bitter about it, but he should be in jail. And uh my brother pushed me in the deep end and I I'm flailing in the water, crying out, Mom! Mom! Help! My mom's there like she said, just swim. But I don't know how to swim. My arms are going, my legs are going, I'm crying, I'm drinking half of the pool. I'm having a terrible time. And uh just swim. Move your arms, swim. I'm trying, I'm trying. And then my brother said, put your feet down and stand up And I wasn't in the deep end. I was I could have just stood up in the water and I'd have been fine. I drank half the pool of chlorine water because I thought I was gonna drown in the deep end, and I wasn't even in the deep end. By the way, you know what my brothers were doing? Besides torturing me, they were teaching me how to swim. We took our teenagers out. This has been 2018, 2017. I'm not a youth pastor anymore, so I miss these I love telling stories like this We we were out on pontoon boats. And we were taking the teens on this trip. We were on pontoon boats and they would jump out of the pontoon boats. You know, in and out. We had a big old time with it. And then we looked over and there was these these uh the the preacher that I was with at that time uh that was hosting us, he said, you know, you can jump off some of these rocks into the water I'm like, sweet. Let's do it. And so we got over there. I said, no, wait a second. We're jumping into dark water here. I I don't know what's below us. He said, oh no, no, right here is perfectly safe. People and there were people jumping there. So we we said, okay, we'll jump. We had all our teens in these life jackets. They're all up there on top of this old five, six foot rock. It wasn't anything major They're running and jumping in the water and having a big old time. They get out and climb back out and jump in. We were just having a big old time. He said, hey, Brother Kurt, he said there's another area, bigger bluffs, taller bluffs. Would you like to go over those taller bluffs And I'm like, yeah, let's do it. And so we drove those pontoon boats over these areas where it was like 10 or 15 foot bluffs. I said, now is this safe? There were people jumping there too. He said, yes, it's perfectly safe here. And I said, okay. I said, teens, be careful. I said the life jacket's on. And I told the teens, I said, when you jump, make sure you go feet first, no diving Feet first and uh don't no belly flops, no back flops, that'll hurt real bad. You can really get don't do that. Feet first, just in the water. Oh, okay, okay. You know, teenagers, they're not the brightest people in the world By the way, teens, I'm just kidding. You are. You're the smartest people I know. So I then uh so teenagers up there like running off, ah holding on, you know, the the top of the life I told you if you don't hold on to the life jacket here, it'll pop your head off. So you gotta hold on to the life jacket. And uh they're like, really? No, it won't do that. But hold on to it anyway. And so they're holding on to life jacket, jumping in the water, and uh and they're coming up, oh, this is so cool. And then that preacher said this, Brother Kurt, there's another set of bluffs. They're like 25 feet up. Like, I don't know. And the teens are like, let's do it. Let's go. So we drove the pontoon boats over. There were probably 75, 80 teens that we had in that group, senior high group of teenagers. We drove over that other end. I looked up and I was like, and I had done it. And I'm thinking, I I don't mind doing it myself, but I don't want to kill a teenager That's a terrible call to make as a youth pastor. Calling back, hey, mom, dad, junior, he he hit a rock when he dove in. And you know, that's a terrible call. I don't want to do that. And the youth passed, excuse me, the camp director said, oh, it's perfectly safe here. And I'm thinking, oh no, I don't know. And I look up and here's this drunk guy. He's on top of these rocks and he's jumping off into the water and he's splashing and having it in the water and come back up. It's wonderful. I'm thinking okay if a drunk guy can do it, we can do it. I said, teens, leave your jackets on They all climb up there and they're jump and they're I jump first, I want to make sure it was safe myself and I jump and it was great. We had a great time Got the kids back in the pontoon boats. You ever been on a pontoon boat? You know what I'm talking about? Getting out there on that lake? And we had it hammered down, full throttle. We're zipping through that lake. One of the girls said, Brother Kurt, can we get out on the front of this pontoon boat? And they had the gate open and I said, I guess that's fine. Don't get out in the water. I mean, uh we're going, you know, pontoon boat doesn't go real fast. These didn't anyway. And and they got out there on that front of that pontoon boat and one girl got out there and she sat down and India Style sitting there, you know, in a life jacket on and all that stuff and And then another girl said, Can I go out there? Well, I don't care. And another one went out. Then they stopped asking me. And another one went out, another g another guy went out, and another girl went out, another guy went out And before I knew it, there were more people on that front lip of the boat than were in the main boat. You probably know where this is going. And the boat got front heavy. And I'm full throttle. I'm just like having a good old time. My wife's on another boat over there with another group of kids, another another boat over this side. We're all just like zigzagging around and my boat went whew And it started going under the water. I didn't know a pontoon boat could do that. All those kids that were on the front, they're no more on the front. I've got it I by the way, this is what youthers do, just in case you wonder. And and I I've got it full throttle down and and I'm looking, the kids are gonna the water splashing over the boat. I pulled the throttle back and the boat went Came up and I'm looking at all these kids over the front and they're like, that was cool. Let's do it again. And then one of them said, Where's Bethany? One of the girls, she's a senior in high school. She's no longer on the boat. I'm looking around. I'm thinking I killed a teenager. This teenager's gone. Literally pay- I'm I'm in panic mode. Nothing like this had ever happened to me before. I was in panic mode. And we're looking around, teenagers are like, where is she at? They're all on the edge of the boat looking around. She was li under that pontoon boat, you know the the pillars? She's like in the middle under it, she's up there, she's knocking on the other side of the boat Hey guys, I'm under here! The motor's off. So I'm thinking I almost and I said this to her, I said, get in the boat! Get in the boat! Don't be outside. You can get hurt out. Get in the boat. Hey, can I tell you there's a Bible principle of this as well? Go to Genesis chapter 6. There was a great big boat. Great big boat. God told Noah to build. Hold on. I told a story. Y'all were plugged in there. Some of you just now went back to sleep. Don't do it. Don't do it. Don't be tempted. I want to share what God's laid on my heart here this morning. Can I tell you that that there is there is something for every one of us right here in this passage of Scripture Have y'all ever been down to Kentucky to the Ark to the Ark encounter? Some of y'all been down there? Uh I'm telling ya, families make a trip of it. Make a you say I'm going to do it Take a camper and sleep on the side of the road. I don't care. Take your family to go see the it is an amazing thing to see. I I it blows your mind. The the scope, the size of this massive to scale arc uh that that has been built there. Pretty amazing thing. Well you're there going over to the Creation Museum. You say, well, I don't know that I agree with everything there. I don't know that I agree with everything. I don't know that everything is factual perfectly with what the Bible says. I don't know. Some of the stuff they had to say, this might be how it happened. And that that is true. We weren't on the ark. We don't know exactly how it all happened. But it's an amazing thing. I took my family there back in 2016, 2017, somewhere around there. And and just driving up to it and seeing this huge ark, I was blown away. And then walking through and seeing all those things. And we go to Genesis chapter number six, and here's the story behind it. And I tell you this morning, get in the boat. Get in the boat. Genesis chapter number six, verse number one The Bible says this, and it came to pass when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born to men. As a matter of fact, skip on down if you would please to verse number five. Verse 6 talks about the population explosion that's taken place. Verse 5, and God saw the wickedness of man, that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. Kind of sounds like America in 2023, doesn't it? Let me read it again so you know where I'm going here. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. You can't turn on the news without being bombarded with the wickedness of man. A report on murder here. A report on financial collapse here. A report on some war going on in another region of the world. Of gangs here. uh of sodomy here of of alternate lifestyle. Literally if you want to get discouraged, go ahead tonight, go home and turn on the 10 o'clock news or 11, whatever time it is here Turn on the news and watch the news. Or better yet, go to those 24-hour uh seven-day-a-week news channels and just start watching. Man, it's discouraging It's pitiful what's going on in our world. I read this passage. God saw that in Noah's day that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. Listen to what he says in the rest of verse number five. And that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Man, talk about bad upon bad upon bad upon bad. It was that way. I mean, wickedness everywhere. Verse 6, and it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth. It grieved him at his heart. Bible says, I I'll quit interrupting myself, I'll keep reading verse number six seven. And the Lord said, I will destroy man of whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, the creeping, creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repented me that I had made them. Verse 8, I've highlighted this verse in my Bible. I love this verse. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. I thank God for his grace, his amazing grace. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect or complete in his generations, and Noah walked with God. Noah begat three sons. Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt. For all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh, excuse me, is come before me. For the earth is filled with violence through them, and behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Make thee, Noah, make thee an ark of gold for wood. Room shalt thou make in the ark. And shall pitch it within and without with pitch. And this is the fashion which I shall make of it uh make it of. The length of uh the length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits, a window shalt thou make in the ark, thou shalt uh and it in a cubit shalt thou fashion it above And the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof, with lower second and third story shalt thou make it. And behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh. Wherein is the breath of life from under heaven? And everything that is in the earth shall die. Verse 18, highlight this verse again. But with thee Well, I establish my covenant. And thou shalt come into the ark, thou and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee, and every living thing of all flesh. Two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark to keep them alive with thee. They shall be male and female, of fowls after their kind, and of cattle of their kind, and every creeping thing after his kind Two of every sort shalt thou that shalt come into thee and k uh to keep them alive. Now shalt thou shalt take Thou shalt, excuse me, and take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten. Thou shalt gather it to thee And it shall be for food to thee and for them. Thus did Noah according to all the commandment, all that God commanded him, so did he. We read this story. By the way, every one of us, whether you've been in church or not been in church, we've heard the story of Noah and the Ark From a child I remember going to Sunday school. I I didn't go to church with my family. I I went to church on a church bus and and and I remember getting to church and and going into the Sunday school room and the the uh Flannel graph board was there. Remember the old flannel graph boards? Now we have technology and everything's changed. I love the old flannel graph. I really I I love putting things up there upside down. I I love turning things around, changing the stories. That's just the way my brain worked. I I love changing it around a little bit. But I remember watching that story of Noah and the Ark And and seeing that great big old boat and and then the rain start coming and all the animals coming into the boat and going into that one door. I relive it for just a moment. You remember reading the hearing the Sunday school lessons about Noah and the Ark and And then the the the rain starts coming in the lightning and and the floods come up and the boat now's lifted up off the ground And and on the flannel graph, if I remember correctly, Noah was standing like on the balcony of the boat, which we know according to the word of God there really wasn't one, but But there's Noah on the side and all the animals are in the boat and the water's crashing on the boat. And I remember one of the stories, one of the scenes on that flannograph Of people standing on the outside of that boat pounding on the boat. Now it's just a still picture. But in my little brain, and in the teacher's storytelling of what took place, oh, it painted a picture in my mind I'll never forget. You see, I read in this passage of Scripture, I read number one of the wickedness of, and I underline this in my notes, the wickedness of all mankind. The Bible in this passage of Scripture, it says it over and over again. Verse number five, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. God paints a picture of what society was like, doesn't he? God says, all that creation and turn their back on God. All that creation decided they were going to live life their own way. No one's going to tell me how to live. No one's going to tell me what to do. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes, the book of Judges tells us. Hey, in this passage of Scripture, God paints the picture of what creation was like. He says in verse number 11, the earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt. For all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. The Bible says this in Isaiah chapter 53, verse number six: all we like sheep have gone astray. Hold on, I've painted a little bit of a picture already. You know what I'm guilty of doing? I know you wouldn't do this because you're much more spiritual than me. But you know what I'm guilty of doing? I'm guilty of having this uh I'm in church. I'm okay. Uh-oh, I'm not as bad as and fill in the blank with someone else's name. By the way, don't point in church. I'm not as bad as, you know. Brother so-and-so over there. It's real easy for us to compare ourselves with someone else and think that we are something better than so uh I know, I know you wouldn't do this, but I'm guilty And people in other churches might do that. But I know we would never struggle with that. If you've got siblings, you've struggled with this. At least I'm not about it. My brother. Truth is, is God says that we're all like all we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord God hath laid on him Jesus, the iniquity of us all. Thank God for God's grace. Why? Because I'm a dirty, rotten, filthy sinner. Don't say amen to that one on me, though. But I am. I am. I'm a By the way, it's okay to say I am a because it's true. If you don't believe me, ask my wife. She'll tell you. Matter of fact, don't ask her, because she'll probably tell you. I'm a dirty, rotten, filthy sinner. And if I got what I deserved, I'd be burning in a place called hell right now. Hey, can I tell you I'm not in church today because I I I I'm some trophy to stand before others to say, oh look at me. Look at me. I'm not church is not a trophy house. Church is a hospital Church is a place. I'm at church today at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Why? Because I need more of Jesus. I'm not here because I want to show off, because I've arrived, because I'm better than someone else. I'm not. I'm a dirty, rotten, filthy sinner. The Bible says that they all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. We know these verses. We don't like them, but we know these verses. Romans 3. 23 The Bible says in Romans 3. 10, the Bible says, there is none righteous. No not one. Why aren't you glad you came to church today? Preacher just got up and insulted me today. He said I'm a dirty, rotten, filthy sinner. Well, first of all, I didn't say you were, I said I was. But the Bible says we all are. The Bible says that Isaiah 64, verse 6. All of our righteousness is as filthy rags. You know what that means? That means the best thing I can do in my life. In the sight of a holy God is nothing but garbage. Filthy rags. That means this, the most godly person in this auditorium, and I'm not insulting anybody, the most godly person, which would be a female, no doubt about it, men. Amen. Because we men we're knuckleheads sometimes, all the time. The godliest person in this auditorium, the Bible says the best thing the godliest person in this auditorium can do is nothing but filthy rags in the sight of God. What I'm saying is What happened in Noah's Day is not much different than what's going on in two thousand twenty three in the United States of America We live in a wicked society, but it's not just outside the church doors. It's us. I'm a sinner. I'm a sinner. By the way, we all are. Get in a car and get on the interstate. We'll see how we really act. Oh, sir, get out there on the job site with a hammer And miss the nail. By the way, that's old school. Now we chink chink. But if you get a hammer out and miss the nail. Hit your thumb. My mom and dad did not have to teach me how to lie. Matter of fact, I I I've told the story, I love telling the story, I've told it a million times. That's an exaggeration. I've told it a bunch of times I was at at Kmart with my best friend Tommy. There was a Snickers bar there. And I said, Tommy, I was five, six years old, I said, Tommy, grab the Snickers bar. And Tommy said, mom's not going to let's have a sicker's bar. I said, your mom doesn't have to know. I was a wonderful friend. Tommy reached out and grabbed the stickers bar and stuck it in his pocket. We walked outside. He asked his mom, can we go outside and play? We were at Kmart. She said, yeah, go outside. We walked outside, stood out in the parking lot. Back when you could send your kids out in the parking lot and not really worry about them. You remember those days? You didn't lock your doors, you didn't lock it, you left your keys in the mission in your car, you didn't worry about it. Can't do that stuff anymore. But back then you did. We went out in the parking lot, we're five years old. He tore that sneaker's bar open, he broke it in half, he ate half, I ate half. Hey, can I tell you? My parents did not teach me how to steal. Your parents didn't sit down with you and say, hey Junior, junior practice with me. Here's how you lie. Say this. This is how they didn't why? Because we're all sinners Again, aren't you glad you came to church today? I came to come back next Sunday and hear some really good preaching, okay See, in Noah's day, God looked down from heaven and he said, Look how wicked the world's become. And we live in 2023, where I believe God looks down from heaven, he looks at us today, and he says, Look how wicked the world's become. I've got hope for you though. I see number one the wickedness of the world. I see number two in this passage of Scripture. I see number two the judgment of God. Number one, the wickedness of the world. Number two, the judgment of God. Look at you, please, at verse number six. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth. It grieved him in his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man. Ouch! I will destroy man whom I created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping things and the fowls of the earth, for it repented me that I've made them. God looked out from heaven and said, Ah Well, the judgment of God. Verse 13. And God said unto Noah, the end of all flesh has come before me. Verse 17. And behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy the earth. Hey, can I tell you? God is a holy God. Revelation chapter number four and verse number eight, the Bible says this, holy, holy, holy. Is the Lord God Almighty? We serve a holy God. God doesn't look down and wink at our sin. God doesn't look down and say, oh, that's cute. You know, God doesn't look down and say, Oh, you know, he didn't really mean it. You know that that really wasn't as bad as so-and-so God hates our sin. Romans chapter 6, verse number 23, for the wages of sin, the price we pay for our sin. The Bible says is death The Bible says in Romans chapter 5 and verse 8, wherefore as by one man sin entered in the world, and death by sin. So death passed upon all men. Why? Because of our sin You say, Brother Kurt, we already know all this stuff. Hold on, I'm getting somewhere. Hold on. The Bible says in Hebrews 9, verse number 27, it is appointed unto men once to die, and after this the Judgment. See, I'm a sinner, and my sin will be judged. I'll stand before God someday. I remember going to church as a little kid. I was a bus kid and I'd get on the bus and go to church as I grew up in the church there riding the bus Uh uh the pastor he he took a a liken to my brothers and I and and uh and so he would pick us up and bring us to church. And uh We we'd go Sunday morning and Sunday night and Wednesday night. We'd ride in the pastor's car with him on Sunday night and Wednesday night. Sunday morning we rode on it wasn't a church bus 'cause the church was so small, but we rode on the church van to go to church and We we'd go to church. Anyway, he he started we got a little bit older and he started go taking us to different church meetings. You know, a church in the area would have a tent meeting. We went to one they called it a camp meeting. I said, we're going camping He said, no, no, it's a camp meeting. I said, what's that? He said, oh just you just gotta go. I remember going to this camp meeting. Man, the singing was great. I mean it just it was off the charts. It was amazing Preacher got up to preach, they had two or three preachers that night. It was a long service. But we sat there and and in it one of the preachers got up and he said this Pastor Lellyman, I I remember it as clear as as as I'm standing here today. I remember he stood up and he said, Bless God. By the way, when a preacher says bless God like that, make sure what follows next is actually in the Bible. Because sometimes it's not. And this guy, bless God, one day you're gonna stand before God. And he drew it out like that. And when you stand before God, God's going to pull the screen of life down. And he's going to turn on the projector. And he's going to show all All the bad things you've ever done in your life. And I remember I was sitting there and I was like, I don't think I want to go then. Then I started studying the Bible. You know what I found out? That's not what's going to happen in heaven! When I get to heaven, oh, I'll give an account, I'll stand before God, I'll be judged, and there's a judgment for the lost, and there's a judgment for the sa uh safe. And those judgments are two separate judgments take place at different times. But for the judgment for the sake, I'll stand before God, and God's gonna pass out rewards. It's a judgment But he's passing out crowns for what we've done on this earth. And we will lose crowns based on not living for him. That's a whole nother message. But I found out what that pastor was saying that day, that preacher, it wasn't, it made for good decisions in a service. But it didn't, it wasn't mastered up with what the Bible says. Hey, you know what I learned? Jesus, when I trusted Jesus as my Savior, He forgave me of all my sin. Whoo! He says he takes my get this. I get excited about this, sorry. I love this. He takes my sin. I already saw about how bad I am, but here's what God does with my sin. He takes my sin and he buries it in the depths of the deepest part of the sea. And his word says this, never to be remembered again Stop and think about that. All those bad things. Isn't it terrible? If we start thinking about how bad my past is, can I tell you? The past, I call it this, it's BC It's before Christ. It's gone. God wipes the sweet clean. I'm forgiven. As far as the east is from the west Christ has removed my sins from me. I'm forgiven. Boy, that'll make you smile. I mean, really, Satan's a master at this, isn't he? Satan will jump up on your shoulder and he'll whisper in your ear He's a master at it. And he'll tell you, well you did this and you did that. I'm looking at all the girls because they're really bad. And you did this and you did that. I'm just kidding. Let me get over here where the real badness is. He did this, he did this. I'm just kidding, I'm just kidding. Satan's a master at it, isn't he? Isn't Satan good at ri bringing up something you did wrong in the past? You'll come to church, the preacher will say something, you'll think, oh, I am bad. I can't live for God. Hold on, can I tell you this? Forgiven! Forgiven! You see that cross up there above the baptistry? It's not just some emblem or symbol. It's a representation of what Jesus Christ did for you and what Jesus Christ did for me. When he stretched out his arms on that cross of Calvary, he shed his precious blood To pay your sin debt and my what a mighty God we serve. He knew we'd be a sinner. He knew we'd need a payment made. He knew we'd need a substitute So he sent his only son to die for me and for you. Wicked sinners that do not deserve the goodness of God. Yet he loves us. For God so loved Put your name in there, not whosoever. Put your name there. Make it personal. For God so loved Kurt Copeland that he gave his only begotten son. That if Kurt Copeland would believe on him, he should not perish, but have everlasting life. So you're not supposed to change the Bible. I'm not, I'm applying it to me See, it's personal to you too. God loves you so much. He sent his son to die on the cross for you. So you don't have to pay that penalty for your sin with an eternity in hell. Brother Kurt, what's that to do with No in the Ark. See, this Ark in the Bible is a type, a picture. Of Jesus Christ. As a matter of fact, take your Bible, flip over, and I'm almost done. Flip over to 1 Peter. 1 Peter. Chapter number three. Let me find my spot. It's harder to find. All the way back to Revelation. Go back three or four books, you'll find it. 1 Peter, chapter number 3. Verse eighteen. First Peter three, eighteen, and following the Bible says this. For Christ also hath once suffered for all sins. The just, Christ, for the unjust, you and me. That he might bring us to God. Did you hear what God just said? God sent Jesus the perfect sacrifice The just one to die for me the unjust, so that I could get to God. That's amazing. He goes on and says That he might bring us to God being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit, by which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison. Verse 20, which sometime were disobedient When once the long-suffering of God waited in the days of Noah, all the way back to Genesis 6 While the ark was preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls, were saved by water. Hold on, what's this all talking about? It's that type, it's that picture. It's saying that Jesus Christ became our ark. He became our salvation. You see, back in Noah's day, it was Noah, his wife, his three boys, and his three wives. They're three wives Those eight were saved by that ark. Those eight were preserved. They were sinners too. But they got in the boat. They got in Christ. They trusted God. And because of that, God spared those eight. In the New Testament, God says, in the same fashion, Jesus Christ came and He became my substitute. He became my propitiation. He took my place. I got in the boat. I got in the orc! I was 10 years old. January 11, 1982, at Emmanuel Baptist Church in Mattoon, Illinois, sitting on the third row, sir, right where you're sitting. And Pastor Norm Amstutz, that guy who brought me to church week after week, he preached a message that evening. I don't know what he preached, but I stepped out of the seat that night and I got in the boat. I got in the boat. I got saved. I asked Jesus Christ to be my Savior. That preacher served in that church for a long time. I'm one of those people who saw that I was a sinner. I deserved a place in hell because of my sin. Oh, you say, well, other people are worse than me. I get it. How many sins does it take for us to be a sinner? One. I was a sinner. I deserved God's judgment. So do all of us. Hey, could I ask you? Are you in the boat? Did you get in? Has there been a time in your life that you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? Brother Kurt, you're talking to we're a good church here. We're good people. I get it. I know. I know. I'm not insulting anybody. Hold on. I'm going to give some a different application here in just a minute. But can I make this first? Are you in the boat? Do you know you're going to heaven? Has there been a time in your life you put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ? If your life ended this week, do you know you're I'm getting on a plane tomorrow And I'm confident in two things. He knows what he's doing, number one, and he knows what he's doing. And if my life ends this week, guess what? Don't cry for me. I'm going to heaven. I'll be kicking up some gold dust in heaven. I'm running the streets of gold. I'm giving Michael the archangel a high five. I'm doing it. I'm gonna have a me and Peter, the apostle Peter, we're gonna go have a good old time together. I'm looking forward to being in heaven. I'm in the boat Are you? Do you know you're going to heaven? Or Kurt, I've been in this church now for twenty-five years. Can I tell you it doesn't matter how long you've been in the church? Are you in the boat? You know you're saved. Are you going to heaven? Hey, here's where the story gets me. I'm in the boat. I wonder who's on the outside of the boat. Let me in Let me in! I mean, go back to Genesis six and and literally eight people are in the boat The floods, Noah for a hundred and twenty years preached Jesus, preached ri deliver deliverance Get in the boat! Trust God! And the world scoffed and mocked and made fun of There's the old Koop Noah. That old preacher, he thinks he knows everything. He's just a crazy old guy. I can imagine the teenagers looking at Noah back in those days. Noah! He's crazy! He's weird! And parents saying, hey kids, stay away from the old Noah man down there. Noah's a weirdo. Stay away. I can just imagine it. Until the rain came. Until the judgment came. The Bible says God closed the door. And then those teenagers, those adults, those parents came running. Noah Noah Noah Open the door the waters rising up their legs Noah! Let me in! Noah, I'm sorry! Noah, please let me in! Noah, open the door! Hey, picture it! The water's rising up past their waist. Picture that daddy holding his little baby Noah! Noah, please! Okay, I did it. I reject, I get it, but my child, Noah, please. Take my child, Noah! Hey, can I tell you? God closed the door. And on the outside of the boat, Noah, please. Chimperly Curry, you're being you're being dramatic. I'm living what took place in Genesis 6. And can I tell you? We all have friends, family members, co workers Who are standing on the outside of the boat and they might be mocking you right now. Ah! You religious fanatic You create all you ever do is tell us about Jesus. Hey, can I tell you? Don't stop. Why? Maybe a hundred and twenty years? Maybe one year. Judgment's coming. Jesus is coming again. Who can you tell about getting in the boat? But really sobering thought. Who are you telling about getting in the boat Dad, why didn't you tell me? Son, son, you at you were in the church. Why didn't you tell me about heaven Now I'm burning in a place called hell because you didn't tell me. Hey neighbor, neighbor, I saw you get in the car week after week after week, and you never told me You never invited me. Why are you letting me burn in a place called a. . Hey, can I just tell you? That's that's reality Who are you telling? Get in the boat. Get in the boat Number one, are you in the boat? Number two, who are you hollering out? I was like, come on. Get in the boat. Yeah, but I've told them a hundred times. Don't stop. That doesn't mean you have to walk up to them with your family Bible and say, oh, trust God or die. I'm not talking about that. I'm not talking about being weird. Talk about going to a family member and saying, hey, I just want you to know I love you. And maybe just saying that at first. I want you to know I love you. I care. Hey, I want to see you in heaven someday. Not turn or burn, buddy, turn or burn. Not that. All you're gonna do is drive them further away. Who are you telling? Get in the boat. Hey, you know that neighbor that gets on your nerves? My time's up. Some of you say, no, your time was up a long time ago, buddy. That neighbor that gets on your nerves? That co-worker who stole your promotion? That guy who ripped you off on your business deal? That family member that told you to get lost? All that changes when they get in the boat. God's giving you the answer. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you know the answer. It's Jesus. Who are you telling about Jesus today? Who has God placed on your heart? Your mind? I want them to get in the boat. I'm going to pray. We'll be done. Invitation's twofold this morning. Number one, if you're not in the boat, can I beg you? Get in the boat! Like I hollered to that teenage girl, Bethany, get in the boat! Get in here! It's safe in here! It's much more fun in here! You're not gonna drown! Get in the boat! Hey, can I tell you? If you're not sure you're on your if you're here today You're not sure you're on your way to heaven, I beg you today, get in the boat. Number two, if you're in the boat You have that friend, family, or coworker, neighbor, whoever on the outside of the boat? All right, do you care enough? Do you care enough to tell them, get in the boat. Jesus loves you. I care. I want you to go into heaven too. Because one day Let me in. It's too late. This morning message is this. Get in the boat. Lord, I thank you for your word. Lord, I thank you for Genesis 6, a passage of Scripture that every one of us have heard multiple times in our life. Lord, I pray you'd help every one of us understand it's not just a story, a fable. Lord, this is a a picture of the judgment of God on a wicked society. Lord, I thank you for the mercy and the grace that you showed. You said that Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And Lord, as Christians here today, we have found grace in the eyes of the Lord. I'm so thankful for that. I'm so thankful for my salvation. So thankful that one day I'll see you face to face in heaven, and I'll spend all eternity with you Not because I'm a preacher, not because I'm a good person, not because I've been baptized, not because I put money and all no good deed could I do to get there. But Lord, I'm going to heaven because of your grace. And your love for me. I'm so thankful. Thankful to be in the boat. But God, we all know people. Or outside the boat. Lord, I pray for the man I talked to this morning, who's not in the boat. Lord, I pray that he'd trust you as a Savior today. Lord, please. Lord, help us to get others in the boat. Help us to lovingly care. Help us to share the love of Jesus with our family, with our friends, with our neighbors, with our co-workers. With our business partners, Lord, help us to share the love of Christ with our lost and dying world. Lord, help us to get others in the boat as well. With every head bowed and every eye closed, I'm not going to ask any questions here this morning. I'm gonna have the piano play, just a hymn of invitation. As the piano begins to play, can we all just stand to our feet as the piano