Is that a blessing or what? Wow, good job, young people. Tremendous. Appreciate having you all with us. And just because you're pastor of church does not mean you have any clue what's happening around here. And so we're glad they could sing for us now. If you would take your Bibles, turn to James chapter number one. James chapter one. We bring in the final Message in our little mini-series on the King James Bible. May 2nd was the 400th birthday of the printing of the King James Bible. And all these years God has used it. It's still uh the uh number one Bible in the world Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church has only ever used the King James Bible, and if we have any sense, that's the only one we ever will use. And so um that's where we're at, and that's what we're talking about. Um while you're finding your place there in James chapter one, there was a young couple moved into the neighborhood, and um Next morning, they were eating breakfast and the wife, the young couple, the young lady, saw her neighbor hanging wash outside on the line. She said to her husband, that that laundry is not very clean. She doesn't know how to wash her clothes correctly. Maybe she needs better laundry soap. So the husband looked on, he didn't say anything. Next morning, uh the neighbor lady was putting washout to dry, and uh young woman looked out, said the same thing. Her laundry is very dirty. She doesn't know how to clean her laundry uh she needs to try a different detergent or something. This went on every morning for a month and um about a month later the woman was surprised to look out and she noticed the neighbor's laundry was all very clean. And uh she goes, look, she finally learned how to clean her laundry, right? The laundry's clean. I wonder who taught her And her husband says, Sweetheart, I got up early this morning and cleaned the windows. And uh she's not doing Very good. I thought it was funnier than that. Teams chapter one, notice verse number twenty two The Bible says, but be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. If any be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. For he beholdeth himself and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty And continueth therein, he, being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. Last message of our series on the King James Bible. I hope I've been able to communicate a little bit in an understandable way why we hold so diligently to the King James Bible. Why it is an issue with us. We believe we have scriptural support. We believe we have historic history stands behind us. And so we have what I believe logical scriptural reasons for using only the King James Bible. Now, tonight I want to give a caution to our church and churches like us that we make sure we get beyond the cover. That we're not satisfied with just having the right Bible, but we get into that Bible and do what the King James Bible tells us to do. So let's have a word of prayer and uh we'll get in the message. Father, please bless our time in your word. I thank you for the young people here with us tonight. What a blessing for us. to have them here in our service. And God, I ask that you would bless now as they and some of our young people go on down to the rally, make it a great conference, Lord. We pray there'd be a lot of fun. We pray the vehicles would make it down and back. Lord, we pray that for safety. And Lord, we pray that important decisions would be made in the lives of all that are involved concerning their walk with you and their future. Now Lord, we're we're we're concerned for ourselves this evening as we look in this in this portion of Scripture. Lord, I yield myself to you, I present my body anew, I pray that you'd fill me with your spirit, speak through me And help us, Lord, not to be uh not to just hear the right words out of the book of God, but help us to do the words out of the book of God also, I pray. In Jesus' name, Amen. Years ago, uh we were in a little transition. time in our lives, Kathy and I, the boys were very young, and uh we had resigned as youth pastor in Indianapolis. We were looking possibly to come to West Virginia and start a church Uh we were just praying for the Lord's leadership and uh doing different things. I was in a conference in West Virginia and the pastor got up. It was like a preacher's conference type thing, preachers fellowship And uh I don't remember who always there, but I do remember this. And and he was a good he's a good man. He's still in the ministry. Um I don't have anything against him But he made a statement that at the time I bristled at, and to this day I strongly disagree with. This was his statement. He said, as long as someone is using the as long as someone has the King James Bible, I can fellowship with him. At the time I thought I don't agree with that. There are a lot of people who carry a King James Bible that I will not fellowship with. For instance, Jamie told me this morning, he got home from vacation yesterday, and the next door there was two fellows in white shirts, tie, black pants, carrying King James Bible. And the Mormons were coming through. You know what one of the Mormons' contention is? One of the first things they'll tell you is, oh, we use the King James Bible. Now, they've got the right cover, but they're not doing what's in it. We've got to get beyond the cover. You follow what I'm saying Uh there's churches, um, and I'm not trying to pick on anybody or trying to be out of place in any way, but there's churches. Uh I know some uh Church of Christ believes in baptismal regeneration I know some of those believe only the King James Bible. I can't fellowship with someone that preaches you've got to be baptized to be saved. You follow what I'm saying? And so we've got to just having the right Bible is not enough. Now you've got to have the right one. But if that's all I have, uh I'm falling short My question is this is simply possessing the right Bible all that there is? And the answer is what? No. I've got to do what that Bible says. Biblical Christianity is more than simply having the King James Bible. Biblical Christianity is doing what the King James Bible says I'm supposed to do. Biblical Christianity is practical Christianity. Biblical Christianity is having more than simply the right Bible in my hand, it's having the right Bible in my heart. Psalms one nineteen, eleven. Thy word have I held in my hand that I might not Is that what it says? No, what's it say? Say it with me. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against God The issue more than is do I have the Bible? The issue is this, does the Bible have me? Does the Bible control me? Is it in my heart? Is it in the command center of my life? So biblical Christianity is practical Christianity. It's the instructions of the Word of God incorporated into my life. The bottom line is this. Now when now talk to me a little bit. When we talk about the bottom line, what are we talking about? What's what do we mean the bottom line? The end result or uh The main point of the subject? Okay, you're getting there. The bottom line is when you take away everything else, this is what you end up with. In the end, when it's all said and done, you've added up all the columns, the bottom line, this is the total, this is the sum, uh, some uh end sum of I don't even know what I'm saying. I'm just saying words. Uh this is the bottom line, is what I'm trying to say. Yes, the summation of all. That is a doctorate answer right there. But what's the bottom line? The bottom line is this: God wants his people to live for his glory. Right or wrong? That's what God wants from us. When it's all said and done, when my life is over, did I live my life for the glory of God? Did I do what God has told me to do with the motive of love for God and bringing glory to his name? That's the bottom line. That's what the judgment seat of Christ is going to all be about. Did I live for God? Did I do what he said? So we've got to get beyond the cover. Um I'm all I think we ought to fuss and fight and fume for the old King James Bible. I think we ought to make a stink about it. I think we ought to take a stand. I think we ought to uh wave it around and holler about it and talk about it and write about it and defend it and everything else. But bottom line is we gotta do what it says. We've got to do it. We're not going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ and give an account of how loud we spalked about the King James Bible. We're going to give an account of: did I live it? Did I obey it? Did I do what God has told me to do? Bottom line is, God wants hearts in love with the Lord That produce, God wants hearts that are in love with the Lord that produce lives lived for the Lord. Now that brings us to our passage of scripture here. This really is a very convicting portion of scripture. I find two categories of people in these few verses we just read from James chapter 1. I find those whom God blesses And those whom God does not bless. On the one hand, we have people whom God blesses. I just happen to pick the bully side to be the side that God blesses. And then there's the other category that God doesn't bless. And it's just coincidental, ladies, that I picture. I don't know about you, but I want to be one of the people that God blesses. Can I get a witness? I want to be one of the folks that God blesses. I want to be someone when I get to the judgment seat of Christ. I would like to. I'd like to hear Christ say, Brother Dennis, well done. Well done, performed. You did what I told you to do He says there's some people here that God blesses, and there's some people here that God does not bless. So let's look, first of all, at the people whom God does not bless. Let's read it again. But be ye doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man, beholding his natural face in a glass. For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was. But who saw whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty and continueth He being not a forgetful here, but a doing word, this man shall be blessed in his deed. This one will be. The other one won't be Who is the fellow that is not blessed by God? Who is the lady That does not have God's blessings on her life. Well, according to this portion of scripture, it's the one, it's the person who hears only It's the person who is a hearer but not a what? Doer. It's the person who carries the right Bible but does not obey that Bible. Come on now. I'm not preaching at the liberal NIV crowd. We're talking about us, the King James crowd tonight. The person that God blesses, the person that God does not bless, is the one that hears What God's Word says, but they don't do it. Now let's look at a few things about these hearers only. First of all, I notice in this passage of Scripture, they have access to God's word. It's there. They can hear it. They're here being preached. They hear it being read. They've got it. Now, I want to remind you tonight, there are millions and millions and millions and millions and millions of people that do not have access to the Word of God. Do you know there are, what is it, Pat, 76 people groups in the country of Kazakhstan. Do you know how few of them have the scriptures in their language? Very few. In fact, as far as we know, we just, after a ton of research, Brother Chris Phillips was able to find a scripture, New Testament, in the Kaz language. That means if we had to hunt that hard for it, that means there are millions of people in that one country alone that have no access to the Word of God. And there are people groups and languages within just that one hardly heard-of country of people that have no Bible in their language, no gospel tracts. No commentaries, no radio broadcasts of the Word of God in their language, absolutely no access to the Word of God. That is a tragedy That to me speaks shame to the Church of Jesus Christ. That our burden for others would be so shallow That in 2,000 years there are still millions of people that have no access to the Word of God. Now Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church can't do everything to solve that, but I'm telling you, we can do something. We can print 600 copies of Romans and the plan of salvation in the Kaz language and somehow get it in there so somebody has access to the Word of God. Amen? We can do something. We can find some of the scriptures and language, find a, put it on a website, and somehow make that website available to people in that country that have access to the internet. That they can somehow, maybe we can't get a hard-printed copy to them, but we can make it available in one form or another. Maybe through FBN, we can get it through uh uh shortwave radio And somehow get maybe somebody in that country could speak English or somehow and listen in. You follow what I'm saying? It is a desperate situation. I read Some years ago, and and maybe some of you have more inf more correct information on it than I do, but apparently there's a fella that was sailing around the world or something he's doing a solo flight. And he got down around New Zealand or uh Australia, somewhere in the South Pacific. I think I have the story correct. If not, I'll just make it up and you wouldn't know the difference. But um no I think I have this correct. Um uh and he developed an appendix appendix. Uh and he developed uh he didn't develop an appendix, he had that initially He developed appendicitis. You knew I was going to say that. He developed appendicitis. He's in the middle of the ocean. Um did anybody remember reading that story? Anybody? Two. Okay, I gotta be fairly accurate. And if I under if I remember the story correctly, they had no access, he was gonna die if someone Something didn't happen. They couldn't get to him in time. They couldn't even find him. He was in the middle of the ocean. But he had a satellite phone. And they put him in touch with a surgeon Anybody hear this? And they step by step led him through, and he did an appendectomy on himself on a sailboat in the South Pacific. You say that is extreme. How many people agree with me? That's kind of extreme. Oh yeah. You know what the option was? Die. It was desperate circumstances. It was a desperate situation. What I'm trying to say to you now is. The fact that there are millions of people in countries like our adopted country and other countries that have no scriptures and have not had them for a long time, if ever, is desperate circumstances. . . It is a desperate situation. Hell is real. People, as I speak, in that single country are dying and going into a devil's hell. It is desperate. We've got to do everything we can to get the scriptures to that. But here's the tragedy of this passage of scripture. These are not people who don't have the Bible. These are not people who all they have is some pitiful translation. These are people that have the Word of God. They hear it. They go to church, the preacher preaches it. They go to Sunday school, the teacher teaches it. They have it in their homes. They listen to it on the radio, but they don't do it. And God says, I'm not blessing that. You're not getting any blessings from me. You know what I say, you know what my standards are, you know what my direction is. I've given you the wisdom of Almighty God in this book, and you just ignore it. You hear it, you have access to it, but you don't do a thing about it. You ain't getting no blessings from me And we wonder why America is in such a disaster. We have more Bibles than any country of the world. We probably obey it the least. So the people who God says here He does not bless are people who have access to the Word of God. They've got the Bible under their arm, but they're not doing what it says. They have access to it, but they're not blessed. Not only as I read this It dawned on me. Not only do they have access, these people who God says he's not going to bless, they have access to the Word of God. They actually understand the Word of God. Look here, verse 22. Uh verse twenty-three. No, verse twenty four. No verse twenty three. For and if any man be a what? Hearer of the word of God and not a doer I got looking up that word here. I got on my Strong's Concordinance program on my laptop. I looked up here, how it's used, different places in the Bible. I went to Strong's dictionary and what it with the word it's translated from what it means. You know what that word hearer means? It means to perceive. Now, if you perceive something, what does that mean? You understand it. It means to, the word hear doesn't just mean to have sound waves hit your eardrums and make a sound into your brain. I heard that. It means to perceive what those sound waves mean. It means to get this, to understand what is being said So the people being addressed here, they have access to the Word of God. Oh, they've got it. It's laying in their lap during church. They've got it on the dashboard of their car. They've got it at home on the coffee table. Maybe there's one beside the bedstand, the bedroom. Maybe carry it around in their back pocket. They have access to the word of God, but they don't do what it says. Not only do they have access, they know what it says. They understand what God wants from them. They're still not going to do it. They know what God's will. God is through His Word directing them and trying to lead them into what His will is and what they should be doing and what they should not be doing. And they understand that. But they still don't do what God says. God says, you shouldn't be doing this. I know, I understand, but I'm going to keep doing it. God's word says, you know, you really, I really, this is my will for you to be doing this. They say, yeah, I know that. I understand from your word. I see it, but I'm not doing it. God says, I'm not blessed in that. A man's not blessed in his deed. They understand what the Bible says about trusting God, but they don't trust him. You know what's sad? We get out knocking on doors. Somebody comes to the door. Do you know for sure if you died right now you go to heaven? Oh no. Uh no, I no I don't know Can we show you from the Bibles? Yeah, that'd be fine. Sit down on the porch or whatever, get the Bible out. We go through the plants of it. Yeah, I'm a sinner. Oh yeah, I'm a oh yeah, hell's awful. No, I don't want to go to hell. Jesus died. Yeah, I believe he died for me. No doubt about it. He died. He rose again. Yeah. You need to call him to be saved. Yep, I believe I call him be safe. You want to call him be safe? No, not now. What Well, you know, I just got some things and whatever. And you know you need to be saved. Yeah, I know, no doubt about it. I need to be saved I'll tell you, that's playing Russian roulette with your soul. Don't boast about tomorrow. Well, I'll get saved one of these days, preacher. I'll get saved. I know it I understand what you're saying about the gospel. I know I need to be saved. And one of these days, the Bible also says, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. A lot of people in hell knew the gospel, understood it, knew they need to be saved, but didn't do it. They understand what the Bible says about trusting God, but they don't trust Him. They understand what the Bible says about being faithful to the Lord, but they're not faithful. They understand what the Bible says about keeping themselves pure, but they don't keep themselves pure. They know and understand what the Bible says about separation from the world. but they don't separate from the world. They know what the Bible says about putting off anger, but they don't put off their anger. They know what the Bible teaches and understand what the Bible says about honesty, but they still lie It's not somebody who doesn't have the scriptures available to him. It's not somebody that hasn't been taught, doesn't know what God says. These are people that have the King James Bible, that hear it, have access to it. They know what it teaches. They know what it says. But they don't get beyond the cover. They don't do it God says I'm not blessing that. You're not going to have my blessing on that marriage. You're not going to have my blessing on those finances. You're not going to have my blessing on that health. You're not having my blessing on this, that, or the other. I told you what to do. You have access to it, it's clear in your mind, and yet you will not do it. People come to me every now and then. I'm thinking of one person in particular. Preacher, why don't God do all these things for me? Why is God just like God's not helping me at all? When's the last time you've been in church? About eight years ago. Huh. Are you doing what God says? Huh? Why do we expect God to do for us what we're and we're not doing nothing for God? Listen, the very fact that you and I are breathing air, we're getting more than we deserve. God's done more for us than we'll ever do for Him. And so we think, well, I'll just ignore what he says. I'm just gonna ignore what God wants from me and then complain and gripe and be mad when he doesn't do what I want. A young man in Indianapolis, Brett, got saved and he's in drugs and all this. He'd get saved and he'd backside and then come back and get right and it was just a zoo. I mean his life was just disaster. He said, Pastor Dennis, I tried God, and he didn't work Your problem is you don't try God, you obey God. He thought, well I'll just kind of play God a little. I I don't mean play like if he's God, but I mean try and play God. You know what I'm talking about? Um What's the cool way to say it? Manipulate God. That's not cool He's trying to manipulate God. That's pretty cool. We'll start it. It's cool now These are people who had access to God's Word, they understand God's Word, they know what God says about the blessing of obedience, but they still don't obey. God says, you want to have a good marriage, then you trust me and obey me. You do what I say. Well, I'm going to do it this way. Five years later they wonder why they're miserable. Huh? You pastor, do you know what I'm talking about? They have access to God's word. They understand God's word. I notice something else in verse 22. They're deceived. Look what he says, verse 22. Be ye not doers of the word and not hearers only. If you're a hearer only, what are you doing? You're just fooling yourself. Well, I went to church. I don't do anything the Bible teaches, but I went to church. You know, the only one person you're fooling is yourself. How about we've had people come sit in a parking lot. Never come into the service. Just park out in the parking lot, sit there until church is over, then leave, and come by and say, Yeah, I was there Sunday. Who are you fooling? If we don't obey God, we're only fooling ourselves. We're only fooling ourselves. And last of all, these unblessed people, they were unaffected. Look at verse 23. I like the way he says this. For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. Now, what does he mean he's beholding his natural face in a glass? How would you say that? What's he talking about Hey, he's looking at his physical face, natural face, in the mirror. I like to do that. I think it looks pretty good. I don't understand why other people don't think I'm as attractive as I think I am. So this guy comes along. Look what it says. Verse 24. For he beholding himself, all right, he looks in there, his hair is all sticking up. I haven't had that problem in years. But his hair's all sticking up. He's got this is weird, young people. This is one of the weird things about getting older. Getting older is really weird. I'm telling you, it is. Your hair quits growing on your head and it starts growing out your ears. Am I right or wrong? There's nothing you can do about it. I've taken vitamins, I've taken uh drank gallons of olive oil, split, brow it out my ears. It keeps growing out my ears. Kathy spends more time shaving my ears than she does my head. Am I right or wrong? The sides of them, the back of them, the insides of them, it's just if I didn't shave my ears, I would have earmuffs on. It would be And so the guy looks in the mirror, there's hair growing all over the place. His hair's sticking up. He's got zits all over his face. And he's like, yikes! I can't go out in public like this And then he goes I mean he doesn't brush his teeth. It's like, you know, his teeth look like something. And uh his m his breath, the mirror begins to melt from his breath in the morning. And uh then he goes and pulls his socks on and he completely forgets what he looked like in the mirror and he goes to school. How many young ladies have seen that guy in school? I know who you're talking about He said, What a knucklehead. He looked in the mirror, he saw what needed to be done. All he did was cat comb his hair, shave his ears, and pop his zits, and he'd been decent But he he didn't do it. What he saw was true this is the point. What he saw was true about himself had no effect on him And we've had people come to church here. Are you listening? We had people come to church here And have heard the gospel and knew they needed to be saved. And knew they needed to be saved. And would walk out those doors. lost. Isn't that sad? We had a fellow sat back there somewhere around where Paul is. He came for several months, maybe a half a year. And it was a big deal that he showed up. He was kind of a drunk and whatnot and he brought his girlfriend. And I preached the devil out. I tried to preach the devil. I just pulled my heart out trying to see that guy say we witnessed to him one-on-one all that. But he would come and sit there. One Sunday morning, he raised his hand that he needed to be saved. My wife knows who I'm talking about, I think. I said, here it is. Praise the Lord. Finally. We stood up, invitation. Play some verses on that piano. Just as I am Oh, you raise your hand, you come on down. You trust Christ. We'll show you from the Bible. Come on. He starts to step out. His girlfriend grabs him by the hand. Pulls them back. Come on now. Don't worry about what anyone else is doing. You come on. God spoke to your heart. You know you need to be saved. You come on. Let us show you how to be saved. Left here, I couldn't get him back. We visited him. Never was able to lead him to the Lord That's sad. He came and saw his face in the mirror. And that mirror said, you need to be saved. You need to be saved. His girlfriend says, Don't you go up there? Huh? Okay. Isn't that tragic? Listen, if your friends are not helping you be a better Christian, then you need to get new friends. If that boyfriend or that girlfriend is hurting your walk with God, then you dump them like a hot potato. And all God's people said They're deceived. They're unaffected. No positive change in their life. No spiritual growth. Old things. And I'm talking about Christians now. They hear the preaching. They are exposed to the Word of God, but they don't do what it says. They're unaffected by it. The old things remain old. New things never become new They're unchanged. You know what I like to see in the life of a church member, of a believer, a professing believer? I like to see them growing in their faith, becoming more like Christ. Let me ask you a question. Do you see any positive growth in your life in the last 12 months? From last year this time? Are you anything more like Christ at all than you were a year ago? As the Word of God having any effect? Or are you just looking in the mirror and walking away unaffected? Are there areas of your life and your walk with God that are better this year than they were last year? If not, you're a hearer of the Word of God. You're not a doer. You're unaffected. Now what about the person whom God blesses, and I gotta quit? That's the person God doesn't bless They hear it. They never get beyond the cover. Boy, they got their King James. They wear the King James KJV 1611 hat. They got the King James 1611. T-shirt, and I'm not against any of that. They got the King James 1611 sunglasses on the side right there. KJV 1611. I'm for all that. God bless King James sunglasses But if you're not doing what it says, you don't have God's blessings on your life. Now what about the person does? Let me just go down through here. First of all, it's very simple. The person God blesses the one that obeys God. That implies humility. That means I recognize and I submit to the authority of the Word of God. This book is our authority. Now that's where I would have said very loudly, Amen! Let's try it again. This book is our authority. There we go. And I humbly submit myself to the authority of the Word of God. You say, preacher, you sound like we're supposed to respond to the Bible as if it was God. Well, it is God's word Humble. I humble myself before the Word of God. I recognize God's word is superior to my own understanding. That's an important statement. God's word is superior to my own understanding. Well, preacher, I think it's this way. Doesn't matter what you think or what I think, what does God say? You know what I found out? There's some things I thought were so later on I found out weren't so. Anybody can I get a witness? I thought I made a mistake once, but I was wrong But you know what? I've never found anything where God's word was wrong. God's word is superior to my own understanding. So there's humility, there's hunger. This person that hears the word of God and does what it says, they realize how empty their life is without the word of God. They realize how desperately they need the Lord and his direction in their life. I had a young man tell me recently, he says, you know, I've been riding a pretty high horse lately. And God's humbled me and showing me how much I need God in my life. That's a good thing. When I realize it's not what I want or what I think or what I plan. It is what does God say? I want that more than anything. I am hungry for God's will to be done in my life. The most important thing in my existence is knowing God's will and doing it. And when I get to that point, God starts pouring out the blessings Humility, hunger, happiness. Look what it says. The law. But verse 25, whoso looketh in the perfect law of liberty. You know what the world says? You do what the Bible says, you're in bondage. Ah, those miserable Christians, they're so unhappy. Look at them. I would never want to be before I got one of the reasons I didn't want to get saved, I was under conviction was I'm never going to have any fun. You know what? I got saved. I found out that living in sin was not fun at all. It was misery. And for 1979, 89, 1999. For thirty-two years I've been having a big time Amen? It's a law of liberty. There's freedom there. When I obey God, suddenly my heart is free. Guilt is gone. Confidence comes in, fulfillment when undo what God says. There's happiness therein. Last of all, there's hardiness. Look at verse 25. He says, and continueth therein. Continue it therein. Keep on going, keep on going. Keeps on reading his Bible, keeps on obeying God's word, keeps on doing what God says, and keeps on doing what God says, and keeps on doing what God says Then keeps on doing what God says And Sunday morning he gets up and he goes to church. And Sunday night he goes back to church. And Wednesday night he goes back to church again. Then Sunday morning he gets up and goes to church. And then The next Sunday night he gets up and goes back to church. Then the next Wednesday he goes back to church again. Then the next Sunday he gets up. You say, Man, I already baited him three weeks in a row. Well keep right on continuing in his word The Bible says, this book of law shall not depart of mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night. You know what that means? He gets up tomorrow and he reads the Bible. Then he gets up Tuesday and reads it again. He gets up Wednesday and reads it again. Gets up Thursday and reads it again. Gets up Friday and re He's again gets over What's after Friday? Saturday. Reads it again. Uh gets up Sunday, reads again. Gets up Monday reads again. Good night. I read it seven days in a row. Well read it seven more days in a row. You know what that's called? It's called walking with God. What do you do when you walk? Put one foot there, you put one foot there. Here's the hard part. Then you put that foot there again. And then you put that foot there again. And then you do that again. And you do that again. And you do that again. Do it again, and you do it again, and you do it again. And walking with God is simply doing what God says over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over. Continue therein. And God says, if you do that, I'll bless you. I'll bless you. God expects long-term obedience. Long-term obedience. If God says, the person that God blesses, let's see, he's over on this side. If God says pray, he prays. And he keeps on praying and praying and praying. If God says repent of sin, he repents of that sin. He keeps it out of his life. If God says give to missions, he gives to missions and gives He keeps on giving to missions. If God says go to the mission field, he goes to the mission field. And he keeps on going to the mission field. If God says preach, he answers God's call and obeys God and preaches If God says stand for what's right, he stands for what's right. If God says forgive someone for their sins, he forgives them for their sins. If God says rejoice, they rejoice. If God says you stop and wait, they stop and wait. If God says to do it, he does it. And God says, that's the man that's blessed in his deed. Just does what I say. Not like Independent Baptist Church, we're not giving up on the King James Bible. Not as long as I'm pastor and not as long as I have any sense. God's people said. But as long as I have any sense, we're not going to be satisfied with just having the King James Bible. We're going to do everything we can. to do what it says. Get beyond the cover. A lady, a Scottish lady. Her daughter went to China to be a missionary. Her oldest son went to uh Nigeria to be a missionary back years ago. If I understand the story correctly, both her children were killed on the mission field Her son was buried in Nigeria's interior. This was years ago. Her name was Mrs. Gowen She moved to Canada, the director of the mission board that her son was under in Nigeria, where he died, with another fellow by the name of Thomas Kent. They died in Nigeria, they buried their bodies there The director had the few personal belongings of her son. Her daughter's dead and buried in China, and her son dies in Africa The director is telling the story. He's bringing her son's personal belongings that they brought back from Africa and delivering them to her so that she has his personal effects He stood at the door, he said. She invited him in, and he said, we just stood there in silence. He said, I didn't know exactly what to say. She had given both of her children in the cause of Christ. He handed them over to her. He said to her this. He said, she expect he said, she met me with an extended hand. We stood there in silence. Then she said these words. I would rather have had Walter go out to Nigeria and die there all alone. And obey God than to have him here home with me today, disobeying God. What a powerful testimony. I would rather my son be dead on a foreign mission field alone in the will of God. Then my son be alive at home with me here, out of the will of God. Don't tell me that woman wasn't blessed of God. Don't tell me she didn't have the favor and smile of God on her heart and life Get beyond the cover. Let's do what God says. Father, please bless us and help us. I pray that our church, you would not allow us, Lord, chasten us if we ever get to the point where we're satisfied with just talking it and reading it and hearing it. God prompt us and provoke us to do, be doers of the word. Don't let us alone Bottom line is, Lord, it's very clear you want us to trust you and obey you. And I pray that would be true. I wonder how many this evening, before I finish up this prayer, how many this evening say, preacher I know there's something God wants me to do. I've heard it. I understand it. There's no doubt in my mind. It's ringing in my heart right now. I know there's something God wants me to do. I know it. I know it. I know it You say, preacher, I've got to start doing it. I've got to do it. I'm going to trust God and just do it. Now that's between you and God. I have no idea what it is. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. There is something very clear in my heart and mind. God's dealing with me. He's instructing me, leading me. I know it. And I need to be a doer. I'm a hearer, but I need to be a doer. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. Something very specific. I know it, I know it, I know it. God bless you. Hands all around. That's the Holy Spirit of God dealing with our hearts. Now the first step is acknowledging it. Say, yes, Lord, I hear what you're saying. Acknowledge that I hear and understand what you're saying. The next step is to say, okay, Lord, I submit to you, I obey you, I will do what you're leading me. How about it? Any others? Preacher, yes. I know what God's dealing with my heart about. There's something I need to start doing I'm not. God's dealing with God bless you. A couple more hands. Is there some this morning, this evening say, preacher, there's some things that I know I shouldn't be doing There's a road I'm going down. I know God doesn't want me to go that way. It is clear as a bell in my heart and mind. I need to stop this and change it. To have God's blessing. And you say, preacher, pray that God will help me. Is there anyone like that? Preacher, something I know needs to change. It has to stop in my life. It has to stop. How about it? And then you know, God bless you, a few hands there. Spirit of God, God bless you. Now, whatever God's telling you to do, my advice to you is do it. Submit to the authority of God's word. Say, yes, Lord, I want your will in my life, and let God bless you. Say it might cost me something. I tell you, the blessings of obeying God far outweigh the cost of obeying God. And the cost of disobeying God is far heavier than any benefit I think I'll get out of disobeying God. So, Father, bless now we pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.