Please at the last two verses of Ephesians chapter three. Ephesians chapter number three. Now and to him that is able To do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Now, those two verses are a mouthful. They absolutely are a mouthful. And what he tells us here in this passage is that the Lord is able. Period. He's able. He is omnipotent, all powerful, and absolutely able to do whatever. And he is able to do more than we could ask or more than we would even think about. And it's all according to the same power that works in us. So the great, able, capable, almighty, all-powerful God, who created the universe and all of that, he works in us. His power in us is something, I mean, I still I I I have trouble grasping it, but at the same time, whenever we have God's power in us We see things develop and happen that we know except for the touch of God it would not have happened. Now, all that is laid out here. And then that 21st verse says, unto him Be glory in the church. How's that come about? Well, it comes about by Christ Jesus. And it's supposed to be going on all the time, throughout all ages. World without end. Amen. Now, uh I I want to I want to latch on to that phrase there where he talks about glory in the church. Because I think that you and I ought to be going for the glory. And where it's missing, we ought to be endeavoring to get it back Now, a lot of America's churches, a lot of America's churches, and I I don't I don't mean to be harsh here, but I think an indictment is due. A lot of America's churches have lost the glory. They're not doing the kinds of things that represent the Lord well. And when they do not represent him well, they do not take their role as an ambassador as it ought to be taken then uh then some something is missing there. Now uh literally when a church grows cold for example if a church grows cold you know Now, I I I get in a lot of good churches. I I mean a lot of these churches that are headed off into the wilderness, uh they know what the sword of the Lord's about, they know what I'm about, they don't want me there. So I get in a lot of good churches. Now, every once in a while, not often, but once in a while, I'll land in one and I mean it's like I mean if you say something funny and nobody cracks a smile If you say something stoutly spiritual, nobody even whispers an amen. I mean, it's like uh, you know If if you're if you're not careful, I mean just a little cold wind and and it'd be ice, uh ice on the aisle. You know, you could be skating through the church And uh you know, now uh th there there's no glory in coldness. I mean, whether that be me personally or all of us uh in a congregational way, there's no glory in being cold Uh whenever whenever we sing some of these songs like we've been singing, I mean uh I mean sometimes uh even I mean even if it's something that uh I'm I'm trying to concentrate on what I'm about to preach or whatever, and but that music begins and and I mean it it just begins to well within you And then and it and it ought to be that way, but when when it no longer touches you, when it no longer when it no longer does something for you then you've got to acknowledge that you've gotten cold. And there's no glory in that. God is not glorified when we get cold. Same thing with the carnality. Carnality. Whenever we take the position, I'm going to do whatever I want to do, nobody's going to tell me how to behave. Nobody's going to tell me what a Christian ought to be. I mean I'm going to just do whatever I please. And whenever we get that spirit and that attitude, dear friends, that is carnality. It really is carnality. It's not spiritual. It's not a scriptural thing. But it's a carnal thing because we are letting our own flesh dictate about how we behave and what we do I mean I've known folks they didn't want to clean up their vocabulary. They they they they don't want to uh stop running around over town half dressed. The other half of that is half naked. They they don't want to stop doing that. And so it's like, uh you know, you c you can't talk to me. I mean they got habits, bad habits you know, smoking, pupping, drinking, all this kind of stuff. They don't stop that. And it's carnality. Nothing spiritual about that. And when we have carnality that is prevalent And it's dominating the church. I mean the glory disappears. I think about compromise. This is a big one in our time. Folks say, well, you know, I mean I know I mean I've had folks say to me, don't don't tell me what the Bible says. I don't want to hear what the Bible says. And whenever you do that, well who what what are we looking to? What what are we going by if we're not going by the Bible? Well, what my grandpa said, or my Uncle Joe says, or or that's what I feel. Now, folks, I'm just saying, when we're not willing to abide by Scripture But we've got another set of standards, another set of directions we're going to take. When that's the case, we've become a compromiser. Nobody likes to be called that, but it's but it's just the way it is And uh we have other other issues. Sometimes churches get in conflict with each other. I mean, just you know, folks sitting on one side of the church can't get along with folks on the other side. And other such things as that. And whenever there's that fussing and feuding and factions developing and all kinds of foolishness being proliferated in the church, I mean the glory just disappears. There there are places, believe me, there are places where once the fire was burning, but because of all of this uh Foolishness. I'm gonna have my way and no, you're not gonna have your way. And you know we we we we have a big conflict over what color we're painting the bathrooms Or something just about as silly. And the church loses its testimony in the community because of such conflicts. And we have all of that kind of stuff all going on, and the glory just vanishes. And of course we have these folks who come on with things like their self-esteem gospel, or uh they come on with uh, you know, let's just mix the multitudes and Run everybody together and it don't matter what you believe or what you stand for, you know, just don't make a to do about it, uh, but everybody get together. I mean all of that kind of nonsense And we have folks that at one time were strong fundamentalists and then they decide to sell out and they're going to go run with the crowd and all of this. I'm telling, and the glory departs. It just goes away Now, you remember Laodicea, Laodicea, that church in the Revelation, that word Laodicea has to do with when the people rule. And they say, what's wrong with that? Well, we need to be scripturally driven. Scripturally driven. You know, I I would say to our folks over Westminster once in a while, I say, hey, something's been voted on in heaven, we don't need to vote on it here. If it's already been authorized in heaven, we just need to get in gear and do it. And not uh not worry about uh you know it's kinda like uh you know pastor gets in the hospital and one of the deacons comes and says, Hey we had a deacon meeting, we've owed five to three for you to get well You know? And a lot of a lot you'll catch that in a minute. But a lot a lot of the things that go on in our churches where we're voting and voting and voting on stuff that's already been authorized in the book And we just need to get on with it. It's not our authority, but it's the Lord's authority. And we have all kinds of issues coming down the pike. that to really take away from the Lord and we need to have the glory of God. At Mountain Lake and at every one of the rest of our churches, and I'm I'm not talking about the size of the church. Not all about the size of the church. If you and I get in gear and do what we ought to do, we'll get some new folks along. We'll get some new folks along. I'm telling when the glory when the glory is there, when the glory is there, we'll know it. The banner of the Lord will fly high. It'll be possible for the preacher, the man of God, whoever it is, who stands up to preach, and he'll he'll be able to do it because that uh the Lord is working in him and working through the people And uh there, I mean there was a time, time not too awfully long ago, when the church in every town, every village, the church was the center of everything A lot of that's gone missing. Now, of course, that was solved before HBO and uh before uh you know a lot of things that have really soured our society And unfortunately, a lot of church folks have gotten into that stuff. Here's a few words that I think we need to latch on to. Number one, the word Bible. The word scripture. We need to latch on to that. We need to decide that if God said it in his book, it's right. And so we're going to that's that's how we're going to live. That's how we're going to build. That's what we're going to believe. If God said it, we're not going to argue the point We're not going to debate it or vote on it. Just going to believe what God has said. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. It is profitable You know, you're raising children. There's going to be times when some of them are going to say, we want to go do this, and you're going to say, ooh, that doesn't mean muster. Scriptural muster. It doesn't mean it All but Daddy, several of the folks at the church are doing that. Well, Johnny Susie, some of the folks at the church may be doing that, but our family is going to listen to God. We're going to believe what God said And uh and we're going to do what we're supposed to do. Whatever anybody else does is is their issue, their problem, but we're going to try to follow the Lord with our family. Now, when you have scriptural authority for things, that makes all the difference. And we are able to look at that. And I'm telling you, just believing the book, standing by the book. While I was over in Westminster, I was invited first I thought it was just one time, but turned out to be 24 semesters of it, 12 years in the college in town over there. The philosophy department, the most famous liberal uh in that part of Maryland was uh chairman of the philosophy department. He called me up one day and invited me to come and lecture in his philosophy classes. And uh of course I asked a few questions before I before I agreed to it. Uh no strings attached, and uh so I went once, didn't know I was going to get invited back the next semester, but I got invited back 12 straight years, both semesters, 24 semesters. I went over there. Uh some of the folks sitting here will know the name, Dr. Izep. He's dead now. But he wrote for the newspapers and everybody in Central Maryland knew him. Very liberal. I mean he was a liberals, liberals, liberal And uh so I go into his class, I mean the the some of the other speakers he had were uh well I won't even mention how off the deep end they were. But he said to me, he said, he said, these students never hear from people like you. And he said, I think they ought to hear from you. And so uh so I go over and all 24 times, and I was doing three one hour and a half classes each time. Every time I went in, I went in like this Yeah. Amen. Amen, preacher. Good. And whenever he introduced me, and he was always very gracious in introducing me. When he introduced me and I walked up and stood before usually 40, 50, 60 students in the class, sometimes a little more. But I said to them, I said, I appreciate the opportunity to be here, and I said right off the bat, I said, I need to explain something to you, because I said, I'm going to tell you some things That uh you may have a little trouble swallowing, but I said I want to tell you who I am and what I'm about and why I am the way I am and why I believe the way I do. And all the while I got my Bible like this And I said, now, the reason that I am like I am, telling you like I do, what I'm about to tell you is because of what's in this book. And I said, now I'm just telling you right now, this is God's book, it's God's word, every word of it's true. And uh there are a lot of things addressed in the book. And we believe every word of it. And I'm pastor of this church over here just across the treetops, you can see from our campus to the school campus, about two and a half miles across town. And I said, right over there on that other other side, on the hillside, I said, this this is what I do Sunday morning at 8. 30, Sunday morning at 10. 45, Sunday night at 7 o'clock And Wednesday night at 7 o'clock, I said, we do it 52 weeks a year. I said, we're just talking about what's in this book. And then I would open it up and begin to talk to them. Now uh you you say you say what what what are you talking about here? I'm just talking about wherever that we are, we are the Lord's representative, we are his people And we should be ambassadorial every place that we are, and determined by God's grace, nobody's going to talk us out of who God said we ought to be We believe the book. We're going to stand by that. So word number one for getting back to glory, it has to do with the book, the Bible, Scripture. Second thing, second word that we need to latch on to is another Bible word. It's the word church. A lot of folks a lot of folks try to make church into something that uh that's not But the word church in the Bible means a called out assembly Now, digest that for a moment. A called out assembly. Called out from where? Out of the world. And the call to what? Call to assemble. Yeah. Unless you have an assembly, uh I mean some folks well now you know the church these days they'll talk about well You know, if you're talking about the church as an institution, I understand. But if you're trying to tell me we got some big universal deal out here somewhere floating around that uh you know nobody's ever seen or they never no no no no no no that doesn't work. All right so so what we're looking at here is the word church and listen we ought to make a big to-do about church I mean I mean you get a chance to talk to people out in town uh showing energy, showing excitement, showing uh a strong testimony about church And uh, you know, a lot of folks they they've been to some dead something. A lot of folks have been to something that maybe was just cold and whatever else And and they don't know what it's like to be in a church where there's life and where people are being saved and where the word is being preached. But if you get them here one time You got a much better chance to get them back a second time. So church, big word. Let me give you another word or two Bible words. The word pastor It's a big word in the Bible. The Bible talks about elders, talks about bishop, talks about pastor. I think all those words describe the same office, different functions of the same office. And uh and you know what it means? It means somebody is leading, somebody's in charge, somebody is responsible to see that things are headed right. And God's laid all that out. I mean everybody it don't matter what's going on, somebody's in charge of it. Now the deal is let's just be sure it's the right person You know, I get on an airplane to fly home uh Monday when I'm getting ready to leave Maryland to go home uh uh Monday morning, next Monday. Uh you know, I get on an airplane down at BWI, you know, I want to be sure there's a pilot in the cockpit. You know, I don't want some of the baggage handlers trying to fly the plane Amen. Some of the passengers trying to fly the plane. No. I want a pilot. And so pastor is a big word. Here's another concept. We talk about what we are about. And sometimes we get the idea, well, if we're gonna if we're gonna bring glory to God, it's our buildings. No, no, it's not our buildings. Uh well maybe it's our choir. No, it's not our choir. Uh well maybe maybe it's uh the banquet that we have. No, it's not that. The fact of the matter is the great job, the great assignment that we have that brings glory to God is we go out after people and we reach other people. You say, what people do we reach? Any and all of them. Tall ones, short ones, you know, young ones, old ones, whoever that they are, you know. And uh, you know, America is in trouble. Our nation is crumbling, and a lot of it is because so many of our churches, the glory. that belongs to God has vanished. And they're no longer in business like churches ought to be in business. We got people dying and going to hell Just day after day after day, because here's a church sitting there. I mean that people pass it by every day. And nobody, nobody is trying to get those people. Nobody's reaching for them And uh it's just sad to to see that that's the case. But, you know, uh we were talking earlier about um You know, playing softball and things like that. Uh when I was over here at the church we had we had some softball teams, men's softball teams in in the church. I played in that league uh as long as I was over there until I was fifty-two years of age And uh and uh you know every uh we had five five men's teams in our church and about fifteen, twenty guys on each team. And uh and every every time I made sure we had several good soul winners on all five of those teams. You know why we did that? Because we would let I mean we'd let guys come and play who were not already if they were not already in the church, we'd let them come and play, but they had to come to church once a week. And if they don't come to church, they don't get to play that week And so I wanted some good soul winners on each team and every summer season without fail. Those softball teams. I mean, we're having a big time. We're having fun. I l I love I love to play. But the big thing was we were reaching some guys, and some of the guys that we reached last summer And they they've started coming now. They're even showing up on Sunday night part of the time, and they're starting to adjust, and they've got their family there now But some of them are really, really needing some tutoring. They're needing some growth. They're needing to be encouraged. And you know that th those good solid men, the soul winners on those teams Uh they had man they had lash some some guy, you know, he's maybe he's not saved or maybe he's just gotten saved and still something goes, hey, where some umpire comes, doesn't bring his glasses, you know, and he makes a bad call You've heard of that, I guess. And uh and so what does the guy do? Oh he's he he he gets angry, whatever. And uh so some of my guys who are spiritually mature They they get with the guy. And the game plan was, you you show out on the field and one of us will walk off with you and we'll sit on the bench. You can't do that. We're not going to do that. We're we're not going to act like a bunch of heathen out here. Wow. Say, man, tough assignment. Yeah, but it's reaching people, it's getting people, finding people, and all kinds of hurt, all kinds of heartache, all kinds of bad habits You know, I mean sometimes you just wish you could reach somebody that I mean they just come in and they're polished up from day one. But it don't work that way. Maybe one out of so many will come in and be in great shape, but most of them are going to come in and they're going to need all kinds of nurturing, all kinds of help And listen, every step of the way, if we're doing that and working with those folks and and seeing them grow, seeing them become good daddies, seeing them become good mothers, seeing them become children that are honoring to the Lord That gets the glory back. That brings the glory into our town because we're doing that. Running those bus routes. Getting folks on those buses. And I've had people call me up, threaten to sue me, you know, because one of their child somebody made their son behave And call call me up while I'm having Sunday dinner. Threaten to sue me. I listen And then I then I ask a few questions. I say, uh, what's your name now, and where do you live? And where do you work? And who's your supervisor? And about that time they want to know why you're asking all those questions. And I always tell them it's for the countersuit. They say, countersuit? I said, yes. We're trying to help your family, and you're throwing a bunch of mud at us, and I'm telling you, you smear our name like that, and and we will be you take us to court, we're gonna be right there with a counter suit for you're messing with us. And uh nobody sued me. We're trying to help people like that. Sometimes you've got to be firm with them. And all of those kinds of things because of the program The program. If we're going to get the glory back, yes, we've got to get into the Bible. Yes, we've got to make a big to-do about church. Yes, we've got to let the pastor leave. Yes, we've got to go about reaching people. Just going after folks And a wor a fifth word is the word holiness or holy. We gotta clean up our act. Gotta be willing to just let the Lord clean us so that we are clean vessels. Now, I d I don't think it takes a lot of interpretive uh help here to figure that out. Out in the world is a lot of dirty, nasty habits. A lot of habits that uh you know, alcohol and drugging and all that kind of stuff, that it only does damage, it only does hurt, it only brings heartache. And whenever we come to Christ and we begin to listen to what's in the book, we'll find all kinds of encouragement and instruction to turn loose of those things. I'm telling you. Bringing things to the altar and just saying, Lord, I'm done with it. I'm done with it. With your help, I'm done with it. I'm going to set it aside. And whether we're talking about garbage TV or pornography or tobacco or alcohol, all those kinds of things, just be done with it. And determine by God's grace that we're going to live clean, we're going to live straight, we're going to live right. And let our life be a light for the Lord. Take the right kind of stand in that regard. Another word is the word spirit-filled. You know, we can fill our life with all kinds of stuff, or We can do as the Bible says and be filled with the Spirit of God and allow the Spirit of God to teach us and give us direction about who we are and what we do and where we go and empower us There have been times when I have witnessed to somebody when I was tired or when I didn't feel good or whatever, and I'm saying to myself the whole time I'm doing it, I I'm I don't know that I'm doing a good job with this But by the grace and goodness of God, the person responded not to my presentation, but to the fact of the Word of God And God worked upon that, and the Spirit of God worked, and that person came to Christ, even though I didn't think I did a decent job. We need the filling of the Spirit of God. That's where the source of the power is. In fact, speaking of the source. And if I may simply employ the word that's already been heralded here: the word faith. Is the seventh word that we need to latch on to if we get the glory back. And that just simply means we believe God. Just simply means we're going to believe him, we're going to trust him. We're going to go with him and whatever he says is what goes with us. And that makes all the difference. Now, as the church goes So goes our families. As the church goes, so goes our communities. As the church goes, so goes our nation And getting back the glory. You know what I'm after? I want I yes, I want to have a growing church. I want to have a growing church. I want to have a going church. Where we just get out and and look for it. I want to have a glowing church. You know? I don't want us to just be like a bunch of Corpses. Man, let's let's let's let the light of the Lord show in us. Amen. I I guess a growing, a growing, a growing church. I want us to have a giving church. A giving church, a grateful church, a gracious church. I mean on and on the list would go things that will just unlabel the glory of God to shine through us again. You know I think I know how it is here. I know how it was when I was across the state over here. You know, you know where we got members? We got everyone we got out of the human race. Everyone we got out of the human race. All of them are sinners. All of them are sinners. Need to be saved. All all I mean I mean, they're all just like us. We too. I mean the only only reason we're heading in in in the right direction is because of the great grace and goodness of God. And we get that we get that thought in mind and start promoting what God can do and what God can give. And all at once things begin to look different around the church house. I'm telling you. I'm going to go down to the Inner Harbor Thursday and Friday in Baltimore. And I still like to see, oh glory, that big flag. waving over Fort McHenry. I I I mean I get chills my back and when we're there at Camden Yard Thursday night and Friday night and they and they do the national anthem Uh even though even though most po people sing it, butcher it. But in spite of that, when they s when we stand to sing the national anthem, I mean it it resonates with me And I want to see our country have the glory of God up and down our streets again. I'm tired of seeing little boys and girls like you described a while ago getting bullets in the in the head. I'm tired of seeing that I don't want to see that. I don't want that to happen. And I'm telling you, what will stop that nonsense is if the glory of God gets on us, and the glory of God gets on enough of us That we get control of things in our town, in our neighborhoods, and we begin to purge out all of that old garbage stuff. And God is honored once again. And you say, man, it's so far gone. It's so far gone. It may be way down the trail from where it ought to be. But if you and I will not give up, we'll not quit, we'll not lay down our tools, but instead we'll say, by God's grace, we're going to encourage every church, every pastor, every bus worker, every choir member To get on their horse, saddle their horse and ride. And be who we ought to be as the people of God. Unto him Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus. Make big to-do about Jesus. That'll that'll that'll that'll change a lot of stuff. And he says, do it incessantly. Do it without failure. Just do it. Oh, it's it's it's Labor Day weekend. Half the church has gone to see grandma. Well if you're ever gonna if you're ever gonna be excited guys when the crowd's half gone, get up and just build a fire when preaching time comes. Don't lose it just because things don't you know pan out the way you had it in mind. That's determined by God's grace. We're gonna go for the glory And we're going to determine to get the glory back in our families, in our churches, in our towns, and in our country. Lord help us tonight, I pray. Lord, we're heartbroken, so many crazy things happening. Lord, we know the answer. We've got it right here in the book And dear Lord, please help us. I pray, dear Lord, a lot of young people just get on board. A lot of precious teenagers decide they're going to live good, clean, solid lives, not going to be a headache to their mom and dad Lord, I pray that a lot of daddies will decide, take leadership of their family, and be a loving leader and take their family like they ought to take them to places that they ought to go. Moms as well, who just decide that we're gonna our place is gonna be something special. We're gonna live for the Lord. We're gonna let the Lord be lived through our family And Lord, I pray for our pastors as well. May every one of us just determine that we're going to hold the banner high and do what we can do every single day, every single week. To make the difference where we are. And Lord, I thank you for what you'll do. Use us, I pray. Multiply yourself through us. Do something special in these days just ahead And Lord, I thank you, and I ask in Jesus' mighty name.