We're going to be in Philippians chapter four. Philippians chapter four I was just thinking and sort of reminding myself of many years ago when I first came. To Mountain Lake, and uh Brother Leatherman led this church to start faith promise missions giving And I can still remember that, and I was just thinking about uh what God has done through this congregation over these years. And how he has used this church in an amazing way. I know you folks you folks just uh routinely go through your missions years and and conferences and uh I know they're important to you but uh Because you're in the midst of what's going on here, I don't think you privil probably recognize really the blessing that you have been around the world, you have a reputation all over the world of being a missions-hearted church. A church that's in that loves missionaries and willing to support missionaries, and that's a tremendous testimony. Today is an important day, as pastors already said. Imagine this. What goes on through Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church? over this coming year depends largely on what happens today. And boy, that makes it an extremely important day, doesn't it? And so what I'm going to do is try to just explain what's happening today. There may be a few people that are new to this. Are some folks that are young in this? And uh Paul uh explains what's going on today in Philippians chapter 4. The book of Philippians is a letter that a missionary writes to a supporting church. Now we know it's inspired by God, but he used Paul, a church planting missionary. To write to the church at Philippi that supported him financially. And this is the example that is set for us And this is a place that we get a lot of our understanding of personal missions, becoming personally involved with the missionary. And so I want us to look at this together today and see what Paul shares with us. Let's pray as we begin. Father, we're so thankful that we can open the Bible And uh Holy Spirit, that you are in our midst to give us the understanding we need. Now I pray That we would individually, personally, be sensitive to your presence, aware of your direction And that we would be open to listen with a desire to agree with you And follow what you have for each of us. Bless today. God just doing amazing work. in our hearts from this portion of Scripture. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now Paul is talking to this church about his relationship with them. And uh we gain or we get uh really that personal touch as we look at this. I want to begin in verse 10. And I want you to see right on through these verses how he talks about their personal involvement in his ministry. Notice in verse 10 he says I'm in chapter 4, verse 10. That I rejoy but I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again. Wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. Now notice that phrase in the middle of that verse. He says, Now at the last, your care of me That flourished again, your care of me. He's talking about their involvement in his ministry. That phrase actually has the thought of Paul saying, I know I am on your mind. He is talking about that relationship, how they they cared for him, how they were personally involved. And at the end of the verse he says, wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity There were times that they could not connect with him because of where he was or because they did not know where he was. Paul might be someplace starting another church. He might be in jail as he is here as he writes this. And uh they really didn't know. They didn't have what We have today, today we can be in touch with our missionaries in just seconds or minutes, depending on uh where they are, and and get an answer back from them. Okay. Can you can you hear me now? Am I okay now? Okay? That'll help my voice to stay through the time. But uh but uh Paul is saying uh uh talking about their faithfulness when they could connect with him. Then he talks about sort of his attitude and the whole thing in verse 11. He says, not that I speak in respect of want, of want. I have that word circle here. For I have learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. I know both how to be abased and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things, I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry. Both to abound and to suffer need. Paul said, I'm not writing to you because of my want. It's not that I want something from you. I'm writing to you to let you know what God has done in my life personally. He said, I have come to a place. that I have learned from God that my wants do not determine my attitude. I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. In other words, I have come to a place, Paul's saying, that I have learned that it does not matter what I'm going through uh I am going to depend on God. I am not going to to uh get all bent out of shape simply because I do not have what I want. I am going to be satisfied with what God makes available to me. That word content there has the thought of of outward circumstances, external circumstances. And he's saying the external circumstances, what goes on around me, does not determine my attitude. I am satisfied with what God is doing. Now he is saying this for a reason. Think about it. He's not just speaking idle words, but he's getting ready to say something to us that he has learned in his own life. Aren't you glad he's saying, I have learned? Huh? That means you and I can learn. You and I can be where Paul was. We can have what Paul had. And he's getting ready to say something that's very uh important for us to grasp. We use this verse all the time. But I'm afraid sometimes we do not uh delve into the real meaning of it. And that's that's verse 17. Look at what it uh uh verse thirteen, look at what he says. He says, I can do all things through Christ, which strengtheneth me. I can do all things. Now, Paul is not saying this egotistically. He's not saying I've come to a place that I can do everything. I can leap tall buildings, I can swim uh across uh seas and and I can do I have the strength to do all that. No, what he's saying is this Paul is saying, I have come to a place, and this is a place of satisfaction. This is a place of contentment, fulfillment in the Lord. He says, I have come to a place that I realize that I can do anything God wants me to do. Through Christ. I can do anything God wants me to do. Now you think about that Because that's uh boy, that covers a lot of stuff. I can face any temptation that God places before me and have victory over it. Why? Because of God's presence. Because of what He's doing in my life. I can refuse. Now think about this. I can refuse any sin that's placed before me. I can Learn to do anything God wants me to do. I can serve any place God wants me to serve. I can be faithful to everything God wants me to be faithful to. I can be in church every time the doors are open. I can give what God wants me to give. How real is God to us today? How real is God to us? Is God enough to me that I can do anything He wants me to do? Evidently I can, because Paul could, and Paul was no different than I am. He's made out of the same stuff that I am. And I ought to be able to say I have learned that I can do all things through Christ. Amen. Well, then he starts talking about his relationship to the church. Notice what he says in verse 14. He says, notwithstanding ye have well done. He's commending them again. Ye have well done that ye did communicate with my affliction, my need Now that word communicate there is a fellowship word, it's a relationship word, and here he's talking about the partnership that he had with the church at Philippi. That's what he's relating to. Notice how he words it again. Ye have well done that ye did communicate with my affliction. In other words, he's saying You have become a partner with me. You have become a partner in my needs. The needs of my ministry. He mentions it again in verse 15. Look what he says. Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel When I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me. No church partnered with me. The church at Philippi was a supporting church, and they had that relationship with the Apostle Paul. And you see, that's what this conference is about here at Mountain Lake. You are looking to partner with missionaries. You have these missionaries here from uh the the countries they're going to for the purpose of partnering with them. You want to partner with them If God attaches you and leads you in that direction. But how do you partner with them? How does the Bible talk about us partnering with a missionary? Well, he tells us right here. Look at what he says in verse 15. No church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only We partner with missionaries when we support them financially. That's how we connect. That's how we become a part of their ministry. You've had bugles and missionaries come through here over the years. But there are just certain ones you've partnered with. Who are they? The ones you support financially. Now there are other missionaries you love, other missionaries you know about. But those missionaries that you support financially, you get their prayer letters, you talk about them throughout the year. You're reminded of what's going on in their ministry. They come and report to you. Why? Because you have partnered with them. And today is a day that This church takes a vote on partnering with missionaries, not only the ones that are here today, but those that God has planned for you to partner with over the next twelve months. Now I want to show you how that works. Just a simple illustration. If I could have four men come up here and help me. We have four men. Let me have a missionary. Brother Joe, why don't you come stand right here? And why don't you just go over there? And uh give me two more men, stand over there Okay, we have one more. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna do anything to you. You don't have to be afraid of this. Just just be together over there, fellas. You you were all from the same place and uh uh you're all lost and need the gospel. Now here's here's what Paul's saying and here's what here's what's happening today. First of all, you're gonna represent God. No reaction. Now here's what happens God calls the missionary. We know that. We see that. We have that example in Acts chapter thirteen. The church there at Antioch. And Paul, who's writing this letter to the church of Philippi, was called out of the church at Antioch to go to plant churches. And we have stories of that. And God calls the missionary. Missionary church does not call a missionary. Parents do not call missionaries. Preachers do not call them missionaries. God calls missionaries. That's the biblical way. And God, when God calls the missionary, God calls the missionary to a specific place, but really it's not to a specific place, it's to a specific people. We talk about places, God talks about people. God has people in mind. But we identify the missionary's location by place. But he's going to those people. And so God calls the missionary. And it it's an amazing. Did you ever consider how God can reach down in just a congregation like this? God can reach down in a specific service and put on a person's heart about a place he wants them to go as a missionary. And that that totally changes a person's life. Totally changes their agenda. Did you ever hear a missionary come through and maybe said something like this that Uh I was in a certain place and God called me to go to this this country and I didn't even know where the country was Have you ever heard anybody say that? I've heard fellows say that. How in the world can you be called to a place and you don't know where it is? Well, we looked at Abraham this week. God called him, he didn't know where he was going. But God can do it, and He does it His way. And when God calls and puts it on a person's heart, they know. Now what happens When God calls this missionary to go to those people, those lost people, what does the missionary do? He starts looking for partners. He starts looking for churches that God puts on their hearts to partner with him to go to those people. And see that's that's what uh that's what God's plan is. It does not go. God wants them to connect with churches that that because that's how The church fulfills the Great Commission. When the church calls when the missionary calls Brother Leatherman and shares what he's where he's going and Brother Lesm and the m Letherman feels that uh he would want that presented to the church and And then the missionary comes, what he's saying to you as the church is, hey, I can help you fulfill the command God's given you. He's called you to go into all the world. We read it in Matthew 28 today. God's called you to go into all the world. You cannot do that without the missionary. So the missionary comes and he says, I want to help you fulfill the commission God's given you. I want to help you To give to faith promise the way God wants you to give, and to be used that way. I want to partner with you. And then together, the missionary says, together The missionary and the congregation can go to those people. Now, once the missionary presents that, then the church has to decide. If you want to just get right in this slot. God calls the missionary. The missionary partners with the church, the church with a missionary, and together, together. We go to those people. And that's what today's about. Today is the church making a decision We want to go to Japan. We want to go to Philadelphia. We want to go with these missionaries. Where they're going. And uh we want to go to Norway and reach those people. And so it's not it's not a money thing. It's a, I'm going to get in God's plan thing. I'm going to step into the place God wants me to be. And I want to go. And then when the missionary goes, the missionary represents this church where they go, and you represent the missionary right here. You see. And so that's that's what Paul's talking about. He's talking about us partnering together in this thing Us deciding together that we're going to be a part of what God wants to do. Now here's the thing. Think about this God knows. God already knows what the coming year holds for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. You don't know And this is where the this is the personal part of this thing. You can't sit here today and say God has about ten missionaries for us to begin supporting this coming year. You don't know. God does See, God already knows and has planned what he wants to do through this church. So how in the world is this thing going to fit together? How's it going to come into being? This is the personal part. If each one of you as a member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church asked God, God, what do you want me to give to missions? And listen to him and do what he says, then God will be able to prepare the church for what he has planned this coming year. See, and that's the personal part. That's why you pray about it. God, what do you want me to give? And He tells him what to give, and her what to give, and you what to give, and you what to give, and you what to give. And when it all comes together. It's what God wants so he can bring in the missionaries that he wants this church to partner with over this coming year. It is a plan that God has that you and I need to get in on. Amen. Thank you, fellas. Now, he uh he continues talking about that personal relationship. Notice what he says here. In verse sixteen, he says, For even in Thessalonica, you remember in Thessalonica, chapter 16 That Philippian church started, and then he went in chapter 17. He went down in Thessalonica. He had gone through that persecution in Philippi. And he says, even when I left Philippi and went down to Thessalonica He says, ye sent once and again unto my necessity See, that's what Brother Joe could say when he gets to Philadelphia. Hey, you folks, uh you sent once and again to my necessity up there. We partnered and and uh you became a part And then verse 17, here's that partnership. Not because I desire gift, but I desire fruit that may abound to your account. That's that partnership. That's that's us going with the missionary to those people, and when they get saved, it's uh it's fruit to all accounts. Every person that's involved in that mission's endeavor. And then notice what he says, verse 18. But I have all. You might think Paul was in a resort or something, huh? He's in jail I have all. Now that's what he was talking about when he was saying, I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. When we are satisfied with God, And what God is doing in our lives, we can say, I have all. You know it's better it's better to be satisfied with God than having boogles of money. Contentment is more precious. Well, that's another way, another direction. But I have all and abound. I am full. Here it is again. Look at this. Having received of Epaphroditus. The things which were sent from you. There's that support again. There's that connection again. An odor of a sweet smell of sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God He's relating to that Old Testament sacrifice as the scent went up to God. And he said, Boy, when when you uh partnered with me and when you send that support to me and you send what helps me continue it's like a sweet smell going up to God You ever think uh you uh offering plates passed on Sunday morning and you drop your faith promise in and God goes, that's good. Huh? Don't you think he sees it? Don't you think he sees the commitment and the consistency? If you women ever been walking through a mall or store or something and and somebody stops you and says, what are you wearing? That smells so good. You go home and tell your husband, get me a gallon of that. You like that. Hey, listen, it's just like God saying, what are you doing? That smells so good. That ought to cause us to be excited. Amen? That God pays that much attention to the little that we're able to do. And then he says, Hey, I could do it. Look at verse 19. But my God shall supply all your need. according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Now that is a promise. I know it's a general promise. We can use it in a general way. But within the context, that is a promise to those that give to missions. And God says, you do what I want you to do in this matter of missions. And I'll take care of your every need. Now you may sit here today and say, Well, I have this need, that need. No, that's what he that's not what he's talking about. He's talking about the needs that you don't even know you're ha you're going to have yet. He's talking about next month. He's talking about down the road. I'm ta I'm going to take care of all your needs. Because you see, he knows the needs you and I are going to have that we know nothing about. Yeah. And he said, if you'll get involved in mission, if you'll get involved in this matter of church planting Sending missionaries, giving to partner with them, then I will take care of you. You cannot get a financial advisor to make that promise to you. Amen. But you can depend on God to do it. Today is an important day. It's an important day for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, but not just for this church. It's an important day for every member because what you do as individuals today Has to do with a personal relationship with God. It activates God Do what he wants to do. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. I want to ask you some questions today. Personal. How many folks here would say, Preacher, I'm glad I can listen to that and see that from the Bible And sit here and know, as far as my relationship with the Lord's concerned, I am saved. I've been born again, and I am on my way to heaven, and I'm glad, I'm glad that I can see that in this personal relationship with God. Could you give testimony of your salvation slipping your hand up all over the building? I'm saved, I know it, I rejoice in that. I'm glad I can have this relationship. Thank you. You may put your hands down. That's a great Some did not raise your hands. I appreciate your honesty, your sincerity. Is there anyone here that would say, preacher, I could not raise my hand? I don't know that I would go to heaven if I died today. No one's looking but Pastor Leatherman and myself. But you say I know I don't want to go to hell. I'm I don't know I don't have that assurance, but I know this. I would love to know that I'm ready to go to heaven. Preacher, would you pray with me and pray for me? Would you just let me pray with you about your condition? Would you slip your hand up and say, would you just simply pray for me that I would get that settled? Anyone at all? Preacher, would you pray with me and pray for me? I am not sure I would go to heaven if I died, or I know I wouldn't. But I want to. Would you pray with me and pray for me? Anyone? Okay. Thank you. I appreciate that. Anyone else? Anyone else? In just a moment we'll have an invitation and uh Pastor will be down front here. And if you will come forward, he will have someone take you privately and show you how you can s get that settled. And this uh it won't be an embarrassing thing. Everyone in this building that's saved has experienced that, making that decision. And so I would invite you to come. Third question. How many folks here would say, preacher, I'm saved? That's all settled? But God has dealt with me today. I need to do business with God. Would you pray with me and pray for me that I would That I would get things settled as God has spoken to my heart. Would you slip your hand up all over the building? I want to be right where God wants me to be. Amen. God bless you. Let's stand as we pray. Father. Thank you for these that have raised their hands. And we pray that you would just help us. To make the decision you've placed on our hearts. God, it's so good to be reminded of how personal it is. The relationship we can have with you in all areas. And I pray now as we do business with you that you would uh just help us to fit right in the place that you want us. And God, I pray that today would be just a great day for this church. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. As the penis plates, right now, God spoken to your heart. Would you slip out of your p