Well, good evening. Let me ask you to turn in your Bibles, please, to 1 Kings chapter 17 tonight. 1 Kings chapter 17. I hear these preachers sing like that and some of them play the piano and I hate all of them. Yeah. Huh? Yeah, I agree. When you can't do anything. You hate those that can Well, thank you for being here tonight. Thank you for rowing in tonight. Let me ask you a question. When was the last time you got out on a limb with God? Just got out on a limb with him? Now I'm not talking about uh, you know, uh we look at these missionaries and we say, well, uh these are people that have surrendered their lives and they're out there with God. And if God doesn't do it, uh, they're in trouble. They they have gotten out on a limb with God. But I'm not talking about just being called to be a missionary. I'm not talking about being called to preach. I'm I'm talking about I'm talking about just knowing that God has spoken to you about something He wants to do in your life. And maybe there's some fear, apprehension, questions And in order to make that commitment to God, in order to be in agreement with God, you're going to have to get out there with him, where if he does not do it, you're going to be in real trouble. And uh that happens just in our Christian life. For instance, I can remember when June and I first got in a church where we were challenged to serve God. And uh I was there for a little while, a few months, and the pastor came to me and asked me if I would teach a sixth-grade boys' Sunday school class. And I said, no way. I can't teach a sixth-grade boys Sunday school class. And the reason I did is because I knew those sixth graders knew more about the Bible than I did. And if I got in there, they'd ask me questions I couldn't answer, and I was not going to let them get me in that embarrassing situation. But God dealt with me. I got under conviction and finally went back the pastor and said, okay, I'll take that class. I'll try it. And in that class, I learned to do some things that I've often wondered in my life if I would have ever learned had I not gotten in that class. In that class, I learned that I could study the Bible and God would give me something that I could share with someone else. In that class, for the very first time in my life, I was able to share the gospel and experience someone bowing their head and receiving Christ as Savior. Life-changing. And the thing about it, when those things began to happen, I knew this is not me, God is doing something. Just getting where God wants us, teaching a Sunday school class, discipling someone, I can remember The uh first time that I was uh that I knocked on a door, uh personal soul winning, without someone experience being there We got in this church and as after we got in that church, uh the pastor started talking about Thursday night soul winning. How many of you are going Thursday night soul winning? He'd Have them raise hands and and boy they would uh he would count everybody and uh I got to wondering what in the world is going on Thursday night. And so one Thursday night I went And uh he put me with a man named Ed Crow. Ed Crow knew the Bible. Man, I enjoyed going visiting on Thursday nights with Ed Crowe. And I would go and I would get with Ed for a number of weeks and he and I would go and I would just uh I was really being discipled as much as the people uh that were being uh witnessed to or disciple that we were visiting. And I just enjoyed it. It was just a routine. And one Thursday night I went in and uh sat down by Ed Crow and ready to go out and enjoy another Thursday night. And the pastor came in and said Brother Creedy said, why don't you and Stu Balger go tonight? Stu Balger had been saved two weeks. I'm going to tell you something, the blood just drained I mean, I was scared to death. And uh I didn't even have a Bible. I didn't have a New Testament. I didn't need one. Ed Crow had it. He was doing the talking. So I asked Stu, I said, Stu, you have our new testament? He said, yes. I said, okay, we got that We went out the car and I said, let's pray. What I wanted to do was say, let's just spend a couple hours in prayer for these people that are out soul-winning. And uh he and I prayed. But before we left, the pastor gave us this card. Uh he said, now uh why don't you visit this man? He knew we were both scared to death. He said He visited church a couple of weeks ago, I'll never forget his name, Mr. Sabula, and said, why don't you visit him, check on him? And Ed Crow had a card. He said He said, Brother Creedy said, why don't you take this? And I've been trying to catch this family for uh a couple of uh months. He said, I haven't been able to catch them home. Why don't you see if you can catch them? So we took those two cards, prayed, and we took off And we went on this, uh went to Mr. Sabola's house, knocked on the door, his daughter came. He lived, he was 65 years old, lived with his daughter, and we asked his daughter if he was home, she said, Oh yeah. We told him who we were, where we were from, she said, Come on in. And we went in and back to the family room. He was sitting there. And boy, we spent about an hour talking to him and sharing the Bible And he was ready for someone to come. I mean, as simple as we knew how, we shared the plan of salvation, he bowed his head and received Christ as Savior. I mean that lit us up. We went out, got in the car and drove to this next uh visit, knocked on the door and and introduced ourselves and told uh the lady that we were from the church and we she said, uh we're looking for so-and-so. She said, Well, they don't live here anymore. So they moved a few weeks ago, said we live here now. And uh I said, okay, uh we won't bother you. We drill we were just looking for them. She said, Oh no, no, don't leave. She said, I've been praying all day that someone would come. She said, my husband is sick. He's in bed. I need someone to talk to him. We went back, spent about an hour with him. He bowed his head, received Christ as Savior. Now Stu Balger and I knew that night that we didn't have anything to do with that except share the Bible. We knew God did something. And we realize that if God had not done something, it would not have been done. That's what I'm talking about. Just getting getting where God becomes active. Just out on the limb with God. I can remember when June and I made our first commitment to give the faith promise We were in Bible school. We'd never been challenged to give consistently to missions before. And uh I worked in management, manufacturing, and uh made a good salary and went to Chattanooga and uh went to work for two dollars and sixty-five cents an hour for children I mean, we just struggled uh in a d difficult way. And uh Well we were there a few months and and had the missions conference. And Dr. Lee Robertson stood up there and he he said, Boy, if you if you're not giving to missions, you're not right with God and you need to be a giver and you need to And I said, he sh surely he cannot be talking to us. I said, if I you know, I can hardly feed my kids and pay my rent and if I don't get my school bill paid I can't take my midterms Uh and so I said, nah, he'll probably let us know this week that he's talking to these rich folks here at Hylm Park. But uh by the time we got through that conference I knew Dr. Robertson was not talking to me, but God was. And we made our first commitment of $5 a week to missions 47 years, 48 years ago. And it has been a tremendous, wonderful ride all the way. God has blessed our lives because of faith promise. But when we made that commitment that day, we got out on a limb with God. God had to do something And it was not just the money. That commitment did not just mean something for the money. God began to work in our lives In a way that I'm convinced he would never have been able to work had we not gotten ourselves immersed in missions. My heart was challenged to us. We had a bus route in North Chattanooga, and we ran our buses Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. I mean it was a it was a ministry, a consuming ministry And uh uh I started preaching missions to those bus riders and I I challenged them to give the faith promise. We took on three missionaries on our bus route. And that was because God began to do something. When was the last time, and I know you've you've made decisions, all of us have, but when was the last time You just got out on a limb with God. God spoke to your heart. God challenged you with a uh commitment that he needed you to make and uh you just said okay I'll do it and God began to work I want us to look at a portion of Scripture tonight, familiar portion, where that happened, just to uh show us some things that we need to realize about getting out on the limb with God. Hey, listen, God is not going to become as active as he wants to be, the way he wants to be, until we get out there where he wants us to be. Let's pray. Father, bless now tonight as we look at your word. Thank you again tonight for the Bible. Thank you for these folks, their faithfulness to come. And uh especially in this weather and the pouring rain and to be here because of missions, because of worldwide evangelization and the fact that they are a part of a church where uh that's the heart of all activity. Now, bless tonight. Honor their faithfulness. Give us something tonight that would benefit us spiritually. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now we're familiar with this section of scripture Elijah has come on the scene. He's announced the judgment of God upon wicked King Ahab, nation of Israel, back in verse one. And then God put him down by the brook. He's been fed by the ravens and now the brook's dried up and God's moved him, getting ready to move him again. And we come to verse 8. It says, And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, God is speaking to Elijah, and what he's doing now, he's challenging Elijah to get out on a limb with him. He's challenging challenging Elijah to make a commitment to do something that uh gets him into place that God God can work in a miraculous way. Not just in Elijah's life, but in someone else's life So notice how he begins here. Verse 10. Verse 9. God said to him, said, Arise, get thee the Xerapath which belongeth to Zidane and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. Now that's a very important verse and a lot there because he he puts in Elijah something here about the commitment that uh Elijah has made to him. Now a couple of things. Number one, he told him where he wanted him to go, Xerpath. He tells him the exact place he wants him to go Isn't it uh exciting to hear a missionary say, God has called me to this place? What he's really saying is, God has called me to these people. And it isn't it amazing how God can reach down in a person's life in one little spot of the world and put a people on that person's heart uh in such a way that it ta changes the whole agenda of their life. They cannot be satisfied with anything else except getting to that place. So God put Zarepath in Elijah's light. But he said something else. He said, I want you to go to Zarepath. And then he said, I want you to dwell there. Hey, it's one thing to be called, it's one thing to go, it's another thing to stay. A lot of people get s caught up in them uh in the emotions of the thing and make a decision to go, but not as many finish. As go. And Elijah has been told here, I don't want you to just go there. I want you to stay there. I want you to dwell there. Now I want you to uh think about something. I wonder why God said this to Elijah Why? That's a strange thing to say to him once you go and once you dwell there. I'll tell you what I think. I think he said it because He knew Elijah had no idea what he was getting into. Elijah had no idea what he was going to be faced with. He's been up there by the brook, been fed by the ravens. He's he's made out of the same stuff as you and I. Don't you think maybe Elijah's our boy I'm getting to go down here to Zare Path. Some rich widowed woman's gonna take care of my needs now. I'm just gonna be able to enjoy life like I have not been able to He had all these ideas about how it was going to be, but God knew it was going to be totally different than he thought. So he said, Elijah wants you to go there, but I want you to dwell there And then he put a message in it. Notice what the message is. He said, behold I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. Now he's not just making Elijah a promise to take care of him. He is putting in Elijah a message that Elijah must preach. He must present the message that God has given him. So much depends on him saying To that widow woman when he gets there, what God has said to him. So it's a message. So he puts all of this in Elijah before he gets on his way. And so Elijah lights out. He's going, verse 10. So he rose with the Zarepath, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering of sticks. And he called to her and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel that I may drink. And as she was going to fetch it He called to her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal and a barrel. a little oil and a cruise, and behold I am gathering two sticks that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die. Boom. What in the world have I gotten into? Huh? Hey, how about a drink of water? Sure. Oh, by the way, how about fix me a little bit to eat? Sorry, I don't have anything. All I have is enough food for my boy and me. One more meal. And she has settled in her heart that they're going to eat what one more meal and they die. Now it's one thing for her to know that she's going to have to do without it, something else altogether to have settled in her heart that she's gonna have to watch her boy starve. But that's the situation. She said, I don't have anything We have nothing else, and evidently she did not see any place or any way of getting anything else. Now I want you to think about this. If Elijah is a hireling, the story ends right here. If he is a hireling, he puts his tail between his legs and heads out of town. But if he is God's man, he has to tell her what God told him, what God promised him. Everything hangs in the balance in that message. Without God, without that promise He is in an impossible situation. Totally impossible. He is in a place that he can do nothing To solve the problem, he can do nothing to meet this woman's need. But as God's man Elijah shares God. Notice what he says in verse uh 13 And Elijah said unto her, Fear not. That's a dumb thing, saying Huh? Unless you know God and you know what God has said She said, I don't have enough food, just me and my boy one more meal. We're going to eat it and die. He says, Oh, don't worry about it. Huh? Don't worry about it. And he doesn't stop there. He says, go and do as thou hast said, but make me thereof a little cake first. Now you can fix you and your boy something, but make me something first. Hey, she just told you she doesn't have enough to do that. She only has enough for her and her boy. She doesn't have enough to make you something first and then them something. And then he said it And bring it unto me, and after make for thee and thy son, for thus saith the Lord God of Israel. That's what he's there for. That's what he's there for. The barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the crucial oil fail until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth. Elijah, in this impossible, now think about it. Because you and I get in places often. We get in places where there's just there seems to be no answer. For what we're faced with. Huh? How many times do uh do one of your kids, you know, your kids are grown and y you remember when you your kids were little? And uh you used to uh have problems with them and you'd say to them, boy, I can't wait till you grow up Now you wish they were back there, right? Now they call you. Yeah, yeah, have one of your kids call you and Man, they've got problems and it's one thing to have problems yourself, but it's something else altogether for your kids to have difficulties and you have to watch them go through difficulty. Huh? Elijah is an impossible situation. He has no answer except the promise of God. God said. And he told her, God said that if you feed me, you take care of me. And he's going to keep milling that barrel, and he's going to keep oiling that crude until it rains again. And there's food available again. Now that that that is uh an impossibility, except God Now, Elijah's faithful. He's out there. He's out there. And what he said has put him out there. But then she's got to make a decision. Am I going to get out there with him? Am I going to be crazy enough to get out there with him? And notice what happens. In verse uh 15. It simply says, and she went and did, according to the saying of Elijah. She just did what Elijah said when she told him what God told uh told her what God told him. She just did it She says she just says, okay, if that's what God said, I'll get out there with you. Now, the problem you and I have Is we don't like to get out there if we can't see how it's going to happen. Huh? Guilty? Now you might as well shake your head or do something because we're all made out of the same stuff and we all have the same problems. We have trouble trusting God when we can't figure out how He's going to do it. Huh? But here's the thing that we need to learn. Here's the thing that we need to get a hold of and keep before us all the time. When it comes to spiritual things. Understanding only comes with obedience God does not give spiritual understanding to disobedient disobedient Christians. He doesn't make disobedient Christians wise in their everyday walk Do you ever see somebody come in church and they get saved? And man, they just they just begin to to take everything that's preached and everything they see in the Word of God and they begin to to make right decisions and do right things and they just grow and and they seem to be wiser than they're supposed to be. Because they're listening to God and agree with God. Then you've got some person that's been sitting in the church for 30, 40 years, been saved, you know forty, fifty years and they're just sitting there like a knot on a log and it just goes over their head. Why? Because God gives understanding to obedient people. God does not bless seniority. Right. He blesses obedience. And when someone just wants God, when someone just wants what God has for them, God gives it to them. When someone wants to be what God wants them to be, and do what God wants them to do, God just pours it out. And boy, when Elijah said, hey, this is what God said he would do, she just did. What Elijah said. And now he's out on a limb, and now she's out on a limb with him. And when that happens, God becomes active. Think about it now. God becomes active doing what he wants to do, but what he cannot do until a person gets where He can get the credit and nobody else can. Where he can get the glory and uh you cannot give it to anyone else. And that's where they are. It's an impossible situation, and they're out there doing what God said. And verse 15 goes on. When she got out there with Sun, it says she did what it is according to the saying of Elijah, and she and he And her house did eat many days, and the barrel of meal wasted not Neither did the cruise of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah. Okay, you see him coming to town, Elijah comes to town. He meets you, he knows, that's the widow woman. Boy, God's gonna make it happen. And he said, how about a drink of water? Okay. How about something to eat? No, don't have anything. Just enough for me and boy. One more meal. We're going to eat it. And that's it. He said, let me tell you what God said. She said, oh, God said that. Said, okay. So she goes and fixes him something to eat and brings it back. He said, hey, fix you and your boy something. Let's eat together. She said, I told you that's all I had. He said, no, no, no. Remember what God said. She goes back, sure enough, mill the barrel, hold the cruise. She fixes her and her boy something and they eat together, go to bed, next morning they get up. Elijah says, Well, let's have breakfast. She said we hadn't ate it all last night. No, no, remember what God said. Sure enough, meal in a barrel, oil in the cruise. Every time they were ready to eat, there was a meal in the barrel and oil in the cruise. Now here's the problem you and I face. We want to protect the barrel the cruise. Right. We do not want to let God get us in an impossible situation. Guilty? Shake your head. Now I'm on I'm not the only one, right? We want to control the barrel, we want to control the cruise, we want to make hey, we want to make sure we don't put God in a in a hard place. We want to make sure now I'm not saying we have to give it all. I'm not saying uh that uh we can't save and we can't sell We know what we're responsible for, is taking care of family. We know we know our responsibilities. I'm just saying there are times when God reaches down and he says, Now I need you to get in a place Where I can work and you can't take any credit because I want to move you to a new level of confidence in me. I want you to move you to a new place of understanding of how I work. And in order for me to do that, I need you to get out on a limb with me. I need you to make a commitment, make a decision, and get out there with me. And when I do what I have planned to do, Yeah, even though it's hard, even though it's difficult, when I finish, you're going to be able to look back and say, goodness gracious. What God did. And you're going to be able to tell others about it? You're going to be able to brag on me about it? But you're not gonna be able to brag about yourself y uh yourself about June and I when we went to Bible school we were in debt honest now Yeah, I know this will be hard for you to understand, hard for you to grasp, but we went to Bible school, four kids, and in debt, because we when I worked management, we lived to our means We just bought a new house, just bought a new car. We were in debt. We went to Bible school in debt and struggled Listen to me now. Struggled all the way through Bible school just to live. And when we left Bible school, we left absolutely debt-free. And over the years we've talked about it, and we've looked back, and there's no human way that we can figure out how it happened No way. Except God. And that's what God wants. God wants to get us in a situation where he can do in our lives something that we have to look back and say, only God. Only God. I was preaching uh I preached a missions conference in Fishersville, Virginia. Uh there was a young man who took a church there, and I had preached a conference for his dad. some years before and this young man called me and said, uh Brother Creed said I've taken this church in Fishersville and and they uh they support missions but they haven't had a conference in a long time and and smaller mission programs sort of stagnated and would you come hold a conference and I want to try to revive this thing and and get it moving And uh so I went and uh boy we had a tremendous conference, just a revival time uh atmosphere and the faith promised just exploded and and I was through uh his area uh a couple of months after the conference and so I called him and we stopped and had lunch together and And he's telling me about the conference and and he told me, he said, hey, let me tell you about this one guy. He said, I had this guy that uh came to me later after the conference and told me the story. He said he sat in the conference on that Sunday When we were taking the faith promise commitments, and he said, he said, I sat there knowing God wanted me to make a commitment to give, but the next day I had a dentist appointment To finish some work that they had been doing for a number of weeks, and it was going to be finished, and I knew the payment was going to be astronomical. And I had the money, but he said, God dealt with me and said, I want you to commit to mission. And he said If I committed to missions, I was not going to be able to pay that bill. I do. And he said, I wrestled. And if finally I came to a place, I said, I'm going to do what God wants. And the guy made the commitment, gave commissions, and he said, next day I went to the dentist, sat in the chair, and the dentist came in and started to look at my mouth. He said, he said, hey, let me do something. He said, I've got a friend uh Dennis that's visiting with me, I want to take a look at what we've been doing and and uh what we need to do to finish this. And he said he called him in And the guy looked at it and he said, he said, you know, I've been doing some work just similar to this, and he said, uh uh did this procedure and explained it. He said, uh we could do that, it'd be a lot simpler, a lot less expensive He said, uh, he said, uh, okay, and they did it. And he said, I got out of that chair, went to the the window and he said they uh gave me my uh bill and my bill uh the difference between my bill what it was and what it would have been was exactly what I committed to faith promise. Hey, that's what God wants to do. God wants to get us in that place. And maybe God's uh working in your life. No doubt He's working in your life. But boy, if we could just become more sensitive. Every day to the little things as God reaches down and says, hey now, don't go there, do this. I need you to make a commitment to get involved in this. To do this, to witness here, to disciple here, to befriend someone here. Just Getting out on a limb with God. And this week is a great time to just listen to God. God, what do you want me to commit to? And I'm going to tell you something. You know it, I know it. God will never mislead us. Amen. He will never mislead us. But I'll tell you one thing. He will put us in some thrilling places. It put us in some situations that we will just have our confidence in him explode if we listen to him. Let's pray. It's about eyes are closed. How many folks tonight would say, preacher, I would really like to experience God. I would like to become more sensitive. To God as He speaks to my heart and tries to move me and put me in that place that He wants me. Would you pray that God would help me? to become more aware of that. That's what I want. Would you slip your hand up all over the building? That's what I want in my life. Why don't you slip out of your place tonight? Get along with God. Say, God, help me. Help me to get out there with you. Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless our invitation tonight. Help us, help us to To not just hear this, walk out, forget it, but help us to ponder this thought. Just getting out there with you. Bless as we do business with you tonight. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, pen is