Book of Hosea. I w wish to to preach only one thought this evening, but I I think that as we look at the life of the is referred to here as the mother. I believe it's representative of the children of Israel, which I say is for a New Testament application, we could look at it as as the children of God and our responsibilities and what can happen to us when our focus is uh no longer where it's supposed to be And in chapter number one, we see that the Lord, he tells Hosea to get his wife, and he does that. And she falls into adultery. And let me say as she's as she is married in, as she's brought into the family, uh then she becomes uh a child of God And uh it could have been any woman that Hosea would have chosen, but being brought into Judaism uh she would in Christian cr uh Christianity she she would have uh been exposed to the ability And the desire and the pulling away of the heart to adultery. And the application here for us is spiritual adultery. Spiritual idolatry is to be pulled away and forget. of the goodness of God in our lives. And so if we begin in chapter number two, verse number one, the Bible says, Say ye unto your brethren, am I And your sisters, Ruhama, plead with your mother, plead for she is not my wife, neither am I her husband. Let her therefore put away her whoredoms out of her sight, and her adulteries from between her breasts, lest I strip her naked and set her as in the day that she was born And make her as a wilderness and set her like a like a dry land and slay her with thirst. Let us pray, Father. We have absolutely no idea what it is that you want to do here tonight. We have no idea who sets before us. Lord, I ask you that you would help me to be very sensitive to what you'd have said. Help me to be very sensitive to your leading. And then little Lord for the listeners, Lord, as we corporately understand that there's no coincidences or mistakes in your timing. Lord, help us to listen maybe just a little bit more than we normally would. Listen to that which you have for us. Lord, speak to our hearts for those that may be on the grounds tonight that are lost and undone. Without Jesus as their Savior, speak to that heart, Lord, for those who may Have the priorities out of whack. Lord, speak to that heart so that there's no spiritual adultery in our lives concerning our relationship with you. Be with Brother John as he comes after us uh even now. Give him safety as he travels, give us safety as we leave and go back. And then Lord, for whoever it is you have that's going to work on this problem. Lord, please begin now to give them wisdom. And Lord, speak to us once again. We'll thank you for all that you do here and in our lives, for it's in Jesus' name we do pray. Amen. When I come to chapter two, it reminds me a lot of what's going on in modern-day Christianity. Uh we've become comfortable. And God's been good to us, and we can be comfortable in the goodness of God without recognizing the goodness of God. And it's similar to the story that we'll see here. And I know it was cheek and tongue, but I don't even have a title. I don't have points, and so if you're looking for an outline, I apologize to you right now. But you'll get through this just like I have. Praise God. But in verse number one, uh he begins to talk about the brethren and the sisters, and these are ones that have abused uh the mother. Th these are the ones that have abused uh the wife, if you will And Hosea writes to them about Israel's adultery, and he begins in verse number two saying this, plead with your mother. Plead, for she is not my wife. Neither am I her husband. Let her therefore put away her whoredoms out of her sight and her adulteries from between her breasts. And and we have to focus as we begin to walk through this scripture, we have to focus on the mother. The mother is very important. And as we apply this to our lives tonight, can I just say that the local church is very important? the the the the corporate body of Christ in the local church is very important. There's nothing more important on the face of the earth than the local church. And when we compare the local church to the mother, think about it from this perspective. The mother is the only one That can birth children naturally. The local church's responsibility is to see people birthed into the family of God regularly Naturally. But then think about it too. The mother is the only one that has the natural ability to feed the newborn babe Isn't that a blessing to know that you can come to the house of God and eat from the Word of God as the local church serves up the Word of God? That's what she's there for. She's also a protector. If you think about the the hen and in the gospels and how uh she has the ability to spread her wings, gather her chicks underneath them uh for protection and You could study out the wings and how they're fabricated and how God in his detail and his finite design says this is the way the wings are going to be, and it it's a protection The mother is the same thing. The literal n the literal translation here is protector and then the figurative translation here is to be a dam, and that is to protect the elements from coming in and drowning or washing away the family. So we see the mother, and the Bible teaches us that we're to plead with her, for she is not fulfilling her role. Neither am I her husband. Let her therefore put away her whoredoms out of her sight and her adulteries from between her breasts. She's leaving her natural calling She is leaving God's direction for her life. And in verse number two, we see the mother. She is important. Verse number three, would you look with me? He reminds of his ability, God's ability to discipline, to judge the church. He says, Lisa strip her naked And set her as in the days that she was born and make her as a wilderness and set her like a dry land and slay her with thirst. You know, the the church today, our church, your church has not always had the luxuries that it has today. I remember a church that supports us over in the mountains of West Virginia, and it wasn't until the early 2000s that they got indoor plumbing. While the rest of us are enjoying pews and whatnot, there's a man that would go there at three, four o'clock in the morning on Sunday morning, and he would start a fire in a potbelly stove And and when by by the time church was ready the building would be warm, it would be inviting. You see, we've not always had the luxuries And so what can happen in the Bible teaches us that the heart is desperately wicked above all things who can know it. It teaches us that we can get out of whack with our priorities and begin to take things for granted. And that's exactly what's happening here. The mother is not fulfilling her role. She's not doing her duty. She's not but doing what she was made to do. And the Bible says that God says, I Will take everything away. God wants the glory. God deserves the honor and the glory for all that He's accomplished. And he says, plead with her so that I don't have to do this. God says, I can stop this at any time. In verse number four, he says, And I'll not have mercy upon her children, for they be children of whoredoms. These are people that are brought into the family in unnatural ways. And boy, don't you know that the local church today is is just bringing folks in, accepting them as they come, and they come as they are, and they leave as they came and And there's never a conversion, but now they're on the roll and and man we're trying to build empires and instead of getting ready peop getting people ready for For glory. And I'm telling you, when mother uh begins to shift direction and she begins to look at how she could just uh gather or group together, it's a very dangerous day I'm thankful that things haven't changed around here. It's always good to be back here. And I'm thankful by the good grace of God that this place hasn't changed. He says, I'll not have mercy upon her children. These are the ones that are not born again. These are the ones that are not born naturally. Look at verse number five there with me, will you? For their mother hath laid the harlot. She hath conceived them, hath done shamefully. For she said, I will go after my lovers. Now watch what he says, that give me my bread and my water, my wool, and my flax, and my oil and my drink. So what he says here is the provisions. Folks can come in and and folks can be part of the family and they can provide and everything will look like everything's going well, but because they're not uh born into the family in a natural way Their provisions can't last. So he says this: the provisions of a lifestyle of sin Can never be helpful to a natural-born family. In verse number six, he says, This, therefore, behold, I will hedge up thy ways with thorns and make a wall that she shall not find her paths. He says, I'll make it where she can't find her way out of this pattern. And when a church changes, when your family changes. And we get dead set in the ways that we want to go. We'll go that way. And God says, I can make it to where you can't make it back. I'll hedge up about you a hedge of thorns that will only lead you to one direction, and it's the way that you want to go. See, God's a gentleman. The Spirit of God's never grabbed anyone by the nap of the neck and drugged them to a decision or drugged them to do a certain thing. It's always been the free will of man obeying. The Spirit of God. And look at verse number seven. And she shall follow after her lovers, but she shall not overtake them. And she shall seek them, but she shall not find them. Then shall she say, watch this, I will go and return to my first husband, for then was it better with me than now. As she enters into this situation She's in this hallway of thorns, if you will. And she says, Look, I can't do this anymore. And and by the way, uh sin as its pleasure for for a season. Uh but the way of the transgressor, the Bible says it's very hard. And so she'll get tired of walking in these, and the idea will hit her heart and hit her mind that I need to return. And it's the idea, the same idea as the prodigal As he eats the slop with the pig, he gets tired of that lifestyle and he wants to return home. And the only job we have to do As a father or a mother or a grandparent of a prodigal is just leave the light on and leave the door unlocked. So he says this And let her go long enough to want to return. Long enough to get tired of her sin. Then look with me in verse number 8, for she did not. Now he's given her an explanation, given us an explanation of how her heart and mind turned. For she did not know that I gave her corn and wine and oil, and multiplied her silver and gold, which they prepared for bile Now, I want you to think about this. God says she didn't even recognize where the blessings were coming from. And oh, friend, we're already in a dangerous place when we forget the hand of God in our lives. She didn't realize, she didn't recognize where things were going from, uh coming from, so she didn't know that as she was going, that it was God that was providing the whole time. She was looking at those that came into the family through unnatural ways and saying, look, look what good is happening here. Look what it says in verse number 9, please. God says, Therefore for therefore will I return. And take away my corn in the time thereof, and my wine in the season thereof, and will recover my wool and my flax, given to cover her nakedness. And so here he refers to the fact that God will not allow his resources to be used incorrectly. In other words, he gets the glory and the recognition for it or no one does. Now, I understand you're going into missions. Going into missions conference. And really it's a it's a real test of our heart and our priorities and We have all of these different things that sound cliche ish, like show me your checkbook and I'll show you your priorities. But the Bible teaches us that where our heart is, there will also be our treasures. And so we know these things. But it will be a test of where we are as individuals, the priorities of our heart, our walk with God. uh from this time last year to to this time this year and and what God wants us to do and and how God's blessed and whether we will or will not obey the word of God will depend upon Our relationship with God. And we'll see that here just in just a few minutes. He says this, therefore, verse number nine Will I return and take away my corn in the time thereof and my wine in the season thereof, and will recover my wool and my flesh. I will not allow my things to be used in a ridiculous way. By people who claim to be part of the family but have never been born naturally into the family Verse number 10, watch what it says. And now will I discover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers? None shall deliver her out of mine hand. And here he refers to this lewdness. And the Bible uses this word lewdness, it literally means foolishness. It's foolishness to think that uh we can uh not be born again and be part of the body of Christ. It's it's foolishness for us to think that we could just build a group of people instead of building God's people. It's lewdness for us. It's foolishness for us to think that we can use what God's given for good and we can use it for evil. It's foolishness and what God says is those that have come in Her lovers, if you will, those that are not part of the family naturally, here's what we'll do. We will show them This foolishness. And you know what happens to people who participate in foolishness and realize the people that they're participating with are fools? They come to realize they're fools as well. And God says, I will show this. Look within verse eleven. I will also cause her mirth to cease Her feast days, her new moons, and her Sabbaths, and all of her solemn feasts. And so this word mirth means joy. And it says, I will remove it, I will cause her joy to cease. Internally, our joy is positional. It's not conditional. It is positional. We are in Christ. We should be a joyous people. It doesn't mean we always have to be happy Yeah, you don't get a face like this and be happy all the time. But joy? Oh yes Joy preacher? Oh, for sure. I wake up in the morning, I make the sun smile. I love the morning. I'm excited about a new day. Amen. And I love it. And look what he says. I'll cause her joy to cease All of those services, all of that worship and all of these things that was being put on, that were put on in the flesh because they weren't done by naturally born or born-again people. They'll mean nothing. I'll cause all of that fake worship to stop. And I will destroy, verse number 12, I'll destroy her vines and her fig trees. Whereof she has said, These are my rewards that my lovers have given me, and I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall eat them. He says, I'll remind her of her false worship, her lost condition. I'll take it all away. The Bible says here in verse number 13, and I will visit upon her the days of Valen. Wherein she burnt incense to them, and she decked herself with her earrings and her jewels, and She went after her lovers and forgot me, saith the Lord, going to bring the past back to mind to remind her heart of where she once was and where this all started. I'll call her to remember this false worship when she decked herself with earrings and her jewels and This is when it began to make herself look attractive so that the lost could come and be part of the family Look with me, would you, in the restoration that we see here. Verse number fourteen, please. Therefore, behold, I will allure her and bring her into the wilderness and speak comfortably unto her. Now think about this. God says, I'm going to draw her. And he says, I'm going to give her in verse number fifteen, I will give her Her vineyards. God says, I'm going to lure her in here. I'm going to make this easy on her. I'm going to draw her in here. This is what she wants. I'm going to draw her this way. And I'm going to give her what she wants And I like it when God's very clear in the fact that He says, I'm going to give her her vineyards He doesn't say, I'm going to give her vineyards, I'm going to give her my vineyards. He says, I'm going to give her her vineyards. Why? Because we always have to reap what we sow. She's going to get exactly what she wants, and God's going to make sure that she gets what she wants. I will give her her vineyards from fence. And look what it says, in the valley of Acor for a door of hope. Now man, I don't know what this looks like to y'all. But the valley of Acor is a place of turbulence, it's a place of tribulation. But he says, I'm going to use this place of tribulation as a door of hope. And the word hope literally means a rope. It's a way of escape. And I've tried my best to try to figure a picture of this, and the only thing I can figure is when my my my sister preacher went when she was small, she used to get in a dryer. She can get in the dryer and my mother would tell her, don't do that. One day I'm not going to know you're in there, and I'm going to turn it on. And so she kept doing it and kept doing it and kept doing it. So my mother said, okay, she shut the door and turned it on And what she did was she learned her lesson. My mother opened the door and pulled her out. You get it? Yes, I got it. You getting back in there? No, I'm not getting back in there. Did she ever get back in there? No, she never did. I don't come from intelligent stock, people. It's all the grace of God Then I thought about the the the pain and the and the the the the trouble that comes with being in this valley. It reminded me I I had a cousin in my My nanny bell, uh she had a a wood burning stove and and she had it piped out through the window and that way she could pull it out in the summertime and and put the screen back in and whatnot and she always told us you stay away from the wood burning stove. And I had a cousin. And he liked to spit on that thing. And boy he'd spit on it and it's s and he'd get he'd run out of spit, he'd get a little closer, get a little closer, a little closer. And he thought, he said he said this, he thought What would happen if I stuck my tongue on that? Yeah. So he sticks his tongue on it. And real quick he pulls away. And so I can see that she's placed in this valley and the the turbulence and the The tribulation takes place, but then there's this door of hope, which is this rope that God has in place to pull her out once she's learned her lesson. And it's a beautiful picture of our restoration when we've walked away from God, walked away from the things of God, disobeyed the Word of God, how He, by His Spirit, draws us back to Himself. So he says, I will give her her vineyards from fence in the valley of Acor from a door of hope. And she shall sing there as in the days of her youth. It's going to take her back to the way things were, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt. It's going to bring back this salvation, this goodness of God to her, plumb back to when she first became a child of God. It's a beautiful picture of how God will never leave us nor forsake us. This valley is a tremendous place to learn a lesson of how we should view our relationship with God on a daily basis. Now, if you would just look with me real quick, we're going to come back, hold your place there in Hosea. But if you would look with me in Hebrews chapter number 4, please. Hebrews chapter number four. The Bible says in verse number eleven Let us labor therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief, that is, disobedience to the Word of God. In other words, we would call that sin. And he says, here's our tool. It's the greatest definition of the Word of God, I believe, and how it functions in our life found in all of the Bible. The Bible says, for the Word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. And of the joints and morrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. It says we have to work And the work comes through the Word of God, and how the Word of God deals with our hearts and deals with every matter of our lives, from that which produces the blood to that which is the inner man, the heart, the soul, and the spirit the joints and the morrow that deal with the flesh and then the blood producing and life is in the blood. And so we have a a picture here. And it ends with a discerner of the thoughts and the intents of the heart. And that's the problem with the mother in Hosea too, is she forgets That we have one greater than us that knows our intents. He knows our desires, our motives. So he says this, neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight. And so we can't hide from it, nor could she But all things are naked and open unto the eyes of him whom we have to do. So when the mother uh plays the harlot when the mother is wrapped in spiritual adultery and is trying to do the things of the world to build the family, to protect the family, to provide for the family. We have to understand that it's always open. To the eyes of God. He sees it all. He knows it all. So then he says, This, seeing then that we have a great high priest, That is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God. Let us hold fast our profession. Let us go back to where it began. Do we have the ability to get things out of whack? Yes. Do we have the ability to disobey? Yes, we do. Do we have the ability to draw cold? We do. But we have the Word of God, and we have a Savior that loves us, and we have the ability to hold fast our profession. Verse number fifteen, For we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities, he says. But was in all points tempted, like as we are yet what? Without sin. It tells us we have someone that knows Then first Corinthians chapter ten, verse number thirteen teaches us that no man has been tempted above that which he can uh stand, but with that temptation there is an exit That is given. A way to escape, I believe the Bible teaches. So then the Bible says in verse number sixteen, let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace. in a time of need. So all mother has to do is remember who daddy is. That's all she has to remember And there's grace with daddy, and there's mercy with daddy, but we've got to recognize that we need it and go get it. Now go back with me, if you would, to our text. In verse number fifteen, I will give her her vineyards from thence, the valley of Acor for a door of hope. And she shall sing there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt. And look with me in verse number sixteen. And it shall be at that day, saith the Lord, that thou shalt call me Ishi. And shall call me no more Bali. In that day, she's going to realize who I am to her. And that day, her heart's going to change. Things are going to be different. That's a very interesting couple of words here. And Bali means Jehovah God. But the interesting part about this scripture is he says, she will no longer call me Jehovah God. Now I don't know about you, but I look at the goodness of God in my life. God's been good to me in multiple facets. I can't even begin to count my many blessings or name them one by one. But I can tell you right now, I got one right here with me. And I remember the day I saw her. She don't remember that day because she didn't know I saw her But God moved me across the country for a job and I I was I was focused, dedicated, oh my I had objectives and goals that I had to meet and I thought I'm hitting it all. And I was in a restaurant preacher one night, and I had the blueprints in front of me, and I was probably eating something that wasn't healthy. And I looked up, and these two ladies walked in. And one of them was this one right here. And I said, Oh my. And I didn't pay no attention to it. Went back to my blueprints, went on, by six, eight weeks go by and And we hit our goals, and man, I'm telling you what's the truth, boy, everybody was happy. We celebrated and we got the management together. We're going to go have a meal My secretary comes to me and says, hey, I'm gonna bring my sister with me. Is that okay? And I'm like, yeah, but she'll have to pay her own way. I got there and there's this big long table and man all these people are there at the table and there's three seats left and I I take the seat closest to the person that next to me and And there's a seat next to me, and then there's a seat at the end, and and so then in walks the secretary. And she's got her sister with her You feeling it? Her sister was the woman that I saw at the restaurant. Yes A couple days went by, I went to my secretary, I said, hey, you reckon reckon your sister will have a meal with me? She said, Were you gonna have to call her and ask her? I said, Oh my goodness. It wasn't on cell phones. You couldn't just text or call a specific number to get a specific person. And I had to call her home. And I thought, oh my, her daddy gonna answer the phone. Alright, let's do that. I don't wanna do this. And I called. She answered the phone. And said, hey, reckon reckon we could have a meal. And she said, uh she said, I I think so. She said, we're my we're moving. My parents and I were moving uh down the mountain and so we're kinda busy with that. I said, Well you gotta eat supper, right She goes, well let me check with my parents. And so she hell don't come back. She says, yeah. Yes So, she begins to tell me, no GPSs. She begins to tell me you go down to the red light, the Wendy's, and take a left. You go down to the wheel code and you turn right. And by this time I've done lost it. I'm just listening to this voice. And I'm just like, oh, this is great. Then it was time to go get her. I go K laughed at Wendy's. Uh rr right at Wilco. And then there was a stop sign, a dead end. And she said, Well we're moving, so there'll be a U-Haul in the front front yard. Like, all right So I I turned left and there was a U-Haul. So I rolled up on it real slow and Stopped, saw some feet back behind it. This fella steps out, got no shirt on. Cut all blue jeans with the pockets hanging out of the bottom. Oh long braided ponytail. He steps out from behind that U-Haul and I said, nope, I'm not doing this. And drove off. Well, that road I was on made a complete circle. And so when I come around a circle, I got back on this backside, there's another U-Haul. And I said, hallelujah. I stopped there and we had our first date. January 29, 1999 is when she quit calling me dewey. And she started calling me honey. The Bible teaches us right here in this verse that thou shalt call me Ishai. And shall call me no more Bali. Ishai is the word for significant other. Bali is Jehovah God. He says, What I want you to stop doing is I want you to stop calling me God the way that everybody else calls me God. And I want you to start calling me, honey. And see, I don't know where you're at in this tonight, but there's some that drift. And that specialness is cold. There's some that drift and don't allow their faith to be mingled with the Word of God and and applied to their hearts, and it causes a distance. Between you and the Lord. And God says, Well, how about tonight if you'll just quit referring to me as God And start referring to me as honey. Why can't we have this husband wife relationship once again? And that's his desire for the church. That's his desire for mother. That's his desire for each one of his children. Is that we don't refer to him the way the world refers to him. But we refer to him as somebody that the world knows is special to us. He says this, for I will take away the names of Balim out of her mouth, and they shall no more be remembered by their name. And so this is God. This is what God does for us. This is what our significant other does for us, though we walk away from time to time, though we have a period of disobedience or coldness. God says, look, I'll remove that. You just come go with me. And I'll remove this, and we won't have to remember this anymore. In order to do that, we've got to begin to see where we've gotten away from God, and we've got to see that He's ready for us to come back. And you say, Well, Brother Whitfield, I'm not that far away. Well, you're far enough. And God says we've got to do things God's way. To be in this relationship and keep this relationship special. God wants it to be special, and He wants it to be just between you and Him. Let's pray together, Father. Thank you for the attentiveness of your people tonight. Thank you for the ability to walk through this passage. And God, without a doubt, you've led us to this point by your divine plan. And so I ask you tonight that we listen for your voice and obey your voice. If there's something that you'd have us to change tonight, help us to see it changed. Lord, if someone's here is a little cold towards the things of God tonight, please warm their hearts once again. Lord, take us back down the trail and show us where we got off track. And we're not talking about grave immorality, open sin, Lord. We're just talking about the things that have distracted us. That have allowed our relationship with Thee to grow just a tad bit cold, to warm our hearts once again, draw us closer to Thee, help us to see the specialness of this relationship Lord, especially in the time that we're coming up upon where our relationship with Venus needs to be completely perfect. As we make decisions based on your leading, on the eternity of the world through missions, speak to our hearts and we'll thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen.