Psalm 33, our memory verse is verse number 18. And I'd like for us to read this together. I know we quoted it together here a little bit ago. But let's read it together. That's going to be our text verse for this morning. Psalms 33, verse 18. Read it with me. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him Upon them that hope in his mercy. I want to speak this morning on getting God's attention. Getting God's attention. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless the preaching of your word. I pray that it would be you speak into our hearts this morning. It would be your Holy Spirit speaking through me the truths from this passage, this chapter. I pray that your word would have bear fruit in our lives. That our attitudes, our approach, our views, our uh our actions would be affected by the Word of God and by the Spirit of God And that you would help us grow, those of us that know you as Savior, you'd help us grow in our faith and mature in our faith and be closer to you in our walk with you, that our witness in this whole world would be more effective. And so, Lord, we need you to do that. I cannot impact folks that way. It has to be you through me, Lord. And so I yield my will to you. I present again this hour as always I present my body anew, and I plead with you, Lord, that you would fill me with your spirit, and that you would be the preacher And give us open hearts and minds and be responsive to your word. In Jesus' name, Amen. I don't know about you, I like the book of Psalms. I uh read it, usually read it through twice a year. And often if I just have a little time, maybe wait in a doctor's office somewhere, I'll get my phone out, look up Psalms, I'll start reading Psalms. I like the book of Psalms. The book of Psalms is a book of praises From Psalms chapter 1 all the way to the end of the chapter, it's for the most part is a book of praise. I find it interesting that the largest book in the Bible is a book about praising God. I did a little study a number of years ago, and I tried to find out what one thing in the Bible are we commanded to do more than anything else? What is one thing the Lord tells us to do more than he tells us to do anything else? Well, the Bible tells us we should uh read and study our Bible. How many people know that? God tells us, sure, we should read and study our Bible. But that's not the thing we're told to do the most in the Bible The Bible tells us we're supposed to go into all the world, be a witness to unsaved people, try and share the gospel with them. How many people know the Bible tells us to do that? Anybody? Four people. Okay. Well, the Bible tells us we're supposed to go into all the world, be a witness, share the gospel with people. But that's not what we're told to do the most. The Bible gives a whole slew of things. But there's one thing More than anything else we're told to do in the Bible, and that is this. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Read the book of Psalms over. And especially as you get to the end of Psalms It repeats that more and more. There's some chapters at the end of Psalms where it says, Praise the Lord. It'll say it 10, 12, 15, 20, 25 times In just a handful of verses. Praise the Lord. Praise you the Lord. Let all the earth praise the Lord. Let all that hath breath praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. And so that's the th I get the impression studying Psalms, God wants us to praise him God wants us to rejoice in him. And Psalms 33 here, what we're looking at. This is a psalm of praise. And a song about praising the Lord. Now we don't know what the background of Psalm thirty-three is. I tried to do a little research and uh see what Bible scholars and people that know more about that than me see what they suggested Nobody knows. Nobody knows what the circumstances were surrounding the rating of this book, this chapter Uh we don't know what uh what the uh penman was facing when he wrote this down. Sometimes knowing that helps us get a little insight into what he's saying. It helps us apply it to our lives a little bit But we don't have any of that information. If you would, look above verse number one in Psalms 33 there. Who does it tell us is the penman of this book? What's it say above verse 1? Does it? We're not told who the penman is. Again, that's that's That's not crucial. If God wanted us to know for sure, he would have told us. We don't know who the penman is, but we do know who the author is. And the author is the Lord God Himself, the Word of God. God inspired us, preserved it for us. And so we know who the author is, though we do not know who the penman is. Now I'm just out of curiosity. I go, well, I wonder who in the world that was. Who did God use? And so I got looking at the chapters before and after, and I found that from chapter 2 of Psalms all the way to chapter number 41 of Psalms, every one of those Psalms in that section of the book of Psalms Is penned by David. Psalm of David. A Psalm of David. David's Psalm. All the way through there. Except for verse chapter 33. And also I think chapter 10 doesn't have a penman listed there So my guess is, for whatever it's worth, my guess is I believe God used David to pen this psalm here, just because it's right in the middle of a slew of David's Psalms. And then also, reading down through here, if you just just read it, it sounds like David. The statements made sound like statements David makes other places in the Bible that we know he wrote. And so um uh it sounds a lot like David. It's in a section of the book of Psalms that are penned by David So we gotta I I think it's a good guess that David may be the penman behind it. Regardless of who whether it's David or not, regardless of who it is, whoever wrote this psalm Whoever wrote this, you read it down through there, one thing comes clear. They had a heart filled with praise. Their heart was filled with gratitude to God In fact, as you read this, you get the impression that they are so filled with gratitude and rejoicing in God's goodness, it just spills out. into writing this. Have you ever experienced that? Have you ever had a time in your life where you got contemplating how good God is and maybe God just did some special things for you And your heart just filled with grace. Anybody here know what I'm talking about at all? Man, what a wonderful thing that is To have a heart filled with praise, a heart just grateful and a heart full of gratitude to God. I'm telling you, we could use a little bit more of that. We could use a little bit more gratitude and praise in our own hearts, in our homes, in our churches, in our world. We could use a little more praise and gratitude to God. I see that reading and studying Psalms 33. Whoever this is, David, somebody, God's inspired it, God's using them, and man, they are grateful to God. Their heart is filled with praise to God. Now, I like to outline things. I like to have a list. I like, uh, you know, if I go shopping, I want that bullet list. If I have um work on something, I like the little list. So I've outlined this chapter here, uh, and this just by way of introduction, just to get a grasp of the chapter, but uh the first three verses, uh my first point and my outline of this chapter is the call to praise. The call to play praise. Verses one through three Look what he says. He says, Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with heart, sing unto him with the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. Sing unto him a new song, play skillfully with a loud voice. He's calling people to join him in praising him. Come on, get your musical instruments. Let's sing, praise the Lord. It's a call to praise. Apparently, this uh the the penman here feels like his own voice uh of praise going up to the Lord is inadequate. He needs people to join in. He needs get that harp out. Let's uh join me as we sing praise to God I years ago when I got saved, I was a little timid in learning the the hymns, you know, and uh uh attending church. It was kind of new for me. I was excited and uh happy to m and you know uh it was a desire in my heart to go to church and Be a part of God's family. And early on, it it wasn't really a decision I made, it's just something that became true for me. But when whenever we would sing the hymns and praise, I just wanted to sing out. You know, we're saying I just wanted to lift my voice up and sing to God. And all these years, it's not something, I don't think it's something I just deliberately do. I just want to I figure if I'm going to sing, I'm going to sing And uh just say and uh uh and uh all these years it's been that way. I've sit up here now back uh In the old days, in ancient days, when we used to all meet together and have church sit where we want. Anybody remember have hymn books in the pews? Long time ago. Uh we used to do all that And uh I'd sit up here and we'd be singing, Mark would be leading, I'd look out over the audience, and inevitably there'd be somebody out there and uh uh there'd be sometimes more and they'd be like this. This is their and they have their Bible open. And it would be um up from the grave he arose with a mighty triumph over his foes And I'm s I'm up here and thinking, Good heavens, God have mercy. Somebody uh I pray that a little yellow jacket s Fly up their leg and sting them or something, you know, put some life in that thing. And uh say! And so that's what this psalmist is saying, the first three verses. He's just saying, man, come on! Hey, all y'all just sing And uh just singing a I I don't mind singing by myself. I think I sing sound better when I'm by myself actually, but uh in the shower I sound great singing away And uh going on. But uh I tell you, it's nice when other people join in and sing with you, isn't it? Man, just get that thing. You know what I miss? You know what I miss, Brother Mark? The choir I miss that choir up there. Man, I sit right there. And that choir sings. And I just want to sing along with them. And that's what the psalmist is saying. He's giving a call to praise. Hey, come on, let's sing together. Let's Let's lift our voices up. And uh it's nice I don't mind singing a I don't mind singing alone and sometimes God anybody here ever God just puts a song in your heart Maybe you're walking through the store, you get up in the morning I woke up this morning singing a song. And it just seems like almost every morning I wake up and there's a song of my heart. And you walk around in Walmart, you know, just singing, This is the day that the Lord hath made. People look at you weird And um and uh but uh wouldn't it be something I was saying in the first hour, wouldn't that be something if you go to to Walmart or somewhere you're in sheets or whatever And uh you start singing a hymn, Victory in Jesus, my saint, and somebody else would join in and start singing with you. And then somebody else would start wouldn't that be something? And wouldn't that be something start singing in Walmart before you know it the whole place? I heard an old old wouldn't that be something Well that's what the psalmist is saying. Come on, come on, let's sing. God's been good to us. God is wonderful. Let's praise the Lord. So it's a call to praise. I think one thing should characterize a Bible preaching church, a good old, inde old-fashioned, independent, fundamental Baptist church, one thing ought to characterize it is the singing of praises to God. That ought to characterize us. We ought to have folks come visit, walk out and say, man, those people love the Lord there. They praise God. They rejoice in the Lord. Wouldn't that be a good testimony? I was thinking I I miss uh now I like the air conditioning, don't get me wrong. Some of y'all say, yeah, we're freezing to death, you know. But uh uh don't keep your opinion yourself. But anyway, um back years ago Before we had central air, in the summertime it'd get hot in here. We'd open these windows up. Now I kind of miss that for this reason. When we get singing Those windows opened. I'm telling you the whole neighborhood would hear this church singing. And one time, I forget, I think I had left my sermon notes. We opened the service and I realized, oh my word, I left my notes over on the kitchen table And so while we were singing, I slipped out and I ran over, and the windows were open, and the church was singing away, and when I went out walking down that uh over to the house, walking down the driveway here, I'm telling you, I'm the whole neighbor could could hear that. And just the whole neighborhood hear that church singing. I kind of miss that. I think it'd be good for the neighborhood to hear the church singing, don't you? And that's what the psalmist is saying. Come on, let's rejoice in the Lord, let's praise the Lord. And I think that ought to characterize a good Bible preaching church. Ought to be singing and praising God. I think it ought to characterize the heart of a Christian. My Bible says in Colossians that we're filled with the Spirit, He puts a song in our heart, even praise unto our God, and many shall say it God, there ought to be a song in your heart. I'm telling you, if you don't have a good praise song in your heart, a good hymn praising God in your heart, ask the Lord to give you a song. Ask the Lord to put a song in your heart. And I think it ought to characterize our homes. I think our homes ought to be characterized. I tell you, Kathy's mom is precious. She was down last week for a few days with her mother And we joke about mother-in-laws, but I'm telling you, my mother-in-law is a sweetheart. And uh she would just sing we'd be down there years ago when the boys were small And early in the morning, we'd be getting up and getting about for the day, and you'd hear her in the kitchen just singing away. And I'm telling you, that set the tone in that home. Just to hear that. So the psalmist in verses 1, 2, and 3, David, whoever it may be, but under the inspiration of God, they're calling folks to sing. There's a call to praise. Then verse 4 through 17 He gives the cause for praise or the reason we should praise God. And we don't have time to go through all these verses, but if you'll read them carefully, I want to challenge you. Maybe this afternoon, take a little time. Just read down through Psalm 33. And uh he gives some reasons. Whoever this penman is, again, they're under the inspiration of God, God's prompting them, but whoever this man is, he has a very, very high view of God. He is praising God and he sees God as high and lifted up. We could take the time, I'll just list them for you, but he praises God's word. He has a high view for the word of God. Listen. We ought to have a high view of this book. This is God's Word. There is no other book in all of history or ever will be that comes even close to the Word of God. And he had a high view of God's word. He's praising God because of the power and the magnificence of God's word. He's praising God for his righteousness. Oh, there's no God as righteous as our God. He is a righteous God. The power of God. He references God's power. Think about this: God is all powerful He is not lacking power in any way, shape, or form. God is almighty, all powerful. He praises God's goodness. The goodness of God. He praises God's justice. How just God is. I tell you everybody's Uh, you know, this whole world, unjust uh uh uh lack of justice, justice! Everybody, uh I tell you, there's not going to find perfect justice till we come to the Lord That's where justice is. That's where the perfect justice is. So he has this high, exalted view of God. And this is why he's praising God. Let me make a statement: never underestimate God. Don't ever run, you say, preacher, you this situation, no, don't you underestimate God. You say, oh, what nobody has it. God has an answer. Oh, this is too much. No, not too much. Don't underestimate God. He is all-wise. He is all powerful. He is all-knowing. And we have every reason in the world to praise God. So, how can we praise God when things are in the shape they are? I'll tell you, we can praise God, not necessarily because of what's here, but because of who and what He is. And so this penman here, this uh David perhaps, is uh has this high view of God. Uh he doesn't view God as Did you ever hear somebody say this? I'll be out visiting and they'll know I'm a preacher. They'll say, Oh yeah, I've been talking to the old man upstairs. Anybody ever hear that? I don't like that I don't like that at all. God isn't some old man upstairs. God is the almighty creator of heaven and earth, perfect in holiness, perfect in power, perfect in wisdom. He's not some crippled up old man uh upstairs. Uh some people view God like he's some sort of uh um good luck charm, like a rabbit's foot. Anybody here carry a rabbit's foot around in your pocket? Remember when people did anybody here ever do that? Anybody does anybody know what I'm talking about? Please. Oh, good, okay. Carry that rabbit. I never understood that because that rabbit didn't have very much good luck But some people, oh, you know, I got they'll carry a little Bible with them or carry they don't never read it. They don't never live by it But I got this good like a guy I worked with in the meat packing plant years ago. He always carried a Bible. The guy was loo as lost as a goose. And uh he didn't he never read that, but he carried that Bible. He said, Yeah, I take it to the bars everywhere I go, just for good luck. I tell you what, God is not a good luck charm. God's not some old man upstairs. Some people view God like He's a vending machine. I don't know about you, but I don't walk around thinking about vending machines. Uh I don't give 'em any thought at all. Never consider it until I'm hungry or thirsty. Then all of a sudden, is there a vending machine around? I need to get a get a bottle of water, I need to get a a Twix bar. Or um what's the one when you're really hungry you're supposed to eat Snickers bar. And I never think about vending machines. I don't worry about it. I don't give them any thought at all. But when I get hungry, I need to find a vending machine and find it get that Snickers bar And that's how some people are with God. They never give God any thought, they never pay attention to what he is. Ah, ah, I've got time for God. I don't care about that. And then the doctor says, You've got cancer. Zing! Then they come to God and want God to do whatever they want. You follow what I'm saying? Now I'm glad God is gracious. God's merciful. You know what? Sometimes, you know what? God answers prayer and we don't deserve it. God does things for us, and we don't deserve it all. We don't pay him any attention, but God loves us and he's so merciful, but he's not a vending machine, and he's not a good luck charm, and God is not an old man upstairs. God is God, the Creator of heaven and earth, blindingly holy, incomprehensibly wise And the psalmist has a high view of God. And so he says, hey, he gives a call to praise, verse 1 through 3. Hey, come on. Let's all praise God. You join me. We're going to sing. Praise this. And this is why, verses 4 down through 17. This is why we're going to praise him. Because he's powerful. He created the world. He is holy. He is good. What I'm trying to say is this, the God of the Bible, the true God, deserves our devotion. He deserves us to devote our lives to him. And he deserves our praise. Then verses 18 through 22, he gives the consequences of praise. What happens when we praise God. First he says, hey, come on, let's call. I'm giving a call to praise. Let's all praise the Lord. And this is why, verse 4 through 17. This is why we're going to praise the Lord. For who and what he is And this is what happens when we praise the Lord. This is the the consequences. If you look there at verse 18, when we praise God, we got his special attention. Verse 19 He delivers us. Verse 20, he helps us. Verse 21, he gives us rejoicing. Verse 22, we find mercy. I tell you, God responds when we praise Him God responds. When we praise him and express gratitude and our love for him, God responds to that Now think with me for a minute. Let's contrast the consequences of praising the Lord. Let's contrast that with the consequences of griping and complaining and criticizing and moaning and whining. When we praise God, we have his attention. God says, oh, there's somebody praising me. There's somebody that fears me and trusts me and open in me. I'm going to help them. I'm going to give them my special attention. I'm going to Give them joy in their heart. And then over here, I can't find anywhere in the Bible, I can't find anywhere in the Bible where God says, Oh yeah, they're graming and complaining and moaning and mad and bitter. Oh, I'm going to bless them. I can't find that anywhere in the Bible. Oh, they're mad and bitter and angry and and uh griping and moaning and going on. Oh, I'm gonna Give them my special attention and oh I'll help them. No, I don't see that anywhere in the Bible. I found two different consequences for rejoicing and gratitude and praising the Lord And griping and moaning and bitter and angry. I found two different consequences, and I don't know about you, but I'd like to eat the fruit of praise, not the fruit of bitterness. And the last few verses there, he says, hey, this is the consequence of praising God. This is the consequence. Now, I said all that. Now I want to get to verse number 18 real quickly. And this God stirred my heart back the beginning of the year on this verse, and uh we put it down for June to memorize Psalms 33, 18, behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that do two things. Fear him and hope in his mercy. Now, my first thought for the message, the first point of the message is this: I want us to notice the omniscience of God's attention. The omniscience. Of God's attention. Now let me ask you a question. What does the word omniscience mean? Talk to me now this morning. Everybody, take a shot. Omniscience. All-knowing. Good. It's a good theological term. We use it a lot. It means omni, omniscience. Omni means all-encompassing. Science means knowledge, so God has an all-encompassing, all-knowing. God knows everything. Think with me for a minute. God never learns anything You ever have somebody say, you can't that guy, he never learns that you can't teach that guy a thing. Anybody ever say that about your kid? I can't teach this kid a thing. Well the fact of the matter is you can't teach God anything because God knows everything. God is omniscient, all-knowing. Now, I could use another word for the omniscience of God's attention, behold the eyes of the Lord. I could say the omnipresence of God's attention. Omni is all encompassing. Presence is to be a present in person. God is everywhere all the time. Did you ever think about this? There ain't no there. My wife's been chewing me out for saying ain't She said she's going to take a dollar away from me every time I say ain't. So I just lost five bucks in the last three minutes. There isn't. There isn't anywhere that God ain't. Amen. God's everywhere. You can't find one place in this universe where you get out of the presence of God. God is omnipresent. God is all omniscient, all-knowing, all-present. And when the Bible says the eyes of the Lord, what I'm trying to say is this. God sees everything that takes place in this world. Every nook and cranny, every dark basement Every far-off galaxy and some little moon around a planet and some bazillion light years away galaxy, God sees and knows it all What an amazing God. What an awesome God that we have. The eye of the Lord. Now, I want to address that statement. The eye of the Lord. Is upon them that fear him. The eye of the Lord. Let me ask you a question. Now y'all loosen up a little bit. You can talk to me, okay? Does God have an eyeball? Does God have eyeballs No. Jesus told the woman at the well in Luke chapter, or in John chapter 4, verse 24, he told the woman at the well that God is a spirit. And they that worship him must worship in the spirit and truth. So God does not have a physical body. Now, Jesus, at the incarnation, the Son of God, took upon him a physical body. But God the Father, Jehovah, He is a spirit. So what does the Bible mean when the Bible says that the eye of the Lord? And in other places in the Bible, it will mention the ear of the Lord. Isaiah says the Lord's ear is not heavy that he cannot hear. Does God have a physical ear? No. The Bible references this mighty arm of the Lord, the right hand of the Lord. Does God know God's a spirit, He doesn't have a physical body, He's ever present everywhere. He's not He's not limited by physical body. Bible talks about the feet of the Lord. Moab is my washpot, my footstool. And he talks about his feet. God doesn't have feet. God doesn't have ears. He doesn't have an eye. He doesn't have an arm. These are terms. Here's a big one for you. These are anthropomorphisms. Come on now. That is actually a very uh as a theological term, you use uh uh theologians use that for this. The Bible will ascribe to God certain s uh physical characteristics, not because God has that physical organ, but so that you and I can grasp the function of God. You follow what I'm saying? So when the Bible says the eye of God, the eye of the Lord is upon him, it's not God has some eyeball up there down looking at us. But what he's saying is this: God sees us. God's attention is upon us. Did you ever say to your kids, do you ever say something like this? I got my eye on you. You ever say that to your kids? You don't have your eye on them. But you're saying, I'm looking at you, I see you, you've got my attention. Now usually we say that when they're being naughty. Right? The other kids are there, they're out back. You open up, hey, I got my eye on you. Did you ever do that? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah. Or did your dad say it to you? Son, I got I mean, this is a perfect crowd here. Nobody is. And uh or so it has a kind of a negative connotation to it, but there's also a positive spin to that Um our boys, they when they were young, they'd play basketball and t-ball and little league and all that, and Sam played football and Dan did taekwondo and um And uh they'd be out there playing, I remember they were playing uh basketball out in Aurora. They had some league going on their tournament, and they were playing, and uh we were setting up in the stands And um I said, Sam, I'll be watching you. I'm watching you. And he's out there and and uh he's there playing baseball and he shoots and he makes the basket and the first thing he does is He wants, look, dad, dad, you see that? And I'm there, yeah man, yeah. You know, I'm watching you man, I'm watching ya. And uh, you know, they're up there and uh they swing and uh referee calls Strike And they look back at me and I go down and punch the referee What are we saying? We got our attention on you. I see, I got my eye on you. I got my eye on you. I'm watching you, man. So there's a positive and negative aspect to that. And that's what the psalmist is saying: the eye of the Lord. He sees us. He's watching us. We have his attention. Now, I use the term omniscience of God's attention or the omnipresence of God's attention. In other words, by that I meant this: God sees everybody. God has attention on everybody in the whole world. Turn with me if you would. Keep your place here. Come over. You're in Psalms. Go back one book to the book of Proverbs. Psalms, just turn back towards back your Bible there. Your Psalms, you'll get to Proverbs. And find chapter 15. Proverbs chapter 15. And verse number three is a good verse. I would recommend you underscore that verse in your Bible. If you're in the habit of highlighting or underscoring verse in your Bible, I do. I take notes, everything. I've got verse number three of Proverbs 15 underscored. And uh I've got it highlighted and marked and bracketed. Are you there, Psalm 15? Look with me at verse number three. Look what it says. The eyes of the Lord, all right, there's that statement again, that figure of speech. The eyes of the Lord are where? In every place, beholding the evil and the good. You know what he's saying? He's saying, you and I can't hide our sin from God. Behind closed doors, oh in the dark, and we'll hide it. Listen, uh a a child might hide something from mom and dad, but they don't hide it from God A husband might hide something from his wife, but he's not hiding it from God. A wife might hide something from her husband, not hiding it from God. Might hide it from our kids, not hiding it. By the way, it's hard to hide stuff for kids. They find it, I'm telling you. We can't hide our sin from God. But he says, beholding the evil and the what? The good. In other words. The things we do for the Lord, things that are a blessing, maybe you think nobody else sees. I'm doing all this, nobody else even knows it. Nobody even, oh no, no, no. God sees it. God knows that I had a fellow years ago got pretty upset with me. We were listening off uh expressing gratitude uh uh for different ministries in the church here And I inadvertently, I didn't do it on purpose, I would never do it, I have no reason to do it, and I inadvertently left his name off, and we recognized folks. And boy, he was in a huff afterward. He was upset with me that I didn't call his name and didn't reference what he was doing. And it was he was, you know, he was serving the Lord. It was good. And uh, I mean, he got upset and eventually left the church Because I failed to recognize him and failed to honor him. Next service I said, hey, I left somebody off. I tried to give them recognition. Now here's the thing: there's no reason to get upset about that. You know why? Because God sees it And if we're doing it for recognition, if we're serving and doing things to be recognized, to be acknowledged, to be praised by man, then we're losing the praise of God in the end anyway. I've got a sneaking suspicion when we get to the judgment seat of Christ. I've got a sneaking suspicion we get there and God Jesus is handing out the rewards for how we've lived our Christian life I've got a sneaking suspicion there's going to be a heap of people you and I never heard of that served God faithfully and did things for the Lord that nobody recognized but God did and He honors that God's attention is omniscient, is omnipresent. He sees it all. The eyes of the Lord Are in every place beholding the evil and the good. Let me read a couple other verses real quick with you here. Listen to 1 Samuel 16, verse 7. For man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the what? The heart. Oh, I'm telling you, sometimes you can't necessarily tell a book by its cover. Sometimes it may be, might not be outwardly what we think, but inwardly God knows what they are. God knows what it is David in speaking to his son Solomon in 1 Chronicles 28, he says, My son, know thou that the God of thy father and serve him with a perfect heart, with a willing mind For the Lord searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts. Woo He's saying, son, you better serve God faithfully. He knows your thoughts and he knows your imaginations of your heart. How many people here are glad people can't read our minds? I am. How many people would say, Blay, that might be embarrassing sometimes? Yeah, it might get us in trouble. I'm glad. But hey, God reads it. God can read our hearts The eyes of the Lord he sees. He knows. 2 Chronicles 16:9. For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth. To show himself strong on behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. God's watching. He's looking for someone to serve him. He's looking for someone to be a witness. His eyes Going to and fro, looking for somebody that I that was willing to serve me and be a witness and live for me. I'll give them power The omniscience of God's attention. Job's in verse 28, verse 24, he says, For he, the Lord, looketh to the ends of the earth and seeth under the whole heaven Job 34, 21, for his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings. Psalms 139, O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. All through the Bible, God sees, God knows. Our God is an omniscient God, his eyes see. So that is, first of all, the omniscience of God's attention. God sees and And knows all. The last thing, and real quickly, is number two, is the object of God's attention. Now come back with me if you would to Psalm 33 here. And Psalm 33, verse 18, tells us That there are certain people, there are certain actions that we can take that we get the special attention of God. Now God sees everybody. There's nothing hid from the Lord. Hebrews says all things are open and naked to him that we have to do. There's nothing hid. The eyes of the Lord run to and fro But then he says in verse 18 of Psalm 33, there are some people that have my special attention. Some people that have my special because there are some actions that you and I can take that attract God's special attention. And notice what those two actions are, verse 18. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that what? Fear him. Fear him. God says, you show me a person that fears me, they've got my special attention. They've got my attention. Now, the question is, what does it mean to fear God? Does it mean to be scared of Him? Does it mean to be terrified and run away as a coward away from God? No, no, no. When the Bible speaks about fearing God, it's not talking about being terrified or running away scared from God. This is the best definition. I kind of came up with this, tried to define, put in words what it means to fear God. This is what I came up with: an intense reverence and awe For God's power and authority that produces humility and submission from me. In other words, when the Bible talks about them that fear God, these are people who to some degree comprehend the power and the authority of our God. And it produces a reverential awe. And we humble ourselves before him and we submit ourselves to him. Does that make sense You follow what I'm saying? It's not a, ah, run away. It's not that fear. It's an overwhelming Oh, and um I don't know, this might not be the best description. We lived in Colorado for a few years, and we'd go up in the mountains, and sometimes You'd see that mountain range and night. We go up at night and that night sky. And sometimes you'd just go, oh. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It is just awe-inspiring. And I think what the Bible means when he talks about man fearing God, it's beyond that, what that experience. It's like This God is so powerful. His authority is so supreme. And it just buckles our self-will and humble ourselves before him. We submit to him. God says, those that fear me, those that comprehend to some extent who I am and what I am. And respond with humility and submission. They've got my attention. They've got my attention. Listen, I said this before. We must never underestimate God. We must never have a low view of God. He is all powerful. He is all-wise. He is blindingly holy. And you look in your Bible, particularly Revelation, Isaiah, you can find it. When people came exposed to God, when people saw God for who and what he is, And not see him physically. No man can see God. He's not physical. But when they comprehended it without exception, they fell before him in humility. Fear of God. Fear of God. To see God for who and what he is and respond with humility and submission. I thought of the um uh disciples. We preached this back in March, uh did a little series on the disciples were out in the boat at night on the Sea of Galilee and the storm hit. How many people remember that The s the they're after. Now remember, these guys are professional fishermen. They grew up on the sea. And the storm hit and that storm was so intense and so overwhelming, the seasoned uh fishermen, these seasoned seamen are overwhelmed by the storm and they're scared to death. And they come to the Lord and they say, Lord, carest thou not that we perish? They were convinced they were going to die. They woke the Lord. The Lord's asleep of all things. They wake him up. Lord, carest thou not that we perish? And I can see the Lord getting up where wherever it is, maybe down under a little bunk or something, he crawls up out of there. Lord, we're gonna drown. This looking to start. And the Lord steps up the edge of the ship. And the winds howl and the waves are crashing, the boats stuff. And the Lord says with all authority, peace, peace still. What did the disciples do? They didn't jump in the water and screaming and running, scared, fleeing from him. They said, What manner of man is this? Even the wind and the sea obey him They submitted to him. That's the fear of God. That's the fear of. I don't know about you. Our world could use a little bit of fear of God. Our world could use that. Our nation. Let me take it home. The Lord isn't talking about the world. He's not talking about nation. He's talking about his people You know where the fear of God needs to be? In God's church. He says, and I've been thinking of this through this whole chaos that's going on in our world right now. I've been thinking of 2 Chronicles 7. 14. If my people, my people, who are called by my name, Christians, saved people, God's people, if they will humble themselves. And pray, seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways. Then will I hear from heaven, forgive their sin and heal their land. He goes, then they'll get my special attention Then they've got my special attention. You know what we say? This is what and I'm I'm saying we. This is what we say. And if Washington would humble themselves and pray. Turn from their. Man, if these folks in the cities would humble themselves and pray and turn from their weak weight. No, God doesn't promise. God doesn't tell the lost world. God doesn't tell all those people. He says, You and I. You know what the problem with our world is? Christians, we don't fear God. Jesus, uh Peter, I think it is, says, judgment must begin at the house of the Lord. That's where God gives us attention. Say, what's the solution to our problems in our world? I'll tell you what I think. This is studying the Bible. I think the solution is Christians learning to fear God again. Christians, and he says, then why hear from heaven? Then why forgive their sin? Then why heal their land? So Psalms 33, 18, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, see and know him for what he is, humble themselves, submit to him. And then second action we can take real quickly is hope in his mercy. Them that hope in his mercy. The weakest believer in the world, the weakest faith. You say, Preacher, I don't have much faith. I know how you feel. I feel that way many times. Oh, my faith is so weak. Doesn't matter how weak your faith is, you can still hope in God's mercy He said, Oh, preacher, I'm so backslidden. You know what? You can still hope in God's mercy. That old uh prodigal son out in the pig pen, he hoped in God's mercy. Oh, I'll come back. And God showed him mercy. You can be the most discouraged Christian on planet earth, but you can turn and put your hope in God's mercy. You can be fearful. Oh preacher, I had a lady tell me, that's been a while ago, she goes, Preacher, I'm just scared. I'm so scared. You can be the most fearful Christian and still hope in God's mercy. Our God is a merciful God. And we can look to Him, and that's what we need. When this pandemic hit, Pastor Matt and I, I said, God is calling mankind to humble ourselves before Him and seek His mercy. Did it work or not? I don't know. I don't see a whole lot of humility. The world, a little bit. And then now everything's falling apart in our country. God's allowing it. Right? God could stop it, right or wrong. God could stop it. He could right now shhh nut nut cease. But he isn't. He's letting it go on. Doesn't mean it's his will or he wants it, but he is allowing it You know, this is my opinion. This is my opinion. I think God's trying to break us down, break us down, break us down, where we quit griping, we quit uh complaining and condemning everything We fall on our faces before a holy God and say, God, have mercy on us. Have mercy on us. Mankind has lied to God. We've lied about God. We've blasphemed his name. We've perverted his institutions. We have distorted and twisted his word. We don't deserve justice. I hope you hear what I'm saying. We need mercy. We need mercy. I think until we start pleading for God's mercy, we're not going to see much change You're not to see much different. I don't know. I may be off base, I don't know. But I know this the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, and them that hope in his mercy, hope in his mercy. mercy. Maybe our prayers, maybe our conversation needs to change from all those stupid idiots. Maybe it needs to change. God have mercy on me. God help us. Maybe that's a change. I was reading about Moravians. How many people ever heard about, read about the Moravians? Great missionaries back hundreds of years ago. They took the gospel all around the world. And they were up in Greenland. I was reading this week about a group of Moravians, missionaries, this is hundreds of years ago, went to Greenland. By the way, Greenland isn't very green. It's all covered with snow. And they got there, and the people were so primitive and uneducated. And they the mer and they the group that was there, they said, Man, these people are so backward and they're so uneducated and they're so ignorant and they're so primitive. I think we need to first of all educate them. They need an education And so they set up little schools, and they were going to educate these poor natives in Greenland. And it was an utter failure. They didn't change any lives, the morals didn't change, nothing changed. And so they gave up, said we're leaving. We we c we can't do anything to them, we can't educate them, we can't help them. So they sent word for a ship to come and get them and take them. So while they were waiting, which was apparently a month quite a while One of the Moravians decided he was going to translate some of the Gospels into the language of the people there in Greenland And so he just was translating and working on it. And he got about all got one of the gospels, John, I forget what it was, but he got the gospel done. And before the ship showed up, he says, I just want to see how this translation works. I'm going to read it to the people. So he went out, and it was very rough. It was just, you know, he just kind of jotted stuff down. It was very rough. But he began reading the Gospel of John to them in their language. And something interesting happened. God began working in their hearts. And conviction set in. And he got to where Jesus Christ died on that cross for their sins, was buried, and rose again. And when he got to where Jesus rose again, the chief stopped and oh he goes, go back and read that again. He went back and read it again. And they were captivated. And the chief said, Read it again. He read it again. The chief said, I have a question. Missionary said, okay. He goes, is what you just read true? And he said, yes, it's God's word. He goes, why didn't you tell us that first? Is that what we need? We need a Savior. And they learn that the gospel is the answer to man's problems. Fearing God, hoping in His mercy is the solution. That's what changes lives. That's what changes hearts. The gospel of Jesus Christ. Is there a place for education? Sure. Is there law and order? Absolutely. That doesn't change lives. It's the fear of God. And hoping in his mercy. That brings about a change. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you would teach us. To praise you and rejoice in you for who and what you are, as the whole psalm calls us to do. Lord, I pray in particular you would teach us to fear you. To reverence you and humbly submit to you, and then to hope in your mercy and trust the mercy that you've shown us on that old cross in salvation and then in life. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, pray with me. I need to praise God more. I need to get a spirit of praise in my heart and life, my home. I just need to get that back where it needs to be. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I need to learn to start praising God like I should. God bless you. Hands all around. My hands raised. So easy to gripe and complain So easy to uh to overlook God's goodness. I wonder if there's some here this morning to say, preacher, I need to learn to fear God. It's a matter of humble submission to Him I tell you, that's a powerful thing. How many would say, preacher, I need that, to fear God. I have a genuine reverence for God. God bless you. Hands all around. Again, my hands raised. That's a powerful thing. And then what about hoping in his mercy? That's the solution. The mercy of God. It endureth forever. It's new every morning. And you'd say, preacher, I need God. I want to pray for God's mercy on my home, on my land, on this overall, on anything like that, praying for God's mercy. Now one last thing. You're not saved if you've not trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You need the mercy that is shown in the gospel. And that's by trusting Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. The only way to find forgiveness of sins, the only hope of eternal life is through personal faith in Jesus Christ. We invite you, if you would, we'll show you from the Bible how to trust Him. And if you're tuned in on the internet, we invite you to call us or contact us, and we'd love to show you how to trust Jesus as you Your Savior. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Caffings at the piano there