On the south side of the city, Indianapolis, and um they had a little group would go out that played harmonica. It was like a harmonica quartet. And they would sing that song and do the harmonica like a train in the background. It was pretty neat. So that was a blessing. 1 Samuel chapter 17. I got a letter here somewhere, came on Monday, I believe it was. It arrived here on Monday. Each week we pray for a um Senator, one of the elected officials in our state and sometimes local, and uh we pray for them, then we send a letter out and let them know we prayed for 'em and and uh and and give a gospel track and and things like that. We've done it for years. Every week one goes out to a different uh representative or senator. Well we got a letter back from uh it says this It says, uh, dear Pastor Leatherman and church members, thank you for your letter on March 28, 2018, in which you let me know that you and members of your church, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, prayed for me. Prayer really works, so I really appreciate what you have done and continue to do. The whole legislature needs prayer. If we ask him and let him, God will direct us and guide us as to how we should go. Again, thank you. Keep up the good work. I know that God is with you and your members because one can see it in what you are doing. And that something is from George Edwards, uh local here. And so uh I thought that was nice. And uh don't think that our prayers that we're doing are ineffective or they're vain I believe God's using that, and um and uh I I I know he is, so I just thought I'd share that with you. Uh 1 Samuel chapter 17. I want to begin reading in verse number one And uh we're studying the life of David, just working our way through and just kind of chugging along here a little thought at a time, building up to when he actually becomes king. But verse number one says this, 1 Samuel 17, now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle and were gathered together at Shoko, which belongeth to Judah. and pitched between Shoko and Azica in F uh Fs Damin And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together and pitched by the valley of Elah and set the battle in array against the Philistines. Now let me just stop and remind us where we're at in the chronology of David's life at this point. God has set King Saul aside. He's still king, but God said, I'm no longer with you. Doesn't answer any of his prayers. He doesn't have his presence anymore. He is put, uh you ever hear a preacher talk about someone getting put on a shelf That is it for King Saul. He is set aside. Now he still has a position. He's still going through the motions, but he's done, basically. David is coming up through the ranks, and what's taking place here, I believe, in this chapter is God is preparing David. for the kingdom and following chapters. And so he's teaching Israel and he's teaching David some very important lessons as to who God is and what he's able to do And so that's the setting. Alright, now look at this. Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, pitched by the Valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. So here are the Philistines coming in, they're making an invasion Saul is setting up his defenses. The Philistines stood on the mountain on one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and there was a valley between them. Now here's what we're going to look at tonight. And there went out a what champion out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath. How many people are familiar with Goliath? Alright, here he is. of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span, and he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass. And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a target of brass between his shoulders. And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his and his spearhead weighed six hundred shekels of iron. And one bearing a shield went before him. And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are you come out to set your battle in array? Am not I a Philistine? And ye servants of Saul, choose you a man for you. Let him come down to me. If he be able to fight with me and to kill me, then we will be your servants But if I prevail against him and kill him, then shall ye be our servants and serve us. And the Philistines said, I defy the armies of Israel this day. Give me a man that we may fight together. And when Saul and all of Israel heard these words of the Philistines, they were what? Dismayed and greatly afraid. Oh, we're looking at giants. Then let's pray and uh we'll look at some verses here. Father I thank you for recording this event for us and preserving it in your word for us here. I pray that you would help us to learn from this. I ask that you would fill me with your spirit and Dear Holy Spirit, I pray that you would fill me and you would be our teacher tonight and guide my thoughts and words and challenge us, encourage us to exercise faith in you. Help us, Lord, to see our life and our situations from your perspective and not from the earthly world's perspective. So please bless, I ask. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Alright, as I said, this is a transition time somewhat. Saul is still in position. He's still in power. He's still the king. But God's presence is gone and and he's uh just a shadow of what God intended for him to be. David is coming up. God's preparing the two of these. And we pointed out here in this passage that uh we broke this section down to three thoughts I did. First one was, if you'll remember, we looked at this about a month ago, the conflict with the enemy And the enemy was the Philistines. And the interesting thing is the term Philistines itself, I thought this was really interesting. I never really studied the meaning of their name, but their name means immigrants. And they had come into the land of Israel illegally, which made them what? Illegal immigrants. They're coming in here. Except this time they're bringing swords and shields and a giant with them And so they're not trying to assimilate into the nation of Israel. They're trying to conquer the nation of Israel. And they're wanting to possess the lands that Israel has. And so this conflict, we pointed out three things concerning the conflict. One is Conflicts were prevalent. You find the Philistines over and over and over coming back to the Israelites, coming back. I mean just the whole history of uh the of the Israelites was conflict after another, conflict after another. Conflicts. Everybody has conflicts. How many people ever heard this statement? If it's not one thing, it's another thing. It's something else. And it just how many people know what I'm talking about? It's just one after another, one after another. Say, man, I finally can relax. Boom, here this comes. Finally got the car fixed, now the truck falls apart. You know? I got the plumbing fixed, now the electric's not working And uh those are minor things compared to this. But the fact of the matter is uh life is simply a series of conflicts You know, it's just one after another. That's the way it is. And that's the way Israel was. And so they had these conflicts. Some conflicts are the result of our own making. Some are part of our spiritual development. And some we're not told why they come. God just in his wisdom and grace allows us to face them. So then number two we put this conflicts were persistent. They just were unrelenting. The Philistines were, and then last of all, they were profitable And we noted very importantly, and I think that's the point that God preserved this for us, and that's the reason he allowed Israel and David to go through this conflict with with Goliath at this point is he was teaching them very, very important lessons. I made this statement, I want to reiterate it again. I made it before. We must be careful not to view ourselves as victims How many people ever met someone who always had a victim mentality? Oh, I'm just, oh, I'm always getting the I'm I'm the victim, I'm the victim, I'm the victim. Rather than viewing ourselves as victim of our circumstances, let's view ourselves as servants of Almighty God, or students of Almighty God. And God is allowing me to go through this circumstance so I can learn, so I can grow, I can see what He can do. And I believe that's what's taking place here. So we pointed out the conflicts that they were facing, the conflicts of the enemy with the enemy. Then verses 4 through 10, I entitled it this. I gave it this thought, the champion of the enemy. We have this conflict. The Philistines have come in. Now we have this champion they've put out there. And then verse number 10, we'll look at this one, Lord willing, maybe next time, but uh then we have uh the Israel cowering before the enemy. But I want to look at the champion tonight. This is what I'm wanting to get at. Who is their champion? Who is he? Goliath. We've all heard of Goliath. We've heard the story of David and Goliath. I wonder what do we know about Goliath? What do we know about giants? Goliath was actually not the first time. This was not the first time that Israel faced giants. This wasn't something new. They had dealt with them before. If you would, take your Bibles and turn back with me to Numbers chapter 13. Again, this is not the first time that Israel as a nation dealt with giants. Numbers chapter 13. Israel is. Coming out of Egypt, and um they're looking to go into the land of promise, and they send these spies in there, and ten of the spies were Bad and two were how many people know that song? Twelve men went to spy on Cain and ten were bad and two were good. What did they see when they signed in Cain? And Tamurbant II were good. Some so giants, big and strong, some so greats of clusters long. Some so God was in it all. Tamur Bantu were good. I like that. Did you ever hear that before, Sandy? That's a great song. So ten of them were bad. These spies went in, ten of them were good. Look with me, if you would, at verse 32 of Numbers chapter 13. These spies come back and they give a ten of them give a bad report. And they say it's terrible over there. Two of them give a good report. Who are the two good spies? Joshua and Caleb, they had faith in God. They had a whole different perspective. Here's the thing I want to highlight here. Joshua and Caleb had a whole different perspective on this situation than what the other ten did. Now look what it says here. Look at verse number 32. And they brought up, the bad spies, brought up an evil report of the land. Which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land through which we have gone to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof. And all the people that we saw in it were men of great statue stature. And there we saw the what? Giants, the sons of Anak, which came, which come of the giants. And we were in our own sight as what? Grasshoppers. And so we were in their sight. Does that not sound like verse number 11 in 2 Samuel 17, what I just read? They were dismayed and greatly afraid. I thought that's interesting. The first time that Israel as a nation runs into giants, there's a certain element of the nation of Israel that sees those giants then the same way that Saul and the armies of Israel saw Goliath. Oh, they're giants and we're just grasshoppers in their sight. Oh, we can't beat that. But Caleb and Joshua had a whole different perspective. They said, oh, we can easily beat these guys. He said, they're nothing. God has promised this. So you have two completely, here's the thing, here's two completely different perspectives on the exact same situation Ten guys over here, oh we can never do it. They're huge, they're strong, they're mighty, we'll never beat them. Two guys over here, our God's bigger than they are. God is able. We don't be worried about Same circumstances, same situation, same facts, same issue, two different perspectives. So this, again, as I said, this isn't the first time that Israel is running into giants. They did very, very early on And they cowered and they were dismayed and they did not exercise faith and it cost them 40 years. Come over, if you would, to Joshua chapter number 12. Joshua chapter 12. Now they finally, 40 years has gone by, they've invaded the land, they're conquering all these places, and they run into the giants. And by the way, I I kind of skipped something there, I'll just throw this out while you're finding Joshua chapter 12. But by the way, when those ten spies said, oh, we were just grasshoppers in our own sight And then they said this, and in their sight also, they thought that the giants viewed Israel as nothing but grasshoppers that they'd stomp on. But that was a wrong assessment Because in the beginning of Joshua, when they show up, they run in, they hide in the house of a harlot. What's her name? Rahab. And she said this, we have heard of you all. We have heard of all y'all. Coming in here. And uh we're scared to death. We're scared of death And so these ten spies that see these giants and say, oh, we're just grasshoppers. They see us as grasshoppers. That was completely wrong assessment. They were completely wrong. They were scared to death of them. And so it's perspective. This is what I'm trying to get at. It's perspective. How do I see it? Now look what happens here. Joshua chapter 12 and verse 21. And at that time came Joshua and cut off the Anakims from the mountains and from Hebron and from Deber. And from Anab and from all the mountains of Judah, from all the mountains of Israel, Joshua destroyed them utterly with their cities. Now this is where the giants are living And there was none of the Anakims. That's the tribe of the giants. That's where Joshua chapter 11, verse 21. See, y'all are all y'all are wrong. You have the wrong perspective on it. Yeah, y'all went to the you thought I said twelve. That's Joshua 11. Let's start over. And at that time King Joshua and cut off the Anakims from the mountains and from Hebron and from now you're making me say these words all over again. Deber from Anab and from all the mountains of Judah and from the mountains of Israel, Joshua destroyed them utterly with their cities. Are you with me? There was none of the Anakims left in the land of the children of Israel. I wish the sentence ended there. Because the Anakims, that's where the giants were coming out of. This is this is this is a Goliath tribe. These are his people. But it doesn't end there, does it? Only, I underline that in my Bible, in Gaza and in Gath. Ooh. We just read about Gath, didn't we? Where Goliath is from. Only in Gaza and in Gath and in Ashdod there remained. God told them to completely conquer everything, wipe everything out. And they did. They utterly destroyed everything except for these two pla these three places listed here. Guess who comes out of these three places listed here? Goliath. Goliath. And I got looking at that, and I think the Lord's trying to show us something here, teach us something here, and that is this. My decision, my, let me put it this way, my incomplete obedience today is going to cause me to face battles tomorrow. Right? I'm I believe, I'm convinced, if Israel would have followed God's instructions and finished the job and and uh what do you call when you come in a a cleanup and a army comes in, they conquer 'em, then they come through and kinda what is it, mop up operation, they'll just kinda if they'd have mopped this up and got these last places and got it taken care of and defeated that and conquered that, I'm convinced Goliath would have never been around to cause all this havoc. And I got looking at my own life and thinking, and I look back, and how many times, how many of us Have either disobeyed in the past, we didn't trust God completely years ago, and today we're fighting giants That we wouldn't have had to face if we simply trusted God before. Anybody you know what I'm talking about? Somebody asked one time, Pastor uh uh said to me, they said, What's your greatest failure in life? My greatest failure in life has been not trusting God. God said to do something, I didn't do it. Or God said go this direction, I didn't go that direction. And then later on, as a result of that, giants show up And here I am battling giants. And so I put it this way as I was writing this down, my decisions today affect my circumstances tomorrow. So I can't go back, how many people understand this? We can't go back and change our lack of faith yesterday. We can't do that. As much as we would like to, we'd give our right arm to go back and trust God, we can't do that. But here's something I can do I can trust him and obey him completely today, so that tomorrow and down the road I can minimize the giants that I face And so, I said all that, say this, this is not the first time Israel has faced giants, and this to some extent, humanly speaking. is a result of a lack of obedience on their part, and here Goliath shows up years later, and now they're cowering in fear. So let's come back to our text. Goliath's not the first giant. They faced him before, and there's giants reference other places throughout the Old Testament. But um They've they've dealt with this before. Now let's come back to our text. Verse 4, 1 Samuel 17. Now look at this. And there went out a champion. I thought that's an interesting word. They called this guy a champion. So I got studying the word. I wanted to find out. little bit behind it, how it's used and different aspects of it. We have our concept of what a champion is. Um what do you think of when you say some when someone says today, ah, this here is a this is a breakfast of champions. What are you thinking of? What kinda what are you thinking of? What's that? Somebody who wins. I don't know about you, but I think of sports. You know, boy, he's the champion. He won the game. This ain't sports here. This is life and death. And the word champion itself, believe it or not, and I've got different definitions and I've tried to put something together, what exactly they mean when they use that word champion. One suggestion was the word it our word for campus comes from the word the word that's translated champion here. Like the church campus here or school campus. I thought, well, that doesn't make sense. A campus. Then I got looking around and it's used various ways and I came to this conclusion. This is my understanding of a definition A champion who's one who goes out, and this is part of an actual definition, one who goes out into the field or onto the campus between two parties and settles the issue. That's the champion. He goes out there in between and he settles the issue. Um you're uh it's uh fourth quarter, there's twelve seconds left. It's first and goal, and you're down by two points, or you're down by five points, and uh boy the quarterback gets the thing, he fakes a pass, he runs it in, he settled the issue. He's the champion He pulled it off for us. So that's kind of how Israel is looking at Goliath. He's out there between the two parties. Whatever he's going to do, he's going to settle that issue. Philistines, the Philistines are depending on this man To do for them what they need done. The Philistines are. So all the Philistines focus, their trust, their hope is in a what? A man. Right? Their whole confidence, their hope, their trust is in a man. Here's Israel over on the other side. They see their champion. Saul and all the military and all the leaders and all that, they look out there. They are afraid of a Man. They're afraid of a man. There's a man there. Does anybody see a problem here? When we put our trust in a man, all we're going to get is what a man can produce. Right? We put our confidence in a man. All we're going to get is what a man can produce. And men, at their very best, are only men. That's all they can do. So all they were going to get out of him is what he could produce. Now he's amazing. We're time. We're going to look at him here a little bit. But um that's what their faith was in. And the disappointing thing about all of this is this Israel, all they saw was a man. They failed to see God behind it. And so they're scared to death because they're looking at a man. In a negative sense, their trust or their lack of trust was in this man. And then a boy shows up and he doesn't see a man at all. He doesn't see a giant at all. His trust, his confidence, his fear isn't in some man. He sees God in all of this. You see the difference? Twelve men went to spy on Canaan. Ten of them saw giants and were scared to death. Two of them saw God's promises and said, we don't have to worry about it. Two different perspectives. Uh uh Israel comes out, Philistines invade, Israel comes and they're on on both sides and they're putting a battle in a ray, they're blowing trumpets and rattling their horns and striking, hitting their shields, making a lot of noise. But all they see they see a man. But there's a boy shows up, and he sees a God that's greater than that man And so I thought it was kind of interesting that they use the word champion. That tells me that the Philistines' hope and trust was completely in a man. And isn't that exactly the way the world is? All the world has is men, people. They don't have a God. They've pushed him out. They've denied him. So the best thing this world can get out of this world is what a man can produce. But you and I, as children of God, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we can't have what God can do. We have something far beyond that. Am I making sense? You follow where I'm going with this? So that word champion, I think, is significant, at least in the minds of the Philistines, that man, this is it. This is our God. This is the, this is everything All our hope and trust is in this guy. And um that's kind of the way the world is we are today. I read um I'm going to use this in Sunday night's message, but I think it applies here also. I read years ago of a a French politician. And it was back in the 60s or whenever and everything was chaos. It seems like everything's always chaos in the world. But things were a mess, and uh a French politician, I don't have his name But he made this statement. He says, we are looking for a man, be he the devil himself, that can solve this world's problems That's a profound statement on the mind, the thinking of the world. Who comes to mind when you think of the world leaders looking for a man, be he the devil himself, that can solve this world's problem? Who comes to mind? The Antichrist, what comes to my mind. And the best this world can produce, the best this world can produce is a human champion. But our faith, our trust, our confidence is not in a human champion. Our faith, our trust is in the living God who's able And so again, that word champion in my mind was significant. And now we look at Goliath. There went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath of Gath Alright, what about Goliath? What does his name mean? Well, I looked it up and got my books. I'm not an expert on this, so I'm going by what these guys say. And the definition, one that keeps showing up over and over, is this. It means. Splendor. Goliath. Splendor. Oh. I looked around a little bit and it had kind of this idea, sensational. Apparently, when Goliath was born, I imagine he was a big baby. I mean literally, big baby. Maybe mom said, ooh boy. This guy's something. I'm going to name him Goliath. He's sensational. He's splendor. Everything about Goliath seemed bigger than life. Everything about him. They just, in awe, everybody. The Philistines were captivated by him. The Israelites were terrified of him. This guy was bigger than life. This guy was uh everything about him was intimidating. His size, his strengths, the things that came out of his mouth. We're just incredibly intimidating. That's the word that comes to my mind as I study this. Intimidation. Intimidation. You see his size and his armor and how strong he is and what he's saying and it's just intimidating. And that is a lot of the way the world operates, isn't it? The world wants to intimidate us into conforming to its image. The world wants to intimidate us into adopting their values and taking on their priorities, and they want to intimidate us. A lot of the uh ungodliness, the the uh sodomite movement and all of that, their whole tactic is intimidation, intimidation, intimidation. That was Goliath's tactic. And I'll tell you what's tragic is that same sense, those same tactics in some circles have entered into the church. Where we try to intimidate people into adopting our convictions, or intimidate people into dressing the way they should dress, or intimidate people into getting saved. And we'll browbeat them and boy, we'll just bring that intimidation down on them. I'm telling you, that's not the way God works God doesn't work by intimidation. God works by his word, the truth of his word. We don't have to intimidate people. Years ago, and some of you all probably know who I'm talking about, we're here. Back w early, early on, but there was a fella and his wife, and they had some kids, and um the fella got saved. Well, Randy. Some of you all remember Randy Eastman. He showed up, he got saved, he's praying for his wife. When Randy showed up, he had earrings, long ponytail. I don't know if you all remember that. He was long hair. And so he was coming and um there was two ways I could approach that. I could have went up to him and said, Listen, buddy, you want to come through those doors and sit in this church, you're losing the earrings and you're cutting the hair uh the hair And you ain't coming in here like that. I'll tell you that right now. How many people think that would have helped him? Intimidated him. He might have conformed. But I thought, well, let's just give the word of God to him. And so I'd preach, and I don't know if you remember, but I'd make statements like this. God is concerned about every area of our life. Bible dresses every area, who our friends are, how we spend our money, places we go, how we wear our hair. And lo and behold he comes in and he says, you know, I probably ought to get this haircut, huh? I said, Well let's look at what the Bible says. He got his hair cut and he lost the earrings. So there's two approaches. You know what I found out? If I can get somebody to conform to the Word of God by intimidation, and I intimidate them into doing what's right As soon as that pressure is off, what happens? Zing, they go right back. They go right back. But if I can get them convinced that it's God's will and God work on their heart and God renew their mind, Romans 12, 1 and 2. Then it's settled. Then it's long term. You follow what I'm saying? And so everything about we read about Goliath here is intimidation, intimidation, intimidation. And guess what? Israel was intimidated. And they were scared to death of this man. And so uh much of Christianity and a lot of the world relies on intimidation. I got a couple minutes, let's try and get through here. And I want to show you some things about Goliath that I noticed here. Number one, I noticed that his size was intimidating. This is the champion of the enemy. His size was intimidating. Look at verse number, the last part of verse 4. Whose height was six cubits and a span. Alright, somebody get their qubit ruler out. We don't we don't have yeah, you're reading the notes in your Bible. A qubit? What is a cubit? We don't measure, we don't make measurements by cubit. I meant to bring a measure. Anybody have a measuring rule on them, a measuring tape on you? Never mind. Ron, you got one? Really? Well look at that. Never leave home with you should always have a tape measure there. Pull out pull that out nine foot. All right. Is it only goes to ten? What kind of measuring thing is that? Yeah. Alright, well where ya at? Alright, how do we get this up in the air? All right. Ready, hold that down there. This is how tall the guy is. That's how tall. No, don't take any pictures there. How many p how many people agree if you if if you walk up and hear this guy's approaching you, he's that big, how many people agree that's intimidating? Thank you, Ron. Actually, let's look at this. A qubit. A qubit in the Bible generally was the measurement from your elbow to the tip of your middle finger. So it wasn't a hard and fast thing. That would fluctuate a little bit with people for the most part. But generally they agree it's about 18 inches was a cubit, about a foot and a half. And a span, did you notice he's he's uh he's um six cubits, and a span. And a span in the Bible was the distance from your outstretched hand, from your thumb to your pinky. Stretch your hand out there. So that would fluctuate a little bit with different people, but about six inches, six to nine inches, somewhere around there, is what a span would be. Now, I read some others, commentaries, and Bible scholars and stuff, and some of them suggested that a qubit was actually 21 inches. And I don't know what all their reasoning was on that. But if that's the case, suppose they're correct, and a span is 21 inches, uh a qubit is 21 inches, he would have been 10 and a half feet tall. I read one of the commentaries, they suggested eleven foot tall. I think probably the nine foot nine inches tall is probably correct. But even let's say the shortest of all of those is what he was. That's pretty big. That's a big boy. I'd like to know what size shoes he wore 27. Um and so and then I got reading and and and one of these uh Bible guys I was reading, one of them suggested, and this is probably Probably correct. I tend to agree with him. Uh I tend to think he's probably right, is that the average height how many people know that people are taller now than we were years ago? Did you ever go up to that place there? What's the fort on 42 going up to Uniontown? On Fort Necessity. Did you ever go in those little buildings? All those doors are way low And for the most part, people are taller now than we were years ago. And this one guy suggested that back in the day, the average height at that time was 5'3 Anybody here five foot three? Carol, stand up there. Don't stand on the pew So that's your average soldier there. Some a little taller, some maybe a little shorter, but that's your average soldier. And then you've got Goliath up here. I'm trying to get us to visualize this. And so almost twice, yeah, exactly. Almost twice the size. So how many people agree his size would be intimidating? Yes. Now his strength Would be intimidating. Look with me at verse five. And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and that was pretty typical of the day, as I understand it. And I would assume a helmet of brass isn't light And he was armed with a coat of mail. Now, probably a lot of us understand what a coat of mail is. It's not letters from the post office stuck together. The coat of mail would have been like a um uh would have been a a metal like a coat or a jacket, but it's made out of metal, but it is not just one slab of metal. It's smaller sections and it's much like fish scales where it overlaps coming down and that would give you flexibility to move, but yet that protection is there. Now look at this coat of mail The coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was 5,000 shekels of brass. That doesn't mean a whole lot to us, shekels of brass. But, and again, I'm told I'm not an expert on this, but what I understand and my doing my research, that was about, and they come to an an exact weight, 156 pounds and seven uh and four ounces. One hundred and fifty-six pounds and four ounces. You think it's more than that? Less? Could be. Could See that was press. Yeah. Well that's that's just a line. It's a lot of weight. Right. So w whatever the case is, my point is this. How many people here would wear a jacket? Let's first, just to humor me, let's go with mine. Because I think I'm right. But uh how many people would wear a jacket? It's a hundred and fifty-six pounds. In fact, one one commentator had had two hundred and some pounds, said it was. So who knows? And this is a big guy. How many people agree it would take a little bit of strength to walk around carrying one of those things, wearing it? Alright So he's got this coat of mail, he's got a helmet of brass, he's got this coat of mail, then come down here and look at this. Um and uh he had He had greaves of brass upon his legs. Now that was simply a form piece of metal that would go over the shin. And uh I called them shin shields for lack of name, and they would strap around the back. So that's to protect his lower legs. Uh and then it says, look at this, and um He had greaves of brass about his leg and a target of brass between his shoulders. Now the target of brass, as we pointed out previously, was not a big circle with circles inside of it saying, this is where you shoot me. Alright, so that's our understanding of target. Is he got a target on him? What kind of idiot would do that? No, it's not what it is. And I looked it up and there's a lot of different things. People said what it is. I don't think anybody knows for certain But what I boiled it down to understand was it was either a smaller shield that he would use to hold when he gets into combat, he would pull It would hang, it was strapped around him, it would hang down around his back. He'd reach back and grab it and pull it around, and he'd have that shield there. Some of the others suggested that that target was actually some sort of javelin or some sort of sharp-ended thing that he would reach back and pull when he got close one-on-one. Whatever the case was, it wasn't light. It was a heavy thing. Then it comes down, look, then it talks about his spear And one b uh the weaves uh and the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam. Now we have no idea the size of this, we have no idea the weight of it, but suggesting it was like a weaver's beam tells us that it was a very strong very thick beam. Uh I don't believe in what they were saying about it, it doesn't sound to me it was something that was very long, like a long javelin Probably something a little shorter and something a little and heavy. Real thick, heavy beam. What would he use it for? It could be thrown like a spear Or it may have been used, and we'll see this here in a little bit, it may have been used more like a thrusting thing. And I reach out, and I can get out farther than maybe with my sword. And it could reach out. So whether he threw it or whether he used it as a thrust uh just some sort of thrusting weapon, we can't say for certain. But we do know this. This thing was massive. And then look what it says. Um The staff of his beam is like a weaver's beam, and his spear's head, alright, this is the arrowhead on the end of this thing. This is the point The spear's head weighed 600 shekels of iron. Now again, there goes back and forth of the weight. The best I could come up with was about 18 to 20 pounds. Now can you imagine shooting a bow with an arrowhead is 20 pounds? That's the size of that thing out there. We didn't have the hitching. If the weight of the thing gets hitching, it'd probably kill you. It just clobbered you. You know? And so now think about this. Here's this guy And I'm spending longer on this than I wanted to, but here's this guy, massive size, and proportionally, he's not just a beanpole. But porcelain is a huge man. Um he is has this armor on him. It's state of the art. This is the latest technology in war warfare, weapons in warfare And he's carrying this stuff with him. And then notice it says here, says this. Now this is a little aside. End of verse 7. And one bearing a shield went before him. So this guy is highly trained. He has the best weaponry that's available. And one of the tactics that they had set up, and I never really gave this a lot of thought until I did a little research on this is they would have on their key guy, on their champion, they would have a fella go out in front of him, much smaller, but he would have a body-sized shield. Very large shield, and his whole job was to stand before Goliath and whatever enemies coming out before him. And that was his job. And the one article I was reading about this, they said these shield bearers that would go out in front of them were very skilled. These guys had choreographed together. Their minds were knit. And he knew how what however that enemy's doing, that shield bearer knew the fellow he's protecting so well, he knew exactly how he was going to respond and what he needed to do. He was highly skilled, highly trained and uh and highly trusted as he went out there. Now the point I'm trying to make is this the strength of this man The strength of this weapon, man and armor and shield and all that, was intimidating. This is like, you know, this is like uh remember early days of the of the Afghanistan war, these guys are on donkeys, uh-uh- you know, and they're throwing bombs and we're coming in with jets. Come on! You know, this is similar situation. And so his size is intimidating, his strength is intimidating And then his statements were incredibly intimidating. Look at verse 10. I gotta wind this down. Verse 8. And he stood and cried to the armies of Israel, so here's this massive monster, machine. killing machine. He stood and cried unto the armies of Israel and said to them, Why are ye come out to set the battle in array? Why are you wasting your time? Listen, you're crazy. You're defeated before you even start. Why are you even doing this? All intended to intimidate. Am I not a Philistine and ye servants to Saul? Choose you a man. Let him come out down to me. Absolutely no fear, no trepidation on his part, total confidence. His challenge to fight was intimidating. I see that, and I see pride, I see arrogance, and I see mocking. And they're over there carrying and the nation of Israel has no answer to this. They have no answer. His conditions for the fight, verse number nine. And if ye be able to fight with me, oh few, alright, you're gonna do that? You actually gonna come out here? Alright. You kill me, we'll be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then shall ye be our servants and serve us. Winner takes all. This is what they called, some people call it a representative battle. They'd send out a representative each side, they'd fight it out and Whoever wins, then that settles it rather than involving everybody. I got thinking about this. I wonder if this is the first challenge to a duel in history. Remember duels? Remember they used to go out and have duels? Here it is. He's calling someone out here. You and I. We'll go at it. And then his contempt for Israel was This is all the statements he's making. Verse 10. And the Philistines said, I defy the armies of Israel this day. Give me a man that we may fight together. I defy man. Would you agree that's a defiance? When somebody says defy, that means they're in defiance. I mean he is absolutely fearless. And so here's the champion. The enemies of our faith can be, and often are, very intimidating. I'd venture to say I'm talking to some folks maybe tonight, maybe God's dealing in your life, and you've got a situation that is absolutely overwhelming. It is like this giant. And you say, I'm scared to death of this, I'm so intimidated by this. The enemies of our spiritual growth, the enemies of our God, the enemies of us being what God intends to be, can be very, very intimidating Now, this is how Israel saw Goliath. Massive, strong, intimidating. That's how they saw him. From their perspective, let's tie this into Sunday night series, they were seeing him from under the sun. All they saw was this man. They completely forgot that there's a God in heaven. And it completely disregarded. who and what God is. And they're absolutely scared to death. I was in Indiana, youth pastor, and we would go out Saturdays knocking on doors and go through and we'd witness, try and win people the Lord. And there's this little group of boys. I was at the time, probably twenty-nine years old, thirty, somewhere around there, just a little kid. And um this little group of boys came up, seven or eight of them, you know, and they're all tough and smoking their cigarettes. They're about twelve, thirteen years old And I said, hey guys, what's going on? And uh whatever. I give them gospel tracts, I start witnessing to them, and I just started talking to the Lord, and they're listening to me. This one guy, he's kind of the leader, he's the punk And uh he goes, hey, uh let me tell you something. I said, what's that? He says, I worship the devil. Now in his mind, that was going to intimidate me. In his mind, that's a strong thing. Boy, that's intimidating. I worship the devil. Now, maybe if I was younger and his age and I didn't believe in God and I didn't believe the Bible, that might have intimidated me. I guess he thought I was going to go, oh no, I won't talk to you anymore. It's scary. I'll run away. And um he said, I worship the devil. He was trying to be like Goliath. That's the world's tactics. But I read the Bible. And I said, seriously? And he goes, yeah, man, I worship the devil. I said, do you know what God's going to do to you? He goes, What I said, let me show you. And I got out and I went to Revelation chapter 20, where death and hell and the devil are cast in a lake of fire and everybody's threatened and their smoke of their torment goes up forever. He goes, really? I said, yeah, really. And I was able to go through the gospel. I don't think the boy got saved, but I was able to go through the gospel. But his perspective was that's scary, that's intimidating. And you know, if we remove God from the equation, there's so many things out there. The devil wants to scare us and intimidate us. You can't grow, you can't be a good Christian You're this, you're that. This will never get solved. This will never be right. And I tell you, if we have the 10 spies perspective, we're going to be terrified. But if we have David's perspectives, we're going to see and we can see God is bigger than all of this. I don't have to be intimidated by it. Then we can grow and go on. Satan has his champions, the world has its champions. And defeat or victory over Satan and the world depends upon my perspective. My eyes are on the Lord, my faith is in God, I can have victory. But if I forget God and push him out and all I see is the obstacles, the enemies, I'm going to be defeated. Does that make sense? And so this champion was very, very intimidating. Let's pray. Father. I pray you'd help us to learn from Goliath. And Lord, I just see the world in Goliath. I see Goliath out in the world, trying to intimidate and scare and dismay us. But Lord, I pray you give us David's perspective and see beyond us and see a God in heaven that is able and is all-powerful. Now we can just trust you and see what see the victory you can give us. So I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I've got my Goliath? There is a Goliath I'm facing. I see it. I don't want to see him from Worseworld's perspective, but I want God to open my eyes and see God's view on this. Anybody like that by the uplifted hand? I see it. God bless you. And they show up all through life. They keep showing up. Father in heaven, I pray you bless and help us have faith in you. Help us to see things through the lens of your promises and your presence. And not through our own understanding and our own image of what we see, but what you promise is true. Please bless and help us. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Alright, users, if you would come on down and