We're studying the life of David. And uh just an amazing, amazing man in so many aspects, probably one of my favorite characters in all scripture. And uh it's uh it's just incredible if you'll think about the caliber of this fellow David To the point where, in such a man, where the point where the throne that Jesus sits on is named after David You know, that's pretty amazing. It looks to me it'd be the other way around, the throne of Christ. But it isn't. It's Christ, the Son of God, God in the flesh, sitting on the throne of David Can you imagine that? Caliber of man that that would uh that would be the place. So that's who we're looking at. We want to learn from it. We're coming to a very, very familiar event in history. I think all of us are familiar. How many people feel like you're pretty familiar with David and Goliath? That story, that event. Now I want to remind you it's not just a story. It's an actual historical event that So we've got to keep that in mind. Let's begin reading in verse number one. And uh I'm gonna try and just work our way through almost verse by verse through this chapter and jump dissect this uh this event, the Bible's record of um 17, 1 Samuel chapter 17. And I'm going to begin reading in verse 1. Keep your Bibles handy, Lord will, and we're going to look at a couple different verses. 1 Samuel 17, verse 1 says, Now the Philistines gathered together their armies uh to battle and were gathered together at Shoko, which belongeth to Judah, and pitched between Shoko and Azekah in Ephes Dammon. I think people believe I pronounced it right. You have no idea, so I may be right or not. Verse 2. And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together and pitched by the valley of Elah, and look at this statement, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. Now we're going to talk about that. We're going to see that little phrase again later on. We'll talk about that later on. Setting the battle in array. They're not actually battling. They're just putting in an array. So I'm getting ahead of myself, but I'll just throw this out to you. When they're putting the battle in array, they're making a lot of noise as if they are battling, but they're really not Making all their hooping and hollering and banging their swords and doing all that, putting it in array. But nobody's actually engaging anybody in battle. So that comes up later. And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side. And Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and there was a valley between them. And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named who? Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a spant, and he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass And he had greaves of brass upon his legs and a target of brass between his shoulders. Now the target there isn't, we'll look at this later, but it's not a target like we shoot our guns at, right? Nobody goes out into battle with a target like we understand on their chest. That would be dumb. Right? So it's it's a shield. We'll we'll look at that later. So anyway Verse 7. And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's bead, and his spearhead weighed 600 shekels of iron. And one bearing a shield went before him. And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel and said unto them, Why are you come out to set your battle in array? Am not I of Philistines, and ye servants of Saul? Choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me. If he be able to fight with me and to kill me, then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then shall ye be our servants and serve us. And the Philistines said, I defy the armies of Israel this day. Give me a man that we may fight together. Look at this. And when Saul and all Israel heard these words of the Philistines, what does it say? What happened? They were dismayed and greatly afraid. I want to talk about giants. We're not going to actually get to the giants tonight, but we will. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time and your word. Again, I'm grateful for folks that come out on a night like this. And I just pray you'd bless their efforts and really challenge us and help us, Lord, to have victory in our Christian lives that we can be the people you've saved us to be. And so please have your way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I notice as we're studying, we're working our way through here, we spent a pretty good bit of time in chapter 16 and leading up to that, and what we're finding, just as far as the context here, what we're finding is we're finding a shift in the scriptures and the attention uh previously was on King Saul and his shenanigans and his failure and his downfall And then there was a period of time we focused on the transition. How God was raising up David, Saul is being diminished, and we'll see that on the coming chapters, but he's being diminished. David is being raised up, and we focused on that transition period. It's still a transition period, but the focus now is beginning, as you'll see in the coming chapters, the focus is more on David. And he is rising to prominence. He is gaining uh attention in the scriptures. More and more is being devoted to David He is being set up to be the next king. And so it's primarily on God preparing David for his role as key. And I found this to be true throughout Scripture in my own life and in ministry When God calls somebody to a position, when God is leading somebody or giving them responsibility or some ministry, and all of us have some role to play in the gospel, in advancing the gospel, whenever God puts us in that place, There's usually, or there's I want to say always a time of preparation where God begins to work. I think uh Timothy tells us that we ought not to put a novice into the position of a deacon or a pastor because they're not prepared for that. And so God always prepares us for whatever He's doing. God is working in our lives. God is active in our lives And he's preparing us for the things on earth. Well that's what we see here with David. David and Goliath is more than just a pretty cool story and a thing to, you know, uh tell stories about and use as an illustration. It is an important time in the life of David where God is teaching him and he is being prepared for the most incredible responsibility a person could have to be king of God's people. And uh to set the throne up for the coming Messiah. And so God's preparing him. But not only is God preparing David to sit on be king of Israel, but God is preparing Israel. For David's leadership. See, Israel's pretty much of a mess. How many people pick that up in our studies at this point? They're pretty much of a mess. Saul had poor leadership and then it deteriorated. Now God is to repair the nation because he is going to have a powerful man, a godly man, a man for his own heart. is going to be on the throne, and the nation of Israel needs to be prepared to follow his leadership and be the nation that God wants them to be. I guess the point I'm trying to make here and what I'm seeing in the coming chapters is this Leadership is incredibly important. Dr. Lee Robertson used to say over and over, everything rises and falls on leadership And that's in the church, it's in a nation, it's in the home, it's across the board. Everything rises and falls on leadership. But I want to amend that a little bit. Followship is incredibly important also. You can have a very poor leader, but if you have good followers, I think you can still be somewhat successful But if you have a you can have a great leader, but if you have poor followers, he's going to be very, very limited on what can take place. So God is preparing two things. One, he's preparing David for the throne, and this this This event, this encounter with Goliath is a huge part of that preparation. He's going to learn a profound lesson. I think he already knows it, but it's going to be confirmed in his heart and mind. And the nation of Israel is going to learn that they as a nation can live by faith. That they can follow a man of tremendous faith, a man of tremendous heart. They can follow him and trust him because he is trusting God. Alright, so am I making sense? So I see this all boiling here. It's coming to a head and God's putting all this stuff together. So both David and the nation of Israel are about to learn a very powerful and important lesson And that lesson, I think, is this. When we trust God, he intervenes on our behalf. When we trust God, he intervenes on our behalf. Now what God does isn't always The way God works our problems out and our challenges, our conflicts, isn't always the way we anticipate. I want to suggest to you, nobody from King Saul on down Anybody in Israel anticipated a teenage boy throwing a rock at the giant and then ending up cutting his head off. Nobody envisioned that. And what I've found to be true in my Christian life is I can never figure out how God's going to accomplish what he's going to accomplish. I got it all figured out in my mind, alright, this is how God's going to do it. You know what I've been out? God never does it the way I think he's going to do it And so nobody envisioned this. They had to learn that if we just simply trust God, if we simply act on faith, if we simply follow his instructions, God in his own way will bring that thing to a conclusion and bring some victory out of it. So there's tremendous lessons here and and uh we want to look at those. I put this down just as a note. God uses people who trust him God uses people who trust him. I've got to get to the point, whether it's as pastor or some role I have as a Christian, I've got to get to the point where I trust God. I trust God. And the second thing I wrote down was this. God uses people to accomplish his purposes. God uses people. He could have had a billy goat run out there and knocked the uh Goliath over and step on his head and kill him. You know, he could have had a meteor fall out of the sky and land on his head and squish him. You know, God could have had a hundred different things he could have done to destroy him, but he chose to use a person And a very unlikely person at that. And so, in fact, I'm way ahead of myself, but in fact they're all telling him, Dave, you're not qualified for this. You're not qualified for this. You're not qualified. Uh you're not qualified for this And um you're not qualified for this. Oh, he was plenty qualified. He had faith in God. He had faith in God. And so, neat story. There is so much here. Neither, I put this down, neither the Israeli army or even young David could have conquered Goliath without simply trusting God. And by the way, The nation of Israel, the army of Israel, they could have beat Goliath. Any one of them. It wasn't David killing Goliath, it was God killing Goliath through David. So any one of those soldiers, Saul himself, could have said, hey, he's defying the God of Israel. We're going to go out there and take care of this guy. If he'd have trusted God like David did, he could have accomplished it, I think. It was the faith in God, in God working through him. So Goliath was not much of a giant. He was a pipsqueak. What we had was a giant God. And that's all it needed was somebody to see it that way. I broke this section down that I read into three points. We're not going to get to, we're only going to look at one tonight. But this is the breakdown. Verses 1 through 3, I noticed the conflict with the enemy. The conflict with the enemy. And then verses 4 through 10, I notice the champion of the enemy. They struck Goliath out there, and he does his thing and he runs his mouth and goes on and on. And then verse number 11, I notice the cowering before the enemy. And Israel is scared to death of this guy And uh they're dismayed and they're very afraid of him. So let's look at this conflict. Here we have the nation of Israel. And uh there they're suddenly the Philistines are on their back door, actually onto their land, and uh there find themselves in the midst of a conflict. Verse number one. Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle and were gathered together at Shoko, which belongeth to who? Judah. So they are on God's land. They are coming in. Now the Philistines, what do we know about the Philistines? Somebody talk to me. What do we know about the Philistines? Apparently not much. What do we know about them? They were the enemies of Israel. That's a starting point. That is very good. They were the enemies of Israel. What else do we know about them? There were pagan people. Alright? What's that? Some of them were very big, yeah. Uh what else do we know about them? The word I thought this was interesting. I did a little study on it. The word Philistine. The name that they're given it means migrant. Now at this point, they're illegal immigrants. There's no wall I thought that was interesting. You know what that tells me? They are not native to Canaan. They're not native to the Promised Land. They had come in and there's different I did a little research on it and there's different ideas where they came from, probably a lot of them from Babylon. They're just kind of an offshoot, I think, of various things, but they were not that's not their homeland really. They were living there when Israel came in. But they were migrants They were illegal immigrants at this point. They were not native to the land of Israel. They worshiped two gods primarily. One was Dagon. Anybody recognize that? He's referenced several times through Scripture. And the other was Ashtaroth. And if I understand it correctly, this is a very sensual female God, very perverse worship. here. And um and so they had Dagon and Ashtaroth, which were two of the most popular gods in Babylon. Now think about just making that statement. These are two of our most popular gods. That's bizarre. But uh nevertheless, that's who they worship. So You can tell a lot about somebody by what they worship. Right? You can tell a lot about a nation or a people or an individual by what they worship. You say, I don't worship anything. Well, whatever we devote ourselves to. Whatever we highly value tells us a whole lot about us. What does that tell us about our country in America? What do we highly value in America? Pleasure, stuff. money, things like that. So it says a lot about us as a nation. And it's interesting, and if you get a chance to go on some of these mission trips, and Jerry and I have been talking, we'd like to get some going. where church folk can go a little more. But uh you ought to go and see what other nations think about our nation. Uh Doctor David Gibbs was preaching, I heard him It's a year or two, probably a couple, three years ago. And uh he was preaching down in Australia, ironically, he was down there, and there was a Filipino missionary that was raising support to come to America As a missionary. And um Dr. Gibbs said when I first heard him, I said, that's ridiculous. Why in the world would they be coming from here up to America to be missionaries? America doesn't need missionaries And then he showed his presentation and the wickedness and the sin of America, and he said when he was done, I was supporting him. I wanted to get him up here. So we can learn a lot about the Philistines, the enemies of God's people, the enemies of God. By what they worshiped and what they highly valued. And Dagon and Ashtaroth were very wicked, perverse worship. And uh and so that tells us a lot about the people. So There are immigrants. The other thing like I learned about the Philistines, and somebody referenced this, they were extremely powerful They were a very powerful nation. They had very powerful armies. And they were very shrewd. They were very shrewd. They were sneaky, tricky. Um it kind of reminded me a study in it in the Vietnam War, the North Vietnam, they were very sneaky, very tricky, the way they'd have booby traps and all kinds of And um that's kind of the way the Philistines were. They were very uh powerful, they were very shrewd. And if you go back and I don't have the reference, I wish I'd have written it down, but if you go back earlier In Joshua, when they're coming in and invading the land, they cross the Jordan River miraculously, and the nation of Israel is coming in Jericho falls, and then they had the little issue at Ai, and they finally got that straightened out, and they go on and they start conquering that land. They never took one Philistine city. The Israelites never did. They were so shrewd, they were so powerful, they ended up when it was all said and done at the end of Joshua. Every one of the Philistine cities are still in control by the Philistines. Israel could not beat them. And it became a thorn in their side. It became an issue ongoing. And so I thought it was interesting. This nation of these Philistines, they're coming in. Here's Israel, minding their own business. They're uh in the transition period. They got a young king, and he's just been anointed, and and uh you know things are going on and all of a sudden this conflict comes up and I jotted a few things about conflicts Let's say the nation of Israel represents the Christian, and the Philistines represent our enemies, the world, the flesh, and the devil. Any one of them. And the conflict between the two. Number one, if you're taking notes, jot this down. Conflicts are prevalent in the Christian life Conflicts are prevalent. Now, what do I mean when I use the word prevalent? Somebody talk to me. It's going to happen, and it's going to happen many times and to everybody. I mean it's prevalent all through here. And here's the point I'm trying to make on this. Uh all Christians have struggles All Christians have battles. I'm talking to a bunch of folks tonight, and every single one of you, I may not know a whole lot about you, but I know this about you, from the teenagers all the way up to the senior citizens, you've got battles going on in your life. All the kings of Israel, you study the history of Israel, every one of those kings, they had battles they had to deal with. Saul, here he is. He's rejected of God. He's in rebellion. He's away from God. He refuses to submit to God. In fact, God says to him, Rebellion is as a sin of witchcraft. And you say, oh yeah, I can see why Saul would have battles and God would let the Philistines in, because he's a carnal, he's rebellious. Of course he's going to have battles. And you know what I found out? Rebellious carnal Christians have battles They sure do. But wait a minute, we get a little bit later, and here's David, a man after God's own heart. One of the purest, most godly men in all scripture, up until he messes up later on Guess what he's doing? He's fighting Philistines. You know what I found out? Godly, spiritual, mature Christians have battles. All through scripture, they have battle after battle after battle after battle. You say, what about Solomon? He didn't have battles. He had a time of tremendous peace. And prosperity. And he messed up bad. But at the end of his kingdom, he started having battles. They showed up. His battles weren't with the Philistines. His battles were other areas. But the point I'm trying to make is everybody has battles. Everybody has battles. All of God's people have conflicts and struggles. I like what Job said in chapter 5, verse 7 of Job. Listen to what Job says As the sparks f uh let me quote it correctly. Yet man is born unto troubles as the sparks fly upward. What's he saying? He's saying trouble's going to be prevalent. Battle's going to be prevalent. We have uh several times in the summer we have a hot dog roast back there. How many folks have ever been to our hot dog roast? I love our hot dog roast I can't wait till we have a hot dog roast. I can't wait. Do you notice when we have the hot dog roast out there, inevitably somebody sticks the stick in too far? And it burns off and the hot dog plops down into the fire. Anybody ever see that happen? What happens when it happens? Sparks go flying up. So what do you think he's what do you think Job is saying? This is This is class participation night. What do you think Job is saying when he says as the sparks fly upward, what's he saying? A man is born into trouble as the sparks fly upward. What? You're gonna lose your hot dog is what he was saying there. And if you do, you're going to be mad. Then you got struggles. Yeah. Uh I think well this is what Job is saying. He's saying, listen, it's inevitable we're going to have troubles. We're going to have conflicts. You build a fire, there's going to be sparks coming up out of that thing. Some are more than others. But if you're alive, you're going to have struggles. You're going to have battles. You're going to have conflict. If you're alive And the other thing I think he's saying his here is those sparks go up. It's not just one spark goes up and says, Oh wow, that's over with I mean they're just one after another after another after another. How many people ever made this statement about your life or whatever? It's just one thing after another Anybody? Like sparks flying upward, just one after another. I'm not the oldest guy in here. No comments on that. But um I've been around a little while. And sometimes I get thinking, by you know, by this point in my life I shouldn't be having any struggles. I shouldn't have to fight any battles at this point. I've been around a little You know what? I think they get more. And so as the sparks fly upward, you know, David was uh in his later years when he messed up. His battles didn't go away. His battles didn't go away. I told you about Brother Holmeshire, I think just recently told uh uh Larry Coontz He was 87 years old. He says, I hope I don't mess up before God calls me to heaven. He says, are you crazy? You're 87. You've been in ministry 60 some years. And he says, you don't understand the human nature. You don't understand the power of the flesh. What's he say? He said I got bot battles my whole life. So conflicts are prevalent. You read through the history of Israel, they're fighting the Philistines over and over and over and over And so, uh the Philistines. Um sparks, it means there's multitudes of them, they're one after another. Ever since sin entered the world, conflict and struggles are a part of life. This is what I want to make the statement. I hope you'll get this. If you or I think for one minute That we can live our life without any conflicts, without any struggles. We are only fooling ourselves. Say, oh I just I look forward time, I don't have any more struggles. I look forward to the day, I don't have any more conflicts Well, that day's not going to be until we're on the other side of the gates of heaven. Because down on this side, we're going to have it. That is a fact of life And here's the thing, until someone understands and accepts that, they're going to be depressed, they're going to be down, they're going to be defeated, because they have this unrealistic expectation that somehow I can live my life without any conflict, without any trouble. Now, I want to say this. In spite of conflict and trouble, we still can have the peace of God. We can still have victory in our lives. We still have the joy of the Lord. But if they had this unrealistic expectation that the Philistines are never going to attack me, the world's never going to give me a problem, the flesh is never going to be a problem to me, the devil's never going to bother me, if we think that's the way it is, we're only fooling ourselves. Because they are prevalent. They are prevalent. Some conflicts are of our own makings. Some conflicts of our own makings. And we really don't have to face them, but we make stupid decisions, and then we got a conflict in our hand. I want to show you a verse for this. I saw this when I was in Bible college, and I don't remember the context exactly in my situation, but go to 2 Chronicles, if you would. It's toward the back of your Bible. You've got 1 2 Samuel, 1 2 Kings, 2 Chronicles. Chapter number 16. I think some of us here will relate to what is said. 2 Chronicles 716. This is Esau. He's king of Israel's divided kingdom. He's Judah, I believe. Israel is the northern kingdom. This is long after David. But um uh the northern kingdom, Israel, comes down and attacks their brothers, the southern kingdom, Judah. And Asa, rather than trusting God, which he did earlier, when he had another battle, he trusted God, God delivered him. This time, instead of trusting God with the nation coming down attacking him He goes to Syria and he pays Syria a lot of money, gives them a bunch of stuff, and say, Come up here and help me fight uh the northern kingdom, Israel, and keep them off my back And so Syria says, okay, so they come up there, they fight them, and they're successful. But look what the Bible says there in verse number nine. Chapter 16, 2 Chronicles 16. I'll start in verse 7. At that time Hananiah the Seer came to Asa, king of Judah, and said unto him, Because thou hast relied on the kings of Syria And not relied on the Lord thy God, alright he made a decision, I'm not going to trust God, I'm going to look to the Syrians to help me Therefore the hosts of the king of Syria escaped out of thy hand. Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubams a huge host and very many chariots and horsemen? Yet because thou didst rely on the Lord, he delivered them in thy hand For the eyes of the Lord run to and fro throughout the whole earth, looking to show himself strong on behalf of those whose heart is perfect towards him. Now look at this last statement. This is what I'm getting at. Herein thou hast done foolishly. Therefore, from henceforth thou shalt have what? Wars. What's he saying to him He's saying you made a stupid decision. You've acted foolishly. Now from the rest of your life, you're going to have to deal with battles and wars. You would not have had to if you'd have been smart and trusted me in place. Do you catch what he's saying there? That's a profound statement. And I'm telling you, I'm talking to some folks here, myself included, that we have to deal, sometimes on a regular basis, the consequences of stupid decisions I made years ago. Of conflicts, of battles, of issues. And that's why I believe, and I'm not saying it's just because the teens are in here, I'm saying this because it's true. That's why I believe our youth, our children's and teen ministries are so vitally important that we can help young people make wise decisions and trust God so that the rest of their life they don't have to face some battles that they could avoid making wise decisions. Right or wrong. And so he says, Listen, you've acted foolishly. From henceforth they're going to have wars So some conflicts, some issues, some struggles we have, we bring on ourselves. Other struggles we bring on are part of God's development of us. Sometimes we face Philistines, we face giants, not because we made a dumb decision, maybe we're trusting God. But God wants to take us to another level in our faith. God wants to take us to another level in our maturity. God wants us to be stronger in our confidence that God is able to take care of me. And so he lets me face a battle like this. with the intent that I trust him, follow his instructions, do what he says, and I come out the other side and I say, wow, God can take care of me. God can conquer giants. And so sometimes he lets those types of things come in our lives simply to develop us. That's what's happening here in chapter 17 of 1 Samuel. Israel is learning. Hey, God can deliver you if you'll trust him. David is learning. Hey, God can defeat giants and conflicts if we'll just trust him. And follow his instructions. And then some conflicts come and we have no idea why they're there. They make absolutely no sense whatsoever. I have people come to me sometimes, Pastor, why in the world is God letting me face this? Why in the world is God letting me go through this? And maybe one of the first two that I mentioned, sometimes the only answer is, I have no idea. I don't know. There's a spiritual warfare going on that you and I can't see this side of heaven. And we have no idea what's taking place. Can you think of anybody in Scripture that went through a horrendous struggle and conflict and yet had no clue they're living for God? They're strong in their faith. They had no clue why in the world this has happened to them. Who comes to mind? Job. And you read the book of Job very carefully, all 42 chapters. And I don't see anywhere in Job where God ever explained to Job about the heavenly argument between God and Satan He never reveals that to Job. All Job knows he gets the end. Oh well, I heard of God before, but now I see what he can do, and his faith is stronger and he's closer to God before. But as far as why he went through that, no explanation. Explanation. No explanation. You say, preacher, why am I going through this? Sometimes the only answer is we don't know. But we do know this. I told somebody this recently who's going through horrendous thing. I said this. Number one We know that God is good and he would never be unkind to us. And number two, we know that God is wise and he never makes a mistake. And so God is allowing the Philistines to come up here. And the point we're point driving home here is this, conflicts are prevalent in life. They're there from young as we go through. All have conflicts, and all must learn to trust God. Now, I want to inject this here. Not everybody's conflict is the same as everyone's else. What my battle might be might not be the same as yours. And what your struggle may be is might not be the same as Derek's. And what Derek's struggle is might not be the same as Randy's. In fact, I want to suggest to you, very seldom are they all the same. And so we have to understand that. And so that comes back to our Sunday school study. We need to be very, very careful. We don't say stuff like, oh, I would never do that. Wait a minute, you don't know what they're struggling facing with, and they don't know what you're going through. So we have to be sympathetic. I think that's why in Galatians, God said, bear ye one another's burdens. Because it's different for all of us. And we've got a page. He says be tender-hearted one for another. And so conflicts are prevalent. I don't know if I'm going to get through this next one. Put this down. Conflicts were persistent. They're prevalent, everybody has them, but they're also persistent. As I was studying about these Philistines, one of uh one of the resources I was looking at, I I found this statement about the Philistines that I thought was interesting. They said this, they were irrepressible and unrelenting. And you see that in scripture. They just keep coming back and they keep coming back and they keep coming back and they keep coming back. One of the statements was this. They quickly recovered from defeats. I mean Israel, they'd fight Israel, Israel would just devastate them, and here a couple months later, boom, they're back again up in They recovered very, very quickly from defeats. Now that's the enemy. What does that tell me about my Christian life? That means some battles, some conflicts are just going to keep hitting me. and hitting me and hitting me and hitting me and hitting me. It's the same old enemy over and over and over and over. And people found that to be true. So man, you know, there's a lot of different stuff out there, but that one thing keeps hounding me. That one Philistine group keeps me Coming back. Man, I think I got it licked. I think I got that thing beat. I think I got it buried and dead. And lo and behold, boom, it's back again. Know what I'm talking about? And so the Philistines were that way, and the Christian life is that way. In Hebrews 12, he talks about besetting sins Struggles, battles, sins that just keep coming back and coming back and coming back and coming back. And uh it's unrelenting. I tell you, there's something about the devil I respect. There's something about the de- oh I should put this I admire, and that is he is tenacious. He is unrelenting He just comes back and comes back and comes back. I was studying in Institute, we're studying the doctrine of the Holy Spirit, and we're talking about where the whole where the Holy Spirit led Jesus Christ out into the wilderness Where he was tempted of the devil. Remember that in Matthew 4? He's tempted of the devil. And I thought it was interesting. The devil shows up And the first thing he does, he tempts Jesus in the place he's the weakest. He's fasted 40 days. He says, hey, turn that rocks into bread. I tell you what, if I go 40 minutes, rocks start looking like bread. 40 days. And so the devil, this our enemy, is very shrewd. He knows what our weakness is. But the thing I noticed was this. Jesus whoops him Thou shalt not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth from the mouth of the Father. I mean he just throws scripture at him, boom. And so the devil tucks his tail and runs away and never bothers Jesus again, right? Wrong. He comes back again and he comes back again. And that's the way the Philistines were and Israel set up. What is God doing? God is teaching Israel and he's teaching David. Listen. You can beat the enemies, they're going to be there, and they are going to be unrelenting. But I'll fight for you if you trust me And you follow my instructions, we can get through this. They were unrelenting. Come back to 1 Samuel 14, if you would, and I'll have to shut it down here. 1 Samuel 14, just a couple chapters from where our text was. And at the end of the chapter, it's a very long chapter. There's 50, 60 some verses, 52 verses. Verse 52. Now what are we saying? They are persistent. They just stay at it. Look what verse 52 says. And there was shore war against the Philistines. Look at this. All the days of Saul. And when Saul saw many, any strong man, any valiant man, he took him unto him. And we find that not just for Saul, now Saul brought some of that on himself, but we find all through the history of Israel They're back, they're back, they're back, they're back, they're back. Our enemies are unrelenting. I'm here to tell you, the world is not our friend. The world there is not our friend. They are a spiritual enemy of ours. They would like to distort and pervert and dilute what we teach and preach here, what we're trying to do getting the gospel around the world And I'm telling you this, the world will be unrelenting. Oh, if only we get some other senators voted in, then uh we won't have all these struggles. Oh, I'm telling you the world's not going to give up. They're going to come back, they're going to come back, they're going to come back. Oh, if only that. Oh, if only that. Oh, that's wonderful But they're not going to quit. They're not going to quit. We can beat them one way, they'll come in another way. We we lock one door, they'll come in a window. It's it's I mean it's like water. Any of you builders ever have a basement, try and keep water out of the basement How many people here remember Ralph Leighton? Was anybody here when Ralph Leighton is an elderly man? Ron, you remember Ralph Leighton. He tore the uh garage down that was behind the mission house. I think him and somebody There was an old never mind. Um but Ralph Leighton was a builder. He built a bunch of houses around here. He was a good guy. I did his I think he was the first funeral I did as pastor. And um but he made a statement. We were trying to dry up the basement. There used to be, how many people remember all the water that used to be in the basement? Good heavens And we were trying to dry that up and talking about it. And he made a statement to me that was stuck in my head all these years. He said, you can never stop water. What you have to do is redirect it. You have to redirect it. He says you can't stop it. You've got to somehow redirect it. And I thought about that when I was thinking about the world. We can't stop the world. They're going to keep coming, keep coming, keep coming, keep coming. The devil, I already mentioned, referenced him. He's going to keep at it and keep at it and keep at it. We got another enemy, the world, the devil, and what? The flesh. The flesh is going to stay at it The flesh is going to hound you and I every single day. How many folks here ever went to revival? God stirred your heart. Maybe you're at the altar, you got things right with God, and before you walked in the front door of your house, the old flesh has flared up and already got you Anybody know what I'm talking about? I'm telling you it's unrelenting. And so God is teaching, going to teach Israel through this chapter, hey, conflicts are there. But God is faithful and we can have victory. In this old sinful, fallen world, we can have victory. And that's what's true for you and I. And it comes down to this, just what David did. Just have faith in God. I'm going to trust God and I'm going to go forward in my faith. I'm going to trust him and follow his instructions. Does that make sense? Let's pray and we'll look at the rest of this next week. Father in heaven, I ask that you would use this event here so many thousands of years ago. But Lord, so many lessons for us. And what you taught David and what you're teaching this nation of Israel, I pray you'd teach us, Lord, that we can grow in our faith and have victory in our lives in this unrelenting conflicts we face. and give you the glory for it. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder, before we give the invitation, if there's anybody, say, preacher, there are some battles in my life, there are some conflicts there, and I see them and they're they seem sometimes overwhelming like a giant But you say, by God's grace and with his help, I want to have faith in God. I want to see God give the victory in this thing. Is there any like this? Very specific. I want to trust God to let him give the victory And not just me working it up. God bless you. My hands raised. And so let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would bless this truth to our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Let's stand with our heads bowed eyes closed. I think the invit