We'll start to 1 Samuel chapter number 17. 1 Samuel chapter 17. We're studying the life of David. And uh there's that. Grab that, there we go. Um Studying the life of David, we're early on in the Bible's record of David's life. He's in a transition period. The nation of Israel in a transition period. They're transitioning from uh the uh administration of Paul get my mic Not Paul, under the administration of King Saul, they're under his administration, that God has removed his spirit from Saul. He is uh Saul is just um uh he's just uh uh what do you call uh uh somebody that's an authority, but they have no power. No, there's another word for it. An empty suit. Is that what you call it? There's a term that's used. Just an empty suit. Somebody that has a position of authority, appearance of authority, but it's gone And that's the way King Saul is. God has removed his spirit from him, and he's going through the motions. He's desperately trying to retain What he once had, and it's not working. God has set King Saul aside, though he's still in position, he's anointed David. David is now in a period, what I believe, of preparation for the kingdom. God is preparing David for the responsibility he's going to have. So he goes through these series of events and series of trials, and they get more intense as his time to take the throne approaches. These trials get more intense. But also I believe God is preparing Israel for David. Israel desperately needs revival And they're going to have it under David, but God is preparing them for that. And so let me begin reading. We've looked at most of these verses in this passage I'm going to read. I'm going to look at one more verse before we move on. Chapter 17, 1 Samuel, verse 1. Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle, and were gathered together at Shoko, which belongeth to Judah, and pitched between Shoko and Ezekiel in Ephesian. Efdamin, and Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together and pitched by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. And the Philistines stood on a mountain on one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side, and there was a valley between them. And there went out a what? Champion, here he is, out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. And he had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass, and he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a target of brass between his shoulders And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam, and his spearhead weighed six hundred shekels of iron, and one bearing a shield went before him. And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel and said unto them, Why are you come out to set your battle in array? And that I a Philistine, and ye servants of Saul, to Saul, choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me If he be able to fight with me and to kill me, then we will be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then shall ye be our servants and serve us And the Philistines said, I defy the armies of Israel this day. Give me a man that we may fight together. Now look at verse 11. This is what I want to look at tonight. When Saul and all of Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were what Dismayed and what? Greatly afraid. Dismayed and greatly afraid. We're looking at giants. And so let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we bow now again before we look into your word and we ask that you'd speak to our hearts. I pray you challenge us. I pray you would encourage us and instruct us, dealing with the giants that we face. I have no doubt in my mind. That I'm talking to somebody tonight, Lord, that somebody is here tonight that has some overwhelming giants in front of them, spiritual, maybe physical, financial, or whatever I pray you'd teach us from your word how to respond, how to view this, and to learn from Israel and Saul, and later on then from David. So please be our teacher tonight. Lord, I yield myself to you. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit, and that it would not just be me talking, Lord, but you speak through me. I pray in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. As I said, Israel is in a time of preparation. David is going through a time of preparation by the Lord. And now we come out and they face this enemy of of the Philistines. If you remember, we pointed out in the first three verses we considered the conflict with the enemy. Conflicts in life are inevitable. In fact, life is pretty much a series of conflicts If you remember, we pointed out that the Philistines were relentless. They just kept coming back and coming back and coming back and coming back. They'd defeat them. They'd almost wiped them out. Lo and behold, they'd rise up again. And what we pointed out here with the enemy, this conflict with the enemy, we said conflicts were prevalent for Israel and for us in light. Conflicts were persistent. They just kept coming and kept coming. And then we said conflicts were profitable. God was allowing Israel to face the Philistines here, Goliath in particular because he was wanting to teach Israel something. If you remember I made a statement uh the other week, it was this, whenever we see these conflicts and trials in Burnsland, rather than viewing ourselves as victims of these circumstances Let's view ourselves as students that God is trying to teach us something through this difficulty. And that's what God is doing for Israel here. There's a There was a prophet for this. There was something to be learned from this. And then we pointed out last week, I believe it was, we noticed the champion of the enemy. We had conflict with the enemy. Then verses 4 through 10, we had this champion And we noted that Goliath was a pretty intimidating fellow. And we said that his size was pretty intimidating. We said that his strength was intimidating. We looked at all the armor that he had and the the s physical strength that was re required to be able to just function with all this armor on. And uh then we pointed out his statements were intimidating. And isn't that the way the world operates? The world wants to intimidate us. Satan wants to intimidate us. Make us think that we can't. There's no way I can ever have victory over this sin. There's no way I can ever get out of this hole. There's no way I can ever defeat this enemy. And the world and the flesh and the devil just want to intimidate us spiritually. And that's what that's what uh um uh Goliath was doing And I must say he was pretty good at it. I don't think this is the first time he'd been out and faced somebody and uh sought to intimidate them and Now we look at our last thought here, and this is my third point of this passage is this, the cowering before the enemy. And that tells me that Goliath was successful. He had successfully intimidated King Saul. He had successfully intimidated the armies of Israel, and they are absolutely cowering in fear. I got looking at this verse and some of the words that are used here, dismay and greatly afraid. And as I studied these out and tried to see how they're used and get an idea of the uh the what what we meant by this, I mean we have a uh idea what he means, but I came to this conclusion It is very, very difficult to describe the intensity of Israel's fear. They are absolutely terrified That word dismayed, I got looking at that and how it's used and some definitions, and I found this. To be dismayed means to have a fear that demoralizes me. Now what does it mean to demoralize somebody? Anybody want to take a shot? I'm so scared I'm demoralized. Alright, break them down. In fact, that's uh that's a good statement. That's another part of the definition. Anyone else want to take somebody's demoralized Hopeless is the word that came to my mind. They were so scared. They were dismayed. They said, there is no hope. There is no way we can possibly win this. We're all going to die. So that they were dismayed. They were hopeless. It was demoralizing. Another aspect of the definition is what Dorothy mentioned. So scared, and this is the term was used by the dictionary I looked at, uh fear that shatters my confidence. And they use the word shatter to break into pieces. It's actually translated other places to break down into pieces. I mean, they were their courage was absolutely broken Their confidence was absolutely broken. They were terrified, and that was another word, fear that terrorizes a person. And so if God just used that one word, they were dismayed. Saul and all the army was dismayed. They're demoralized, they're shattered, there's no hope, there's no confidence, courage is gone. And they're terrified. If God just used that one word, how many people agree with me? That's pretty scared, right? That would be pretty afraid. But he goes on. And he repeats this here, and I think God is trying to emphasize to us the depth of fear that has gripped these people. And says they were dismayed and greatly afraid. Now again that's used various places throughout the Bible, and this is the definition I came up with with that, this idea Such overwhelming fear, listen to this, such overwhelming fear that I am immobilized. So if somebody's immobilized, that means they're not what? They're not mobile. Means they can't what? They are so scared they can't even what? Move. They're paralyzed. They're stopped in their tracks. Now, I don't know about you. There have been a few times in my life where I was almost scared to the point where I almost couldn't move. One was a little kid, I'm not going to tell you about that one. But um there was another one, uh, and uh not really, I'm exaggerating here a little bit. Uh I mean that may be shocking to you to think that I would exaggerate something, but um When we first uh came here at the church, um uh it was uh we were probably several years here, not too long. But anyway, it was Sunday night and uh everybody left and I was closing up and it was kind of late, 9. 30, 10 maybe, to I was actually getting out of here, and it was dark, it was wintertime, it was dark, it was like a little drizzle And uh everybody's gone. I'm by myself. And uh I went out the back door, locked it up, and I'm going around there, and I heard a sound out in the backfield. And it was like this. Mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm mmm. I thought, what in the world And so we got walking out there, and it kept getting louder and louder. It was in the field. What do you think I thought it was? I thought aliens. Wow, it's true. There really are aliens. And I'm telling you, back then I had a little more hair. My hair was standing on end. And I'm kind of walking through the field there. What am I getting into? And I got up and got up and finally I found it. You know what it was? It's a little toy out of the nursery, a little toy that the kids, somebody had taken it out there. I'm telling you, that had me spooked. How many people know what I mean? That had me spooked. Can I tell you something else scary that happened to me? This wasn't too long ago. Saturday nights, I always come over here and pray and set up, get the heat and everything. I'll spend a little time in prayer. About 10. 30, 11 o'clock at night, always come over. And for about two months time, it's all dark, I walk in that back door. This has nothing to do with the message, but it's a scary story And um I walked in that door right there, come in, it's all dark in here, and that little camera for the nursing home, uh for the uh nursing home, for the nursery That little camera back there, I walk in and this is the honest truth. If I ever tell you something's honestly true, I'll point it out. This is the honest truth. That little camera went I mean for like three, four months at a time, that thing would zoom in. I think Amy, uh Jamie figured something out there. I don't know what it was, but uh I think the devil's in the sound system or something. But I'm telling you what, that kind of spooked me Now that little I'm just trying to tell these silly stories, but I'm trying to illustrate the fact Israel was terrified. It wasn't just some spook or some little noise out there. They are absolutely immobilized. They are scared to death. Something I've learned in the Christian life, and that is this. Fear is a major issue in the Christian life. You'd think the older we get, the less that would be a factor. Let me put, let me make this statement. Fear is a major factor in Christian service. in Christian progress. I wonder how many people, and I don't respond to this, but I'm just wondering how many people, and I have to include myself no doubt in this, how many of us would be, would witness more if fear wasn't a factor? Hmm. Scared of death, I'm afraid to approach someone, afraid to knock on that door. I told you about that, I told you about the guy Saturday, had the long goatee. And I'm telling you, the guy was, you know, he's way bigger than me, big arms, looks all this, this goatee down to his belt buckle, and um Man, I'm thinking I giddy giddy you a ch-ch-ch-ch-ch. And uh sure, thank you, I love these But fear is a very fear is a significant factor in Christian growth and Christian service Fear. I tell you, I think the world of the deputes, a young couple, little babies going to China and setting up there, just moved there this past week. I'm telling you what, uh they I guarantee you they had to deal with fear at some point. I guarantee it. And so fear is a major factor in the Christian life. Fear is a major factor in Christian service Some of God's greatest servants struggled with fear. I mean, struggled badly Can you think? I want some of your input. Can you think of some folks in the Bible that God used greatly, but they struggled with fear? Anybody think of any? Moses was the first one that came to my mind. At the burning bush, remember God says, I'm going to call you, I'm going to go to this. He goes, Oh, I can't talk, I can't do this. He was scared to death How many people agree with me? God used Moses in a great way. At some point, he had to deal with fear. At some point, he had to conquer. That fear, overcome that fear. Can you think of anyone else in the Bible that dealt with fear? Jonah. Yes, well he didn't he was maybe scared to go to Nineveh and uh all that he went through. I'm thinking of someone All right, Abraham had some Gideon. Now, I got a theory on Gideon, but um Gideon You guys aren't saying the one I'm thinking of. That's the whole problem. Joshua, turn to Joshua chapter one, finally. Those are all good answers, by the way. Everybody. In this class, everybody gets a star. Star. How about that? Joshua chapter 1, if you would. I don't know about you, but I admire Joshua. Man, what a great man. And um Just a tremendous man of character, a man of integrity, tremendous military leader. But some interesting things were told about Joshua. Turn to Joshua chapter 1 and look with me of wood. Chapter 1 and verse number 6. This is God speaking to Joshua. Look what he says: Be strong and of good courage. Now, why would God say to somebody, be strong and of good courage? Because they're afraid. Come down, if you would, to look at verse 7, the first part. Only be thou strong and very courageous. Why would God say to somebody twice, be strong and courageous? Because they're really scared. Come down to verse 9. Haven't I commanded thee? Be strong and of good courage. Be not afraid. Neither be thou what? Ah, anybody recognize that word? For the Lord thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest. God is going overboard here with Joshua, one of the greatest military leaders in Israel's history. A man of incredible integrity, a man of incredible faith, and yet here he is struggling severely with fear. Now it's interesting if you get to the end of the ver end of the chapter, look at verse number 18. Well verse 16, the people are answering Joshua. He said, All that thou commandest we will do, whether thou sendest we will go. I mean, they're behind him. But I thought it was interesting. At the end of verse 18, listen to what the people are saying to Joshua. Only be what? Strong and of a good carriage. Now the people are saying it to Joshua. And I wonder if this isn't an indicator that even the people caught on That Joshua's a little bit afraid. And as I'm studying this, I'm thinking, here is a tremendous man that God used in amazing ways. And yet, apparently, he struggled quite a bit with very real fear. And I think, who am I? You know, you know, I think of my fears, and here is a man of that caliber, and yet he's fearful. Uh, can you think of any others? You listen a bunch, pretty much anybody in the Bible you name them. But I who? Elijah, I had Elijah down. Remember he calls down fire on the prophets of Baal? Uh calls down fire. Then he executes all these prophets of Baal. Was it 400 of them? And uh man, courage and faith and power of God on him. I want that. And then Jezebel Opens her mouth. And she says, tomorrow, this time, you're going to be just like those prophets. And Elijah said, Oh yeah, come on, woman. I'm going to call down fire on you No, he didn't. He didn't say that at all. He ran in fear. Elijah, afraid. Yeah. Yeah. Uh for sake of time, I'll just give this up. I had um uh how many how many people don't think of Peter too much as being afraid? I mean he's bold and speaking out. He's afraid of a little maid She says, you're one of those Galileans. No, I'm not. Cuss, cus, cuss. And then later on in Galatians, this is after the Holy Spirit's on him. This is after he's got right and he's being used of God. In Galatians, he's there fellowshipping with the Gentiles. A bunch of Jews show up, and for fear of the Jews, he's separated from the Gentiles. Peter struggled with fear even later on in his ministry. After a successful ministry. So fear is very legitimate. Paul was mentoring a young preacher boy by the name of Timothy. And apparently Timothy, starting out in the ministry, under the tutelage of the Apostle Paul, and Paul had to say, listen, God hasn't given us the spirit of fear. But of power and of love and of a sound mind. And so fear, my point I'm trying to make is this: fear is a very real issue in Christian life and in Christian service. But the Bible is very, very clear: the fear of man is not of God. God has not given us a spirit of fear Um and fear of circumstances is not of God. Is not of God I think if we were honest, all of us would say at some point we face things that scares us to death. Scares me. That scares me. I see it on the horizon, this circumstances. The fear of man and fear of circumstances that is not of God. The world, the flesh, and the devil try to intimidate us into being afraid of what God is allowing to come into our lives. to strengthen our faith and develop us as Christians. And yet the world of flesh and devil convince us to be afraid. Be afraid. This old sinful nature gets scared. Psalms 563 Somebody tell me what that says. What time I am afraid, I will what? I will trust in God. What a great verse. Proverbs chapter 29 and verse 25. The fear of man bringeth a snare And so God is telling us here that fear is a very, very real issue in the Christian life. It must be conquered, it must be overcome. If I'm going to grow, if I'm going to serve God in the way He wants me to. A lot of times faith requires a tremendous amount of courage to step out in faith. A lot of times that takes a lot of courage. A lot of times exercising faith in God means I have to overcome intense fear. A lot of times. Don't think for a moment that That faith equals the absence of fear. Faith is trusting and acting in spite of fear. In spite of fear. So faith often requires a lot of courage. Somebody says, oh, you Christians, a bunch of weaklings I'm telling you what, some of the toughest stuff I've ever done in life has been to trust God and step out in faith and overcome courage and fear. Living a victorious Christian life isn't for sithes It's not for weakling. It's for people that learn to trust God in spite of fear. And so be careful. Now we want to back up here a little bit. Let's come back to our text here back in And Samuel, how many people got the point I'm trying to make there? Fear is reality in the Christian life. Everybody got that point? That's what I was trying to drive home. Now we come and look at Saul, King Saul, and the and the nation of Israel here cowering before Goliath We're going to critique this, we're going to evaluate this a little bit, but I want to caution, and I did this what God spoke to my heart, is I want to caution us about being too hard on them Now think about it. Here is an army of veteran soldiers. We're going to see in a little bit. They've been through battle before. This isn't some guys just out of boot camp and facing the enemy for the first time. These guys have been there. King Saul slew his thousands, right? So he's n he's not some you know some newbie coming up out of the up the ranks. He's been around. And out of all that army, and they're a leadership of that army, none of them have the courage to go out about this guy. One kid. is the only one. So I got thinking, if I was in that army, how would I respond? If that was me, one of those soldiers there with my stuff ma uh putting the battle in a ray, ching, ching, ching, ching, rattling stuff, making noise. All right. Would I run out there against them? I was hoping you wouldn't say that. But the truth is, out of no doubt, been right in with the rest of the guys. So it's easy to look back. It's easy to look from our perspective and say, oh, those cowards. I'm not sure you or I may would have done much better. But here's what we can do. We can learn from them. Right? We can learn from say, all right, listen, I I need more courage. I need to overcome some fear in my life. What can I learn from this? And that's what I want us to do. So here's my question. Why were they afraid? Why was King Saul and the army so scared? I come up with three reasons. I'll try and give them as quick as we can. We might not get to all of them tonight. Number one, I put this down. They were listening to the wrong voices They were listening to the wrong voices. Look at verse 11 with me. When Saul and all of Israel, what's the next couple words? Heard the words of the Philistine. Ah, when they heard those words, that is when they became dismayed. That is when they became greatly afraid. They heard these words. Here's the thing I got from this. They heard what Goliath was saying. But they were not what listening to what God had been saying. They heard what Goliath said. So they're listening to the wrong voices. Um again I look through the Bible, I see a heap of people did that same thing and and it and it hurt them bad. What about Eve? God had said very clearly, don't eat of that. You're fine, you've got all this stuff, don't eat of that. And the serpent shows up and starts talking to her, and she what? She listened to him. She listened to him. She's listened to the wrong voice. She should have listened to what God said Eve did that very same thing. Israel did that very same thing when they came out of Egypt. And they got to got to Kadesh Barnea and they said, well, let's send some spies in and see what we're getting into. And ten were bad and two were good. Did I ever teach you that song? Twelve men went to spy on Cain and ten were bad and two were good. What do you think they saw in Cain and ten were bad? No, we'll sing that another time Some cell greats of clusters long. So anyway, they come back, and there's two voices. The majority voice said we can't do it. We're like grasshoppers in their eyes, and we're in our own eyes. We're grasshoppers. There's no way. They'll eat us up. The minority voice said, God has promised us this land. God is able to give this to us. We can conquer them in the power of God. We can do this. And who did Israel listen to? The wrong voices. And they ended up wandering for 40 years in the wilderness. We mentioned Elijah. Elijah did the same thing. He just saw what God could do. He just heard the voice of God. But then he heard what Jezebel had to say. And he listened to her rather than God. And then God had to put him in a little cave and send a tornado and all that stuff by. Finally it was a still small voice. And God had to get Elijah back listening to him and not to Jezebel. So they're listening to the wrong voices that brought fear. Oh, here's an interesting one. Mark your place here. Come over to 1 Samuel 27, a little bit later in the book here. And this captures my attention every time, and I know I've referenced this many times over the years, but David Listens to a wrong voice. Chapter 27, 1 Samuel 27. Look at verse number 1 Now, this is where Saul's chasing him all over creation. Saul's trying to kill him. He's hiding here, hiding there. God miraculously delivers him over and over and over, right? What did God promise David? He was someday going to be what? King. That was God's voice. David, you will be king. But look at verse 1 of chapter 27. And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day. By the hand of Saul. I wrote in the margin of my Bible in exclamation points, not true. David was never going to perish by the hand of Saul. God had told him You will be king. But whose voice did David listen to? His own. The Bible says, I think it's Proverbs, he that trusteth in his own heart is a what? Fool. Is a fool. David started listening to his own reasoning. Proverbs 3, 5, and 6 says, Trust the Lord with all thine heart, lean not unto thine own understanding. Don't listen to your own voice so much. Your own understanding. And David became afraid. And he fled to the enemies, and he became allies, at least superficially, with the enemies of Israel. And ended up in a mess. And here's the point I think I see here with King Saul and Israel, when they heard these words of the Philistine They were dismayed and greatly afraid. They were listening to the wrong voices. They were listening to the wrong voices. What we need to do is to make sure we're listening to what God says. I tell you, the world can be awfully convincing. I'm telling you, that the media out here, which is such a prof has such a profound impact on our society, And on our churches and on our homes, the media is influencing God's people. And I tell you, they have perfected the ability to convince us that that which is wrong is right. And they've perfected the ability to make that which seems so that which is good seems so bad. Apparently, I saw a little news clip this afternoon. Apparently there's a player on the Australian rugby team. That's what caught my attention. There's a player on the Australian rugby team, apparently, now I can't vouch for what where he's at on this, but apparently he's a pretty devout Christian. Anybody see that in the news? Anybody catch that Apparently he's a pretty devout Christian, and somebody in an interview asked him what he thought about sodomy, homosexuality. And he says, it is sin. The Bible is very clear. And if somebody doesn't repent from that sin, they will die in their sins, and he said they'll go to hell. But he didn't stop there. He says, anybody, and he gave me quoted from 1 Corinthians were drunkards and liars and adulterers and all. Shall not be part of the kingdom of God. And he says anybody that doesn't repent from their sin is gonna die in their sins, they're gonna go to hell. And he is absolutely getting beat up. I mean intensely. And I watched a little bit of the interview. They were out in the streets of Sydney or wherever it was, Brisbane, I don't forget what city it was, but they're asking people, what do you think about this guy? And with the exception of one, they interviewed about 20 people, 25 people, with the exception of one, they all said he's an idiot, he's a fool. And they made the one man who was holding the scripture sound like such a wicked person. And they made those who are living in wickedness seem like such victims. And what I'm trying to say is this: the world is very, very good. The devil is very, very good, even our own flesh. is very very can be very very convincing that what God says is not so and what that we think and what the world says is so. An exact opposite. Of what it is. So we have to be very, very careful. Who are we listening to? What voices are we listening to? I'm suggesting you now more than ever, we desperately need to be in this book. Because the voices of the world and the flesh and the devil are screaming at us: I defy your convictions, I defy your God, I defy your principles. And they make it sound so convincing that they're right and we're wrong, next thing you know, we're scared to death. And we're dismayed and were great fear. So they're listening to the wrong voices. Let me give you the other two here real quick. They had forgotten past victories. Listen, they completely forgot about, and I'll just give you the reference. I wanted to turn to them, but I'll just give you the reference. 1 Samuel 11:11, they defeated the Ammonites. Saul and Israel did. They defeated them. 1 Samuel 13, 3, under the leadership of Jonathan, they had defeated the Philistines. Now the Philistines were notorious for coming back again. But they had defeated them in chapter 14, verse 13 through 15, again under the leadership of Jonathan, they had defeated the Philistines. In chapter 15, verse 7, under the leadership of Saul, they defeated the Amalekites at God's instructions. I mean they defeated them. Now that's where Saul messed up and he didn't kill Agag And he kept the sheep and the bleeding the sheep and all of that, and that was his the the straw that broke the camel's back, so to speak. And God says, I'm done with you. But they did defeat them. So it's not like Israel has this history of being defeated It's not like Israel has this history of God not helping them and God not giving them victory. In fact, some of those battles were supernatural victories that God had stepped in. And apparently they forgot all about those. And while I was studying this here, I'm looking at this back in chapter 17, and they're cowering in fear, they're dismayed, they're greatly afraid, and I got thinking, where is Jonathan in all of this? Remember, and we don't I wish we had more time, but remember when Jonathan and his armor bear snuck up outside the camp? I think it was the I think that was the Philistines, they snuck upside the camp And they're saying, uh, boy, are they gonna should we go up and get them or not? Remember? And they went up there and just the two of them so shocked them and God sent us such a surprise they started killing each other, the enemy did. Anybody remember reading that in there? Jonathan, come on, man. You saw how God intervened. You saw what God can do. Two guys slaughtering thousands of Philistines, and not a peep from Jonathan. I got thinking, and I have speculation on why Jonathan didn't speak up. I think one thing might be just the influence of his daddy. He saw his dad scared to death. Maybe that influenced him and he was scared. I don't know. Leadership, the attitude and the and the faith of a leadership of leadership has a profound impact on the those following them. And so forgetting the past works of God will promote fear for future challenges by God. I don't know what God's gonna what we're gonna have to face, you and I, or personally, or as a church in the coming months, this year. We don't know But one thing we do know is what God has done for us in the past. Anybody here God ever helped you through a difficult time in the past? Anybody here ever God given you victory over some sin in the past? Now we don't know what we're going to face in the future, but we do know what God has done in the past. And if we forget the past, we're going to be afraid of the future. If we forget what God has done for us in this past, then we're going to be afraid of the future. But we can say, wait a minute, God did this for me. God gave me victory. God met that need. God conquered this giant. in the past, and God hasn't changed, and he's no weaker today than he ever was before, and I can go forward. But they forgot all about that Now again, it's easy for us to sit here and look back and say, oh, you cowards, why don't you remember what God did? We probably wouldn't have done much better. But we can learn from that Number three, let me give you the last one here real quick. One, they listened to the wrong voices. Two, they had forgotten past victories. And here's the key, I think. God's Spirit had vacated them. Turn with me back to chapter 16, and I want you to notice verse number 14. I think this is one of the most tragic statements in all of Scripture. Now there's a bunch of tragic statements in Scripture. This has to be one of the top ones. Look at verse 14. But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. I'm studying this and I thought I'm going to put myself in Saul's shoes. And God's Spirit has departed. Now, as a believer, we can't lose the Holy Spirit. Amen. We're sealed. The Holy Spirit's not going to lose. But can you imagine So to speak, God has taken his hand off and saw you're on your own. You're on your own. I don't know about you, but that scares me to death. Paul, Apostle Paul was scared of that. He said, Lest I be passed away. We can't lose the presence of the Holy Spirit as a believer. He never leaves us, never forsake us. But there are some things we can do as a believer. We can grieve the Holy Spirit. And we can quench the Holy Spirit. And we can operate as a carnal Christian in the flesh. And not have God's hand and not have God's presence and not have God's power. I'm convinced that the most important thing in the Christian life and in Christian service is to be in fellowship with God and to be filled with the Holy Spirit of God. You can talk to Pastor Brett. We pray together all the time. We meet every Monday and have special time of prayer. But you ask him, the thing we pray for the most is that God would fill us with his Holy Spirit. I tell you what, to go through, I don't know. We say this a lot, and I guess people adapt But I just can't imagine going through life without the presence of God in my life Thing that scares me, and ask my wife, we talk about this a fair bit, thing that scares me is that God would remove his hand from off of me Saul, that's what happened to Saul. And the absence of the presence and spirit of God produced fear. We cannot lose our salvation. The Holy Spirit will not lose us. But the Holy Spirit can be quenched. The Holy Spirit can be grieved. And that will make us powerless in front of our enemies. In John chapter 15, verse 5, Jesus made a very important statement. He said, This: without me, he can do nothing. Nothing. We must never underestimate how desperately we need the Lord. Even as a Christian To live in submission to him, to live a life of faith in him, to keep my heart and mind and life pure and clean, so I have his unfettered, unhindered presence in my life So I can be filled with his Holy Spirit. I believe at any point in time Saul could have humbled himself before the Lord. And been restored and had the presence and power of God on his life again. There was a day when Saul was prophesying with the prophets. There was a day when Saul was filled with the Spirit of God in the Old Testament context. But he became proud and he became rebellious. And God said, I can't deal with that. I can't, I'm not going to work on that. I remove my presence from you. Now, I believe let me re- let me make that same again. I believe he could have at any point said, humbled himself before God, yielded to the Lord, and he could have been restored with the the Spirit of God upon him. But God knew that he never would. God knew the future, and he says that guy is never going to humble himself. He's never going to, I'm going to remove my spirit from him. And so the Holy Spirit vacated himself, and in that vacuum, fear came flooding in. Overcoming fear begins with humbling myself before God, yielding myself fully to God, and then stepping out in faith, obeying God I'm suggesting you Israel could have defeated Goliath. They could have. God would not have allowed them to face him if they could not. But they were so overcome with fear. This chapter, 17, is we're going to transition now over to David showing up on the battlefield. I see a contrast between a cowardly majority and a courageous minority And David steps up. And God used him in a great, great way. I was reading about, how many people recognize the name George Patton? Now what uh he was rough, right? He was rough around I can't I can't defend a lot about him. But I tell you, he was quite a general. Be honest with you, if I was gonna fight under somebody, I think I would like to have fought under him, maybe, I don't know, except when he slapped that guy around. That was a little wrong Listen to what George, how many people, when you picture George Patton, how many people picture if you what you know of them, those that know some, how many pictures of this brave, fearless general, George Patton? Listen to what he said. This is George Patton's lips. During World War II, a military governor met with George Patton in Sicily when he praised Patton highly for his courage and his bravery. This is what Patton said. Sir, I am not a brave man. The truth is, I am an utter craven coward. I have never been within the sound of gunshot or in the sight of battle in my whole life that I wasn't so scared that I had sweat in the palms of my hands. His own words, I am a coward. I heard a gunshot, it would scare me He wrote a biography, autobiography, and in it he made a significant statement. He said, I learned, now this is the point, I learned very early in my life never to take counsel of my fears. And I believe that's what the lesson is from Israel. They heard the wrong voices. They forgot what God had done. They had so become so proud and so hardened God's spirit had left. And fear took over Now, I don't know. I can't say this for certain, but I can't help but think that David was a little A little scared stepping out there. I don't know. You read it and you don't look at it, but man alive. But this I do know, if there was any fear in David's heart, he did not take counsel of it. He listened to God, and his faith was in God. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would help us to deal with the inevitable fear that comes with life. Lord, I pray that those of us that know you as Savior, we would remember what you've done for us in the past. You've conquered sin in the grave. You've delivered us from sin. You've given us eternal life. God, you've done amazing things for us. And as a church, you've done some amazing things. Help us never forget that. Help us not listen to this old wicked world, our own sinful heart Lord, help us to listen to you and trust you. And God, I pray you'd help me and all of us to never get to the point where we're unsubmissive to you and we take things in our own hands, but we would be yielded so your Spirit can fill us. Use us and that you would grant to us with all boldness that we'd be able to speak your word as we ought and live our lives as we should But I wonder with our heads bad, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, you're right, I agree with the Bible that fear is a factor, fear is an issue in in my life, and I'm looking the Lord to help me conquer that. I'm going to listen to what God says, not the world. I'm going to remember what God has done. I'm going to seek the Lord's presence and power in my life. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, that's what I want. God bless you. I believe every Christian would want that, don't you? So let's ask the Lord to give us victory in this area, and I believe he will. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now as we give a little invitation. I pray you