Proverbs twenty-three and verse twenty-six. My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe. my ways. My son, give me thine heart and let thine eyes observe my ways. Our father now once again we We come to you, Lord, because uh we need your help and we just ask you to uh do a work in our hearts here tonight. Take the Word of God and and make it real to each one of us. Help us to see the parts of us that are meant for us and and uh lay aside that which is not. Lord, we thank you for this church, this pastor, and the people here in it that uh have been so faithful through these many years. I thank you for each one of them. God bless your time as we get into your word one more time. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. The heart. The heart of man, what is that anyhow? Uh I find it uh There's uh like I think there's eight hundred different uh mentions of the of the word heart in the Word of God, eight hundred times, then there ought to be something That we need to learn about the heart. That just makes sense, doesn't it? So the the heart is the the home of the personal life. When I say that I mean that that men are known by the heart they have. You know, they have a generous heart or uh there's a number of them in the in the Word of God here Uh I'm looking in 1 Kings. You don't have to turn there. I'm just going to read them. I have them all listed out here. In 1 Kings 3. 12 says, Behold I have done according to thy words. Lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart. So we have a wise and understanding heart. Psalm 24 verse 4 says that he that hath clean hands and a pure heart. Clean hands and a pure heart. Matthew 5. 8, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. So you can see from these verses that that men uh whether we realize or not, uh, you know, we uh We're kind of picked up by what kind of a life we have. Psalm eleven and verse two says, For lo the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow upon the string. that they may uh privilege shoot at the upright in heart. That's like the m uh moral excellence of the upright in heart And then there's Luke 8. 15. It says, But but that on the good ground are they which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it and bring forth fruit with patience. And then finally there's Romans five two and verse fifteen which says, which show the the work of the law written in their hearts, and their conscience also bearing witness. And their thoughts, uh, the mean while accusing, meanwhile accusing, uh, or or else exercising one another I read all those verses just for uh to get our our minds at least in gear uh to the direction that we're going is this message. Um The first time that the that the word uh heart is mentioned in the scriptures is found over in the book of of uh uh uh Genesis in chapter six, and I think you'll recognize it as soon as I start reading. And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. We recognize that we don't we. And then the amazing thing is that God picks out the remedy for man's problem. In the first verse, it deals with the uh with what the problem is. In the second verse, is the first verse in the New Testament So you have the first verse in the Old Testament, and the first verse in the New Testament says this, Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. I'm glad God has uh a book that he shows his wisdom as he uh uh takes us through it. Amazing how the Word of God can in just two verses put a finger on men's problems, and the answer to that problem isn't. This evening, I'd like to challenge you with a verse from the Bible. It's a verse that holds the key to happiness and fulfillment in this life. You know, I uh I think about uh Nan and I. We've uh we've been married a long time. Long time. A really long time. But we've had a a happy happy marriage. It's been a good marriage. And uh it's all because uh both of us have uh our focus was towards the Lord. And uh I can say this to to those who are sitting out there and they're wondering if your marriage is going to make it through the next year, that if you'll just turn it over to God, He He works those kind of things out. Because he's the one that deals with the heart. See. And God is uh uh is working on our heart here tonight, I believe. Why does God want our heart? Is God any b better, any bigger, any more righteous, or is there anything that that if he if we give him our heart, is he going to be more of anything? Can you think of anything like I mean, no, he's he's God, he's everything anyway, you know what I mean? But he wants our heart. And the ri here's the reason why. It's the seat of the emotions. It's the seat of our affections and our passions as like love and joy and grief and enmity and courage and pleasure. And so the the seat of our understanding is involved in process. The seat of the will So God wants her heart because it involves all these aspects of our life. He wants to be involved in all of our life. You know, we talk about revival, and the the truth of the matter is, uh if we just keep doing the same thing we did last year, we're not going to have revival, are we? Isn't it true? Is there gonna have to be a change somewhere? There has to be a change uh for the better in order for God to do something in our in our heart God wants to restore the innocence and the purity that we lost by the curse. Now there's no way that he can restore that in the uh the innocity that uh uh Adam has and Eve when they were first created, that would be impossible But the one thing that God can do is He can forgive us. And He can cleanse us. He can purify our heart in that aspect. and give us a a new life and a new uh a new heart. A new heart. He wants to uh build that new heart and and make it something special. We can have access to God, you know, and enjoy his fellowship. Number two, he's a he's the only hope for the seat the deceitful heart. The only hope that we have Um I guess I I think about uh I think about my own life and uh I don't like to think about it a whole lot. And when I say my own life I'm talking about the the uh prior years to my being saved and living for the Lord. And there's just a lot of s stuff in here. I'm glad that God forgave me for that stuff. I'm glad that he cleansed me from that stuff. I'm glad that he uh he has done a work in my heart and given me a new heart, a transformed heart. He's the only hope for our deceitful heart. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things have passed away. Behold, all things become new. We ought to thank God for that verse. And then in Romans chapter twelve, uh, what is that sound? I beseech you therefore, brother, by the mercies of God it proves You present your body as a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is just your reasonable service. He wants to give us a new heart. He's the only only hope, but also uh the blessing of a pure heart. We shall see God. Uh isn't that You know, I I don't know how you feel about it, but I I've of course I spend uh when I come up here in the mountains I usually spend a couple of days just getting out in the woods and walking around and And uh acting like I'm still hunting. But I'm not, you know, I'm not hunting. I'm just walking around and uh acting like it But uh there's something of there's just something about uh uh I want to close your walk with God, don't you? I want to be, just like the pastor said, I want to know him, like the Apostle Paul. He wanted to know him. He didn't want to just know him. He wanted to know him. And that's a uh that's something that each of us have the opportunity for. Because when we yield our will to His, when we yield ourselves to Him, Yield our flesh to him. Yield our whatever if we give everything to him, then he can make the change in our life that that uh draws us to a closer walk with him God opens our spiritual eyes And when he opens our spiritual eyes, we're able to see the Lord Jesus. We're able to see him in the scriptures. We're able to see the uh the providence of God. You know, one of the things that's been a blessing through the years is is uh Seeing how God is is working in my life in the little things, little things that I take for granted Now this may be silly, but I remember one time I ran over my my hose, water hose, out in the yard with my lawn bar. And uh I uh I uh when I hit it I knew what it was and when I hit it I I thought, well I probably needed a new one, anyhow, you know. So uh I stopped the mower. And uh uh you got underneath of it, you know, and and untangled some of the hose, you know, and finally got it out. And when I got it out, it wasn't uh it wasn't broke at all It was just it was perfectly whole. It was all right. In other words, uh uh God said, Well, alright, he's gonna run over this hose, but I'll just make sure it doesn't hurt it, you know I think God does little things like that to help us out to be a uh to be a blessing to his people. You know, the nation of Israel uh back in the Old Testament the nation of Israel w uh when uh uh God gave uh Moses the Ten Commandments upon Sinai. Uh he also gave him the uh Uh plans for the tabernacle. No, we don't we don't hear a whole lot about the teaching on the tabernacle. I I wish your pastor would teach it sometime and and enlighten you to all that. And 'cause y it's a tremendous study and I have some outlines for you. They're already made up for this. Uh you know, screen. I mean, yeah. It's already done. I'll talk to you about it later. But the the the reason that God did that was because uh he wanted to dwell with his people. And that's his desire today. You know, this this heart that we have, when we trust Christ as our Savior and the Lord Jesus, he just comes right in there and makes himself at home in our heart. Isn't that great? God is the He's a uh a very touching God. He he loves his his people. He wants to, you know, be with them. And whenever you you get the the uh uh the truth of of his presence in your life It makes a difference in how you act and where you go, the people you know, and it just makes all kind of differences in your life. So Exodus 25 and verse 2, speak unto the children of Israel that they bring me an offering of every man the the that giveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take my offering. And then verse twenty-nine of uh first uh chronicles it says Uh in chapter twenty-nine verse nine. Then the people rejoiced for that they offered willingly because of the uh uh because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord. And David the king also rejoiced with great joy. Uh the thing about Whenever you give yourself voluntarily to God, you can't lose because it brings great joy in your life. Why what is it that you really want out of life anyway? What is it that it means, you know I I don't know about you but but I want to be happy, don't you? I want to have joy in my heart. I I and uh I I want to know God, you know But uh I just I just want uh this thing of joy to be a part of my life. And the only way to to have that for the Christian is to give God the rightful place in your heart and that is the just to give him your heart. When he says, Give me your heart, just say, Lord, you say, Well how do I do that? Well It's just a matter of just uh finding a place of this old fashioned altar. Hey, or you can do it right back there. But it's just a matter of just saying, Lord, you know Uh I haven't always, I've always tried to serve you. I've always tried to live up to what the Bible teaches about living for God. But Lord, I want to know you in a very intimate and a personal way. And if we approach this meeting uh with that attitude, with the idea that we want we want to be uh we want to take that next step in our spiritual life So that God can bless us and we can have greater joy. And so that we can so that we can uh uh uh enjoy every service instead of uh feeling convicted every time the preacher preaches on your sin. Okay. Psalm fifty-one and verse ten, uh familiar uh Psalm, says uh Create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me. And then in Proverbs 23 and verse 7, he says, For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. Let me ask you a question. How's your heart? Have you got a uh have you willingly given your heart to God. I'm I'm not talking about when you got saved. I'm talking about uh after you got saved and you you saw yourself sort of stagnating and you just you just sort of have uh Uh got to the place where you're not where you ought to be spiritually. You know it, and God knows it, and uh you know there's time to take that next step. I hope that I hope you will. In Romans chapter ten and verse ten it says this, for with the heart man believeth unto righteousness. And with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation. We all know that as a as a verse that deals with salvation, which it does. Of course, it mentions it in the verse. But uh it also uh deals with the heart. And that's what we're talking about here tonight. So I challenge you tonight to uh Just as that scripture says there in Proverbs 23, 26, my son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways. Let's have our heads bowed and our eyes closed and we'll show this chalk to you. Heavenly Father, I pray now that uh you'll take these feeble words and And just simply uh apply them to the hearts of those who need them. Lord, we we need we need revival, there's no doubt about that And so we're asking you, Lord, wilt thou not revive thy people, that thy people may rejoice in thee?