I'd like for you just look at me if you will to a fifteen and verse number nineteen. Just the first part. It says, Who answered, give me a blessing I've used that little phrase for the title and subject of our message this morning. Let's pray. Father, bless our time in your word, and uh I am grateful for the good service, Lord. The singing is Stirred my heart, fellowshipping, meeting some new folks has uh just been a real blessing. So I ask now that you would uh open our hearts and minds as we look into the Word of God Lord, this is your word, and you have a will for each of our lives, so we're asking you to apply your word to our individual lives as you see fit so that your will can be accomplished in our lives. Lord, I can't do this. I have nothing in and of myself to offer. So I plead with you, Lord, that you would take my body, fill me with your spirit, I yield my will to yours, present my body to you, and ask that you would speak through me. to all of our hearts, and we want your will to be done. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Bible likens the Christian the Christianity to that of a family. The Bible will refer to believers as being part of the family of God There's various places, a number of places all through the Bible where God is referred to as believers father. And we are referred to as God's children. Now, I say that, and before I go farther with that, I feel obligated to Put a warning out to anybody that would be under the sound of my voice that does not know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. An unsaved person, a person who has not come to the point where they've accepted Jesus Christ as a personal Savior, they don't have the assurance of sins forgiven at home in heaven, that person cannot claim God to be their father. Now, this next statement may sound harsh, but I've got to be true to the Word of God. And John chapter 8, verse 44, Jesus Now these are from the lips of Jesus. He said, speaking to the unsaved religious leaders, he made this statement. He said, Ye are of your father the devil. And he was pointing out to those unbelieving Jews, they were very religious, but they had rejected Christ, they had not accepted him as the Savior of the world, as their personal savior. And he says, he's saying, in effect, You cannot claim God to be your father if you do not accept me, Jesus, as your Savior. So when we talk about God being our Father and us being the children of God, we need to understand that in the Scripture, those terms are limited To believers, to those who have been born again. Alright? So we understand that. So if by chance you're here this morning, you've never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm here to tell you God loves you. He did everything he can to save you from sin in hell. He wants to be your father, but you've got to accept Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, before you can claim him to be your father. You follow what I'm saying? So, the Bible refers to the body of believers as often as the family of God. God being the Father, us believers being the children of God. Mike Stubler, one of our members, has been dear in our heart for many years, and especially lately is fighting brain cancer, and he's in the hospital now, and I'll say more about it later at prayer time. when we take the offering. But um uh Mike's been dear to us and he's been on my heart a lot uh the uh the last several days, twenty four hours a day really But when Mike first trusted the Lord and started coming out, I think it was before he was even baptized. He first started coming out and I was working with him and helping him with scripture and teaching them things And uh I said I referred to him one time as Brother Mike. And I think he came in and said, hey, Brother Mike. And boy, his face just beamed. And I don't know if it was later that day or within the within a brief time after that, might have been a week or so later, he came to me and he said, Pastor, he said, when you called me brother That meant the world to me. He said, I felt like I was a part of a family. Isn't that neat? He said, I never had that before. I've never experienced that. So when we know Jesus Christ, our personal Savior God is our spiritual father, literally. Other believers are our brothers and sisters in the Lord. And um just as a, and the and Jesus illustrated through the Gospels, and that's not the direction I'm gonna go, but Jesus illustrated through the Gospels, that just like a good father Deals with his child, so our Heavenly Father deals with us. For instance, he said a good father would not give his child a stone if he asked for bread. A good father would give his child bread. And he says, that's the way your father in heaven is. So he uses the illustration of a father's relationship with his child. A good father's relationship with a child, he uses that to illustrate the heavenly father's relationship with the believer. The Bible will, and Jesus did, illustrate how a good child responds to his father Is an illustration, he used that as an illustration of how a believer, how we as believers should respond to our Heavenly Father. So you have this idea of family relationships among believers and in our relationship with God. Good father dealing with the child and the relation with the child. Good child dealing with a father and their relation with that. Now we come to Joshua chapter 15, our incident here I see this, I read this in devotion some time ago. This here, we have a touching incident in the life of a fellow by the name of Caleb. How many people, you say, that name Caleb rings a bell? I recognize, I've I've heard that name before. Anybody here, Caleb? Say, yeah, my cousin's name is Caleb. Caleb was a great man of God in the Bible. Uh if you remember the story uh reading through your Bible, or if you remember from uh Sunday school. The nation of Israel came out of Egypt, you know, and the plagues and all that. And they got to the promised land. And they sent twelve men to go spy on Canaan. How many people remember that story See, I'm just trying to get you to raise your hand so you stay awake, you know, is what I'm doing. They sent twelve men to spy on Canaan. Ten were bad, and two were what? Good. Twelve men went to spy on Canaan, ten were bad, two were good. What do you think they saw in Canaan? Ten were bad and two were good. That's a song, but anyway. Those two that were good, that came back with the good report, one's name was Joshua. He eventually became the leader of Israel after Moses' death. And the other was who? Caleb. And lo and behold, here we have Caleb years later. Israel's in the land. They're conquering it. They're claiming the possessions that God had promised them. And Caleb has a daughter. Now this is where it gets a little tricky. I think Dr. Browning did a great job reading those names. I recommend a church we double his salary It's done, Pat. It's done. He did a good job. Her name, this daughter's name, if you'll notice here, her name was Iksah. Or how'd you say it? Oksah sounds kind of German. She might have German Oxsaw And all we have is just a very brief incident between Aqsa The daughter and her daddy, Caleb, great man of God, man of faith In fact, it's recorded twice in the Bible when you get to Judges chapter 1, and this exact same thing, the same same incident is recorded again, almost verbatim. Now, I always point this out when that's the case. God doesn't repeat things because he's forgetful. Right? It's not that God forgot that he recorded it in Joshua and says, puts it there. No, if God has something recorded in the Bible twice, there's a purpose for that. There's a reason. It's significant. You said to your kids, I'm not going to tell you again, right? You said it repeatedly. And God says, listen, I told you once, I'm telling you again. So this The fact that it's in here if it's in the Bible once, it's important. Right? Is everybody everybody okay? Everybody? All right Everybody happy? Amen. Good. Some of y'all didn't look happy, so I just want to try and help. If it's in once, we ought to pay close attention to it. If it's in twice, there's some significance here. Now what I want to do this morning, the purpose of the message this morning, is to take this little incident between Aksa and Caleb And glean from that some truths between a child of God and their Heavenly Father. Between a child of God coming as Aksa did to her father and making a request. Asking of her father something. And from that, we can learn some lessons, some principles. on how we approach our Heavenly Father and request some things. Alright? So that's the idea Let's notice first of all, and if you've taken notes, I think I got a pretty good outline here this morning, and jot these down might help you uh review this and stick in your mind a little bit. The first thing I notice Was that her plea or her request was an intelligent request? Look with me, if you would, at verse number 18. It came to pass as she came unto him her father, that she came unto her husband, her new husband, that she moved him to ask her father a field. And she lighted off her ask, and Caleb sent her, What would that wouldest thou? Who answered, give me a blessing, for thou hast given me a south field. Give me also the springs of water. So what we have here is Aksa came to her father, and she had already thought through what it was she desired from her father. She had thought ahead of time. She knew exactly. Now here's the point I'm trying to make in this thought. She knew exactly what she wanted and needed from her father, and she had reasons for desiring it. She had logical reasons. Caleb had made a public announcement. We've still got some enemies out there that need to be dealt with. Who were they? Verse 16. Kirjath Sephar. And uh I've got a daughter here, it's time to get married. Anybody that can take out that guy, you can marry my daughter. Girls, how would you like for your dad to do that? Just washing you off, basically. But anyway, that was what they did. And um what's his name? Hubby's name here? Atniel. He says, yes. She's pretty, she's smart, I'd like for her to be my wife. I'll go kill anybody for that. So he goes out and he takes out this Kir. Where's his name at? Kirjath Sephar. Pat did better on the names than I'm doing. So he kills him and he gives Aqsa to his daughter to wife. And along with that, and I'm speculating here, perhaps as a wedding gift. He gives her an athnial a field. Now that's nice to agricultural society Field is uh necessary, you know, it'd be a very uh part of it for them to be successful and prosperous, and he's concerned for his daughter and son-in-law that things be well, so he gives them as a wedding gift, apparently, a field. Now there's a problem with the feel. There's no water on the field that Caleb gave. Now, I have no idea. The Bible doesn't address this at all, so this is total speculation on my part. But I just from what I read of Caleb, I have a hard time he would have deliberately given his daughter a field. That didn't have any water on. It's of no value. You can't grow crops. You can't have hay or whatever for cattle, or it's just useless. And pr I I tend to think it's just an oversight on his part But Axa sees the field and she realizes, you know, if this is going to be of benefit We've got to have some water. She does some investigations. She finds out that there's a spray on the one side of the field, and there's a spray on the other side of the field. And she thinks this through, and she comes up: you know, if we had access to one of those springs at least, I could irrigate my field, and it would be profitable. Now I'm reading a whole lot more than what this says here, but that's what the idea is. And so she thinks this through. She finds out exactly what she would need and what she would desire. She has a good reason for it. And she comes to her father, presents her request, an intelligent request. She has logical reasons for it. Now there's a lesson here for us. How many times, when we do happen to pray, our prayers are not very intelligent? We just say stuff to God. We just, sometimes, if we're not careful, we can get in a repetition Where it's just some rote thing we're going through and it really means nothing. We don't even know what we're asking for. We now and I'm not saying this is wrong, please don't read anything more into this. I'm just telling you the way we did it. When our boys were growing up We do not teach them uh poem prayers, what I call them. For instance, God is good, God is great, and we thank him for our food. Uh uh what's another one? Uh Um now I lay me down to sleep, I pray the Lord my soul to keep. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. Now there's nothing wrong with that. Listen, if you're teaching your kids that and you did that, I I'm I don't have no issue with you. God bless you I'm saying we never did that because my thinking was I don't want my children to get stuck where they're just repeating something that doesn't mean anything to them. I want to come and talk to God. I mean what would you do if every day your child got out of the bedroom, came walking up to you, you're my daddy, you are great, and I'm uh you know, and they just said the same thing every day to you. And be like, what's the matter with you, kid? Oh no, I just do that. And so what I'm trying to say is this: when we come to God in prayer, we need to come intelligently I think it's a good thing to think things through. What exactly is it that I would like for God, my Heavenly Father, to do for me? What is it that I need? What would help me in my Christian life? What is it that would help me be a better person and be the person God wants me to need? Think this thing through before I come to God. And another good thing to do is Have some logical reasons why that would be beneficial to you. Dear God, would you give me a BMW 5 series, 2011? Alright, why do you want that? Uh it's cool. Now sometimes God gives us things just to be a blessing, but you know it's a whole lot better to come to God with something that I really need, and there's a real reason. For me to have it. You follow what I'm saying? And I think we would see our prayers, we would see more direct and specific answers to prayers if we just give a little thought to what we're asking from God. Have some reasons for that, like Akshah did with Caleb. She didn't just come and say, you know, Daddy, just can you give me something? Well, what do you want? Just whatever. Well, not at all. She had thought this thing through. She had very specific requests. She had logical reasons for it. I think another thing that's interesting here in her intelligent prayer She wasn't afraid to ask God for more. She wasn't afraid to ask her daddy for more. He had given her a field But that field in and of itself was not really going to be a benefit, so she came to her daddy and asked for more. Here's a great thing about being a child of God. We can always come to God and ask for more. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Because ask of me I bless you. I've given you so much. Don't be afraid to ask for more. Now think it through, have a you know, understand what you want and why you want it, and have some reasons for it. Come intelligently, but don't be afraid to ask for more God has been good to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. God, would you agree with me in the context of the story here? God has given us a field. Right? He's given us beautiful possessions. There's properties, all paid for. He's given us buses. He's given us radio ministries. He's given us missionaries around the world, 65 plus missionaries around the world. God has given us a field. But you know while I was preparing this message Actually last night I came back over here to to um uh I always come over Saturday evening and pray and whatnot and shut things down and finalize everything. I came over here, I got looking at the pews, and I got thinking about today's message And I saw this auditorium as a field. And I thought, what good are these pews if we don't have people in them? It's like a field without water. Now, thank God for the people that come, thank God for all of that, but I say let's ask God for more. God, you've given us buses. You've blessed us. They're paid for. They're running fairly well. But God, we need people on them. God, can you not just give us buses, but will you give us lots of people to come in and ride the buses with us? We've got tremendous Sunday school rooms downstairs. And uh Karen and others have been working and fixing them up. I walk down there, I look, I said, boy, thank God for this field, but you know we need some something running into it. And whatever, I'm just using the church's situation as an example. Well, what about your life? God has given you a field, so to speak He's given you opportunities, he's given you abilities, he's given you talents. Now, why don't you come and say, God, I would like for what you have given me to exist and operate at its fullest potential And God, would you give me this and that and this so that what you've given me can be the best it can possibly be for your glory? Follow what I'm saying? So she wasn't afraid to come to her daddy. She thought things through. It was an intelligent request. Her plea was intelligent. She thought things through. She had reason for it, but she wasn't afraid to ask for more. It is important when we come to God in prayer that we know exactly what we want, what we need, and have a good reason for it. Now let me ask you a question. Do you know what you want from God? Can you, in your own heart and mind, as you're sitting there, I'm standing in front of you, can you say, you know, this is what I really would like, I think I need from God. Is there anything? Anything specific in your mind right now as I'm speaking? This is what I would really like to see God do. This is what I really think I would desire and I need from God. Let me ask you a second question. Can you come up with a good reason why God should do that for you? Can you come up with some biblically sanctioned reason why God would do that? In other words, is the thing that you're desiring from God Is it in accordance with the will of God? And if it is, if you can give good reason why God should do that for you Then I can come with all boldness and I don't have to be shy about asking something from God. You follow what I'm saying? Intelligent, give a little thought to it. I'm afraid so much of Christians that, and like I said, and I don't mean to be critical, but when we do happen to pray, our prayer is just spitting words out. There's really no thought given to it. There's really uh no nobody goes into the bank to make a withdrawal and says, come up the thing and s and the and the bank teller says, uh, what would you what can I do for you? You say, I'd like to make a withdrawal. Okay, what would you like? Oh I don't care, just whatever, give me something. Uh a dollar. Uh well no more than that, but what do you do? You say, alright, I need this much money, I need this much money, X number of dollars, all this, I've got that in the bank. I need this money, I gotta get brakes on my new tr on my truck I just bought just like I did two months ago and two months before that I gotta fix brakes on my truck. So I go in the bank and I need this money to pay for getting those brakes fixed I know what I want. I've got a reason for it. Not that they care, but I've got a reason for it. And I may make a request and I know the act the I know the supply for what I need is there. Now that's the way we come to God. I think things through. I need this I like this. I've got reason for it. There's biblical support. It's not outside of the will of God for me. I know God's able to do it. I don't have to be worried about asking too much from God And I can come to them. Isn't that a good lesson? I think if we would just do that on a regular basis, our lives would be transformed. I think our church would experience revival. If we would come to God with specific, intelligent requests, with good, solid biblical reasons behind it, not shy to ask God for it, we could see God do some great things. So the first thing I notice here is that her request was intelligent. Now there's something else under this idea that it was an intelligent request, and I just want to throw this in. Look at verse 18. It came to uh let's go back to verse 17. Othnel, the son of Kanaz, the brother of Caleb, took it and he gave him Aksa and um uh took Gave him Exxsah and his daughter to wife. Now look at this. And it came now, watch the wording here very carefully. I missed this the first time I read it through, and then as I studied it, it came out. And it came to pass As she came unto him, who's the him? Yeah, Hofnell, her new husband. As she came unto him She moved him to ask her father afield. Who is it she was moving to ask her father? Othniel, her husband. In other words, she saw the situation, realized what the need was. Had a good reason to make this request. But she didn't leave her husband out of it. She came to her husband and said, Listen, would you go ask my daddy? If he would get us just one of those springs there at least, there's no water on this field, would you go ask him to do that? Now, what do we learn from that? I think it's a uh I see here that she joined her husband in her prayer requests. Now let me talk to Christian marriages, husband and wife that know the Lord, saved. It is a powerful, powerful thing When husband and wife join together their hearts in prayer to God. In fact, I know of few things more powerful than a praying husband and wife. Coming to God on your knees, saying, God, we come to you as husband and wife. This is a need we have. God, we believe as best we can it's according to your will. We have we believe scriptural reasons why this would be beneficial. To us living for you and raising our family and being what you intend for us to be. God, we come to you as husband and wife. That's a powerful thing. You know what's so sad? I've been in ministry a long time. You know what's so sad? How few husbands and wives pray together. You say, well, every time we eat oatmeal, we bow our heads and pray. No, I'm talking about making specific requests to God as a husband and wife. That's a powerful thing. I want to challenge you. Those of you, husband and wife, together, I want to challenge you in the coming weeks and months. Will you make a definite commitment? Put a prayer list together of things that are In line with the Word of God, requests you have that you believe would help you in your walk with God and in the family God would have you to have, and begin to pray and join your hearts together for specific things from God I think you'll see God do great things. Question, does a good daddy desire to give his child good things that the child desires? Sure. Does our Heavenly Father look down and see, here's a husband and wife, they're one in spirit and in flesh, and they're coming to me with a request? United, they know exactly what they want. They've got logical reasons for it, scriptural reasons. You don't think God would be eager to answer that prayer? It's a powerful thing. Now there's something else I notice here. Look at verse 18. And it came to pass as she came to him, Othniel, her husband, she moved him, Othniel, her husband, to ask of her father afield. And look at this. And she lighted off her ass, and Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou? Who answered? Who's the one answering Caleb's question? What do you want? The daughter, Aksa. So apparently, now I'm reading in here a little bit. I understand I always point it out if I'm giving my take on it. But apparently Osniel, at least this is what I take from it, Othniel said, you know, he gave us a field, he gave me you to be my wife, he gave me his daughter, he gave us a field, he wouldn't know how to do any of that I'm not comfortable coming and asking him for more. I mean, I'm his new son-in-law. Caleb is, you know, he's a pretty tough guy. You know, he's killed all these people. He's a great man. And I can see Atniel being a little hesitant to come and ask for more from his father-in-law. Can anybody else see that? Is it am I off base or anything? Is there anybody awake out there? Um one of the ministries of our church is to provide rest to the weary on Sunday mornings. So ACSA is not deterred. Whether her husband's going to ask, get in on this or not, she's going to her daddy and ask her. Now, I think there's several reasons there. One, she knew her daddy better than better than Othniel did. She had a closer relationship. So she wasn't shy about coming and asking this. And here's the application I want to try and make. Maybe you don't have a saved spouse Maybe you don't have a spouse. Maybe you don't have saved parents. Maybe you're the only one in your family that's a born-again Christian That should not deter you from coming to God with requests and pleading and seeking for God to do great things for you. You say, well, I'm the only one in a family. That doesn't matter. Hey, I'm telling you a one individual in a family that gets a hold of God and is not afraid to ask intelligent, logical things, scripturally supported things from God can see God do great things. In fact, you may be the one that turns your family around. Follow what I'm saying? So she wasn't deterred by the fact that her husband wasn't going to join in with her on this, though no doubt he supported the idea. And the other thing is here, intelligence, she came very respectfully to her daddy. It says now the wording here is a little awkward in our day and age, but it says she lighted off her ass, and what that simply means is she got down off the donkey I think that was an act of respect to her daddy. Listen, you can call me old-fashioned you want, you call me whatever you want. People do call me whatever they want, but um I still think it's appropriate for a man to stand up when a woman walks in his presence. Huh? And I think that's what's taking place here. It's an act of respect. It's a taking respect. I still think it's appropriate for a man to open a door for a lady when she comes by. I heard one preacher say one time that he was somewhere in Chicago or somewhere and he opened the door for a woman and she came through and she says uh she says uh I hope you're not w uh I hope you're not opening that because you think I'm some sort of lady. And she said, No, I'm not. I'm opening up because I'm a gentleman. And here's the application I want to make. When you and I, as a child of God, we come before God, we ought not to come disrespectfully. When you remember who we're talking to, it's God. Our Heavenly Father, the Holy of Holies, King of Kings, Lord of Lords. Now that does not mean we have to come, O thou most holy, and you know, do all this Brigamorow. But I do think it means we come respectfully and humbly before our God. I think it's a good thing just to calm your heart for a second and just bow and remember who it is I'm talking to. When I was down at Highland Park, uh we were working in a bus ministry and we'd bring in little bus kids. And there were certain ones that they showed interest and potential, we'd go pick them up in the car and bring them back Sunday night and Wednesday night. There's one little boy for the most part, is a little family, and they showed a lot of potential, so we picked them up and bring them back Sunday nights. And Dr. J. R. Faulkner, who was the pastor of the church after Dr. Robertson was there. And this church is 10,000 people. I mean, this highly respected man in fundamentalism. And so afterward, we come out, I said, let's I want to take you boys up there and introduce you to Dr. Faulkner And the one little boy, he was probably seven, little out of projects, little kid out of the inner city projects, and they didn't know nothing. And uh not like our deacons. And um they can No, I'm joking. Uh but they come up and uh I said, I forget his name, uh Luan or something like that, Jabron, uh this is Dr. Faulkner, he's the pastor of Highland Park Baptist Church. And a little boy said, Yo, bald head, you got chapped lips. I wanted to die. Get out of here. Question. Respectful? No. We come to God. We just stop and think this through a little bit. I'm talking to God. I don't have to do all this ridiculous stuff Ban comes up with, but we do need to come humbly and respectfully. And I think I see that there. So first thing I notice here real quickly is her her her request, her plea was intelligent The second thing, I noticed she was given an invitation. Look at verse 18 with me. And it came to pass as she came to him and moved him to ask of her father afield She lighted off her ask, and Caleb, the father, said to her, What wouldest thou? I mean he was aware of the fact that she had a request. He was aware of the fact that she was coming to him. She needed something. There was something she was wanting from him. He was eager to hear what she was pleading for. And I'm telling you here this morning, our God in heaven is eager to hear what our requests are. He says, What is it I can do for you? What is the need you have in your family? What is the change you need to take place in your life? What is the situation you need a solution to? Tell me, I'm eager, don't be shy God's way of giving to his children is through them asking him. That's the way God set it up. There's a lot of reasons for that we could give. We don't have time for it this morning. Does God know what we need before we come and ask him? Sure, he knows everything. We don't pray to God to give information to God. He already knows what it is. So our prayers When we come and make a request to God, like Aksa did for Caleb, when we come to God, it's not that God doesn't know what we want and need. So our prayers are not for God's sake. You follow what I'm saying? We're not giving information to him. He already knows that. So when God has set it up that we pray, whose benefit is that prayer for? Ours God's not gaining anything from it other than the attention we give Him when we pray. And so God has set it up so that we recognize we have needs. So that we recognize that he can meet those needs, so that we humble ourselves before him, acknowledge his ability to do that, and we trust him. Does that make sense? So God wants us to pray. He knows what your need is, but he says, listen, I'll give it to you. But you come and ask me. You come and recognize and knowledge that I can meet that need and take care of you. So she has an invitation to pray. Psalms 81:10. I love this passage. I've preached on occasionally in the past. He says, God says to Israel, Open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it. That's an interesting way of telling them to pray, isn't it? I don't know what picture you get in your mind when you read that verse, but to me, it's that little birdie in a nest. And the mother comes by with a uh big old uh worm, and that mouth is just And God says, that's the way I want you to come to me. What wouldest thou? Let me ask you a question. God's saying to you this morning, what do you need? What wouldest thou? What in your life would you really like to see different? Who is it that needs Christ so bad? What do you need? What is it? What changes do you made in your life? What field do you have that you don't have water access to and you need me to provide? What is it? It's interesting. Jesus said the harvest is great, but the labors are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest that he will send forth labor. You know what I got thinking last night? I was praying and thinking over this? Although God gave us two buses out there, those are fields. Now we need some water so that those fields produce what they're intended to produce. And you know what the water is? It's workers. Laborers. We got kids down in Cumberland. I was telling the Sunday school class we were giving out tracks yesterday. A mother came out to the bus and I was dropping people off to give out tracks. She said, Could your bus come by our house tomorrow and pick up our children and bring them to Sunday school? We need springs. And I say that's God. God says, what do you need? We need labors, Lord. Tell me about it. Uh Lord, I need finances. Isn't this an amazing thing? We're the richest country in the world and we got more people in debt than any other country in the world. Something's out of whack. What do you need? What wouldest thou? Lord, I really need to get my finances lined up. You know what I found in people's lives? A lot of times the answer to meeting our financial need is not more money. It's changed behavior. That's where we have a problem So God says, What wouldest thou? What wouldest thou? Matthew 7, he says, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you. Saying, what is he saying? He's saying, what would you? What do you need? Ask me. Look for it. Look to me for it. Knock on heaven's door. For everyone that asketh receiveth. And he that seeketh, findeth. And to him that knocketh, the door is opened unto him. What wouldest thou? Now there is a caution. I wish I had more time. Psalm 66, verse 18. The Bible says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. I can't live in disobedience to God and rebel against His word and disobey my the authorities God has placed over me and then think God's going to do anything for me. He says, I don't hear it. You've got to deal with that sin first. Isaiah chapter 59, verse 1 and 2, he says, The Lord's ear is not heavy that he cannot hear, but your sins have separated you, he will not hear your prayer. So there is a word of caution here. We come to God intelligently, we think things through, we find out what we need, make sure it's in line with the Word of God, we make that request to Him boldly. He says, What do you need? I'm open and willing to hear, but wait a minute. You can't come to me with sin in your heart in life. You need to deal with that. Third thing I notice in this, the ingredients of our prayer. Look at verse 19. Alright, she gets off the donkey. Caleb says, Alright, sweetheart. I'm putting this in the Dennis Leatherman version. Hey sweetie, uh you're married now. What what do you need? I can tell there's something you're needing. What what is it? What wouldest thou? Look at the first thing she says. What does she say? Give me a blessing. I think that's interesting. She didn't say the first thing out of her mouth wasn't, give me a field. Well first thing I mouth wasn't, give me those springs, that water. She said, give me a what? A blessing. There's three things here in this request that she makes that will help us pray. And believe it or not, I'm winding down. Her first concern, now get this, this is so important. Her first concern was that her father gave her what he considered to be a blessing. I believe what she is saying here to her father is, Daddy, I want you to do for me what you think is best. What you would say, what you would believe would be a blessing to me, that's what I want from you I found in studying the scriptures and living the Christian life that what God considers to be a blessing and what people consider to be a blessing are often two different things. Sometime let's go back let's go back to that money issue. Boy, it'd sure be a blessing if I got a check in the mail tomorrow for $75,000 I'd pay all this off and do all that and boy everything would be great. By next week this time, you'd be back in debt again. So, boy, that'd be a blessing if I got all this. God says, you know, you know what would really be a blessing? You change your behavior and be content with such things as you have. That would be a blessing. And you can apply it across the board and all kinds of things. Lord, it'd sure be a blessing if I got my way in this thing. Sometimes I look, I watch people, and sometimes I think, that'd be the worst curse that ever came in your life if you got what you wanted in that situation. Isn't it sad sometimes you you watch young people and they demand their way? And they demand that they have what they want, the way they want it, when they want it. And you know, we sit back, we've seen this a hundred times. You know exactly where it heads. And they say, you know, it would be a blessing if I got what I wanted and I could do what I want it when I want it the way I want it. I can see God look down and say, that'd be the worst curse in the world ever happened to you. God's definition of a blessing and our definition of blessing are very seldom the same. God says, you know what would be a blessing? Be a blessing if you learn to obey your parents. Be a blessing if you'd learn to do what the Bible says. Be a blessing if you'd learn to trust me and die to self and separate from the world. You know, you you'd have a blessing. You'd end up with a happy, godly Christian home. And end up with children growing up in the fear of the Lord. But you want to do it your way, you want to go off in what you think is a blessing, it'll be a disaster. It's going to be a disaster. You know what a teenager is? Especially an older teen. You know what a teenager is? It's an it's a person with the body of an adult with the experience of a child. Right or wrong, body of an adult, but the experience of a child And so you've got this body of an adult, but all they know is what they learned five, six, seven, eight, nine, ten years old. What a 10-year-old can learn, that's all they've learned. What a 14-year-old kid learned, that's all they've learned. Smart thing to do, the blessing, would be, hey, you know what? I'm going to listen to some adults. That has some experience as an adult to find out what's the best thing to do as an adult. But they won't do that. I'm going to act on my experience as a child to determine what my adult life is going to be like. Duh. What's the thing? Loser. Right or wrong. Say, uh, that makes me mad. You know what you ought to do, you ought to come to God and say, God, show me what I should do. Teach me. So what our definition of a blessing is and what Don's definition of a blessing is are usually two different things. And so she comes to her father and she says, Father, you do for me what you believe would be best for me. So having said that, it doesn't mean she doesn't make a request. But I believe there is a submission here on her part. There is a surrender, a willingness to do whatever Caleb said If you say no to my request, I'm going to take that, that's the best thing for me. If you say yes, then I'm going to take that, that's the best thing for me. Give me a blessing before, above anything else you do for me. What you believe is best. And what a tremendous way to come to God. God, I thought this thing through. I believe this would help. I believe this change would take place. I would like this changed in my life. But God, before I make any requests, I want you to do what you think is best for me. If you deny every one of my requests, you are doing for me what is best. Jesus did that. The Garden of Gethsemane Father, if it be thy will, let this cup pass from me. You know what he's saying? And I'd like to have these springs of water and not have to deal with this. But he ended his prayer like this, nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. You know what Jesus was saying Father, you do what you determine is a blessing. You do for me what you decide is the best thing So we come to God in prayer. The first thing was she sought a blessing. Second thing was, notice what she says there, and believe it or not, we're winding down. For that, give me a blessing. For thou hast given me a south land. What's she doing? She's acknowledging what her father had already given her. It's an act of gratitude. Daddy, you've been good to me. Daddy, you do for me whatever you think is best. You've already given me a field. I'm really grateful for that. That is a blessing. You wouldn't have had to do that. And so before she ever gets to the request she has, she's already surrendered her will to God She's grateful to her daddy. She's grateful for what her daddy has already done for you. And I'm telling you, that's how we come to God. We're yielded to him. Whatever he decides is best, we're okay with that. And we thank him for what he's already done. Am I right or wrong? God has been good to us. Has he already done things for you that he did not have to do? Sure, we're born in America. We could have been born in Haiti. Huh? So before we get out and start complaining and whining and griping about this isn't right and that and this and ah and Why don't we come and say, God, you do for me what's best, you've already been better to me than I ever deserve. You've done so much for me. Philippians chapter 4, verse 6. Let your request be made known with what? Thanksgiving. You know what I found when I was a kid, now I don't know if that'll acknowledge this or not, I don't know if he'll say I ever did this But I found you can get more when you ask for something if you're grateful for what you're already given. Right? So I'm grateful for the hundred bucks my dad gave me, I'm going to ask him for a thousand. Not really. No, I am grateful, but I'm not asking for that. But I found that uh here let's put it this way, I found I'm more willing to help somebody and give something to somebody if they're grateful for what I already did for them. Huh? We are in Indianapolis, uh we had two families uh ask our church for food. One lady called up, this is when the boys were real small, she goes, I need diapers We don't have any food. Well the church pantry was empty and she was on our bus route and I was trying to reach the family and ones and I said, tell you what, we got some food here No, she wanted diapers. I said, we got some diapers, we got babies, and we were using, this is obsolete now, but then we were using cloth diapers. Anybody remember those wonderful cloth diapers? It's very cheap. You just wash them and use them over again. So we said, she goes, I want pampers, paper diapers. I I can't afford that. I was barely making anything myself. I said, we got a ton of cloth diapers. We'll bring them over and give them to you. And we'll split them up with you and you can use them. Better not bring me any cloth diapers. I want paper. Guess guess what I showed up over there with? Two bags of cloth diapers. So knocking the door, her name was Penny. I said, Penny, I said, this is all I got. This will help you. You're hurting financially, you can wash these out, reuse them. It's an economical way to go. That woman threw a fit. She was furious. She called about three months later asking for something. Do you think I gave her anything? There ain't no way. About that same time we had another family, their kids were at our bus, and one Saturday we were visiting. And they came and said, Pastor Dennis, we're out of everything. We hate to ask this, but is there any way you could help us with some food? So I said, alright, so we went back home, took a bunch of cereal and stuff off the shelf and split it up and took what we had and shared it with them. I took them out that Saturday evening. I said, here you go, get the f kids some food. Next week, not the next Sunday, but the following week, the kids came running out and daddy came out with them, a little envelope. And he said, here's a little something we appreciate so much you helping us. And he gave this little envelope I opened up as a $5 bill in there They asked for help again. I was more than glad to help them. Why? Because they paid me? No, that money didn't cover what we gave them, but they were grateful. And that's the way it is with God. We are so spoiled. We expect God to do what we want when we want and completely disregard what He's already done for us. Maybe, just maybe, when we start being grateful for what God has already done, maybe he'll start doing more. Maybe when we as American Christians get satisfied and grateful for something for a change, instead of just demanding more and more and more and more and start thanking God. Maybe we'll see revival. Maybe we'll see God start working and changing things and improving our situations. So she comes grateful. Daddy, you've given me that field. And last of all, she comes with a very specific, very logical request. Give me also springs of water. Daddy, I'm so grateful. And you do whatever you think is best. But you know, if I had some water on this field. And there's a spring right there. If you could just give me that spring, I could irrigate this and boy it'd be productive. She made a request. She had a good reason for it. So what I'm trying to say is this: let's not be afraid to come to God. Let's not be afraid to ask things from God. He's eager for us to But first, let's submit to him. Let's trust him that what he decides is best. Let's be grateful for what he's already done for us. And then let's tell him what we need and tell him why. Have a reason for it. Lord, I believe it'd be a better testimony. I believe my life to be more productive in the cause of Christ. And tell it to God. Tell it to God. Think it through. Ask God specifically what you desire. And then the impact of her plea was in verse 19, the end. He gave her, what's it say? He gave her He gave her the upper springs and the nether springs. Now, the first thought comes to my mind right now is, boy, she knew how to work daddy, huh? But I think there's more to it than that. She approached her father in the right way. And her father didn't just give her what a request was, he gave her more You know what that causes me to think of? Verse says, Call upon me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. You know what God says? You ask me, you do it right, you come right. And you can end up with more than what you're even asking for. You don't even begin to imagine. What God can do for you. And in your life and through your life, you can't even begin to imagine the springs that God can make available to you. If you'll just come to him correctly, trusting him, submissive and grateful, having logical scriptural requests to make from him. And he says, not only will you get what you ask, I've got things you can't even think of. Never even thought of the nether springs, did you? Aksa. Take them too. Now, what is it you need God to do in your life? Helen Rosa Vere was a missionary in Zaire. A mother came to her mission after, a mother at our mission station died after giving birth to a premature baby. We tried to improvise an incubator to keep the infant alive. But the only hot water bottle we had was beyond repair. So we asked the children to pray for the baby and for her little sister. One of the girls responded, Dear God, please send a hot water bottle today. Tomorrow will be too late because by then the baby will be dead. And dear Lord, send a doll for the sister so she won't feel lonely. This is in Zaire. Lo and behold, the next that afternoon, a large package arrived from England The children watched eagerly as we opened it, Helen said. Much to their surprise, under some clothing was a hot water bottle. Immediately the girl who had prayed so earnestly started to dig deeper, exclaiming, If God sent that, I'm sure he also sent a doll. She stugged down through there and she was right. The package was mailed five months previous to when the prayer was made. But God knew what they had need of. And God honored the prayer and the faith of a little child. Now let me ask you this. What is it you need God to do in your life? What is it? You have scriptural support, logical reasons, I really Desire God to do this for me. It may very well be God already has everything in place for that to happen if you'll just trust Him. May very well be things have been machinery has been in in motion for weeks and maybe months. For that to be accomplished in your life, all you need to do is come to Him and humbly acknowledge Him and seek Him and ask Him. That's what prayer is. That's what prayer is. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us to pray. Lord, I know it's a little long. Help us to pray, dear Lord. Help us to come humbly. Help us to think things through and evaluate our lives and where we're at and what it is we really need. And then God help us to be grateful. And we want to see you do great things. We want to see our lives change and be what you intend for them to be. You're here this morning, and God's perhaps been dealing with your heart. And you say, preacher, there is a something in my life I'd really like to see changed. Maybe it's a need, a situation, a circumstance. I don't know. You and God know what it is. But you say, preacher, there is something in my life I'd really like to see God change. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me pray. That I can learn from this lesson and see God make things right and change things around and work things out. Is there any like that? Very specific, preacher, something in my heart I'd really like to need to see God do. My life. God bless you. Hands all around. Very specific. We're not being general now. We're being specific. How about it? Any others? Preacher, yes. There's some very specific things that I need God to do in my life. God bless you. Bunch of other hands James said you have not because you ask not. Then he went on and says, you ask and receive not because you ask amiss. He says, because you're asking wrong. Let's come and ask God according to the pattern given us in Scripture. Let's trust Him that He'll do what's best. One other question.