Thank you, Brother Caudle. You've been a blessing in your preaching and your singing and in the tickling of the ivories. You have been a blessing, and we are grateful. Well, folks, I want you to turn your Bible tonight to 1 Timothy chapter number 4. 1 Timothy chapter number 4. And let me express to you my sincere appreciation for all the loving support that You have been as a church to our ministry at the Sword of the Lord. And it's not just what we do there, but it's what we send out the doors that literally encircles the globe That uh you have helped us with. And when you help us and others help us, we get it done. And uh I was uh showing Brother Caudle a letter today from one of the most famous prisoners in all the world. That I write to regularly. A man who's in prison for an assassination, and he has been in prison a long time, and he will be forever. But you know what? He's a Christian now, and he's winning people to Christ inside the prison where he is in New York. And uh and that's just one of several. And because we do put the sword into a lot of prisons, I get a lot of prison mail, 25 to 50 letters a day, every day And uh have someone in the office that helps me answer those, but I sign every one of them. When I get uh to the office uh late tomorrow, uh there'll probably be maybe even a couple hundred of them And uh and I sign every one of them. I I can't sign them. I usually sign in red ink. You get a personal letter from me, it'll all almost always be signed in red ink. Just something I started doing years ago and I like it. So I do it. But the prison mail now we have to sign it in black or blue because some of the prisoners have figured out how to siphon that red ink off the paper and use it in their tattooing business. And so the prison the prisons have uh have made us stop signing in red ink. And uh just some of the things sometimes you just uh you know. But uh But anyway, you help us with all of that, and we appreciate it so very, very much. And we're looking forward to what the Lord lets us do here every time we come And uh we just pray to the Lord that you'll can continue to keep the fire lit and keep things happening. There are people up and down these uh hills and Streets and roads who need to hear what we're hearing here. And you'll never hear a more powerful message on the gospel than what you just heard. Wonderfully, wonderfully done. touched my heart uh all over again to be thankful and grateful for salvation and uh to understand that it's not my baptism, it's not my behavior. It's not my background, but it's the blood of the Savior. It paid the whole debt And it's not something I have to make installments on as I go. What you need, isn't it? Well, let's look at 1 Timothy chapter number 4. And I'll read right in the middle, but if you keep your Bible open, we'll look at more of this as we go. Chapter number four, First Timothy, verse number nine. This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. For therefore we both labor and suffer reproach. Because we trust in the living God, who is the Savior of all men, especially of those that believe. These things command and teach. Let no man despise thy youth, but be thou an example of the believers in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. If you will, look at verse 13 again. Where it says, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine. And I'm attentive tonight, especially to that two-word phrase that says, give attendance. Now, this is a key verse, a key verse in the pursuit of your Christian life It is a keyverse in the transaction of all of the business that any church ought to have. Simply says, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine. Now, I hear people say sometimes, I'm with you in spirit. But uh I notice that they are in absentia. That is, they're not really there Which is another way of saying they're AWOL, that is, absent without leave. They should be there, but they're not there. And so that thing being present in spirit is not all that it's cracked up to be. When I was uh When I was going to school, I. . and I mentioned that so you'll know that I've been. But uh I was uh I was uh in graduate school a few years back and I had a course under a very famous author, a very famous Bible teacher And the class met uh for uh several hours, uh one one day a week. I think we had the classes three hours in the morning, three hours in the afternoon, one day a week for several months. And he told us right up front, if you miss a class, you can't make an A. Now, I was kind of tickled about making A's and tried to make a practice of it. But I noticed that he didn't take the role every day. And very honestly, even though he was a very famous man and he had written some famous books, and All that. But he was dull beyond imagination. I mean, he he could have put you to sleep while you were chewing on caffeine. I mean, he could put you to sleep. And uh so one afternoon, I mean we'd been there three hours in the morning, we'd break taking a break for lunch, and uh I'd already set through about half the afternoon and somewhere along about two thirty I I just I just said You know, he's going to duck his head into his notes. Uh and when he does, I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna slip out the back. He hasn't taken role today, and he's probably not going to because he didn't every day But that one day, as the day came to an end, he passed the role and had everybody sign it. And that one class. I got a B plus instead of the A that I was accustomed to. That graduate program and graduate degree, it kept me from being summa cumulati. That one grate, and one grate kept me from getting what I wanted to get, and simply because I wasn't there I didn't pay attention, I didn't give attention to what I should have given attention to. And when this says give attention, give attendance, it simply means, hey, get with it. Be there. Don't miss out on this. Give attention to it. Set a priority here. And it says, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine. Now, in biblical terms, I think this is saying to us, you wrap yourself up in this. Don't play around with this, just give yourself to it, like some people do. For example, in the early part of the chapter, verse number one, he says, the Spirit speaketh expressly that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith. Giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines of devils, speaking lies and hypocrisy, having their conscience Seared with a hot iron, forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats, which God had created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth. So not everybody, not everybody gives attendance to the proper things. Verse number seven He uh uh talks about uh forgive us ladies, but he but he talks about old wives' tales Now I think he's not talking about older people necessarily, but it's about some of these old fables that just get told over and over and over again that there's no truth in them, no truth at all. The fact is, a lot of things get said at churches, just like every place else. A lot of things get said that are not the truth. They may sound good, they may be clever, but they are not the truth. And he warns us about that. He says, some people will go that route. But here are the instructions that he gives to Timothy and to us. In verse number six, he said, If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of faith, and of good doctrine whereunto thou hast attained Notice the last part of verse 7, he says, Exercise thyself rather unto godliness. Verse number 10, he says, For therefore we both labor and suffer reproach because we trust in the living God. Notice verse 11, he says, these things command them and teach them. Verse 12, he says, don't let somebody despise your youth. But be an example of what a believer ought to be. Notice in verse 15 he says, meditate upon these things. Give thyself holy to them, that thy propheting may appear to all. And in verse sixteen, take heed unto thyself and unto the doctrine continue in them. So these are the instructions that he gives And uh really there's a section of things here that I've just read that are, hey, don't do that. Don't go there. And then there's the section of things where he just basically says, do this, do it this way. Now, uh Brother Coddle made reference to the fact that he uh is uh primarily a uh an exegetical preacher, meaning that he just digs in and preaches through a certain passage But tonight he chose to do a topical sermon. And I'm all in favor of exegetical sermons, and I'm all in favor of topical sermons. And uh and I do some of both, as does he. And uh tonight this one, oh, it may be a topsyetical sermon. Or uh uh well yeah you don't know what I'm saying. I think it's a little deb of both. Now, what I'm about to say is when he says, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine. I ask myself, okay, what is to be included here? Well, if I may suggest, it seems to me that everything starts when a man gets in awe of God. It's in awe of God. Basic premise of humanism, which is running rampant in our country, is that man is his own Best self. Man is the highest good. Nothing is any more important than man. Man is at the apex. I mean, he is it. That's humanism. Now, man needs to come to understand that he is not it. In fact, he's not even in the game of tag. He's not it. But there is a God in heaven. The Bible says right at the start, in the beginning, God. And we learned there is one God. And uh he is the one to whom you and I need to pay close attention. We ought to give attendance to him. And uh sometimes I've been places where that uh there was a political dignitary present and uh you you just let uh somebody like the governor or a senator or a mayor, you let somebody like that walk into the room and all at once You'll see people whispering to each other. You'll see people just kind of getting a little sense of awe that one of the big wigs has walked into the room. Now there is a sense In which you and I ought to look not at men that way, but we ought to look at God that way, and we ought to look at Him with a sense of awe When we consider who he is and what he has done and what he is all about. And so when we give attendance to reading and to exhortation and to doctrine, everything starts with God and how we relate to him. Now, we take the next step. And when you and I do as we ought to do in giving attendance, we will give attendance to the adoration of our own heart to the Lord Jesus. He himself said, I and my father are one. I've run into some people once in a while who would say, Well, I like God, but I'm not sure about Jesus. Or they'll say, Oh, you know, I like Jesus, but I'm not sure about God. Now you can't do that. You just can't do that. It doesn't come that way, it doesn't happen that way, and if you're going to try to do it that way, you're going to miss the boat When the boat leaves port. You're just not going to be on the boat. And what he says to us throughout the Bible, you find it everywhere that you and I are to give attendance toward the Lord Jesus. To him, the Bible says. Acts 10. 43, to him give all the prophets witness, that whosoever believes in him shall receive remission of sins. I mean every single one of the prophetic books in the Bible. Start with Genesis and walk your way all the way. through Malachi. And the Bible says all the prophets will witness to the fact of who Jesus is. Now you and I need to show up uh in a way that we express our awe of God and give our adoration to Jesus, and then there is another person in the triunity of God, in the Trinity, who is the Holy Spirit of God, and you and I need the anointing that He can give. That anointing, that that distribution of the power of God that comes through the active agency of the Holy Spirit And so what we have here when we talk about giving attendance to these things, we're looking to God the Father, to God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit fills us, fills us, not so that we can strut our stuff, but He fills us so that we can serve as we ought to serve. Any one of us might make A presentation that would be acceptable to everybody. Whether it be in a song or whether it be in a sermon, we could make a presentation But what we need is something that is beyond ourselves. What we need is something where that the Spirit of God can work through us and where the Spirit of God will speak to others because we have opened up the Bible in front of them. All of the years when I was pastor, again and again I heard it Folks would come to me and they would say, Pastor, you remember two weeks ago you preached on such and such? And I would begin to scratch my memory, the head of my memory, and I would I would say, oh, let's see. Yes, I I preached on, and they said, no, no, no, you preached on such and such. And what they heard was something entirely different to what I preached on. And uh I don't know how all that works, but it happens all the time. And you say, what's going on? You open the Bible. You can't open the Bible to the wrong page. Open the Bible on any page that you want. Read it. Declare it. Preach it clearly. And when the Spirit of God works through that preacher and through His Word Then the heart of men will be ministered to. And so when we talk about giving attendance, Oh, to the awe of God and the adoration of Jesus and the anointing of the Holy Spirit. And then I mentioned the authority of Scripture. Last night I ran a small list of things in your hearing about what the scripture is. It is inspired. It is inerrant. It is infallible. It is impeccable. It is immortal. On and on. There's a long list of those things that can be said about it. I was in a discussion a while ago with a man that I've known for a long, long time. He's in a denomination that has gone sour, but he has stayed with it. And uh and I knew him from college days. And uh and I called him and I said, now all of this battle that you guys have had about the Bible. I said, uh, have you settled the question as to whether or not the Bible is the inerrant word of God? He said, Oh yes, we've settled that. And I said, my second question is, but what have you done about installing the Bible as the authority for all things that you do? And he said, Oh, now that is a different question. He's a friend, he was honest. They were giving lip service and saying, Oh, yes, the Bible's God's word. But as to the authority of the Bible, it is not the authority that they are letting guide them. And so their lip service is pretty much a moot point. It does not really go very far. Folks, I'm telling you, we need to sign on to make the Bible the authority. A lot of years that I spent here in the state of Maryland had the privilege to pastor over in Westminster for a long, long time. And uh I think you probably noticed there are a lot of Catholics in Maryland. And uh We literally, during my years there and in the years that have followed, there have been thousands of Roman Catholics saved over in Central Maryland through the ministry of our church over there. Thousands of them. And uh, and the the thing that helped us most is when you're talking to a Roman Catholic, if you can establish with them the authority of the Scripture. Then you're headed, or you need to head. Often I say to them, now in Catholicism, you would say that the church is the authority if you follow that. But with us, we say no, the Bible is the authority. By the way, a lot of this Bible was Bibled before there was any church of any kind. And they'll try to tell you that the church, their church, produced the Bible. They had no such thing. And uh, but if you can get them to see, and often I would follow that by saying Now, would you agree with me that the Bible is the Word of God? Sometimes they'll say, well, no, I don't agree with that. But many of them will say, well, yes, I suppose that's true. And if you can get them to see that the Bible is to be the authority, then you're headed somewhere. But you know, some of us Baptists, I mean, we we say we believe it, and then we go out and do things that just violate very known things. And that ought not to be. We ought to just sign on to the authority of the Word of God and say, if God said it, that settles it for me. That ought to be simple enough. So we give attendance, the awe of God, the adoration of Jesus, the anointing of the Holy Spirit, the authority of Scripture. Number five, the autonomy of the local church. People said to me when I was over at Westminster, where's the national headquarters of your church? I said it's at 550 Baltimore Boulevard in Westminster. That's where I preached every Sunday. He said, oh no, no, I'm talking about your headquarters. I said, 550 Baltimore Boulevard. Now we fellowship with others, but Mountain Lake has no authority over the church in Westminster, and the church in Westminster has no authority over Mountain Lake. Mountain Lake is an entity unto itself. And rightly so. The autonomy, the independence. Of the local church. You and I need to give attention to that, we need to give heed to that, we need to give attendance to seeing that our church remains a free body That is able to guide itself based upon the authority of Scripture. So we give attendance. Think about the appointment of soul-winning We've uh heard a good bit about that the last two days, and uh we need to be at that. Yes. We just need to be at it. I hope you'll put some gospel tracks in your pocket before you leave the building tonight. And don't leave them in your pocket. Scatter them out somewhere. Just every once in a while somebody will say to me, they say, I'm just so shy. And what I tell them is, I say, all right, go to McDonald's, go to Wendy's, go to Taco Bell. Go to the restroom and if you're shy, just go to the restroom and leave a track in the restroom. Get started somehow. In fact, I still leave tracks in restrooms. I am convinced when I get to heaven, there's going to be a line of people who are going to say, You're the dude who left the track in the restroom and I got saved off of the track. Hey listen, I'm just in favor of a ministry of tracts in the restroom. The Bible says his word shall not return void. The fact that you're shy doesn't get you off the hook. You and I have an apartment. The Bible says daily in the temple, in every house, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ. That's the plan. In the temple, that's a public place. In every house, that's a private place. But it said daily, daily, daily, daily they were at it. And they ceased not to teach and preach the Savior. Some of you will remember that uh that TV program called Fantasy Island. Remember there was a little guy on there? He'd stand out at the boat dock watching for the plane. And when the plane would get inside, he'd say, The plane, boss, the plane, the plane, boss, the plane. Acts 5:42 is the plan, the plan, the plan. Don't forget to plan. God intends for us to help bring others in. So, what do we give attendance to? The awe of God, the adoration of Jesus, the anointing of the Holy Spirit, the authority of Scripture The autonomy of the local church, the appointment of soul winning, the application of prayer. What a privilege it is to be a child of God and be able to talk to our Heavenly Father. Just since I've been here. I I have prayed specifically for some things. That the Lord provided both days. Now, not bragging on me I'm just telling you, I I'm just a little boy in God's kingdom. But I was told that even the little boys in his kingdom could talk to the Heavenly Father. And my Heavenly Father has been awfully good to me. I've asked Him for little things and I've asked Him for big things and I've gotten a lot of things that I needed or that I wanted. Just because that I ask. Our founder at the store of the Lord, Dr. John Rice. He wrote a lot on prayer. He talked about prayer. He practiced prayer Mrs. John Rice told me one time I was driving her to the airport after we'd had her over here at Westminster She said, you know the prayer I heard Dr. John pray more than any prayer? I said, no, I don't have an idea. She said, oh, he'd pray it when he was shaving in the morning. I'd say, what was it, Ms. Rice? She said, oh, he'd pray it. I'd hear him coming to the table, he'd be praying it I said, what was it, Ms. Rice? She said he'd be driving down the road and he'd be praying it. Finally, after a couple of minutes, she finally told me. He just prayed, Lord help me. Lord help me. Lord help me. You say, that's a lot of very fancy prayer. You don't have to be fancy with your father. Simon Peter, remember walking on the water, got a little big head, all at once he cried out, Lord, save me! I mean you can imagine him praying like we praise, oh dear God, who created the heavens and the earth, and who did all of it, and he'd have drowned. But he prayed the prayer he needed to pray, Lord save me. I don't mind you praying all night, but every once in a while I'd like you to just pray one of them little sort-off prayers and get some action. The application of prayer, you and I have it. What about the agenda of separation? The agenda of separation. It's in the Bible. You and I ought to be different. The Bible more than once uses the word peculiar. What is that peculiar thing? What does it amount to? It means different. It means not like we used to be, not like the world, not like the darkness. Like the light, like the Savior. The agenda of separation. I ought to figure out how to disengage myself from the world. Just get loose from it. You know, uh we we have we have a lot of naive folks floating around the country who have the idea that if we'll just be like the world is, it'll impress them, and we'll be able to reach them for the Savior. And that's not the way it works. If we get like them, then they see nothing at all. And consequently, they just say, hey, I can just be who I am, stay like I am. By the way, a lot of these folks that are advocating, let's get like the world so we can reach the world A lot of them are offering a very soft pedaled edition of the gospel that don't amount to much. And Brother Caudler's already made very clear tonight, a bloodless, a bloodless gospel is not gospel at all. If the blood of Christ is not the total, if it is not the totality of atonement, it's not atonement at all. So we give a tendency to the agenda of separation. We give a tendency to the appropriation of stewardship. I could have been here all week and not mentioned that. Amen. But stewardship's part of what's in the Bible. It's in the Bible. You say, what are you after here? I'm just after getting all of us to do what the Bible says. Tithes and offerings, it's in the Bible, so let's not clip that out. The appropriation of stewardship. Think about giving attendance to fellowship. Giving a tendency to fellowship. You know, the favorite definition of that, that's two fellows in the same ship. I mentioned this morning. Brother Fox, Brother Caudle, Brother Leatherman, we got together for breakfast this morning. You'd have thought it was four schoolboys. Poor schoolboys. Sitting there at a booth at the golden arches, just having ourselves a good time. You know? That's fellowship. Uh back here last night in the fellowship hall. Eating those spectators. Some of you were woven them down. I was watching. Amen. But didn't we have a good time? Same thing again today. Maybe we're going to do it again tonight. I don't know. Now, here's the deal. The attendance to fellowship, we need to mix and mingle with other people who are on the journey with the Savior. You and I run with just any old crowd, and we'll get like any old crowd. But if we'll run with the right crowd, fellowship with the right crowd, it'll strengthen us. We ought to give attendance to fellowship, give attention to spirituality, to spiritual things, give attendance to an attitude of rejoicing. You know. Just grousing around all the time. Being kind of a grumble mud. I mean, there's nothing Christian about that You know? I mean some folks go out and they're out in the work way and they're nice to people all day, but as soon as they pull in their own driveway, they they become a grouch You know? Good night. If I'm gonna grouch around, I ought to do it to somebody out in the street somewhere and not at home. Good night. My Christianity means anything at all. I mean I ought to be sweet to the people that I love. I ought to be sweet to the people around me. I ought to be nice to the people at work. And certainly when we come to church, the attitude of rejoicing. The Bible says, rejoice evermore. That means midnight and noonday, evermore. Seven days a week, 24 hours a day. Rejoice, the Bible says. And again I say, rejoice. It's in the book. Attitude of rejoicing. And then think about the anticipation of the second coming. Oh, if you and I keep our eyes peeled on the sky, looking for the Savior who will come one day. We know not when, but we know that he will come. And we anticipate that, and we live, we live in the aura of that anticipation. It'll make a difference with us. I told you some of this would be exegetical, some of it would be topical. And I just ran the gamut of this little list of things with you tonight Um, you know, the awe of God, the adoration of Jesus, the anointing of the Holy Spirit, the authority of Scripture, the autonomy of the local church. The appointment of soul winning, the agenda of separation, the application of prayer, the appropriation of stewardship, the attendance to fellowship the attention to spirituality, the attitude of rejoicing, and the anticipation of the second coming. 13 of them. All of them perfectly alliterated. That's the A-team. Amen? Oh, I like it. I love it when a plan comes together. Amen. Yes, indeed. While I was pastoral in Westminster, we built a new auditorium. Fifteen hundred seats. It was a large, spacious facility for us. I well remember the day that the bulldozers came and cleared off the spot on which the building would be set. Later in the day, in fact, it was after dark. The men had gone home, the bulldozers were parked on the side, but they'd created a flat spot where the building would be put. I was driving away, I think it was maybe 9 or 9. 30 in the evening. I stopped and I parked my car. And I went out and I walked around and I stood in the dirt on the spot where I thought the pulpit would ultimately be. And I was looking out toward the street, but I was not seeing the traffic go by. I saw in my mind's eye the balcony, and I saw people sitting in it. I saw those staircases coming down both sides, and I saw people walking down those staircases into the altar. I saw people on all of those. I mean, I'm sitting there dreaming, dreaming. The day came when the building was up. And we were just about ready to get moved in. We had been packed into a much smaller building for a long time. We had started an 8:30 service on Sunday morning. Then we started children's church at both services, 8:30 and 10:45. Then we started a teen church. at 8 30 and 1045. And we were still packing both the the 486 seat auditorium. We were packing it out at 830 and packing it at 1045 and people driving away every Sunday, not even able to find a place to park their car. And uh we were about a month from getting into that building. And I got antsy. I got just a little bit of anxiety because we had been packed for a long time. We were having people saved and baptized every week of the world. And And I realized though where we had been seated, I mean, we had old hard oak pews. We were moving over into that new auditorium with soft cushioned seats We had been packed. I often teased our people, and I said, the type church this is, you can either inhale or exhale in service, but you can't do both because we don't have room. Now, I got scared. And so I began to say to our people a month before moving in, I began to say to them, I said, now understand, understand, we get over there, some things are going to change. We've been packed. We're not going to be packed over there immediately. We've got old hard seats here. We're going to have soft seats over there. So some things are going to change. But then I said to them, I said, but let me tell you something. I'm telling you now, if you think when we get over there In that new building, if you think we're going to get uppity, and if you think we're going to get our nose in the air, and if you think we're going to stop winning souls, and if you think I'm going to stop preaching hard, and if you think That we're gonna uh start singing a different style of music and start doing things different altogether. If you think that, you're thinking wrong because it's not going to happen. We're not going to change who we are. There came opening day of that new building. I asked the folks earlier at 8:30. How many of you still want to have the 8:30 service? Every hand went up. So even with the new building, we still had 830, still had 1045, and they're still doing it now, all these years later. But we got in that opening service, big dedication day. The mayor was there, senators were there Other public officials from all over were there. And uh I walked in at 8. 30 and I walked in at 1045. And I opened my Bible up to make good on what I had promised our people. We sang amazing grace and at the cross and when we all get to heaven The role is called up yonder, I'll be there, and to God be the glory and victory in Jesus. We sang those kind of songs all day long. And I got up at both morning services and I announced my text. And I preached a message entitled The Old Time Religion. And we we inaugurated that new auditorium By announcing to the mayor and the senators and to all of our people that we were still who we were. We were still going to raise the flag for the Lord. We were still going to magnify Jesus. We were still going to call sin by name. We were still going to do everything we could to win every single person. that we possibly could. Whenever I look at this little list that I've run by you tonight. I put the list together because when I read the verse, it said, give attendance to reading. I got to reading. Well, guess what I found? The awe of God, the adoration of Jesus, the anointing of all- all of that Give attendance to reading, to exhortation. That means that somebody, some little short guy like me, ought to get up in front of the microphone and tell everybody about it. Amen. And make that then the doctrine by which we live. Give attendance to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine And when we do that, oh, well, we get ourselves in position for the blessing to come down, for God to give his best. And it puts us in position then to have a viable witness and testimony out in the streets and the byways of our neighborhoods. Oh, listen, folks, nothing like it. Oh, I know the world likes to gloat. The world likes to make us think that they got everything going their way. And the fact is. They've got empty hearts. I was telling somebody I think today or yesterday, I'm sure you've noticed there's a lot of liberals in Maryland. They got control of a lot of things. And you know, in a way we're blessed to work where there's a lot of them because they create an emptiness that they can't feel. I mean liberalism is a losing cause. I mean it is lunatune losing time when you sign up with them. But it creates an emptiness. And it's an emptiness that people begin to realize, I mean they they see somebody like me, somebody like you. Who's walking with God and happy about it and got that attitude of rejoicing, and they want to know, man, what is going on with you? And we get to tell them it's not in the beer can. It's not smoking dope. That's not where it is. It's not in popping pills But it's simply signing up and getting ourselves in awe of the great God and giving ourselves in faith. To his beloved son, who gave himself on Calvary's cross so that sinners like me could be saved. That's where it is. And I'm telling you, that puts us where we need to be. Give attendance, he said. Give attendance to reading, to exhortation, and to doctrine. Stand up with me and we'll pray together. Thank you for listening. Mother Fox, could we sing I've decided to follow Jesus? Yes, sir.