Just a brief portion of scripture. I know we just read it a moment ago, but uh as I said, I'd like for us to read it, uh look at it again. Verse number six, uh this is the Lord Jesus speaking. He says that and he spake also this parable A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard, and he came and sought fruit thereon and found none. Then he said unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree. That's the important part of this parable. He's seeking fruit on the fig tree. And findeth what? None. Three years I've been working with this thing. Looking for fruit, there's nothing. So his solution is cut it down. Why cumbereth it the ground? And he answering, this is the dresser of the vineyard, the fellow that's hired to take care of the crops, he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also. Till I shall dig about it and dung it, and if it bear fruit well, and if not, then after thou shalt cut it down. I noticed in verse number eight The dresser of the vineyard says, let it alone this year also. I put in the margin my Bible, give it some more time. Give it a little more time. That's the title of my message this morning. Let's give it some time. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless this message. Father, thank you for the Word of God. We're grateful for the privilege of assembling together here. I thank you for every person that's out. Not pray That our time in your word would be profitable, that you would speak to our hearts, and that we would leave here refreshed and encouraged, challenged. Lord, I know I believe, Lord, I speak for myself on this. Lord, many of us need revival And I ask, Lord, you'd send revival to my heart and our church. And maybe you could use this little parable here to stir us. And that's my request. Lord, I present my body anew to you this hour and yield my will to yours, and with all my heart I ask you to fill me with your Spirit and speak through me now. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. One of Jesus' most Jesus was a phenomenal teacher. Now we understand he didn't come to earth primarily to be a teacher. He came to be the savior of the world. But he did a lot of teaching during his time here on earth, tremendous teaching. He was, without a doubt, the greatest teacher that ever walked this planet. And one of the most effective tools that Jesus Christ used to communicate his messages and to instruct the people in the things of the Lord was using parables. And all through the Gospels we find the Lord Jesus Christ using parables. In fact, all through the Old Testament and the New Testament, the Gospels particularly, You find God and God's people using parables to communicate spiritual truths. Now the question is, what is a parable? The word itself simply means to place one thing alongside of another thing. To put something beside something else. And the idea is this A parable, and particularly as the Lord Jesus used it throughout the Old Testament, they would take something that was very familiar, something earthly, so to speak, something that was familiar to the people, uh a physical object or an event or a a situation, a scenario that everybody was familiar with And he would use that to illustrate a spiritual truth. Something everybody understood, they saw and could see. And then he would say, all right, this is the spiritual truth. that is um uh that is I'm trying to get across to you. Um uh parables, as I said, were used in the Old Testament and the Gospels. He would take a uh uh an event, a scenario, everybody's familiar with, and he would say, all right, here is what I'm trying to illustrate with this. Um he did that for several reasons. One was to capture people's attention Sometimes he would no doubt refer to something that's going on there and he would say this and and it would capture everybody's attention And then he would illustrate that truth and illustrate that uh lesson. It's very similar to we use sometimes an object lesson. How many people remember when you were in Sunday school? The sunny school teachers used object lessons. Anybody remember that Two people. Well good. Well, uh they did when I went to Sunday school. Uh the the Caldwells were here just a couple weeks ago. They are masters at object lessons. They'll do that type of thing Well a parable is a verbal object lesson where he is trying to illustrate a truth. Some of the more well-known parables, can anybody think of some well-known parables? Anybody name some? The parable of the seeds. The sower went forth to sow in the different soils. That's a good one. What about another parable that's real familiar? Prodigal son. I asked several people this week. Name a parable that Jesus told. The first one always came out of the mouth prodigal son. Prodigal son. Prodigal son. We understand that. How about any other sowing seeds? The prodigal son The lost sheep, those are the three that were mentioned as I ask people. So the prodigal son, the Lord told the story, we know that understand the The story of the prodigal son, this fella, had two boys, uh, and uh the one son comes, I want my inheritance, I want all the money that's due to me, and he takes off into a far country, rioteth living, he wastes it He ends up a mess in the pig pen, and finally he comes to himself and he comes back and the father receives him very graciously and forgives him and uh celebrates, my son was lost and is found. He has come home again. And a tremendous truth there illustrated in that parable that if we get away from God God very graciously will receive us back. And so many lessons in that parable. Then of course the lost coin and the lost sheep. He tells a shepherd that uh uh he has a hundred sheep, he's bring them in, there's ninety-nine are safe in the fold, one is lost out in the wilderness. And he leaves the 99, hazards himself, goes out into the wilderness to find that one lost sheep. And of course the spiritual truth there is God is Very much concerned for unsaved people coming to know Jesus Christ as Savior and as God is seeking and saving that which is lost. And that puts a great priority on us as a church and on us as individuals that we are to go after the lost with the gospel and try and win people to the uh the Lord Jesus Christ. And then the sowing of the seed. So When the Lord used parables, he was illustrating a spiritual truth with a earthly or a physical object lesson, so to speak, a verbal object lesson. Now here's something interesting about parables. We are told that Jesus would never use a name, an individual's name, in a parable Now, sometimes parables are introduced, for instance, in our text here, verse 6, he spake also this parable. So we know that what he's about to say is a parable because he tells us Then there's other places sometimes the Lord will just tell a story or he'll give a scenario. And it won't necessarily say it's a parable. And so our conclusion is if there is a specific name given, it's most likely not a parable. We wouldn't consider it a parable, but rather it would be an actual event that took place. For instance. In Luke chapter 16, the Lord tells the story. He tells of a rich man that fared very sumptuously, is the term the Bible used. And there was also a very poor man by the name of Lazarus. And Lazarus died, and he was taken by the angels to Abraham's bosom, the rich man also died. And then he goes on and explains, and in hell this rich man lifted up his eyes being in torment, and cried out to Abraham afar off, Father Abraham, have mercy on me. Send Lazarus to me, dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame. And he goes on and explains and describes this rich man's experience in hell. And so our Jehovah's Witness neighbors will come by our house and we'll challenge them on some of their doctrine and uh particularly their doctrine that there is no hell, and uh will challenge Emmons with this passage and uh they will say, oh, that story is just a parable It's not an actual event. And of course, our response to that is we do not that is not a parable, it is an actual event because Jesus referenced the fellow by name, Lazarus. Alright? And so because he used a specific name, somebody said, why did he not use the name of the rich man? Well there could be various reasons. The rich man went to hell. He may have family members there. He doesn't want to do give undue stress or Maybe he doesn't want to bring shame on the name or whatever reason he didn't give the name of the rich man. And so uh and so we don't take that event as a parable. Uh by the way, this just a s Something I thought of while I was talking here. Sometimes I think while I'm talking. And uh that's an interesting concept. But um I was out on the backside of Deer Park. I was going door to door. This is a number of years ago and just knocking on doors and it was I was kind of back in the uh uh some holler back in there. I mean I was way back in there and Uh I was new to the county and you know I lived in cities most of my life and uh I'm back in there and um I'm getting a little nervous and uh and there's dogs and everything. And so uh I'm walking up and uh out of the house, it's summertime, out of the house comes this voice. But what do you want? And uh I said, uh I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Baptist Church. She goes, Oh, I thought you were a no-heller. I never heard that. A no heller. I said, No, I'm a heller. So it has absolutely nothing to do with the methods, but it's a great experience. Actually ended up getting in and talking to ladies share the gospel with her, but uh we're hellers. But anyway So parables are generally kind of an anonymous story told that everybody's familiar with, but it illustrates a important spiritual truth that the Lord wants to get across to us. Now, one more thought about parables, then we'll look at this one. And this was brought to my challenged me a number of years ago, and I'm not sure what to think of it A fellow suggested one time that Jesus Christ being God is omniscient. Now what do we mean by omniscient? He is all-knowing. There is nothing that God does not know. God knows everything about everybody So Jesus, of course, being God, divine, the Son of God, God in the flesh, God the Son, Jesus being God, He is knows everything. Now how many people do you He knows what has happened, what's going to happen, what is happening. How many people do you think have lived on this planet Earth up to this point? Well, we know there's seven billion people on Earth right now, so you have all the generations before us. You're talking billions and billions of people have lived on planet Earth, plus however many are going to live before the Lord comes Out of all of these billions of people, I would venture to say that the incidences that the Lord are telling as parables Very could very well be actual events that are taking place that he is drawing from his omniscience, knowing every scenario, every possible situation that man has ever or ever will experience And so maybe the parables are not necessarily just made-up stories. They may be actual events the Lord is drawing from, but is not giving the specifics. as far as names and places and all that. So for whatever it's worth, um I thought that was a an interesting thought. Uh I was on staff with Neighborhood Bible Time for a number of years and part of my my responsibility was training the Bible time evangelist to travel in the summer and to do the Bible time rallies. And we would critique their preaching. A lot of these were just young preacher boys just in Bible college. Many of them have never spoken uh preach publicly in any way and never stood up and and uh did so we tried to work them through and if they had any idiosyncrasies and try and help them work through those And uh one guy, I was sitting there, and one guy, uh, he's preaching, and there's about five or six of us, and we're listening, he's going, and he told this illustration I mean it was fantastic. And on a certain date at midnight on New Year's Eve on a mountainside out in out in California on a specific mountain outside of this very specific city. This young man, this teenage boy, was going to take his life and he had the gun held to his head. And right at midnight he was going to pull the trigger, and just a minute before midnight, lightning struck a tree right beside him and knocked him over. knocked the gun out of his hand. He got up and he realized that God had a plan for his life. And uh he went down and got saved and became a great preacher. And we're sitting there And he's telling this story and he's given dates and times and names. And when he was done, I said, that illustration is unbelievable I said, that is fantastic. Do you have any documentation or that? He goes, oh no, I just made it up. I said, what do you mean you just made it up? He said, it's a parable. I said, that ain't no parable. That's a lie. So I I you know you know it kinda makes me think a little bit, is the Lord just making these up or these actual perhaps they actually have happened throughout history and the Lord's just throwing from his omissions. omniscience. Be that as it may, we have here a parable that is not that well known. When I asked people, name me some well-known parables, nobody said about the parable where the fig tree is digged and dumbed. For another year. Nobody referred to this as a popular parable or a well-known parable or a famous parable. It's really pretty obscure. In fact, I read it in my devotion some time ago and I looked at it and I and the Lord began, I trust there's the Lord began stirring my heart to preach a message on this and I had to give this some thought. What is the message of this parable? What is the Lord trying to communicate? What truth is he illustrating here? Is he trying to get us to understand? And I think, as I studied this, this is the conclusion I came to, and there may be others involved, but I think this is the conclusion. It is God's will for his people to bear fruit. It is God's will for his people to bear fruit. Now, how many folks here, you're saved and you know it. Say amen. Amen. Now for those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, those of us who've been born again I can tell you very dogmatically what God's will is for your life. God's will is for you to bear fruit for the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that is what this parable here is illustrating. That is the truth he's trying to get across. Now there may be others, and we'll look at some other side issues, but there's no doubt It is God's will for those of us who have accepted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, our sins are forgiven, our destiny is settled, we're going to heaven, not to hell, and we die. It is God's will for us to grow in our faith, to bear fruit. For us to develop our commitment to trusting God and obeying his instructions in my life It is his will for us to grow in our commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ, in our witness and in our influence. In our submission to His instructions for our lives, bearing fruit in our lives. That's God's will Some time ago, it's been several months ago, we did not have a printer at the house for the computers and different things, and I just always printed over here for church work and stuff, would run off the printer here. Taffy said, I'm gonna go buy a printer for the house. I said wonderful. And so she went out and she bought a printer for the house. Um now we first thing we tried we hooked it all up and it wouldn't print. So I said, is it plugged in? And uh, yep, sure enough, it's plugged in. Is it turned on? Shh, it's on. And it made noises like a printer is supposed to make. It sounded like a printer. And lights came on. And the lights That a printer that are supposed to be on on a printer that works, the lights came on and made sound and it looked wonderful and it sat there, but it would not print And no matter what we did, and uh we tried to reprogram and we did this and she's online and looking up instructions and YouTube directions and this and that and everything and We've had it setting there in the corner of the kitchen for about four months now. It's a lovely accessory to our kitchen decor, and that thing will not print. And I got thinking about that printer, and I got thinking about Christians. I wonder how many Christians there are that the Lord is addressing in this parable. And we look right, the lights are on. And we make all the right sounds, and we look nice, but there's no fruit There's no fruit. That printer does not do what it's designed to do. There is something wrong Now we haven't been able to figure it out. I'm tempted to use it as target practice. That would be a blessing. But there's something wrong. It's not functioning as it's designed to function. And a Christian That does not bear fruit is not functioning as he is designed to function It's not bearing fruit. And so the Lord is illustrating this truth in this parable here that He it's His will that Christians bear fruit. This is a parable about God's desire That his people bear fruit. And then he expands on that in the parables. We'll look here in a moment. How patiently he will work in our lives. So that we can and will begin bearing spiritual fruit in our lives. So that's the idea behind the parable. If you would, here's my first thought, and I get it from verse number six. I want us to notice or consider the plant that is addressed here. Look at verse number 6. Spake also this parable. A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. Now, obviously this parable is not talking about horticulture. It's not trying to illustrate a truth about plants. The fig tree here very obviously refers to human beings, specific individuals. In fact, it is not uncommon for the Lord to compare a man to a tree. or to a vine or a some sort of plant. It's not uncommon for the Lord to refer to human fruits, our works as a Christian, to a type of fruit. You know the reference where the Lord says you can you will know them by their fruits And it's not uncommon for the Lord to refer to us as human beings as a type of plan in illustrating things, or refer to our activities, our actions, our behavior as a type of fruit. Him saying there was a certain uh there's a certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard and using that to refer to mankind or specific individuals, that's not an uncommon thing. In fact, throughout the Old Testament and I was going to take time to turn to these. I won't. I'll just give you the reference. In Psalms chapter 80, verse 8 and 9, he refers to Israel as a vine. That he took out of Egypt and planted in the land of Canaan. And then there, in that passage, he refers to the fact that he planted them in Canaan and they would not bear fruit. In Isaiah chapter 5, verse 1 and 2, almost identically refers to Israel as a vine that God planted in the land with the expectation that they would bear fruit for him. And then in Jeremiah chapter 2 and verse 21, again almost identical. Israel is compared or uh to a vine is referred to as a vine and God expecting fruit. It's interesting, almost a hundred percent of the time when God refers to Israel As a vine, it ends up discussing God's judgment on them for not bearing fruit. And so just uh an Old Testament example where what the Lord is doing here is not uncommon. Throughout the Old Testament, he would refer to people as hemlock trees or cedar trees, nations. Uh he referred to people as uh uh as various types of plants and and vines and these types of things. Uh he was reminding the Jews that I think when the Lord Jesus said he planted a fig tree in his vineyard. I think the Jews in the crowd immediately picked up what he's talking about. And when he says about a vineyard, they perhaps were thinking he's talking about the nation of Israel. Now I don't think he was, in this case, addressing Israel uh but they paid attention. If you would take your Bible, keep your place here, but turn over to John chapter 15 Here we have another classic example of the Lord using a type of plant to uh Illustrate a spiritual truth and refer to a man, uh a human. Uh uh John chapter 15, verse number one Jesus speaking again, he says, I am the what? True vine. He's referring to himself as a plant. And my father is the husbandman, the farmer, so to speak. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, now look at this, he purgeth it that it may bring forth more fruit. And then he goes down, he expands on that thought. And so here we have, again, the Lord Jesus Christ referring to, in this case, his people, as a branch on a vine. He is the vine. I think it's interesting here. He doesn't say the church is the vine And say Israel is the vine. He says, I am the vine, and you are the branches. Listen, I do not get spiritual life by joining a church. The church is not divine. I get spiritual life by being joined to Jesus Christ in faith, accepting him as my personal Savior. And so Jesus here says, and I think it's interesting, he says, I am the true vine. If somebody says I am the if Jesus says I am the true vine, what is he implying? That there are some False vines out there. There are some things that people can put their faith in. There are some things that people will put their trust and their confidence in that are false, that will not give them life But Jesus being the true line, I put my faith in him, I'm grafted into him by faith, then I have that eternal life. And so what I'm trying to point out here is that the it's very common throughout scripture to for God to use plants as illustrations of mankind in various forms. So We come back to Luke chapter 13 and notice verse number 6: A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard. And he came and sought fruit thereon. And what? Found none. That leads me to my second point, and that is this. There's a problem. First, we have the plant. It's in the vineyard, a fig tree, it's planted in the vineyard. That's the plant. Now we have a real serious problem. This fig tree has been there. Look at verse 7. Then said he unto the dresser's vineyard, Behold these what? Three years. These three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree and find none. That's the second time he makes that statement. I'm looking, I've got a tree, I've got a plant, I came looking for fruit, I found none. For three years. I've been looking for fruit, and I found none. We have a problem. Question. Is it reasonable for a farmer to expect fruit from a plant that he has planted? Is that a reasonable expectation? Absolutely. This guy has invested, no doubt, a significant amount of time A significant amount of money, a significant amount of effort into planting this fig tree. He has every right in the world. To expect some fruit off of this tree. In fact, it is absolutely reasonable. For him to expect some sort of fruit off the tree. In fact, that is the whole point for planting crops is to get a harvest. I don't know any fol when I was um uh I said I lived in cities my whole life. We lived outside of Philly, so it was kind of a somewhat rural area. It was fl good bit of farming area back uh when I was young, back in the previous century when I was young. And um and uh I my f one of my first jobs uh was uh working on a dairy farm. We milked forty cows. And of course, the dairy farm, he had various crops, primarily corn. He had a lot of corn planted. And I worked there for four years. I worked him for four years, and I worked for another farm for two years. And not one time in my vast years of farming experience, not one time did he go out and plant corn and not expect to harvest corn. Not one time. Now sometimes something like a drought or a blight would hit and he wouldn't get any, but every year he planted it expecting to get some fruit off of that. Right? How many people are glad you came to church and learned that tremendous truth? Uh we was talking in Sunday school about my garden. And um, you know, I'm gonna plant some tomato plants, I'm gonna plant some green beans, I'm gonna plant some it's the first day of spring, so indulge me. I'm gonna plant some uh lettuce, some onions, uh, and then uh zucchini. I'm gonna plant a bunch of zucchini And so uh so what are you planting? Tomatoes? What do you expect to get off of that? Grapes, no What do you expect? I expect to get tomatoes. Question. Is that a reasonable expectation? Sure, sure. And so when this Farmer comes and this fellow here, this uh uh this fellow that plants the fig tree in the vineyard, he has every reasonable reason in the world. To expect fruit off of this tree. But there's none. And that's where the problem is. I want to suggest to you, in that same way, and I believe the Lord is Illustrating this here, God expects fruit from his people. Just like a farmer that plants a Fig tree expects to get some figs. That's reasonable. He's invested the time and effort and purpose. The whole reason he's put it there is to get some figs just like he has every reason he's justified and expecting some fruit. Our Father, our Savior, has every right. It is reasonable that he expects fruit from his people who he describes as plants. I referenced Israel being referred to in the Old Testament as a vineyard. And every time the Lord would come and he'd be looking for fruit off of that quote-unquote vine. He fully expected, and it was a reasonable expectation, that his people would, his Jewish people would honor him. In fact, he brought them out of Egypt. He delivered them from slavery. He provided for them for 40 years in spite of their disobedience, in spite of their rebellion. In spite of their murmuring, in spite of their fault-finding, in spite of their criticism, he fed them every single day, miraculously He delivered them from incredible bondage. He led them and directed them to a land that was Flowing with milk and honey, he describes it. Uh teacher asks her class, what do you think that land flowing with milk and honey is like? The little boy raised his hand. Pretty sticky. And so um but anyway, that's old But he provides for them an incredible uh land. He gives them victory over their enemies And he comes back to them like a farmer does to his vineyard, and he says, I'd like to get some fruit from you. I've made an incredible investment. I saved your lives from slavery. I provided for you. I've given you new hope, a new life in a new land. I would like for you to honor me. And Israel would not honor the Lord. He expected fruit. He had every right to expect fruit from him. He says, I want you to trust me. Just simply trust me and follow my instructions. I will take care of you. I will bless you. I just want some fruit in return. And Israel would not trust him. They would not honor him. They would not obey him. They would not serve him. They repeatedly say, no, we're doing things our way. We are going our direction. We are running our own lives. We're leaning on our own understanding. And I gave you references, Psalm 80, Isaiah, Jeremiah, we go to Ezekiel and various other passages where God sent the prophets, and they said, I came like a husbandman coming to the farm, to the vineyard, expecting fruit, and there was none. And finally says, we'll cut them down. And Israel's been put aside for all these years now as God works through the church. And now he comes to you and I. Those of us who profess to have accepted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. Those of us. Who say, Yes, Lord, I'll allow you to suffer hell for me. Yes, Lord, you left heaven and came to earth. You were ridiculed. You took upon the form of a man, the body of a man. You were ridiculed. You were spit upon for me You invested a tremendous amount of effort and resources so that I could be forgiven. So that I could escape hell, so that I could have a home in heaven, so that I could have a new life, eternal life. You've invested tremendously in me And God says, I come expecting fruit. I expect my people after all the investment I have put in, after all the effort I've made, after all the suffering, all I've done for you. I asked for some fruit. And I'm suggesting to you that this parable is teaching us that is a reasonable expectation on our Lord's part. After all he's done for me, how can I do less than give him my best and live for him completely? The Lord gives this parable. In fact, if you'll notice previously in the verses before we didn't look at it, he's talking about people repenting. He says, except you repent, your electricity is going to perish. And he goes into this. And he's basically saying, we have a problem here, Houston. I'm s I I I gave my son, suffered hell, eternal hell for you. I just expect a little fruit in return. I just I'm looking for the people who accept me as their Savior. To trust me in their life and follow my instructions and honor me and give me glory and live for me after all I've done. And they don't. And they don't. They live their own lives and they go off and do their own thing and they throw me a little token offering now and then and they'll give me a little token hour of their time periodically. But there's no fruit. People say, well, you're taking this far too seriously. God's demanding too much from me. Wait a minute. He suffered hell for us. How can he possibly demand too much from us? If anybody's coming up short on this theoretical deal, it's God. It's not us. I said last night, and this is a little off-subject, but we had a tremendous men's stakeout last night. Good crowd, phenomenal stakes. And Brother Moore preached a powerful message on how to be saved. And I said afterward, I'd been working on some illustrations I'm trying to use in my soul winning. And I said, I said, I want us to imagine myself. Imagine yourself hanging, literally hanging over an open pit down into hell. And there's a rope. I'm hanging by a rope over a pit into hell. If that rope comes loose or I let go, I go into hell for all eternity, never escape. And I'm holding on to this thing, and there's somebody there, and I say, what do I need to do to get out of this situation? Suppose they would say you need to empty your bank accounts, give all your money, and uh then you can get out of that situation. I would imagine a person would say, I'll gladly do it, take the money, get me out of this Money's not going to do me any good burning in hell. Would you agree with me? That probably makes sense. A fool wouldn't do that. Hanging over a pit o over hell, hanging on a rope, and they say, All right, you gotta give up all your property, give your house away, give everything away Uh all of that so that you can escape going to hell. I would imagine a person would say, take the house for peace's sake. It's not going to do me any good ten million years from now burning in hell But that's not what God says. To escape hell, it isn't give all your money away, it isn't forsake all your possessions. It's believe on Jesus Christ, trust Jesus your Savior, and He'll save you from hell. Good night. What kind of deal is that? And then he says, if you do that, if you accept me as your savior, you'll trust me as your savior, the only thing I ask for in return is fruit. And I'm saying to you, and this is my whole point here, is it is reasonable on God's part to expect us to trust Him and honor Him and obey Him and follow His instructions, and it is unreasonable. For us to do anything less. Us to do anything less. Take your Bible, if you would, turn to Romans chapter 12. Let me give you some other scriptures. I know it's a little warm in here, but Romans chapter 12 I'll say this, it's better than being in hell, right? Amen. And so, uh Romans chapter twelve. I keep coming back to this passage recently, but it is so significant. Romans twelve, and look with me if you would at verse number one. Now I've been using a word here in this part of the message over and over, the word reasonable. And my point is this God is it is very reasonable for our God to expect us To bear fruit and live for him. Look at Romans 12, verse number 1. I beseech you, therefore, brethren. He's pleading with us. By the mercies of God, because of all that God has invested in your salvation. That ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God. For the sake of our message, can I summarize that with this? Fruit. Fruit. That ye present to God fruit. And look at the last part of the verse. Which is your what? Reasonable service. Because of God's mercy. Because of God's unbelievable mercy in forgiving us And giving us eternal life and saving us from judgment and our eternal home in heaven. Peace and purpose in our heart bear some fruit. I'm beseeching you. Turn with me if you would to Ephesians chapter number two. This farmer comes into the vineyard and he sees the fig tree and he says there's no fruit on here. And he finds none. He looks for fruit. He finds none. Then he comes to the dresser and he says, hey, three years I've been coming by. Looking at this tree, and for three years now I've found no fruit. We have a problem here. I have every reason in the world to expect to find fruit off of this tree. Ephesians chapter 2. Now we all know what verse 8 and 9 say, right? For by grace are you saved through faith that not of yourselves it is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Praise God for that truth. I am not saved by bearing fruit. I'm not saved by good works. I am not saved by doing things and Serving God and honoring Him. That isn't what saves me. One thing and one thing alone saves me. Putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, God's grace, saves me from sin in hell. Now, we are not saved by works. Now, some people, a lot of Christians, the only thing they know about good works is that they won't save us. Say good works. Oh, get saved by that. What about good works? They won't save you. And I say amen. That's very clear in Scripture. Good works will not save us. But good works are a part of the Christian life. Look at verse 10. Verse 8 and 9, for grace is saved for faith. Verse 10, for we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus, look at the next three words, unto good works. Why does God save us? Well, God saves us so we don't go to hell. That is a product of God saving us. But the purpose for God saving us is we'll glorify Him. So we'll bear good fruit for Him. We'll bring glory to Him. We'll serve Him with good works. That's the object of him saving us. He wants to save us, so we'll live for him and be a testimony for him on this earth, and be a testimony of his power and his grace and his love and his holiness and his goodness. And thank God, if we get saved, we don't go to hell, we go to heaven. That's eternal life. But we are created, uh we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before us Foreordained that we should walk in them. Fruit. Fruit. The problem is for this farmer, this husbandman, there was no fruit on the tree for three years. And the problem God has, if you want to say it's a problem, if you want to use that term, is Christians that don't bear fruit. Don't bear fruit. We'll get saved, sure, and then just go do our thing. And we're no different than a barren fig tree We're no different than a barren stalk of corn with no ears on it. And a barren apple tree. I plant an apple tree and it doesn't bear any apples. That's the problem. Now, I don't want to end there. I want to quickly look at the parable, come back here. And thank God He doesn't do what this husband in the parable suggests, just cuts us down and burns us and throws us away. Amen. Glad he didn't do that. Look what the plan is. There's a plant, there it is. Problem, no fruit. What's the plan? Well, the one guy says, cut it down. The dresser says, hold it, hold it, hold it. And here's the title of my message. Let's give it a little time. Let's give it a little time. Uh praise the Lord, we have a God that loves us. Amen? How many people here, since you've been saved, you've not really lived up to what a Christian ought to be? At any point in time since you've been saved There's never been a period of time you haven't lived up to what God expects. Join the club. I would be worried if somebody raised their hand and says, Oh, I have. In fact, the Apostle Paul says, I'm not lived up. I'm the chief of sinners. Things I would like things I wanted, I should do, I don't do, things I don't I shouldn't do, I end up doing. So none of us had lived up to that. I'm glad, I'm glad God loves us and doesn't cut us down first time we fail. God loves us. Praise the Lord. He doesn't cut us down and throw us away. I like Hebrews 13:5, one of the most encouraging passages in all of Scripture. I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Especially like the word never. In spite of our failures, God does not give up on us That God has a plan to work in our lives and bring us about to the point in our Christian lives, our spiritual lives, where we're actually bearing fruit to God's glory. We're actually bearing fruit and pleasing God, and he's finding in our lives what he's looking for I thought about when I was studying this parable and it was dawning on me what the Lord was saying here, I thought about Jonah. Remember Jonah? He wasn't bearing much fruit. God says, go to Nineveh, bear fruit. He went to Joppa. No fruit. Big problem. So God just killed him. No God went through a fairly elaborate process to get Jonah back to bearing fruit where he wanted to be. We're going to notice here, he gave them time, he digged around the tree, and he dunged the tree. Well, Jonah's a perfect illustration of God giving a little bit of time, digging and dunging. I'm gonna suggest to you in the belly of a whale is kind of dung-ish. Yay or nay? So God has a plan. I'm talking to some folks, perhaps myself included, we're not bearing fruit. Lord's been looking He wants us to bear fruit. Well, there's a plan in place to get us that we will. And I'll give these to you very, very quickly. Number one, diligent prayer. Look at verse 8. And he, the dresser, says to the owner of this tree, he answering said unto him, Lord! He's making a request. You know what this guy's doing? He is literally praying on behalf of the tree. He's interceding for the tree. If it wasn't for this dresser interceding and diligently praying to the owner of the tree for the sake of the tree, that tree would be dead. It would have been cut down. But the dresser says, I'm standing before you on behalf of this fruitless tree. asking something of you. And I'm here to tell you very briefly, we have an intercessor at the throne of God who is interceding for you and I, as Christians, when we fail God and we do not bear fruit, he is interceding for us. That we do not perish, and our salvation is not dependent on our behavior, but it is dependent upon the faithfulness of our Savior at the throne of God So God has a plan. Thank God when we fail to bear fruit as believers, we do not lose our salvation. We have a Savior, an intercessor pleading for us. Hebrews. Chapter number seven, verse twenty-five, uh he pleads for us that we saved to the uttermost and not lose our salvation. So part of God's plan Is Jesus praying for us? I'm not bearing fruit. I'm not living the Christian life like I should. I'm not trusting the Lord. I'm not living for it. I'm saved. I know I trust in Christ, but I'm not living Thank God we have somebody that's praying on our behalf. By the way, thank God. Hey, young people, if you have a Christian mom and daddy that's praying for you, you ought to thank God. You say, oh, my life is so terrible. I got these Christian parents. Oh yeah, well get them to quit praying for you and see how things improve I tell you what, I stand before the whole world and testify I thank God for a daddy who prayed for his sorry son. Thank God that there are people praying for us and praying for you and for me And we ought to be praying for one another. Somebody's not bearing fruit, somebody's not living for the Lord like they should. Rather than gossiping and cutting them down and telling them how terrible they are, why don't we go before our God in heaven and do what this guy does and say, Lord! Help them. Lord, I stand before them. And we need one another's prayers We don't give out, we don't, Wednesday night prayer meeting, we don't give out hatchets and axes and start cutting each other down for our failure. No. We give out prayer lists and we get on our knees and we plead for one another. And so God has a plan to get a Christian that's not bearing fruit, to get them living for the Lord like they should, living the life they're supposed to be, and that plan includes diligent prayer on the part of our Savior and on the part of the brothers and sisters in Christ. Then that plan also includes a delayed patience. A delayed patience. Look, he says, Lord, let it alone this year. Give it a little time. Now listen, I'll be the first to say God does not ignore sin. God does not ignore sin. But He is very patient. I'm glad, how many people here are glad that our God is slow to anger? Whew! Man alive, we'd be dead meat. By the way, there's some Christians could use that same characteristic. Be a little slow to anger. A little slow. And so God does not ignore sin. I mean he'll deal with it. But he's very, very patient with us. He gives us time to deal with our sin on our own. Tonight we have Lord's Supper in uh 1 Corinthians 11. He says, Judge yourselves that you be not judged. And he's saying, Listen, I'll give you opportunity to make things right, straighten things out before I have to deal with it. Before I have to bring the hammer down. In the old in the Old Testament book of Joshua, in chapter 7, Achan took of these forbidden stuff, gold and silver, a Babylonish garment. God said, Don't take that stuff. He hid it. He thought he could hide it from God and everybody. I'm telling you, you can't hide nothing from God. And God goes through this long, elaborate process to reveal who it was that had this hidden sin that was affecting the whole nation. God didn't just show up and say, All right, kill Achan. No, it took several days. It was a long process to go through. And what was he doing? He was given Achan an opportunity to come clean with God. God is very patient with us. And it's not a coincidence, you or I are sitting here today under this message right now. I'm suggesting to you, God is giving us another opportunity to get right with God and make things right and get in tune with our Savior If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven, God is giving you another opportunity to settle your salvation. And get that matter taken care of. So there's diligent prayer, there's a delayed patience, and then three, I notice there's a digging process. Lord, let it alone this year till I shall dig about it. What do you do when you dig around a plant? You're rearranging things. You're rearranging the dirt. You're breaking it up and and uh water can get down there and and nutrients and moisture and whatnot. You're rearranging things. Uh when I dig stuff you end up turning things upside down. You know what I found out I've noticed over the years that many times when a Christian is out of fellowship with God, they're not bearing fruit like they should, sometimes God turns their world upside down. And God is very good at digging our world up. And we can think, oh, I'm not living for God like I should. I know I'm not. I'm involved in this, that, and the other, and everything's fine, and we've got it all planned out and we are pulling it off and everything's wonderful. I don't have to do what God says. I don't have to bear any fruit in my life and everything's fine. I'm telling you, like God, like that, God can turn your world completely upside down. I've seen it over and over and over. I've experienced it in my own life. Rearranging things, turning things upside down. We referenced the prodigal son. That boy had it all laid out, didn't he? Ton of money, friends, living high on the hog. And it wasn't long till that money ran out. And those friends disappeared. And he went from living in a very nice farm with a good daddy to living in a pig pen eating slop with a bunch of pegs. You know what was happening? He was being dug God was digging around there, getting that boy back where he needs to be, start bearing fruit again. So there's a there's a diligent prayer, there's a delayed patience, there's a digging process, and then The last one, there's a dung procedure. A dung procedure. And let me, and uh dung it, he says. Huh. But what is that? Well, in my mind, dung is pretty unpleasant. It's kind of stinky It's yucky. And I think what's taken here is something that God allows into the life that is very, very unpleasant, but extremely beneficial. I was got saved in 1979. That's what, 37 years, something like that? I've learned a few things. I have never grown spiritually when everything's going fine. I've never really gotten stronger. My faith has never really gotten stronger. When all the bills are paid and the health is there and everything's wonderful and there's no problems. You know what I found? My faith grows when things get stinky. When it's stretched, when things are unpleasant. And it's like, yeah, God, why are you letting me go through this? Oh, it's nutrient. Help you grow stronger. Bear fruit. How many people here recognize the name Amy Carmichael? Amy Carmichael. Great missionary to India years ago. Never married. She said, I'm married to Jesus. And gave her whole life to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. Tremendous missionary. She would rescue little girls, little 10, 11, 12-year-old girls from being temple prostitutes and the ungodly false religion they had. She would rescue them. And raise them up in their little homes and teach them about Jesus. Amazing woman. And she said, and I'm paraphrasing, I have the quote there, but I gotta quit. I'm paraphrasing, she said something to this effect We see these great Christians strong in their faith, bearing tremendous fruit for the Lord, and we think, I could never be that way. I can never be a strong Christian. I can never be a good Christian. I can never be somebody that God would look at and say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. I can never attain to that. She goes, but what we don't understand Is the process God went through to bring them to that point. There was people praying for them. That didn't happen overnight. It took time. There was a lot of digging went on in their life. Things were turned upside down. Their dreams were shattered. A lot of steepy things they had to go through. And it is God that brought them to that point. And if you and I will just trust God and say, Lord, I believe you, I will follow your instructions. I will do what you say. I love you. I want to bear fruit in my life. God will begin the process and he will do what needs to be done to make us the people he wants us to be. But we've got to cooperate. We've got to be submissive. And the way I think the best way to look at is this. Lord, if it wasn't for you, I'd be burning in hell right now. The least I can do is trust you and live for you and honor you with my life. I was down in New Zealand with Brother Howe last month and He has a plum tree behind his house. Unbelievable plums. I mean they're like monstrous. They're so good. He says, I learned something. He said, last year I learned something. The plums were just small and sorry. They weren't much very good. He said they were just pitiful. And he said, I got frustrated with it and I just hacked the thing back and trimmed it back real hard And he said, that thing just went boom. He said the plums are two, three times in size what they were before. He said the thing just needed some pruning, some purging. It's basically the same concept what he's saying here. If we're going to bear fruit, God needs to purge. Needs to dig and dung. Give it a little time. What's God doing in your life? What is the Holy Spirit speaking to your heart about in your Christian life that needs to be start bearing fruit? What areas need to be dug up and get out? What rearrangement needs to be made in your life so you can become a Christian that is bearing fruit for our Savior when He's reasonable for Him to expect it from us? I want to say to you, trust the Lord, let him have his way. And you and I'd be amazed what God can and will do through us and the fruit that can be born out of our lives. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. I pray that somehow this parable, this obscure parable, this truth, would challenge us. And Lord, that we'd be willing. Say, yes, Lord, not my will, your will be done. Lord, I want my life to count. I want my witness to be effective. I want my my uh life to bear fruit for the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, say, preacher, God's Holy Spirit is dealing with my heart. There are some areas in my life, maybe some difficult decisions or issues that really need to be dealt with and I'm going to be a Christian and bear the fruit God wants me to. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. Pray with me. God is dealing with my heart. There are some specific areas, and I want the Lord to have his way. I need his help. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, the Spirit of God is dealing with me. God bless you. A bunch of hands all around. That's the Lord digging. That's the Lord dunging and working. Let's cooperate. Let Him have His way. Submit to Him. Trust Him. So someone here this morning said, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die, and certainly don't want to go to hell. Say, preacher, I'm concerned about that, and I'd like for God to help me settle that in my heart that I know my sins are forgiven, know I go to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven I certainly don't want to go to hell. Pray that God will help me settle that. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. How about it? Any at all around? Preacher, pray for me. I need to settle that. Now, Father, a lot of hands are raised. You know our hearts. You know where we're at. You know what our fruit is like. I ask, Lord, you'd challenge us. Don't leave us alone. Stir us and help us. Lord, some of us maybe need to pray for others that are struggling. And I ask, Lord, you'd give us the victory in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. This morning God spoke to your heart as the piano plays, let's find a place at old fashioned order.