Colossians chapter 3 verse 17, and I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison. Colossians chapter 3 Verse number 17. Ready? Let's all read it together. Here we go. And whatsoever ye do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. I circled those two words, giving thanks. Giving thanks. I'm entitled The Message Giving thanks to God. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts this morning. Father in heaven, we thank you for the opportunity to be in the house of God this morning. What a joy it is to be around your people and to talk and laugh and pray and sing and and fellowship together. And now we're looking in your word, dear Lord And we're asking you to speak to our hearts. We pray that you would confront us where we are in our spiritual condition. Lord, if some of us need salvation, maybe some under the sound of my voice or even here in the service, I pray that today would be the day of salvation. For the unsaved. Those of us that know you as Savior, or we just had a revival meeting and we're praying for revival, that you would stir our love for you anew. Lord, help it to grow, our faith in you And Lord, help us to make good decisions in our lives. And as you speak our hearts this morning, I pray you'd help all of us, myself included, all of us. Help us to trust you. And to follow your instructions and agree with you, and that your will can be done in our lives. And I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit as I yield my will Present my body anew. With all my heart, I pray you'd be the preacher. In Jesus' name. Amen. Book of Colossians for a lot of people is a little bit of an unfamiliar book, I think. It was penned by the Apostle Paul, and it's very obvious right there as you read, start reading it. It was penned by the Apostle Paul. The interesting thing is Paul wrote this from a prison in Rome. And along with, he also wrote the book of Ephesians from this Roman prison He wrote the book of Philippians, which is very interesting, because the theme of the book of Philippians is joy, rejoicing in the Lord, the joy of the Lord. Here he is in a Roman prison, which is uh anything but a joyful place to be. But he had the joy of the Lord. Here's the thing of for Christians, Paul uh te uh witnesses to this. We see it in Paul's life, but it can be true for all of us. We can have the joy of the Lord regardless of our circumstances or situation Because the joy of the Lord is something that comes up from within. Comes from within Christ in us the hope of glory, the joy of the Lord. So he penned the book of Philippians. He penned this book here, Colossians from the prison cell And also he penned the book of Philemon from the prison in Rome. So just a little background here is pen by Paul from a prison. Now, I want us to just to get us started here, and I think it helps us understand what's being said if we know a little bit about who it's being written to. Paul is writing this to a church that is in a little Greek town. As far as I can tell, it seems to be a pretty small town called Colossae. is this little Greek town. There's a church there. And uh this church is not mentioned in the book of Acts. You read through all the book of Acts, you'll not hear the city of Colossae, the town of Colossae mentioned, and you won't read of the church at Colossae. It's not mentioned And by the way, the church at Colossae was not started by Paul. If you would come back to chapter 9, or chapter 1 real quick, and look with me at verse number 4. He makes an interesting statement, gives us a little insight. It says, verse 3, we give thanks to God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you. But look at his next statement, since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love that which ye have to all the saints. for the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, whereof ye heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel. You notice, he says, we heard of you. So we understand from studying the book of Colossians, Paul had never been to this church. He had never met these people. But they were brothers and sisters in Christ, and for that fact he loved them dearly. And he prayed for them. And so Paul penned this letter, this is what the book of Colossians is a letter, from prison to this church in this little town, this little Greek town of Colossae He'd never been there. Somebody says, well, how did this church get started? If Paul didn't start it, where'd it come from? Now remember, this is early in church history. And so any church here is pretty new And so how did this church start? We understand that the church in Colossae started out of a coup from two fellas out of the church at Ephesus. Now this is what I understand. This is the picture we get. The church in Ephesus was started by Paul. God used him to establish it. That church is growing, it's strong, they're winning souls, they're reaching out into their community, they're reaching out into their region of the world. And they're going out and they're preaching gospel in towns all around Ephesus. And Colossae is a fair distance from Ephesus, and they're traveling and extending out. And two church members and the church of Ephesus. Go out and they win souls in this little town of Colossae. The people get saved, they disciple them, they organize a church And now there is a good, uh, fairly strong church established in this. Now that teaches us something. You don't have to be a quote-unquote ordained preacher to be used of God in significant ways. I believe you don't have to have a great doctorate education and seminary and have all this. You know what? Just ordinary folks. that will get on fire for God, trust Him, and give themselves to win others to Christ. God can use you in significant ways. So you have these two church folk in Ephesus and the church there However it played out, they got a burden, they're out soul-winning, they're out reaching these towns, getting the gospel of Christ to it, and folks get saved and they establish this church. It's a church, little known people. We don't know very little about the church there, other than what's told in the book here. Mostly Gentiles in this church, not much of a Jewish presence here at all, which kind of changes the dynamics. These are folks that have been saved out of paganism And uh terrible sins and uh all the lifestyle that went along with these perverse pagan worship. And they got saved out of that, and God changed their lives And now they're new creatures in Christ. And so just a fascinating thing. Little town, probably not a huge church Uh probably not a very big church at all, but yet the church was significant enough for God to inspire the writings of Paul and include his letter to this little church in the eternal word of God. Isn't that something? You know what that tells me? There's no church that's too small for God to pay attention to. There's no church that's so small or so insignificant that it's not important to the Lord. Can I confess a sin to you? Well, I got everybody's attention there, didn't I? I tell you, when I first come, we were up here and we were growing and God was blessed and I was excited. Don't misunderstand what I'm about to say. I was thrilled. I had the joy of the Lord. But I go to these meetings sometimes, conferences, and man, these guys would be there and say, how's it going? Oh yeah, we only had 900 last Sunday. We're only running 14 buses. You know, and they're saying stuff like that, and I'm out here and said, yeah, we had 73 last Sunday And uh we got a bus out there, we're running around. I was thrilled with that, don't misunderstand. But you know, this old flesh and the old devil can play with our head sometimes And I used to get and think and say, well boy, these guys got these big, important churches. And man, God's doing all these great things, these wonderful, amazing things. And the devil twisted my thinking there a little bit. You know, I had to repent of that thinking. I come back here, finally God got me straightened out on that. And it didn't take long, but I got me straightened out on that. And you know what? Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church or some little church in a holler some way can be just as obedient to the Lord as the big mega church in the city Is just as important. It took as much blood of Jesus Christ on that cross to save the little church, to establish the church, as it does the big city church. So I repented of that and I told myself, never again will I consider a church small that loves the Lord and is serving God and seeking to obey his word. That's not a small church. So you have this old church here in Colossae, and God inspires Paul to write a letter to that church out in a small town, out away. And here it is preserved in the Word of God. What a tremendous, tremendous thought. What's the purpose? Why is he writing to them? Well, I think there's two reasons. Others may pick up others. I put it down two primary purposes He's writing to them, I glean from the book. The first one reason he's writing, he's dealing with some false doctrine that's creeping in Now remember, these are folks that don't have a background in the Old Testament, not like the Jews raised up in the synagogues, taught of the doctrines through the Old Testament. These are pagans, these are heathen Gentiles. That got saved. This is all new to them. And they're learning and they're growing under the leadership there that God established in that church. But they were struggling with some false doctrine. Look at chapter 2 with me, real quickly, if you would. And notice verse number 7, chapter 2 and verse 7. Well, verse 6 he says, As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith. See he's saying the importance You get established in what's true, the faith of uh of the Word of God, uh established in the faith as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving. Now look at verse 8 Beware. Here's a caution. It's one of the reasons he's writing. Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit. After the tradition of men, the teachings, the traditions of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ. And then he goes on the rest of that chapter there talking about the importance of the doctrine of Christ. And so there was some false teaching creeping into this little church. Let me say this: doctrine is important. In the church. Correct doctrine. Doctrine is important enough that God would inspire and preserve a letter written to a small little church Dealing with correct doctrine. Listen, if a church is not teaching and preaching biblical doctrine, correct biblical doctrine, that church is disobeying God. If a church is not teaching and preaching the doctrines and the teachings of this book right here, that church is an unhealthy, disobedient church. Now when we were in Indianapolis, there was a church down the road from where our church was. We were Thompson Road Baptist Church on the south side of the city. Not far down Thompson Road, there was another church, a denominational church down there They put a sign up. It said, doctrine divides. And their whole message and their whole statement to the community was we don't teach doctrine at this church. It just divides people. It's just divisive thing. We don't teach any doctrine. I'll tell you, based on the Word of God and the authority of the Word of God, that church is a disobedient church. My Bible says we're to teach doctrine, preach doctrine. What this book teaches is important. Every Sunday school teacher ought to be teaching Bible doctrine. in those Sunday school. Let me take that statement back. Every Sunday school teacher at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is teaching Bible doctrine. Our children's church and our services, Bible Institute. And so he's correcting false doctrine. I had a fella not too long ago, a young man. And um He uh disagreed with our position on tongues. And he believed that uh ought to speak in tongues, that our church ought to be speaking in tongues And I gave them our doctrinal statement. We talked about it and gave them just a little bit what our position was. And uh disagreed strongly that uh that we ought to be speaking in tongues and that we're wrong in not speaking in tongues. I said, well tell you what If you'll give me a little bit of time, let's sit down. I'll show you what the Bible says. Very clearly. Acts chapter 2, Corinthians, we'll show you what the Bible says. We want what the Bible says is our authority. You know what he wouldn't do? He would not look at what the Bible says about tongues. And he rebuked me and said, We were wrong because we were not uh we were not practicing an experience. But rather we were going by the Bible. Now listen to you. I'm going to stick with the Bible every time. Say, well, you don't know what I experienced. You're right, I don't know what experienced, but I know what this book says, and we're sticking with this book. Can I give you a little mention? I mentioned to this this fella Can I give you a little advice? Never interpret doctrine by your experience. Always interpret your experience by Bible doctrine Follow what I'm saying? And if my experience is contrary to what the Bible teaches, then my experience is is is wrong. What the Bible teaches is so. And so he's writing to this church here, and he's dealing with this false doctrine that's creeping in, this Eastern doctrine that's creeping in. Second reason he's writing to the church at Colossae is this. is he's emphasizing the preeminence of Christ. The preeminence of Christ. Look at chapter 1 with me and come back to verse number 16. Now I'm going to get to our text here in just a moment, but bear with me. Colossians chapter 1, verse number 16. Look what he says. He says, For by him, that's Jesus Christ, were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. Jesus Christ is the creator of this universe. Everything made was created by anybody see that moon the last couple nights? Man alive, wasn't that something? And um uh you know what my savior spoke that thing into existence How about that? And the sky Friday night I was out and was out in the woods and came out at dark at dark and by the time I got to my truck it was dark and man that stars were so brilliant I looked up there at those stars and I thought, my Savior spoke all of that into existence. What a God we serve. What a Savior we have. And so he says, by Him were all things created. Things are in heaven and earth. And verse 17, and He is before all things. And by him all things consist. That word consists means hold together. Hey, Jesus is the one that's holding this thing together. By him all things consist. And he is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead. Look at this last statement. Here it is. That in all things he might have the what Preeminence. Question: What does the word preeminence mean? What in the world does he mean that he has preeminence? The word preeminence simply means this: highest rank. The highest place in my life, the highest place in the church is held by Jesus Christ. The highest rank. The greatest influence sh is to be the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, Oh, Pastor Leatherman, he's the head of that church out there on Broadford Road. Pastor Leatherman ain't the head. Of the church on Broadford Road. Jesus Christ is the head of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and Jesus delegates to the pastor responsibilities to provide oversight. And so he is the head of all things. Let me ask you a question. Is Jesus Christ preeminent in your home? Is he the highest rank? Does he govern the affairs of your home, the actions, the attitudes, the words spoken? Is he preeminent in your home? Colossians says he should be. That in all things he might have the preeminence. Let me ask you this: Is Jesus Christ highest rank in your life? Who do who do I answer to in my life? Most of us, we answer to ourselves. We decide what's right and wrong. We decide what we're going to do and not do. He says, listen, if you're a disciple of Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ ought to have preeminence. He ought to be the one that governs our homes and holds the highest rank. So he's writing to emphasize the preeminence of Christ in the life of the believer. A Christian life is a life of loving submission to Jesus Christ. And then chapter 3 and chapter 4, he goes on with these instructions on if Christ is preeminent, this is how we behave. If Christ is head and he's the head of my life and the head of my home and our church, then this is how we behave. These are some of the things we do, and these are some of the things we don't do. He's giving instructions on living a life where Christ is preeminent. Now here's something. I'm I'm again I'm getting to my text here in a moment, so bear with me. How many folks are doing all right? Everybody doing okay? How many folks are thinking about Thanksgiving dinner right now? You say I wasn't until you just said it. Here's the thing about God's instructions. God's instructions are not difficult to understand. Anybody ever try and figure out the IRS's laws on filing your taxes? Complicated. Now, God bless some of you. You guys figure it out and do it yourself. We pay people pay a lot of money because it's so complicated you have to hire someone that has dedicated their whole life to figuring out what it means. Man's laws, this is what I'm trying to say, man's laws are complicated. Um and I I'll tell you the town's been really good to us, so don't misunderstand uh uh uh what I'm saying here, but we're just trying to get this sign turned on. And there's so many regulations and so many specific things that have to be in place to do that. And we're just scratching our heads trying to get everything in line lined up. God's instructions are not that way. God's instructions aren't complicated. I thought about Adam and Eve when God created Adam and Eve and put them in the Garden of Eden And they were to till the land and care for the land. And his instructions were very simple. Oh, you can eat of any of the trees of the garden you want to, except the tree of knowledge, good and evil. Don't eat of that. The day you eat thereof you'll surely die. How many people understand exactly what he was saying? Nothing complicated. Adam and Eve didn't Satan shows up in the serpent. They didn't say, uh, did God say you can't eat of this? They didn't say Oh, we have no idea what God said. We can't figure it out what the rules are, what the laws are. No, they didn't say that at all. They knew exactly what was expected of them. Uh Ten Commandments. Nothing complicated there, huh? How many people are confused when it says, thou shalt not kill? Well, what does he mean by that? Thou shalt not steal. Huh. That's confusing. God's laws are not complicated. Very clear. And so he gives us instructions. Somebody came to Jesus. What's the greatest command? Well, uh Article 4, page B, line 7, uh no, no, none of that. He just said, love the Lord thy God with all your heart, soul, mind, body, and spirit, and love your neighbor as yourself And in so doing, you'll end up fulfilling the whole law. Pretty simple, huh? Pretty simple whole. Say, well, what's God's instructions to the husband? Ah, love your wife. What's a wife supposed to do? Submit to your husband. I know that's a bad word Well, what about the kids? Simple. What is it? Obey your parents. Some little child could, what's God's will for me? Do what your parents tell you to do. Children, obey your parents. And all the parents said, yeah, I figured. So God's laws are not complicated. God's laws are are not uh confusing. Man's are. So God's instructions are clear-cut. They're not complicated. God's instructions are different for the unsaved than they are for the saved See, what do you mean by that? You know what God's will for the unsaved is? Read John chapter 3, verse number 3, and verse number 7. Ye must be born again. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. You're watching online, you're earned the sound of my voice, you're unsaved, you're in your sins, you never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. God's law for you is to come to Christ. Ye must be born again. My dad had these little uh card business cards made up. I still got a whole box of them over there. I'm trying to give them out. Had it all made up, and it said this: it is a law. Ye must be born again. And he had John 3, I think was the verse on there. 3. 7. Ye must be born again. Say, preacher, I'm lost. What's God's instructions to me? Get saved. Get saved. Preacher, you go to some churches, they say, I'm a lost man. What's God want me to do? They'll tell you to get baptized. Listen, baptism is not for the lost. For folks when they get saved. Ah, what's God's law for me? I'm unsaved. Ah, well, give money in the offering. No, that's not God's law for the unsaved. God's instruction unsaved is get saved. Get saved. We had a fella, I've told this many times, but we had a fella came to church. His child rode the bus and he started riding the bus and then he moved out of town. He moved south of town aways And we lost touch with him. We just lost touch and uh uh finally we came across him down at the uh the parade one year. We came across said, Hey where you live? And he told me, I said, Well we'll send uh we'll maybe we can get you to start coming to church again. So I sent a couple ladies on a Thursday night go visit them. He had some kids there. Sent the Sunday school teachers went out and visited them. They came back. I said how'd the visit go? And uh they said, uh, oh, it was okay, but uh he said he's not coming back here anymore. I said, why is that? He says every he told us every time he goes there, all we ever heard was You gotta get saved, you gotta get saved, you gotta get saved. That's all I ever heard was you gotta get saved. And I said, Well what'd you tell him? We told him, Well, you need to get saved That's God's instruction for the unsaved. Another time. This is why my sermons go long, I think of stories. But um I was visiting down here in Mount Lake Park a few years ago, just knocking on doors And a fellow came to the row and said, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'd like to invite you church. He goes, hey, I've heard of your church. And he went back to the guys back in the living room. There's a bunch of others there. He says, hey, this is that church that tries to get everybody saved and baptized. I said, well, we're out trying to get people saved tonight. So God's instructions for the lost are not the same as His instructions for the saved. For the unsaved, you must be born again. You need to trust Christ. For the saved Then he says, all right, here's my instructions, how to live your Christian life. And here's the fascinating thing. Our Lord is concerned about every detail of his children's lives. How many people here are you raising kids or you raised them or you're raising kids now? And you're concerned about every detail of their life. Any here? So I'm concerned. You know God's concerned about uh how we use our money? Talks about it. Clear instructions, not complicated, he tells us. Do you know God's concern about what kind of people we associate with, friends we have and hang around with? He said, make no friends with an angry man lest thou learn as his learn his ways. How many people here when you had kids you were concerned about what friends they had? How many people here when you had kids you were concerned about teaching them how to handle their money correctly? Sure. God's concerned about how we wear our hair It's true. Corinthians talks about it for ladies and men. Now he's not as concerned about some of us as others. But he talks about how we wear hair, how we dress. He talks about how we dress. You say, well, that's not the most important thing in life, but God's concerned about it. Anybody here when your kids are small you were concerned about how they dress? Anybody ever say this to your kids? You ain't going out like that. Anybody ever say that? You ain't wearing those clothes at church. And uh Yeah And so God, for a believer, for the disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, he's concerned about every area of our life. And he's given us instructions and he's given us principles. That we can live our lives in a way that pleases him. Look with me, if you would, in chapter 3 and uh verse number 8. And chapter 3 and 4, he gets very practical. This is a good book to study. And in verse 8, look what he says. But now ye also, he's writing to believers in this church. But now ye also, what's the next two words? Put off. There's some things you just got to get off. You got to get out of your life Don't let them be a part of your life. And look at the list he gives here. But now ye also put off all these. Anger, wrath, Malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth, lie not one to another, seeing you've put off the old man with his deeds Put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him. There's neither Greek nor Jew. So he goes down the list. These are things you've got to put out of your life. I tell you, some of us, it would help us a lot if we would look at this list and pay close attention to it and do what God instructs us to do here. Put these things off. Put these things up. I don't know about you. I look at verse 8. I don't see anything complicated about that There's nothing confusing there. Wrath and anger, malice, trying to get even with people and blaspheme, taking God's name in vain, saying bad words. How many people know Christians shouldn't say bad words? Yeah, it's obvious. It's very clear. Lie not one to another. Well, I wonder wonder what he means by that. It means don't lie to each other. So he goes down. Then look at verse 12. Then he says, look at the first two words. Put on. Alright, you're a believer, you've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. These things you need to get out of your life, put off. Here's some things you need to put on. Look what he says. Therefore, as an elect of God, holy, beloved, vows of mercies. Be merciful kindness. I mean people will know what kindness means. Yeah, it's clear. Kindness, humbleness of mind. Get pride out of your life, all about me, drawing attention to me, meekness, long-suffering, it's patience, forbearing one another. That word forbearing means just putting up with one another You know what being a good Christian involves? Just putting up with other people's shenanigans You just put up. Well, I'm gonna let him. I ain't putting up with that no more. Uh listen, my Bible says forbearing one another Just be patient with them. You know what I learned? I'm just talking to you now. You know what I learned? I learned God's able to deal with other people's problems better than I am I try and convert. I ain't putting up with that no more. I'm gonna settle this. You know what I end up doing? Making a mess. But I take that thing and I'm just gonna be kind. I'm gonna forbear them and Lord, I'm gonna trust you to work that out. And fix that thing, and I found out God can do a much better job than I can. Now I'm not saying there's not times we need to discuss stuff maybe or work through some things. But we don't need vengeance. We don't need to go and go around correcting everybody. Uh God's God's able to do that. Did you ever get in a fight with a skunk? I'm telling you every one of us could whip a skunk. They're not that strong. And you get them behind the neck. He can deal with that skunk alright. But you know what? When you're done, you whoop that thing, and you ain't putting up with that skunk no more, and uh you whoop that thing, you're gonna walk away smelling as bad as that skunk. Amen And so that has nothing to do with my message. I just thought of that. Fourteen, above all, uh forbearing one another. Verse 13, if any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. Some of us need to start forgiving people. Just forgive them. And above all, over all of this, these things put on charity, love in action, unconditional love and action, which is the bond of person. Let the peace of God rule in your hearts. To the which ye are called into one body, and be ye thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly Learn the Bible, read the Bible, memorize it, let it dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another, and psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts, where You know why you know when we sing in here in church, we're not singing for ourselves. We're not singing so everybody sees me and look how great a singer I am and what a wonderful Singer, right? That's not why the hindballs we're hearing are tremendous and our special music is tremendous. But it's not about getting attention to the singer. It's about drawing attention to who? Lord Jesus Christ. That's what the preaching is That's what working the buses and Sunday school, all the ministries, isn't about drawing attention to us and exalting us. It's about the Lord Jesus Christ. He has the preeminence. Preeminence. Christ. He's all in all, Colossians says. And so God's instructions are clear-cut. They're different for the saved than the unsaved. Now, I got a couple minutes left. Let's look at verse 17. Then he says this on this list of instructions to believers, very clear, simple. He says, and whatsoever ye do. He's just going down this list here, and then he summarizes it. And I think verse 17 is a summary of the Christian life. And whatsoever ye do, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. First thing I notice here, and I want to give it to you real quickly, we'll get out of here. The totality of the Christian life. And let me explain what I mean by that The first part of verse 17 he says, and whatsoever ye do, the totality of the Christian life. Totality, the word totality means this: all-encompassing. Every area, every aspect. The Christian life involves my entire life. Whatsoever I do is to be governed by the preeminence of Christ. My faith in Christ, the Lord Jesus Christ. Is to rule and influence and govern whatsoever I do. Every single word, every deed, every thought No restrictions. It's all governed by Christ. The Christian life is a total life. God's not looking for part-time Christians. Anybody here ever have a part-time job? Work a little while, then you leave. Or even our regular occupation, punch in, punch out. Hey, I got news for you. There's no punching in for Christianity and punching out. There's no part-time Christians. There's no uh listen, God's not looking for Sunday go-to-meeting Christians. How many people know what I mean by a Sunday go-to-meeting Christian? Oh yeah, boy, I'll tell you Sunday morning, get the Bible out and uh get my tie on, looking good, slick my uh um brush my teeth Going to church. And I tell you, some folks you'd think they're the best Christians since the Apostle Paul in Sunday morning church. But brother, as soon as they get back home, that Bible goes on the dashboard, and uh their Christianity gets put on a shelf, and the rest of the week, they're no different than the rest of the world. Anyone know what I'm talking about? That's not what God's looking for. That's not what Christianity's about. No part-time Christians, no Sunday go-to-meeting Christians, no halfway. I put this down. A halfway Christian is a sorry Christian. A halfway Christian. God's looking for whatsoever you do. Listen to some of the statements Jesus made. He said, He that cometh after me, let him deny himself. And follow me. He says, let him take up his cross and forsake all. Follow me. You know what he's saying? He's saying discipleship, being a follower of Christ is total life. Life involves a total life. Are you with me? The whole life. The whole life. He says you cannot serve God in mammon. Materialism. Things of this world. Either you're for Christ or you're not. None of this back and forth, none of this on and off, up and down, hot and cold, in and out. It says it's total. Whatsoever ye do. Listen, he said this. He said, he that's not for me is against me. Oh, I'm for the Lord on Sunday mornings. What are you for on Monday afternoon? Hey, what are you for on Saturday afternoon, Saturday night? Whatsoever you do, take your Bible with you, would real quickly turn with me to Revelation. That's easy to find. Keep your place here, but go back to the last book of the Bible, the third chapter of the last book of the Bible. Revelation chapter 3. God is speaking through John the Baptist, or John Apostle John is recording this, not John the Baptist, Apostle John is recording this. And he's recording what he sees, and God is speaking to the pastors of seven churches in this part of the Bible. And in chapter 3 of Revelation and verse number 15 He's addressing the church at Laodicea. That was a town, and there was a church there. Just like this is Oakland, or a church here, this was a Laodicea, was a town, there was a church there. And he says, I know thy works, verse 15. Revelation 3, verse 15, I know thy works. Look what he says. Thou art neither what? Thou art neither cold nor hot. I would that thou wert cold or hot. But because so then because thou art what? Lukewarm. Neither cold nor hot. You're not on or off, you're not in or out. You're just part-time here, a little bit of that, little bit of Christian, little bit of world, little bit of love for Jesus, little bit of love for the world, little bit exalt Jesus, little bit exalt me. Because thou art lukewarm and neither cold nor hot, look what he says: I will spew thee out of my mouth. I put in the margin of my Bible, when God gets sick, When God gets sick. Let me ask you something. How much of Jesus' life did it cost for your salvation and my salvation? 100% total. Christ gave himself fully, suffered my judgment, my hell, God's wrath for my sins, he paid it, rose again. You know what he expects in return? For you and I to live for him. That's what he's looking for. It's what he's looking for. Whatsoever ye do, word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. Paul said, For me to live is Christ. A whole life is Christ, Christ, it's all Christ. Sunday morning, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, 24-7, Christ. Let me ask you a question. Let's put a blank there. For me to live is, if you were talking about yourself, if God was writing your story. And it said, for me to live is, what would fill in the blame? For me to live is my job. For me to live is uh a person. Uh for me to live is my boyfriend, for me to live is my girlfriend. For me to live as my hobby, for me to live is money. Paul said, for me to live is Christ. It was totality. You know what's sad being a pastor? There's a tremendous joy. I am the happiest. It's been the joy of my life to pastor. But you know what's sad about pastoring? Is seeing folks compromise their commitment to Christ for some materialistic thing here, some temporal world. Oh, they're living for God, young and old. Oh, they're living for the Lord. They want to serve God. Then some girl comes along, some worldly, unsaved, backslidden girl. Boy, they'll just dump all their commitment to Christ and go chasing after that Some boy comes along, oh he's divine. Brother, their relationship with Christ, their commitment with Christ gets up. Oh, I got this job. Yeah, I have to compromise, and I know it'll cost me spiritually, but this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. We forsake eternal rewards For a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. Follow what I'm saying? What I'm saying is this: God is looking for Christians that are total Christians. Every area, whatsoever you do for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. What a statement. Paul said in Galatians chapter 2 and verse 24, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live, I live by the faith of the Son of God. You know what he's saying? Totality. All Christ. Have you come to the point in your Christian life where you say, you know, I'm just selling out and dedicating my whole life as Christ? At work, I'm working for Christ. Driving truck, I'm driving truck for Christ. School, I'm studying, it's all for God's glory. So it's not a call, it doesn't mean everybody ought to be in full-time ministry, as we call it. But it does mean full-time Christianity. Living for God. So, number one, the first thing I see, and I got it, and the first thing I see is the totality of the Christian life Totality of the Christian life, not trying to limit my Christianity to certain days or certain crowds I'm with or certain circumstances I find myself in. But 24-7 Number two, I notice the testimony of the Christian life. Come back real quickly. Bear with me. And whatsoever ye do, in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's my testimony As believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, we bear the name of Jesus Christ. As a disciple, I'm bearing the name. I'm identified as a follower of Christ. And that's my testimony at all times, everywhere, as a believer. I'm a testimony of who Christ is and what he is. The word Christian was given by unbelievers, enemies of Christianity in Acts chapter 11. They gave the name Christian to the believers as a mocking them and it's a derogatory term. Oh they're the word Christian means little Christ. Oh they're little Jesus is Oh, there go those little Christrais, those Christians. They were making fun of them. They were ridiculing them. You know what those New Testament Christians did? They owned it. They said, yeah, thank you. That's what we want to be. We want to be like Christ. We want people to see how I work and how I talk and how I live and behave. And I want them to think of our Savior. And see Christ's influence in my life. Remember when the disciples say they took note that they had been with Jesus. Would to God Oakland would see members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and say there's something Christian about them. I see Christ in them. Their behavior and their attitudes. Their treatment of one another. The believers, New Testament believers claim that name. If there's anything in my life that cannot be associated with the name of Jesus Christ, it's sin. Do you get that? If there's anything in my life that cannot be identified and associated with Jesus Christ, it needs to go. I was a boy, I worked as 12 years old, I started working I think it was before 12, 10 years old, I started working on a farm with my dad's cousin, Danny Leatherman. It's a milk farm. We had 42 cows we milked every morning, every night. Uh if you don't know anything about dairy farms, you've got to do it every morning, every night. And uh I worked there for a little while and got got known a little bit and they learned to trust me. Uh took a while they learned to trust me. And I was about 12 years old one time, and he needed tons and tons of some sort of grain. I don't remember, but he dropped me off at the grain mill. And he had to go do some stuff. He said, Danny, he called me Danny. He said, Danny, go in there and order X number of grain, whatever it was. I mean it was thousands of dollars worth. It was a huge order. I'm twelve years old. I go in there, I got the little paper, look up over the thing. What do you want? I need to order, and I gave the order, whatever it was, all this grain, da-da-da. And it's for Danny Leatherman on his account. Oh, okay. They went and got the order together and made it. Oh, it'll be delivered and had me sign something there. Twelve years old. I didn't have any authority. I didn't have any of that. But you know what? I was operating in the name of Danny Leatherman. Not in my own. What if I had gone on there and said, I want $750 worth of Twix candy bars? And uh some Dr. Pepper and beef turkey and all of that. Uh I would have had a bad testimony for Danny, right? Operating in his name, that would have been bad. We laugh at that, but that's what Christians do all the time. We go around, we're name, we're Christians, we're identified with Christ, but then we go and behave in ways that bring shame to the name of Christ. Do you follow what I'm saying? So number one, a totality of the Christian life. Number two, the testimony. And let me end with this, the thanksgiving. Look at the last part of that verse. Giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. Giving thanks to God. What does it mean to give thanks? What is thanksgiving? It means to be grateful. Do you ever try and define that? I was working on it this week. How do you define what being grateful is? To appreciate something that has been done for you or given to you, to express appreciation for it I think this, this was kind of my take on it, but to be grateful and have thanksgiving means I value what was done for me. Oh, thank you. I value that deed, that act, that gift. I'm grateful for it. It means something to me My Bible says, and did you notice in Colossians? We read it several times, with Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving, Thanksgiving. You know, God's been anybody here God been good to you? That's been good to me. The greatest thing, unspeakable gift, is that He would give me eternal life, save me from going to hell You know how many people are in hell today that would wish so badly they'd have trusted Christ. You and I have had that opportunity. You and I are secure and safe. God's been awfully good to us. Do we value that? Is it significant to us what God has done? Or is it say, oh yeah, I had a lady I gave her a track, she goes, I'm already saved. So praise the Lord With thanksgiving to God. Now this I'm I'm going to summarize what I my notes are. You know what living the Christian life, you know what the basis of living the Christian life is? Well I gotta live the Christian life so I don't lose my salvation. No, no, no, that's not the basis. Well, so God accepts me. I've got to live right or God won't accept me No, no, no, that's not it. You know what the base of the Christian life is? The basis of the Christian life is gratitude to God because He has already saved me. Appreciation for he has already accepted me in Christ. I was visiting a home down off of Sandflat years ago. I went in, there was a cult there, was sitting, I just happened to show up and they were doing a Bible study, this cult. And I got in there, I saw they invited me in, so oh come in, we're having a Bible study. I walked in, they introduced themselves, bingo. I knew who they were, where they're from. And we got talked a little bit. And so I thought, I'm going to give the gospel. I'm going to get the gospel in here. One way or another, I'm giving the gospel. So I just kind of took over the conversation. And I just went through the Romans Road, and I tried to do it appropriately, but I went through Romans Road, told them how to be saved. That we're saved by grace through faith. Period And I'm telling you, that boy that fella sitting at the table, they were sitting at the table there, he had his Bible out. And I'm telling you, something triggered him. And he took that Bible and he picked it up. He says, if I'm just saved by faith in Jesus Christ, and he slammed the Bible down, he says, why do I read that Bible at all? He was ticked. I said, I don't know why you read the Bible, but I read it because that's God's love letter to me from my Savior. Who saved me from sin in hell. See the difference between working your way for salvation and being saved by grace, the Christian life for those saved by grace is a life of gratitude to God. For always done. Say, preacher, why do you go out soul winning? Because I'm so grateful that God saved me. Say, preacher, why do you read that Bible so much? Because God saved me, and this is his love letter. I'm so thankful for all he's done for me. You follow- see the difference? We're not doing this to be saved We're doing it because God's been so good to us and we love him and we thank him for what he's done for us. Anybody see the difference? The basis of the Christian life is not some legalistic demands that's over our head and we'll be beat into hell if we don't do it. Oh, we trust Jesus Christ as Savior. He gives us a whole new nature. Because what you've done for me, I put these things off and I take these things on. I live for the Lord out of gratitude to him. Remember when Jesus healed those ten wet lepers? And nine of them walked off, but one came back. You know what the difference was? One was grateful. The others weren't. That's the Christian life. Thank you, Lord. And he fell down. He gave glory to God. That's the Christian life Thankfulness is the basis of living for the Lord. Number one, the totality of the Christian life Is your Christianity a Sunday morning go-to-meeting Christianity? Or is it Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, 24-7, 365? That's what God's looking for. Don't categorize your Christianity Then the testimony of my Christian life. I'm operating in the name of Christ. You know, you and I are the only representatives of Jesus Christ on this planet. Believers, there's nobody else is a representative of this world of Christ. No more ambassadors other than us. We're it. And number three, thanksgiving. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we ask you to help us. And take these thoughts, I pray, Lord, from your word and help us get a hold of these and live for you. Lord, maybe some of us this morning need to just decide that we're going to be 24-7 Christians, total Christians. Not checking out when we get to work or school, checking back in when we get to church, but just for real, unashamed, 24-7. Lord, some of us maybe need to watch our testimony a little more. This world knows they're watching. And Lord, some of us need to just decide to be grateful on purpose. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I want Christ to be 24-7, Lord of my life? Any like that? I want to have preeminence. 24-7. At home? At church, work, school, anywhere, play, whatever. God bless you. Hands all around. That's what he's looking for. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I've got to work on my testimony I've got to work on my testimony. I'm operating in the name of Christ. And I need to work on that. Any like that by the uplifted hand preacher, there's some things there I've got to be careful. I need to give attention to. God bless you And how about Thanksgiving? I've never been satisfied with my level of gratitude. It's never been adequate. I wonder how many say, preacher, I have God to quit complaining and griping. And grouse and mad and fussing. I need to be thankful. Any like that, uplifted hand, I've got to start being grateful. God bless you. You say, oh, but our country. Oh, but a pandemic. Oh. Ah, God's greater than all of that God's goodness outweighs all of those nonsense. Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. See, I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm saved. I want to know Christ saved me. Is there anything like that? Uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me also. God will help me get that settled. Any at all, I need to be saved. Father, bless our invitation time now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James