Luke chapter six. Verse thirty-eight is our text for this morning, and I think I heard you all reading that together when you got there. So we'll not do that now, but uh let me just read through. It's our memory verse for the month But I want to preach on this verse this morning, and perhaps in uh in the coming weeks we may look at it. But again it says this give and it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down and shaken together and running over shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye meet, withal it shall be measured to you again. I want to speak this morning on the subject of giving. The subject of giving. Let's pray together. Father, we ask now your blessing on the preaching of your word. So grateful for the church house and just the privilege to come together freely. The freedoms we have, and Lord, just the sweet spirit and the the joy of being around your people. And Lord, the music has blessed my heart and the fellowship has blessed my heart. I ask now you would use your word to challenge us, particularly in this matter of giving. I ask, Lord, you'd help me to be true to your word. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and with all my heart I ask, Lord, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and you speak through me. And that you would challenge us in this matter this morning, this subject. And Lord, I believe with all our heart, if we get a hold of this, that we'll be happier Christians, and we'll be growing Christians. So please, Lord, again help me be true to your word and honor you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I heard about a fella that uh they were at church, he had the family at church, and they're driving home after the service And Daddy was complaining about everything that took place at the service that morning. He said the music was too loud, the sermon was too long. The announcements were unclear, the building was hot, the people were unfriendly, and he just went on and on and on and found fault with everything that took place in the service that morning. Finally, his boy sitting in the backseat listening to all of this, and by the way, the kids do listen to that, finally his son said this, Dad. But you have to admit it wasn't a bad show for only a dollar And as I said, I want to speak on a subject that I'll be honest with you. I don't preach on a whole lot. Folks have been around here. I haven't preached on a whole lot. My um I think we have a very giving church. I really believe that. I've experienced that all these many years we've been here. The church has been tremendous. uh in giving and particularly to missions and projects and things like that. So this message is not a trying to correct something, but this message is simply a Bible message And the Bible is filled from beginning to end with passages instructing God's people to give. And I found that nearly every every instruction, every verse, every reference that is instructing us to give comes along with a promise of God. And so that's my approach this morning. This passage here that we're looking at is actually Luke's inspired account of the Sermon on the Mount. You go to Matthew chapter 5, 6 and 7. You have the expanded Matthew's inspired version of the Sermon on the Mount, but this is Luke's And uh he touches on a number of things. Now, when we look at this passage and we consider the Sermon on the Mount, I always try and point this out. The Sermon on Mount, and this message that the Lord is giving here, as it was initially given, was not given to unsaved people. This is not an evangelistic passage from Scripture. This is not a plan of salvation when we look at this whole section here, this whole context. He is not giving the way to be saved. Other passages in Scripture tell us very clearly how to be saved. And by the way, the most important issue in life is knowing for sure that my sins are forgiven, that I'm going to go to heaven, not to hell when I die, that I have eternal life And I want to throw this out right at the beginning. You can give everything you have. Your giving will not save your soul. You cannot buy heaven. We cannot buy forgiveness of sins. We cannot buy eternal life. The Bible is very, very clear. Forgiveness of sins, eternal life, a home in heaven, is a gift that God gives to us. He paid the price. He fulfilled the demands of our salvation. We simply by faith receive it from the Lord Jesus Christ So we want to be very, very clear right up front that we are not that this is not an evangelistic message. It is not telling people how to be saved. This is preached to disciples, folks who have accepted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. This is to folks who not only have accepted Jesus Christ as their personal Savior But they've come to the point in their life where they made a decision, I don't want to just be a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. I want to be a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that really is what a disciple is. Jesus had given some very clear qualifications, requirements to be a disciple. One of those was that we were to deny ourselves Take up our cross daily and follow him. And so that's the audience that is being addressed. These are people who are committed to the Lord Jesus Christ. These are people who have more than just believed on them, but have yielded their life to him, say, I want to live for the Lord. I want my life to be the life that God intends for it to be. I want to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's who's being addressed. And so when the Bible talks about giving, the subject of giving, it is always addressed to God's people and to those of God's people who are committed to live for Him and serve for Him. Proverbs talks several places about the offerings of the wicked, of unsaved people. And again, we cannot buy our salvation. So he's addressing folks that are saved. This message is really Jesus discipling his disciples. And he comes down through here and he's saying something basic like this. If you claim to be my disciple, you claim to be a follower of Jesus Christ, you claim to be someone who has committed your life to the Lord Jesus Christ, then this is how you're going to live This is how disciples live. This is how disciples behave. And if you look with me at verse 21, and actually all the way down through verse 35, we won't take time to read that But he is addressing two subjects there. He's addressing the attitudes of disciples. And uh he gets up there, he says, Blessed are ye. Blessed are ye that hunger now, for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now ye shall laugh. Blessed are ye when men shall hate you, and when they'll separate you from their company. He goes on down through here. Again, we could go over to Matthew and he expands on a little bit more But he's addressing the matter of the attitude of a disciple. Do you know a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ I want to say has, I'll say it this way, should have a different attitude than the world does. And people agree with that. Christian ought to have a different attitude than the world does. On the job, the Christian ought to stand out, not just in their appearance, but also in their attitude. Well, that guy's got a great attitude. Boy, that guy, you know, he there's something different about his attitude. And the Lord Jesus Christ addresses that. And as disciples, the Lord Jesus Christ, we ought to have godly attitudes. We ought to have these types of attitudes. But then he also addresses the subject of adversaries Did you catch that? I read it a little bit there in verse number twenty-two. Blessed are you when men shall hate you. And he actually spends quite a bit of time, quite a portion of scripture here Addressing how a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ responds to those who are adversaries, those who would oppose us, those who would mistreat us, those who say hateful, untrue things about us. He says a disciple responds differently to that than what an unsaved person does, or maybe a carnal Christian does. He says, love your enemies. How many people agree with me? Christians should respond to adversaries differently than the world does. Sure. What's the world's response? Somebody hates me. The world's response is what? Hate them back. Somebody's rude to me, I'll be more rude back to you. Somebody uh treats me disrespectfully, I'll treat you even more disrespectfully. That's the world's mentality But he says, as a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, we treat our adversaries, we respond to our adversaries differently than what the world does. We love our enemies. We do good to those that despitefully use us. We pray for and bless those who curse us. We don't curse back. We don't respond in kind. Verse thirty seven, he talks about um uh judgment of others. Look at verse thirty seven. Judge not that you be not judged, condemn not, that you be not that and ye shall not be condemned. Forgive, and it shall be forgiven. Now he's not saying we shouldn't use discernment. He's talking about bringing condemnation on others. So he's addressing disciples, folks who have been saved. Trust in the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, and they say, I want to live for the Lord. I want to be what I ought to be. And then verse 38, he gets to the disciples giving. Now, for some people, this is a little touchy subject Oh, I heard a read where one preacher made this statement. He says, the most sensitive nerve in the whole body is the one that runs from the heart to the wallet. And I found that to be true. This is a this touchy subject. We had a fellow, this was years ago, he had visited our church. He only came one time and I knew him outside the church. I still know him and and he's a decent guy But he came to one service, I think it was an Easter service back in the late 1900s, back in the previous century. He came to one service and uh afterward he told somebody, somebody came and said, Hey, so-and-so was at your church. I said, Yeah, it was great. And they said, well he wasn't real excited. I said, what happened? He says, all you did was beg for money the whole time I said, wait a minute. All we did was pass an offering plate around. But you know what? He left. That's all he saw. That's all he saw. And so sometimes this matter of giving and matter of finances is a little touchy with people. But the fact of the matter is, as I said early on, the Bible talks about giving all through Scripture. And God gives some very specific instructions to his people concerning giving. Now look at verse number 38. I'm not going to get, I broke this down into three points. We're only going to get to the first point this morning And all God's people said, Amen for that. But um I want us to notice first of all, and this is what we'll all we'll look at this morning, is the precept that is given here. The precept that is given. What's the very first word? Say it to me. What's the first word? Give. I circled that word in my Bible. That's the precept. The Lord Jesus Christ is preaching, is teaching his disciples, and there's a good-sized crowd of them And he says to them very simply, give. Now I use the word precept to describe what he's saying here. The word precept itself is a simple word. It simply means this, directions, or instructions, or a directive. Anybody here work someplace and from up from management a directive comes down? Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's instructions. This is the way we're going to have. We're telling you what to do. You could say it's a command Now, as I'm studying the Bible, and I'm looking at what the scriptures say, I find nowhere in the Bible does God suggest to his people that they should give. I don't find anywhere in Scripture where God simply encourages his people to give. When God addresses the subject of giving, as far as his disciples, his people are concerned It is an instruction. It is a precept. He's given us instructions. Give, and it shall be given unto you. God expects his people to give. And he expects his people to give generously. In fact, he instructs us to give and give generously all through Scripture. I got saved on May 7th, 1979. The age of 19, the day after my 19th birthday, and you all know the story. I spoke last night at a banquet and the nice thing was none of them ever heard my testimony and I got to give my whole testimony again and nobody thought it was weird that I keep saying it over and over again. That was such a blessing. But shortly after I got saved, I mean with we within weeks after I got saved. My dad took me aside one evening and he was so thrilled that I gotten saved and it was it was just an exciting time in life And he says, um he says, son, I want to teach you something that God has taught me I've learned from Scripture on this matter of giving. And he pulled me aside and he had a little area in the house area desk and kind of his study area and he did his work, his paperwork and things. And he pulled out the drawer and he says, this is how I do it, and this is what God has blessed. He says, I get my paycheck whenever. Says and uh he dealt with cash back in the day a lot. And uh so he would cash his check and he had a whole series of envelopes in the drawer there. And each envelope had a something written on the front of the envelope. Various bills, mortgage, different things like that. And he says, when I get my check, he says the very first thing I do is I cash my check, the very first thing I do is I take out my tithe from my the gross check, the overall check. I take out my tithe and put in there. He said that's the very first quote unquote bill that gets paid. My tithe to the Lord. Then he had a faith promise. And he said, the very next day I put in there what my faith promises. Then he had a couple other giving. He says, then from that, then I break down uh the rest of the bills, what the money goes and And how it's budgeted. And what he was teaching me was very, very early on in my Christian life, my daddy was teaching me from Scripture the importance of giving. The importance of giving. And I certainly, and I think you understand that you understand my motives here in saying this, but from the beginning of my salvation 19 uh 79, however many years ago, 30 whatever years ago that was, 38 years ago. 39 years ago, 39 years ago. From the very beginning, God taught me the importance of giving. Let me put it this way: God taught me the blessing of giving. And I'll be very, very honest with it, with a few exceptions, where there was periods of time where things got tight, with few exceptions, I never struggled with this matter of giving. There's a few times in these 39 years where things got tight and I would be like, oh man. And I maybe struggled a little bit, but I said, no, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to do what God says. I'm going to be faithful in my giving. And I've done that. And I'm here to tell you today, and there's people all across here who could testify the same thing. God has been faithful. God has been faithful. And so Daddy taught me the importance of a Christian, a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, following God's precept. of giving to the Lord and giving generously. And so that's the precept given to us here. Now I want you to write down three things. And I don't I don't think I'm going to be long here, but I never I never think I'm going to be long But I want you to jot a few things down about this precept of giving that might be helpful for us. If you would jot this one down, maybe in the margin of your Bible somewhere or just somewhere that you can take it with you And I think it'd be very, very helpful. Number one, jot this down. Giving is godly. Giving is godly. Giving is godly. Now, what do I mean by godly? Let's say we have a Christian. Let's say we have a Christian And we look at that Christian, we look at their life, and we say this. That Christian is very worldly. Now, what do we mean by that when we say they are worldly? What do we mean by that? Alright, they love the world more than they love God. That's a good definition. What else would we say? They are worldly. They are come on, talk to me. What's that? They're behaving like the world. What'd you say, Laura? They're living like the world. Here's what I was looking for. They are like the world. They're behaving like the world. They think like the world thinks. They act like the world acts. They behave like the world acts. A worldly Christian. Follow what I'm saying So if we say somebody is godly, what are we saying? They think like God thinks. They behave to some extent like God behaves They love maybe the way God loves. And so my point on this, my thought here behind this is that when we give as God instructs us, we are behaving like God behaves. When we give and we give generously, we are acting like God acts. How many folks here, God has ever given you anything? Raise your hand. How many folks here? Alright, that's the majority of people. Fact is, God has given us everything we have. God has given us, I wrote a list down of things the Bible says that God gives to us. Think about this. Number one, I put this one down. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his what? Only begotten Son. How many of you agree with me? That's pretty generous. Good heavens gave his son to die on the cross. God gave that. God gave that to us. And again, I want to reiterate here Salvation, eternal life, is not something I earn, it is not something I deserve, it's not a reward for living a certain way, it is not a reward for Some works I do. Salvation is a gift that God gives to mankind that is received by repentance and faith. I turn to the Lord Jesus Christ, trust Him as my Savior. But God gives that to us. Listen, if God never gave us anything else, but He gave us the opportunity to be saved, He's been awfully generous to us. Am I right or wrong? Come on, talk to me this morning. When we give, we're acting a lot like God acts because God gives to us. He gives us eternal life I put this reference down, Acts chapter 17, verse 25. And we won't take time to turn all these. I would really like to. But in that passage it tells us that he gives to all life Gives to all life. How many folks here you produced your own life? We can't. Man cannot produce life. Man can't create life. But the Bible says that God has given to all of us life. Life is a very, very precious thing. Life is very, very valuable. And God gives that to us. That's one factor that makes abortion so wicked. Regardless of the circumstances, that is a life that God has given. And to snuff that out and take that away before they ever have a chance to even live is a is a terrible, terrible thing. But God has given to us life. I've heard people say over the years, oh, I wish I'd never been born. I'd say 99% of the time they don't really mean that It's an overreaction. Oh, I wish I'd never been born. In fact, the matter is, I'm glad I've been born. God's been good to me. This life, you know, it has its ups and downs. There's valleys, of course, there's tough times. But man, life is a wonderful, wonderful thing. And God has just given this to me. I didn't earn it. I didn't I he gave me life. He gave me life. When we give, we're a lot like God. We're behaving a lot like God behaves Uh 1 Corinthians chapter 3 verse 7 says that God gives to us spiritual growth. Spiritual growth. How many folks here like me, you would like to think you're a little stronger Christian now than when you first got saved? How many people would like to believe that? Sure, I'd like to believe that's true. So where did the spiritual growth come from? Where did the spiritual development come from? Where did this spiritual understanding come from? The Bible says it's a gift that God gives to us God helps us grow. We're not going to get before God. We're not going to stand at the judgment seat of Christ as Christians and the Lord judges us how we lived our lives as Christians and say, Yeah, Lord, I really performed for you. Boy, I really lived a good Christian life. You know what we're going to do? We're going to fall before him and say, Lord, anything good that came out of my life, you did it. You gave it to me. Any soul that was saved through my witness, Lord, you're the one that did it. Anything that I, any spiritual growth on my part was because of you. Our God is a giving God. He gives and he gives and he gives. Let me give you some more things listed here that he gives. In 1 Corinthians 15, 57, it says he gives us victory. Victory over sin. When I first got saved, I had so much sin and drugs and alcohol and all that goes along with that, and my life was a disaster. And I wanted so badly to be free from that. I wanted to have victory of that, and I tried and tried and I grit my teeth and I make resolutions and I could not conquer my sin. And that night, that wonderful night, and I bowed by my bed, I trusted Jesus Christ the Savior, and God gave me victory. God gave me victory. That was something God did for me. I'm telling you just the fact that he took all that off of my back. Oh, what a wonderful, wonderful God And there's people all across here who could stand and testify, God took cigarettes from me, God took liquor from me, God took this from me, God gave me victory over that. Am I right or wrong? All cross here. People could testify what God has done for you. I'm here to tell you, you're a Christian, you're struggling with sin. God can and will give you victory if you'll trust him and follow his instructions. All across here, folks, can testify to that. God gives, and he gives, and he gives, and he gives. 1 Timothy 6, 17, God gives us richly all things to enjoy. We were down preaching in New Zealand, as you know, we just got back from that, and we're flying over these majestic snow-capped mountains down there. And I look at all that and I said something to Brother Fox who was there, and I said, you know, I have a hard time believing that God created all this And that he doesn't expect us to look at it, enjoy it, and appreciate it and all that. And I come across this verse, he gives us all things to enjoy. You know, we have a beautiful, beautiful part of the world that you and I live in. You know, we ought to enjoy this And look at that sun and look at the mountains and get out along the streams and just say, God, you're amazing, God, that you would give all of this to us to enjoy. In fact, it makes me want to go fishing right now I don't know if anybody here is uh I'm way off track now, but uh I don't know if anybody here has ever caught a little brook trout in a stream in early spring or late fall, and the colors of that brook trout And the beauty of that little fish that God created, He's made all that for us to enjoy in a frying pan and um with French fries Where'd all that come from? God gave it to us. God gives it to us. I'm trying to convince you that God is a giving God. And He gives and He gives and He gives and He gives. Of all people, we ought to be so thankful. We ought to be so grateful for all that God gives to us. He gives us all things to enjoy. James 1:5 says that He'll give us wisdom. Any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, listen to this, that giveth to all men liberally, and upgrade it not. In other words, he doesn't hold back. Anybody here uh uh anybody here ever happened to make a good decision? I have a few in my life. Look back, hey, that you know, you're pretty smart, Leatherman. That was pretty good. You know where that wisdom comes from? God gives it to us. God gives it to us. And if we lack wisdom, we can come and ask Him, and He'll give it to us very generously. Very liberally. I no doubt, crowd this size, I'm talking to some folks, you've got some decisions coming up, and you're not sure what to do. I'm confident. I'm talking to some folks. You say, preacher, I don't even know. I don't know what the right thing to do is. You know what I would suggest to you? You get on your knees and you seek the Lord and ask God to give you wisdom. And God will lead you. God will directly. He surely will. And he'll use his word. So God gives us wisdom. He gives us all things to enjoy. He gives us life. James 4, 6, He gives us more grace. He gives us more grace. Anybody here, now be honest, I won't tell anyone. Anybody here, since you got saved, you messed up a little bit at some point ever. Anybody here? A little bit? You know what I found out? I can come back and God always has more grace. I can confess that sin, turn from it, forsake it, and God gives more grace and more grace and more grace. I tell you, sometimes our old sinful nature can be a little overwhelming. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You just think, man, how in the world could I ever think that? What in the world? What's how did that and yet God is so gracious. And so merciful. And he gives us more grace and more grace. And by the way, we are saved by grace and we stay saved by his grace. It's not me living a certain light way to keep me saved. It's all the grace of God. It's all the grace of God. And then I put down one other one here. 1 Peter 4. 11. The Bible says that God gives us our abilities. All the various talents and gifts we have, the folks up here in the musical instruments and the uh fellas singing And uh the choir and the special music and people that are able to teach and the uh the the workers, guys can build things and make things and you ladies can cook incredible meals. I keep talking about food. I'm very, very hungry. So where do we get these gifts from? Where do these talents and these abilities come from? Well, I'm just naturally gifted. Yeah, you're naturally gifted, all right. God gave it to you. And any ability that we have, any gift that we have, it's a gift from life. I tell you one thing I appreciate about Brother Williams, and I do appreciate more than one thing But uh one thing I appreciate about Brother Williams is when he does those drawings, anybody agree with me he's getting better. Ah man alive. And uh one thing you talk to him, and he said this to me so many times over these years, he'll say something like this, Brother Letterman, I don't understand it. He says, I I step back and look at what I've done, and I'm just amazed. And he says, it is God. It is God has put that in me. He says, it is not me. And I tell you, I appreciate that attitude on his part. It's not, hey, look how good I am. So look how great God is. And He would give me this ability. So God gives us these things. You say I'm a self-made man. That's a lie of the devil God has given us these abilities. God has given us these talents. God has given us these gifts to be able to do what we do. So I said all that and gave that whole list to say this. When you and I give We are to some degree behaving the way God behaves. Because God gives, and God gives, and God gives. Giving is godly. Giving is godly. Write this down, number two. Giving is growing. Giving is growing. When I give as God directs And there's some clear instructions in Scripture, and I'm not preaching on tithing necessarily. God very clearly teaches tithing. Somebody asked me one time, is why do we why Why is tithing 10%? Where do we come up with tithing is 10%? I said, well basically because the word tithe means ten percent. It's really pretty simple. We're not talking about tithing necessarily. That would fall under this subject. We're not even talking necessarily about our faith promise giving. I believe 1 Corinthians 8 is very, very clear. on giving to missions and other passages, Philippians other passages, very clear, on giving specifically to missions. And these would all fall under that, but I'm just talking about giving in general Just whatever it may be, and not limited to finances. Maybe giving of our time, giving of our resources, giving of our efforts, our abilities to people, or whatever, however God directs us. However, God leads us, when we do that, that promotes spiritual growth. I grow spiritually. It develops the strength of my faith. My faith gets stronger. I know, I've I've talked to many of you, I know uh there's folks here this morning that God at some point when things were tight financially and the and the budget was low, the finances were low And God stirred your heart about giving and you struggle with it, but you said, I'm going to trust God. He's promised to meet my needs. I'm going to follow his instructions and gave. And I know there are all across here people that said every time God came through and met my need and my faith in God got stronger. My faith in God got stronger. And I can testify that same thing. That same thing. It promotes spiritual growth. It strengthens our faith. Would you take your Bible? I'd like to turn to two passages One, if you would, turn to Matthew chapter 6. Not far away. We're in Luke. Go back towards the front of your Bible to Matthew. Chapter 6, again, is Matthew's inspired version of the Sermon on the Mound. And verse number 21, just a simple statement. It's familiar with a lot of us, but it tells me something. Matthew six twenty-one. Now let's work let's look at verse nineteen. Let's set the context here. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth Where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, nor thie were And and where things do not break through nor steal. Now look at this. Look at verse twenty-one. I have this highlighted in my Bible. For where your treasure is, there will your what? Heart be also. You know what that tells me? That I what I invest in is something that I highly value What I invest m in. Sometimes people buy a house. Life and I just recently bought the house. We're investing some money in that. You know what? It's important. It's valuable. I think owning a house is a good thing. I think people are able to do that. I think the Bible supports that. That's a good thing. But what I'm trying to say is this, what we give or invest in, what we invest in, what we give towards becomes very, very important to us. I found out something. Owning a house is a lot different than renting a house. Suddenly all this is, whoa, I need to be careful here. I need to watch out about this. Anybody? Can I get a witness? Y'all are looking at me so pious. All of a sudden now it's mine. And you know, when I learn to give, when I learn to give, maybe to the Lord's work, I give as God instructs me and God directs me. Suddenly my love for the Lord grows. When I give, maybe a give significantly to the Lord, suddenly the Lord might that becomes a much more greater value, much more greater treasure. You follow what I'm trying to say? Come back to Proverbs chapter 3. He touches on it again there a little bit. Proverbs chapter 3, one of my favorite chapters in all the Bible. Proverbs chapter 3. Of course, we're familiar with verse 5 and 6. We just memorized verse 5 last month. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not into thine own understanding. And all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Then you get to verse 7, and he touches on this matter of giving. Proverbs chapter 3, verse 7. Be not wise in thine own eyes, fear the Lord, and depart from evil, and it shall be what? Health to thy navel and marrow to thy bones. So my question is, do you have a healthy navel? You're not talking about your physical health of your navel. Now you you o you oughta clean y never mind. He's talking about our spiritual well-being. He's talking about our spiritual health And then look at the very next passage in that context, fearing the Lord and departing from evil, it's health to my neighbor, marrow to my bones. Look at the very next Passage in that context, honor the Lord with thy substance and with the first fruits of thine increase. And so he is tying in my spiritual health with Separating from evil, fearing the Lord, but also honoring the Lord with my giving. Now, as I said before You're hard pressed to find instructions in the Scripture to give where God doesn't immediately give a promise to go along with it. Look at verse number ten. So shall thy barns be filled with plenty. And thy presses shall burst out with new wine. Now you know me well enough. You've been around, we've been together here long enough. You know I am not a prosperity gospel preacher. We do not subscribe to that. That is unscriptural. I am not one of what these called claim it, name it and claim it preachers. Oh, if you send $1,000 into the church, then you're going to get $10,000 back and God's going to make you rich. That is unscriptural. But I will say this. God promises that when we give, as he instructs us, that he will provide for us. That he will take care of us and we will grow spiritually. It'll make us stronger in our faith. And we could have hour-long testimonies, people standing up all around here, say, preacher. I gave to the Lord as God led me, and I saw God come through, and God met that need, and my faith in him became stronger and stronger and stronger. And so it promotes giving is growing. Giving is growing. There have been times, as I said, there's been times when things were tight financially for Kathy and I, but we learned to give anyway. And we found that God is faithful. God is faithful. I've never known anybody to grow spiritually by being stingy. I've never seen anybody say, boy, my faith is stronger in God. I've hoarded all my resources. I've never seen that at all. But I'm telling you, all across, I've met people all over this world that have said, you know, God led me to give this, God led me to give here, God led me to give of this. And God came through and met that need and provided. I ended up with more. I tell you, you want to know about God providing and giving, talk to Stuart Harvey. He's got stories how God has provided for him. Dale has testimonies all across here. And so many of us Could testify. God led me to give and God met that need, and God met that need. So giving, number one, is godly. I'm acting a little bit like God when I give. Number two, it's growing. My faith in God grows. My spiritual health grows. Let me give you the third one here real quickly. Giving is gain. Giving is gain. Again, back to our text. Give And the rest of it goes on and on to preach on this and a future message. Give and it shall be given unto you Then he goes on. He says this, good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over. Wow, that sounds like a pretty good deal to me Pretty good deal to me. Uh turn with me if you would to 1 Timothy chapter 6. First Timothy chapter six And verse number eighteen Verse 17, while you're getting there. 1 Timothy 6, I'll start reading verse 17. Charge them that are rich in this world. I put in the margin of my Bible, that's most Americans. Charge them that are rich in this world that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God. Who giveth us richly all things to enjoy? Verse 18, that they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute Willing to communicate, now look at this, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold of eternal life. I've found throughout Scripture when God instructs us, He tells us, if you will give as I instruct you, I will bless you for that. You will end up gain. Now it may not be financial gain, maybe spiritual gain, and maybe blessing. But I've found many, many, many times it is actually also financial gain. That God blesses and reimburses that over and above what we gave. How many times God laid on our heart to give something, maybe to a special missions project or to a building project or teens or something, and God laid on Kathy and I's heart to give something towards that and we think, oh man, that's a dent in the budget. And lo and behold, within a week or two, something comes in unexpected, something comes in we did not anticipate, and lo and behold, God provides over and above that. Several years ago, and this is a little personal, so I'll ask you to bear with me, but it's probably 10, 15 years ago, the beginning of the year, and I didn't spend any time on this But I felt led of God, we had some needs, I felt led of God to ask him for $10,000. And I said, Lord, we ask that we could get $10,000. And we kept our faith promise up, we kept our our tithe up, and we gave a couple other areas, and I kept watching every day. I tell you, start praying like that, going to the mailbox is exciting. And disappointing. You go out to the mailbox here. And I kept looking for one check coming in for $10,000. At the end of the year, I never did get one check that came in for $10,000. But we got looking at unexpected money that came in that we weren't planning on, wasn't part of our budget, and when we totaled it up, guess what it was? $10,000. God had provided. God had provided. I'm here to tell you, God keeps his word And he says when we I'm not I'm not I'm not prosperity gospel I'm not telling you oh you give and God will make you rich I'm not saying that at all but I am saying this it's impossible to outgive God what I'm trying to say. It's an old cliche, but it is absolutely true. It is impossible to outgive God. So giving is gain. Giving is godly. Giving is growing. I came across a little chorus. I could not find the music for it. I know nothing about it, but it caught my attention. It says this, and I don't I'm not going to try it saying it because I have no idea how it goes. But it goes like this. I started living when I started giving to Jesus I started living when I started giving to God. Pressed down, shaken together, running over, God's blessings on me. I started living when I started giving to God. That neat little chorus. I found that true. We had years ago as a Sunday morning. I did not preach on giving. I very seldom preach a message like this, and you know that's true. I preached a message, I don't know what it was, and apparently in the message I had referenced giving our tithe. At the time there was an older lady, she always sat right about in here, somewhere in this area here. She's with the Lord now many, many years ago. But uh after the service was over and everybody dismissed, she stayed sitting there. And so I would say goodbye to everybody and she was sitting there and I came back in, she passed Latherman, uh, can I talk to you? I said, sure, and I sat down beside her And she goes, Pastor Leatherman, I can't afford to tithe. And I said, well, you know, that's between you and God. And I said, you know, the Bible teaches that. I said, it's really faith. And so I said, listen, I'm not going to tell you what to do. I'll tell you what the Bible says, but that's between you and God. Jesus, well, I just can't afford it. I'm on a limited income. I'm on a She was on like Social Security or something. She goes, I'm on a very limited income. I need new furniture. And she goes, I have these different needs around the house. I just can't do it. I said, well, let me pray with you that God will meet your needs and God will direct you and God will give you wisdom. And so we prayed, and uh I just left it at that It's about a month later, I get a phone call from her. She says, can you come over to the apartment? She lived in apartments across 135 there She says, can you come over to the apartment for a little bit? I said, sure. And so I went over there and knocked on the door and she was beaming, ear to ear. Just beaming. And she goes, Pastor Lemon, I want you to come in and see what God did for me. I said, all right. Walked in there. And here she had all this brand new furniture. And she had all this stuff, I said, man, this is wonderful. Well what happened? She said, I started tithing. She said, I couldn't afford it. She said, but I just decided I'm going to trust God and I'm going to tr see if He won't provide for me. And she says, lo and behold, I was able to get this furniture, and I don't know how it all worked out. Yeah, I know how it all worked out. God took care of her, and God honored his word. And so giving, give, and it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over. And that is a Bible principle And it's for disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. I was reading about C. T. Studd. Anybody recognize that name? C. T. Studd. Great missionary to Africa, I believe. He was very, very wealthy. He was a cricket player. And when I saw him down in Australia, they were playing playing cricket. Totally confused. Made no sense to me whatsoever. But they're playing that game. He was very popular, very well known cricket player in England back in the years gone by. He received an inheritance which came to In our money, not the British money, in our money, about $150,000. This is the late 1800s. That's a chunk of money. All right, that's a chunk of money. He's a Christian. God laid on his heart. He sent a bunch to D. L. Moody, and D. L. Moody used that money to start the Moody Bible Institute back in the day. He sent a bunch to Hudson Taylor, missionary in China. And he sent a bunch out to various missionaries, and he kept a pretty good sized chunk. And I was trying to figure out what it would be in our day, but it would be be maybe fifty thousand dollars or whatever in our day. And he kept that for his wife. So that she would have something. If something would happen to him, she'd have a little money to fall back on. Now this is fifty thousand in that back in the day. And she made a statement to him. She says, in the Bible, the young man gave it all. Gave it all. And it pierced his heart, and he took the rest of it, and he sent it off to missions, and he gave his whole inheritance off to missions. Guess what happened? God called him to be a missionary. And he went to Africa his whole life. To serve God and bring people to Christ. And to this day, people are still being blessed and influenced by C. T. Stud's faith in God. Now here's what I'm trying to say. He gave, he gave, he gave. You say he got all that money back? No, he got a life back in return that had a profound influence on this whole world for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. So I don't know exactly how God may reimburse us. Could be various different ways. But I know this: when we follow the God's precept and we do what God says, God comes through every single time. And he will bless, and he will meet our needs, and he will honor his word. Amen? Now it may be giving of finances. It may be giving of my life as a Christian. Say, Lord, here I am. I'd give you my life to live for you and serve you. Maybe I was a missionary, maybe a young man would be a preacher. Young people be a missionary or anybody. In my life to serve God, I tell you, God blesses us back in so many ways. But this idea of giving, it's godly It's gain. And it's uh, what was the last one? It's uh it's growing. It's growing. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray maybe you'd take these thoughts. Lord, you know I'm not real comfortable preaching on this type of subject, but it's Bible. And you're so faithful in this matter. And I pray that maybe you get a hold of us, dear Lord, and stir us to be like you. And to trust you and our faith would grow. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there's some this morning that God may have spoken to your heart, not just in the area of finances. Maybe of time or abilities or efforts. Say, you know, I could use some of that. I could give some of that to the cause of Christ and for the to build the church and advance the gospel. And there's some area that maybe that God spoke to your heart this morning and said, preacher, pray for me, that I would be the kind of Christian, the giving Christian. that the Bible addresses and structs. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, God has spoken to my heart about giving. And again, not just finances, but some areas I could give. To the Lord and serve him. He's given so much to me. God bless you. Hands all around. And maybe you want to find a place at all this morning and say, here I am, Lord. I present this, myself, whatever. I present it to you. As a gift to you for all you've done to me. And I believe we'll see our faith grow. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I know my faith isn't all it ought to be. Sometimes I feel like my faith is so weak and I want God to strengthen my faith and help me grow and be strong in my faith. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I need God to help me be strong in my faith. God bless you, hands all around. Let's ask them. Ask him for that. Wisdom, all these things. He'll give it. He'll give it. Turning here this morning, say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I can't honestly say. I know for sure my sins are given on my way to heaven. You say I'm concerned about that. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I have eternal life. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. Is there any like that at all? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. Any at all? Now Father in heaven, bless our invitation time. Take these thoughts and these passages and stir us, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is playing the invitation. That's the time.