Appreciate Sandy singing that did a good job. It's kind of on short notice. I'd ask her if she would sing that song. Galatians chapter 2. A man rushed into his doctor's office and shouted, Doctor, doctor, I think I'm shrinking. The doctor calmly responded, now settle down. You'll just have to be a little patient. That was a good one, wasn't it? The boss asked his, uh you get two for one today. The boss asked his employee, do you believe there's life after death? The employees said, well, certainly not. There's no proof of it. The boss said, well, there is now. After you left yesterday to go to your brother's funeral, he came looking for you. Two in a row. Man, I'm gonna quit now while I'm ahead. Galatians chapter two, if you would notice with me, verse number twenty. I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison, if you will. Galatians chapter 2 and verse 20. Read it with me, would you? I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Won't you notice that last phrase? Who loved me. and gave himself for me. I want to speak this morning on glorious love. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless Father, thank you, Lord, for um uh the opportunity you've given us to be in the house of God today. What a blessing it's been. Lord, I feel like the music and the songs were especially uh uh um blessed of you and my heart's been stirred just if I hear these great hymns sung. Now as we look into your word, I pray that you would calm our hearts. God, I pray that you would help us push aside the Schedule for the week and the issues and things that are bothering us. And Lord, just open our hearts and minds to the truths presented here in this and other passages of Scripture. I ask God that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I surrender my will over to yours as much as I'm possible. possibly able to. I present my body anew to you, God, that you would fill me and speak through me and um have your way in our lives. Make this truth something that will help us. Maybe a turn point for some of us. And uh we ask your blessing on the message in Jesus' name. Amen. Paul says Who loved me and gave himself for me. Galatians chapter 2 and verse 20 is a key verse in all scripture I believe, those of us that know Christ as Savior, this verse would be a very good verse to commit to memory. At very least, underscored in our Bibles to some degree. For I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. I think in this one passage, God through Paul reveals to us the heart of Paul's Christian life and service. I believe this verse expresses the core of who Paul was as a Christian, of what he was as a Christian, what his Christianity was. I believe this verse captures. I don't believe there's another verse in all the New Testament that sums up what made Paul tick. This verse is what made Paul tick. For Paul, if I understand this passage correctly, how's everybody doing out there? Alright? Everybody okay? Good Everybody get good rest last night. Amen. Good. Praise the Lord. For Paul The Christian life was not something that he just worked up. You follow what I'm saying? It wasn't just a lifestyle that he could produce. For Paul, the Christian life was Jesus Christ, the Son of God, living his life through Paul. And that's what Christianity is. Somebody, it's impossible for someone just to say, all right, I'm going to be a Christian, I'm going to live the Christian life. You can be very religious You can go through the motions, but genuine biblical Christian life is Christ living his life through me. It is a supernatural life Now, faith, notice what he says, I'm crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, look at this, I live by the faith of the Son of God. In other words, it was his faith in God that enabled Christ to live through him. You say, preacher, how do I how do I get to that where it's true, where Christ is living his life through me? It's not me living, it's Jesus Christ in this body living through me. How do I get to that point? Well it begins at salvation. Faith in God. I trust Christ the Savior. The Holy Spirit of God moves in me. I'm in Christ. Christ is in me. And then by faith, I yield myself to him, and he lives through me, operates. through me. I am afraid that for many of us, our Christianity is little more than a lifestyle that we produce. I'm afraid that's true in a lot of even our good churches. You could, I'm afraid in a lot of our good churches, you could remove Christ and little or nothing would change. It just keeps going on the way it was. He's never been a part of it. Can I bring it home a little closer? I'm afraid in many of our lives You remove Christ from the equation, and very little about our lives would change. Maybe people at work would notice little or no difference. Family would be little or no different. Paul said, for me, the Christian life isn't something I'm living. It's not just some lifestyle I have. It's not just some behavior I've incorporated into my living. He said, it's Christ, a whole nother being living through me, the Son of God living through me. For I'm crucified with Christ. I'm out of the picture. Nevertheless, I'm alive. But Christ liveth in me. It's not me living, it's Christ living through me. I read about a woman, Ruth. Apparently this is a uh actual uh situation, event that took place. She's a 44-year-old stay-at-home mother of five in Pennsylvania. Apparently a pastor or someone was out doing door-to-door visitation came across Ruth. And they talked to her about church, and she said, informed them that she does not attend church, and they asked her, Why don't you attend church? And this was Ruth's answer. I am active in scouts with my daughters. My husband and I both coach teams, sports teams for our kids. I feel if we were involved in a church, that would just mean other commitments. Now listen to this. And I cannot say that the activities we have now model anything other than moral and uplifting behavior. So I don't see how church could add much to our lives. Now the first reaction is to criticize this woman But I think her statement is more a critical statement of the church than it is above about her values. I'm afraid what she's saying is this. Is that church as she saw it, I can't answer for her, but this is what it appears to me. Church, as she saw it, Christianity, as her experience with Christians, offered nothing more than the world of sports and scouts offered her. Christianity was nothing more than another activity. That is an indictment on our churches. One of two things is true. Either we do not have genuine Christianity Because I'm telling you, genuine Christianity has more to offer than boy or girl scouts has to offer. Genuine Christianity has more to offer than sports has to offer. Either we don't have genuine Christianity, if that is what she's saying is true, then either we do not have genuine Christianity, or we're failing to live out our Christianity in a Galatians 2. 20. sort of way. We're not living out the reality of it. It's us living up Christ living in us At the end of verse 20, Paul summarizing what the core of his heart here We're given a very concise statement of what Christianity is. That last phrase I've referenced it several times already in the message. He says, uh Life which I now live in a flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, here it is, who loved me and gave himself for me. Say, what is salvation? What is this whole idea of salvation? What is that about? It's the Son of God loved me and gave himself for me. That's Christianity. That's salvation. He loved me, gave himself for me. The core ingredients of genuine salvation. He loved me And gave himself for me. Now, if you notice very carefully, there's nothing said in there about church membership. Question, is church and church membership important? Sure. Is that part of salvation? No. Salvation is Christ loving me and giving himself for me. There's not a statement in there about baptism. Baptism has its place. Baptism is instructed by God in the proper time at the right place, the right candidates. But it's not what salvation is. Who loved me and gave himself for me. Two core ingredients. Now let's look at this. Particularly that one phrase is what I want to focus on who loved me. Speaking of Jesus Christ, he loved me. Yesterday we were down at the parade, uh, before the parade began, there was a number of us and we were giving out gospel tracts and we had this year, we use different tracts over the years and just things that try and uh appeal to people that they'd be willing to take accept it, maybe catch their curiosity or whatever. Yesterday we had these little, and we've had them around here for a while now, these little tiny booklets Has a smiley face on and says, smile, Jesus loves you. Anybody see that we have them floating all around here. I probably got a bunch in my pocket. I've got them all over the place. And um We were giving them out. And the interesting thing was, I'm trying to remember why I was telling the story, but um We were given these little smiley faces out, and people, when you see a smiley face, you can't help but smile. And the thing is, a lot of people would say this. Smiles. Oh yeah, I'm glad Jesus loves me. Oh yeah, I'm glad Jesus loves me. You go anywhere, you ask someone, does Jesus love you? Oh yeah, sure. We know that in our heads. We have that concept we are ready to agree with. But do we really understand what that means? That Jesus Christ, God's Son, loves me. I looked this word loved me. I looked that word loved up in Galatians 2. 20. A little background search on it and that definitions and whatnot. You know what I found out? That word loved there comes from that classic Greek word for love, agape. Now, if you've been around a Bible preaching church for any length of time, the angels of heaven are playing music. Well, I'm preaching. No, I'm teasing. If you've been around a Bible preaching church any length of time at all, you've heard preachers refer to agape love. How many folks have heard that? You're familiar with that? Fascinating word. It is the highest form of love in existence. It is the greatest type of love that exists. It is the most glorious love that's ever been expressed. Agape love. And it's simply this, and many of you there are thinking in your minds what the definition is. It is simply this, unconditional love. In other words, it is to be loved by someone, though I have nothing to offer them in return. Paul said, God who agape me, who loved me unconditionally. Paul is saying here that God loved Paul not for any inherent goodness of his own. Not that there was any loveliness of his own, not that there was anything in him that would attract God's love in and of Paul's self. There was no goodness in his own. It was simply because God is love that God loved Paul. And what's true of Paul is true for you and I. Say, oh yeah, Jesus loves me. That's not because I'm lovable. It's not because there's a not because I have anything to offer God. Stop and think about this for a moment. There is nothing you and I can offer to God that's going to benefit God in any way. He is complete in and of himself. There's nothing that I can add to God's enhance who and what he is. He just loves me. Loves me. God loves us because he is love. Not for anything we can do for God. 1 John 4. 19 says, we love him. Why? Because he first loved us. God didn't look down at man and say, there's a look at those people. They loved me so much. Boy, I loved them too. It's not the way it worked. I didn't look down at Dennis Leatherman. Oh boy, Dennis Leatherman loves me so much, I'm going to love him back. No. Didn't happen that way. God loves us when we hated him. God loved us when we despised him and took his name in vain, when we ignored his commands. When we rebelled against his instructions, he loved us. Unconditional love He loved me and gave himself for me. Don't fall into the devil's trap of thinking that you are unloved. Don't never think that. Well, nobody loves me. That's a lie of the devil. God in heaven loves you and I unconditionally. This glorious love of God, I want to give you a list of just things the Bible teaches about the love of God. Now, I'll be the first to admit, like the uh uh psalmist, uh like the songwriter said If I had the tongue of angels, I would fall short of declaring the love of God. The greatest orators that have ever stood behind Christian pulpits have fallen short in declaring the greatness and glory of God's love. So I have nothing to be able to in any way adequately exalt or proclaim the love of God. The only thing I can do is go to scriptures and say this is what God says of his love. The Bible tells us a good bit about the love of God. First of all, number one, this glorious love of God is an eternal love. An eternal love. I like Jeremiah chapter 31, verse 3. In fact, I read it about a week or two ago in my devotions, and every time I come across that, it stirs my heart. Jeremiah 31 and verse 3 says this. The Lord hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loved thee with an everlasting love. God says his love to the worst of sinners, his love is an everlasting love. Now let me ask you a question. If something is everlasting, when does it end? Never ends. Let me ask you another question. If something is everlasting, when does it begin? It has no beginning. Has no beginning and has no end. God's love for you and I Has no beginning and has no end. It is eternal. It has been forever and it will be forever. Without beginning or end. I got thinking about that. That means there never was a day when God decided to love me. He always has. There never was a time when God did not love Dennis Leatherman. There never was a time when God did not love put your name in there I have loved thee with an everlasting love. No beginning, no end. You know what that means? God never falls in love with anyone. Right? He's always been in love. You say, preacher, uh if you didn't know me ten years ago, God didn't love me then, hey, God loved you ten thousand years ago. In fact, before the foundation of the world, before God ever even began creating planet Earth. As the beginning of Genesis teaches us, before that ever happened, God still loved you individually, me. You say, how could he even know me about me back then? Because God is all-knowing. Before there was time, God loved you and I. I got thinking about that. You know, before the pyramids in Egypt were built. God loved you and me dearly. Before Columbus sailed the ocean blue in fourteen ninety two. Right? You just don't realize how smart your preacher is. Well I almost said while Noah was sailing across the ocean, while Columbus was sailing across the ocean. God loved you and I. Isn't that something? Uh there never was a beginning, there never will be an end. So God's love, when Paul says in Galatians chapter 2, he's stating in a capsule form what the core of his Christianity was. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live. It's not I that liveth, but Christ liveth in me. Life which I now live, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me. Who everlastingly loved me from eternity past, for all eternity, he loves me It's an eternal love. Not only is it an eternal love, but this love that God had for Paul and for us is a saving love. I do not, you cannot, it is impossible to separate salvation from the love of God. If it was not for the love of God, we would have no salvation. If God did not love us, I'm going to suggest that's impossible to even comprehend, but if God did not love us, every one of us would be burning in hell right now. It is the love of God that made it possible for man to escape the judgment of God, of the holiness of God, on our sin. It is God's love. That saves us from an eternity in the lake of fire. God loves us. His holiness condemns us His justice condemns us as sinners, but his love provides salvation for us. It's a saving love. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son. Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That great verse, that golden text of the Bible, begins with the love of God. It is God's love that makes salvation possible. Um, Romans 5. 8 But God commendeth his love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. It is the love of God that for that provides forgiveness for our sins The holiness of God, the justice of God, the righteousness of God condemns me As a sinner before a holy God, violating his law, as before his holiness, I have nothing to plead, I have nothing to cling to. I'm judged guilty. But the love of God. Stretches out his hands and provides salvation. God's love is an eternal love, it is a saving love. God does not want you to go to hell. Whoever may be listening, the statement of Scripture is clear. God loves you and does not want you to go to hell. The holiness of God condemns us to hell. The love of God provides an escape from hell. God does not want your life destroyed by sin. I think, and what we're saying is true, Brother Sandler, if a person doesn't get saved, they go to hell. If they die in their sins, they go to hell. But there's so much more to salvation than just escaping hell. God's love not only does not want me to go to hell when I die, but God loves me. He wants to remove the sins from my life, so the life that I live now Can be lived the glory of God and not be destroyed by sin. We see it on every hand. Some of us have lived as an unsaved person for maybe some of us for a good period of our adult life, and we know what sin does to the heart and soul of a man We know what living without God does to what we are and how empty that life is and how purposeless it is. And God loves man and he doesn't want him to live his life with an empty soul and a purposeless life and then die and spend eternity in the lake of fire. No, he loves him and he wants to Save him from an empty life and save him from eternity in hell. It's a sleeving love. It was not soldiers that put Jesus on that And it was not nails that held Jesus to that cross It was his love for you and I in providing a way for us to escape the judgment of God on our sins that kept him on that. cross. Listen, the man who walked on water is not going to be held on a cross by three, four little nails. The man who raised the dead is not going to be killed by a few soldiers. He loved us. And he willingly I like the picture in my mind, the crucifixion, as they're bringing Jesus up on Golgotha The hill called Calvary. And in my mind, I picture the soldiers, and they had done this tens of thousands of times. This was not unique for somebody to be crucified. The Roman soldiers had crucified tens of thousands of murderers and criminals and political prisoners and all types of things. So the fact the act of crucifixion was not unique But the crucifixion of Jesus Christ God's Son was unique. And I like to picture in my mind the other soldiers, uh the other prisoners and the others that are condemned to crucifixion Crucifixion, uh, I don't know about you. But when they're if they were putting me down on that cross about to put nails through my hands and my feet, I wouldn't just passively say, oh, sure, here you go I'd be kicking and screaming. I'd be grabbing for their eyeballs. I'd be kicking and scratching and punching and doing everything. They would have to hold me down. Can I get a witness? I see the thief on the right hand and the left hand. They're ch they're nailing them to the cross. And brother, they are fighting and cussing and screaming and doing everything they can as a last-stitch effort to escape this. But in my mind's eye. I see something different about the Son of God. I see them bringing him up there, tossing the crossbeam down. The Bible doesn't say this. This is This is sanctified Leatherman imagination. But I think it's in line with Scripture. I see them throw that crossbeam down. The two other soldiers are kicking and hollering and screaming and yelling. I see Jesus getting down on his knees And stretching himself out on that cross. I see the soldiers stepping back. What? He's letting us do this? Alright. Get the nails, get the mallet. He puts his hand out. He puts his hand out. The others are kicking and hollering and screaming and fighting. Jesus just stretches them out. You say, oh Come on. I tell you, I think there's scripture support for it. When they came to get him in the Garden of Gethsemane, did he fight back? Said, who are you looking for? Jesus of Nazareth. I'm him Why do you come up here with spears and soldiers? Every day I was in the thing in the marketplace. He was submissive to their Treatment of him from beginning to end. Why would you do that? He could have called 10,000 angels. You know why Because he loves us. And he doesn't want us to be judged for our sins. And so he says, I will be judged so they can be saved from the judgment. Of their sin. It's a saving love. A love that will pay whatever price is necessary to keep the one loved out of home. Number one, it's eternal love. Number two, it's a saving love. I put this down. Number three, it's an incomprehensible love. Turn with me for what just a few pages in your Bible back to Ephesians chapter 3. Ephesians chapter 3. And uh this whole section is incredible, but I just want to look at verse number 17, if you would. Ephesians chapter 3, verse 17. Now this is along the lines of what Paul is saying in Galatians 2. 20, but he elaborates here a little bit more. Look what he says, verse 17. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith. Doesn't that sound a little bit less? 220, I'm crucified because nevertheless I live yet not I but Christ liveth in me life which I now live by the faith of God that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith Look at this, that ye being rooted and grounded in love look at verse eighteen now. Now pay attention to the wording here. Pay close Close attention, may be able to comprehend. What does it mean to comprehend something? To understand it. Now look at this. May be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height and to know the love of Christ. Which passeth knowledge. He says, I want you to understand something. I want you to comprehend something. Then the next verse he says, which is beyond comprehension. He says in verse number 19, he says, I want you to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge. You know what he's saying here? We want to understand this love that God has for us that would motivate him to go to the extent he did to save my soul from hell. I want to know that, but it is so far beyond my ability to comprehend. It is so far greater than my mind's capabilities of grasping. This God's love towards me. John 3. 16, we're so familiar, puts it this way. There is one little tiny word in John 3. 16 16 that is explosively filled with meaning. For God so loved Why would God inject that little two-letter word in there? Why didn't he just say, for God loved the world? All he would have had is Say that one little word expresses the incomprehensibility of God's love. We put it this way. I love you so much. What are we saying? I don't have the words to express it So much. I've liked this illustration. I haven't used it lately, and it fits here so beautifully. When we were living in Colorado, our boys were very small. And And um our oldest son was sitting, uh we were doing something messing around. And uh he was sitting on my lap or something. We were in the living room of the apartment we were renting And somehow we got talking about um him loving me. I think dad brought it up somehow, but It got on and and so he says, Dad, uh and we're our apartment we lived in Boulder and just on the foothills of the Rocky Mountains. You could look out our front windows and you had the foothill And the snow caps in the back. It's just beautiful. He said, Dad, I love you. He's just like three or four. Dad, I love you from here to those mountains. I said, good night. Wow, that's a lot of loving son. Because I love you more than it. He said, I love you from here to the ocean. The o never saw the ocean in his life I mean at that point. And uh I said, here in the ocean, that's thousand, that's two thousand miles away. You love me that much? Yeah. So wow. Because I love you more than that. I love you from here to the moon. To the moon! Yeah. Wow. I don't know where he got this word. He said, I love you from here to infinity. I said, and beyond? I said, Woo. And he said this I love you so much. I love you more than I can even say. That's how much God loves you and I. He loves now. I don't think God loves us more than He's able to to express. He loves us more than we're able to comprehend. The love of God is an eternal love, a saving love, an incredible comprehensible love. I put this down, it's an unbiased love. There's no limit to the love of God. Skin collar does not exclude the love of God. Red and yellow, black and white, they are precious in his sight. Financial standing does not exclude someone from the love of God. God does not love the rich people more than he loves poor people. And God does not love poor people more than he loves rich people. Social standing. God loves these characters on occupying Wall Street just as much as He loves the people who run Wall Street. Huh? Trying to get politically charged here a little bit. There's no it's unbiased You say, Preacher, I've got an awfully dark past. Yeah, well if you knew most of the people in this crowd, you'd fit right in Myself included. See, I've got an awfully dark face. I don't see how God could possibly love somebody that's done the things I've done. Tell you what, God's love is unbiased. Sin does not exclude someone from the love of God. If sin excluded someone from the love of God, then nobody would be loved of God. Because all sinned. I had an ongoing discussion I mentioned this Wednesday night online with a fellow that was a friend of someone that was in our youth group in Indianapolis and somehow through a con series of events we got in this conversation. And he said, he was asking me about the type of people we would allow into our church. And he names some sins that are pretty grievous sins, according to Scripture. I mean, as about as condemned of sins you can find in Scripture. He said, would you let this type of person come to your church? I said, we let all sinners come to us. our church. Yeah, but what about this kind of sinner? I said that kind of sinner is just as welcome as the gossip is welcome. To come to our church, or as the hypocrite is, or as the liar is, or as the thief is, or as the blasphemer is. I'll keep on going down the list until I cover all of us in one way or another. We've all sinned and come short of the glory of God. Doesn't exclude his love. Now that does not mean he's okay with the sin. But he loves us. So it's an unbiased love. Number five, it's a purifying love. I'm running short on time. Quickly come over to Hebrews chapter 12 And I could just read this, but I really want you to see it. A purifying love. Now, I just made the statement that his love is unbiased. Regardless of our sin, regardless of our past, he still loves us. God loves us that way, but in his love for us, he does not want to leave us that way. Accepting sinners does not mean he's satisfied with them just staying the way they are. Follow what I'm saying? Look at Hebrews chapter 12, and I want to begin reading in verse number 5. Hebrews 12 and verse 5. And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children. My son. Despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. Look at this. Look at verse 6. Look at it. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. Look at this next phrase. And scourgeth. Every son whom he receiveth. Wow. The Bible says, and it re- and this is a repeat from Proverbs and other portions of Scripture mention this. God is saying, the one that I love, when there is in their life things that are destructive, things that are sinful, things that will hurt them. Hurt our relationship. I do not just let it be. I do not say, oh, well, I love them. It's fine that way. God intervenes in that life. God brings chastisement. And if necessary, He will bring scourging. To that life, to purify that life, so that person can have and be the very best that God intends for them to have and be God's love for sinners is not, do not misconstrue his love for sinners as an acceptance of sin. I had a conversation. I've had this conversation. I'll bet I wish I had well while I'm wishing. I wish I had ten thousand dollars every time I had this conversation. Might as well. was just a wish that just had a dollar every time. I'm not getting a dollar anymore and I'm getting ten thousand. Anyway. Conversation goes like this. If you don't live it, you're going to lose it Well, I don't believe in once saved, always saved. You accept Jesus Christ as your Savior and He saves you, but if you sin, you lose that salvation. Now, what is the basis of that argument? I want to suggest to you the basis of that argument that I can lose my salvation is not scriptural. It's not a scriptural basis for that argument. The basis for that argument is reasoning. And this is the reasoning. If a person gets saved and they are secure and they can never lose their salvation then that means they have a license to sin. If a person can get Saved and never lose their salvation no matter what, then they can go out and live however they want. They can go drinking and partying and rocking and rolling and dancing and carrying on and then go to heaven and God's okay with it. And so they say, I don't believe. Once saved, always saved. But they miss a key Bible teaching. Once a person is saved, the Bible is very clear they can never lose that salvation. But that is not a license to sin. Hebrews chapter 12 is very clear that when I trust Christ as Savior, I become a child of God. He becomes my father. Before I'm saved, the devil is my father, John 8. 44. Once I trust Christ, I am a child of God. God becomes my father, and I'm here to tell you, our father is a good father. And a good father does not just let their kids go wild! He disciplines them. He chastens them. He corrects them. Right? That's what Hebrews 12 is saying. He says, I love my children If they're engaged in something that is harmful or destructive, I'm going to intervene. I'm going to discipline them. I'm going to chase them. In fact, let's read on down here. Now he gets pretty brutal about this. Verse 7: If you endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not? And the answer to that is, there isn't any. You're a child of God. You're going to be chastened. Now look at verse 8. This is where it gets a little uncomfortable. But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. If a person lives in sin, and there's no chastisement, there's no intervention of God in their life in some form or another, then their claim to be a child of God is an ill-legitimity Legitimate claim. Say, how do you know somebody's really saved that they don't sin anymore? No, you know a person's really saved that when they sin, God chastens them. A bastard is an illegitimate child. It's a Bible term. It's a very crude term, very uncomfortable word. And so he's saying that if I can just go on and sin, go on and sin and go on and sin, and God's not intervening, God's not chastening, God's not convicting And I need to double check the legitimacy of my salvation. So God's love for us. Now notice all of this is predicated on verse Verse number six, for whom the Lord loveth. Because God loves us, He does not let us go on and sin Mom and Dad, if you love me, you let me go do whatever I want. Knucklehead Sure, go play on the street. I love you so much. Play on the street. It's the parent that loves that intervenes, puts restrictions. Chastisement. So God's love is a purifying love. Because He loves us We ought to thank God every day that He does not let us do what we want to do. My prayer for years, and many of you know this, my prayer for Prayer for back shortly after I got saved, I began praying. God, keep me on a short leash. You know why? Because I know I'm prone to wander. And I don't want my heart to take me far from God. And God loves me. And sometimes he just pulls on that leash a little bit. Say, all right. It's not very comfortable, is it? I think sometimes he's got a choker chain on us. Thank God for it. Sometimes it's a whoo! Yay! But he always knows just the right amount. So God's love is eternal love, saving love, incomprehensible love, unbiased love, purifying love, and last of all, it's a constraining love. 2 Corinthians 5, 14, 15, we don't have time to to go there. It says the love of Christ constraineth us. That word constrain means to hold fast. It means to imprison It means to bind with leather, the word itself is used to describe binding up a prisoner with leather straps. Like handcuffs. The love of Christ constrains me God's love for Paul gripped his heart to such an extent that he could no longer live for anything else but Christ. When Paul grasped to some extent how much Christ loved him in giving himself for him He said that love constrains me. It keeps me from living for myself. It keeps me from indulging the flesh. It keeps me from living for the world. I'm constrained to live for him. His love for me is So compelling, so captivating. Constrains us to live for him. Constrains us to love him. We love him because he first loved us. Constraining love. Tell you, all we need is just a little bit of comprehension of how much Christ loves us. We can't help but love Him back. Can't help it. Um it constrains us to love him. It constrains us to live for him. I wish we had time, but we don't. John chapter fourteen Dot this down, John 14, verse 15, 21, verse 23, and 24. Says the same thing over and over and over and over. In that one chapter of John, it says, if we love him, we will keep his commands. If we love him, we will obey his commands. He that loveth me not keepeth not my commands. It is he that loveth me that keepeth my commands. Jesus said it over and over and over and over. If you have any comprehension of all of the love that Christ has for us and the price he paid in giving himself for us Then we love him back. And if we love him back, we will live for him. Our problem is we don't love God. That's the root of all of it. The root of all of our sin and disobedience as Christians. The whole root of our trying to live our lives. independent of God's will for us is the simple fact we don't love him. If we loved him, we keep his commands. I got in another debate, or I guess you'd call it with someone, and they said, well, you can love God without obeying him. I grant this, you can obey God without loving Him. You can go through the motion You can wear the right clothes. Man, you can dress like a man, lady dress like a lady. You can have the hair cut right. You can carry your big King James Bible Not love God at all. Huh? You can be the most faithful member in a church, not love God at all. Love yourself. Paul said, I was a Pharisee of Pharisees. Brother, according to the law, nobody lived closer to the law than I did. Not only did he not love Christ, he didn't even know Christ. You can obey without loving, but you cannot love without obeying. Can't do it. It begins in the heart The love of Christ constrains me from within. I want to live for God. He loves me and gave himself for me. I want to please him. Not that I have to, not that I'm living by guilt. But I'm living by love. The law of love constrains me. Well, why don't you go to Oktoberfest Friday night and drink it up with all the guys? Because the love of Christ constrains me. I love God. I want to please Him. The love of God is the eternal love, a Savior. Love, an incomprehensible love, an unbiased love, a purifying love, a constraining love. We can go through the outward motions without loving God, but when we comprehend His love for us We have to love them back. We love them back. We have to live for them. Old Ruth, 44-year-old stay-at-home mom, five kids. Said, I don't see anything more that church has to offer than what Girl Scouts has to offer or kids' sports has to offer me It's just something else didn't get involved in. Tell you what, if that's the case, somebody failed completely In communicating to Ruth what true biblical Christianity is and what the love of Christ is. Nobody in this world will ever love us to the the degree that God in heaven loves us. Nothing in this world, not a bottle, not a chemical Not an experience, not a sport, not an activity, no adrenaline rush can do for us what the love of God can do for us in our lives. Let's understand that. Let's live for it. Preacher, back in the middle evil times, and I am with this It's back before they had electricity and all of that, and they were having a night service, and the whole town came out to the church. He's preaching on the love of God. There's no lights, he had a little candle. This was his message. On the wall, for whatever reason, they had a picture of Jesus Christ on the cross. Hanging on the cross. Snow electric, it's dark. He took his candle. This was his message. He never said a word. He took the candle over and he stepped up to that picture of Jesus. And he held the candle up by the thorny crown. on the head of Jesus picture of blood running down his face. He held it there for a minute. He's preaching on the love of God Then he brought it down and he held it over on the hands that were nailed to the cross, the blood running down Then he brought it down to the side where the spear had pierced and the hole and the blood gushing down. About this time. Said you could hear snuffles and weeping in the congregation in the dark. And he held it down at the feet, and the nail pierced feet. He stepped up. He said, The love of God. The love of God. The story is that people People wept, fell on their knees, got right with God, confessed their sin. Many trusted Christ as Savior The love of God. Let's pray. Father, help us, Lord, to somehow, to some degree comprehend your great love for us. You loved us and gave yourself for us. I pray, dear Lord, that as a result of just the little grasping Of that. We love you back and live for you. Some of us have sins we need to forsake. God, some of us have areas we need to start obeying. We need to Make right. Some of us have folks that we need to go and love them like Christ loved us. Some of us need to get involved in soul winning Some of us need to be more faithful. Whatever it is, God, you know our hearts. You know where we're at. You love us. You don't leave us alone. You're convicting even now. My present You'd help us to submit to the love of God and love you in return. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, God's Holy Spirit is dealing with my heart about some area of my life As a Christian, that needs to be brought in line. I listed a few in my prayer just now. Holy Spirit of God is dealing with your heart. Some specific area of my Christian life where God is dealing with that needs to be brought in line with the wisdom of God. Is there any like that at all this morning? Say, preacher, yes. God's Holy Spirit is dealing with my heart a very specific way, some area of my life I need to yield to the Lord. God bless you You many hands all around. How about it? Others, Spirit of God's working. There's no doubt. How many would say, preacher, this morning, I need Christ To save me. I don't want to die and go to hell. I don't want to live my empty life empty. I need Christ to come in my life Give me purpose and meaning and save me from hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me also. That God would help me settle this matter in my heart, my salvation. How about Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need Christ in my life. Give me purpose and meaning. Security of a home in heaven. Father, you know our hearts, you know where we're at, you love us. Don't leave us alone. You promised that you would intervene. We ask you to do that. Help us to be safe. Submissive and yielded and cooperate as you lead and direct and deal with us. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer, just play a few verses of invitation I don't know how God may deal with your heart, but I do know this. When God deals with our hearts, we need to respond. We need to submit ourselves, humble ourselves before the Lord. How about it? What is God dealing with you? I know how it is. God deals sometimes with issues that are hard to change. They're just areas of our life that are just so ingrained We need Christ to help us do that. We need Christ to constrain us and deliver us from the self. We need Christ to live through us. This Genuine Christianity, not just what we work up, but fully yielded to Him and the Lord living through us. For I am crucified with Christ, nevertheless I live, yet it's not I, but Christ liveth in me. The life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God. He gave me. He loved me. He gave himself for me. He loved me. Maybe you're here this morning, you've been saved, but you've not been baptized. First step, most important step in a believer's life. Follow the Lord in believers baptism. Maybe you're saved, baptized, not a member of a gospel preaching church. God's been dealing with your heart about membership here. Let the Lord have his way. Trust him. Obey him. Father in heaven, we are grateful for your love for us.