Galatians chapter six, I'd like for us to read together verse number fourteen, if you would. Verse number fourteen we'll read in unison And um if you got it there ready, let's read together. Here we go. But God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ by whom the world is crucified unto me and I unto the world. I want to speak this morning on glory in the cross. Our glory is in the cross. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for this Sunday, this Lord's Day. And God, we've set this, you actually have set this day aside, the first day of the week, to be your day, Resurrection Day. And we've assembled together here in your name. And Lord, we recognize you as our risen Savior, crucified, buried, and risen again. And we worship you for that. We praise you for that. And I ask now that you would meet with us. It's a special day for me at least, and thinking all these many years, God, your faithfulness and how you blessed. What a joy it has been for my wife and I to be here part of Mountain Lake Baptist Church. And Laura, I just look back and in a little nostalgic and uh remember all that you've done and see all you've done and so we're grateful. And now, Father, we want to focus on the cross. I pray your Holy Spirit would remove any distractions, and I pray that the cross would be front and center for the next few moments. I ask dear Lord, you take my mind. I yield my will and my thinking to you. And you would guide my thinking as I preach and direct the very words That you would have me to say, God, I yield my body to you, and I ask with all my heart that your Holy Spirit that indwells me That your Holy Spirit would now fill me and take control and speak through me your word. I pray that our hearts and minds would be open and submissive to your word And you would help us, Lord, to leave here glorying in the cross of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And it's in his name I pray. Amen. Shortly after I was saved, just a couple years after I was saved, I moved to Chattanooga, Tennessee, and I enrolled in Tennessee Temple University down there. And I had the privilege for a number of years to sit under the leadership of Dr. Lee Robertson at the Highland Park Baptist Church And the Tennessee Temple Schools. The Highland Park Baptist Church was a remarkable church in many ways. My first Sunday there in September of 1981. It's my first Sunday there, and I I don't remember the exact date, but it was the first Sunday they were using their new auditorium. They had built a new auditorium and they had Dedication Sunday. The auditorium seated 6,000 people. That's what it was built to design to seat 6,000 people. That Sunday morning, there was chairs in the aisles, the foyer doors were opened, packed out. I mean the place was absolutely packed. And I don't remember, in the six, five years I was down there, I don't remember one Sunday where that auditorium wasn't filled full. Just a remarkable church in so many ways. Dr. Robertson had pastored there for over 40 years, 40 years and six months, if I remember correctly. And I know this, and this is what stands out in my mind For over 40 years, that church averaged 1,000 baptisms a year. A thousand baptisms a year. Think about that. And uh a remarkable place. The power of God was there in unusual ways. I didn't fully uh appreciate, I don't think, what God had done and was doing uh in that place at that time. But I ate it up. I ate it up. Thousands of preachers trained, sent out from the school and the church pastoring churches all around the country, all around the world, church planners, missionaries by the thousands out there serving the Lord And my question, the reason I bring that up this morning is, what was it about that place that was so unique? What made it so effective in the in the winning of souls and the training of of Christian workers. What was it that made it so effective? Well I think one thing was the leadership of Dr. Robertson. He was a tremendous leader. But I think there's something even more than that. And this is what I believe, this is my assessment, is um I think the primary reason they had such success and such power of God is they put in emphasis upon the preaching of the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. It wasn't self-help motivational speeches It wasn't man-centered message. It wasn't a message of man's wisdom and man's understanding. It was just the old fashioned, simple Bible preaching of the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ In our text here, Genesis and Galatians chapter 4, or 6, and verse number 14, Paul says that his glory was in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. He gloried in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I got looking at that word glory And uh I found that that word glory is used 40 times in the New Testament in various forms. The word it comes from is used 40 times in the New Testament Ten times that word glory is translated in our Bible, the word it comes from, it's translated to boast. Or to brag about, to boast. And uh, by the way, if you just get you a good concordance, strong concordance The Bible becomes its own dictionary. So I don't know what that word means. Just get your concordance. Look up how it's used other places and how it's translated other places. You'll know exactly what God means. You don't have to rewrite the Bible. So never anyway, the word glory there has the idea ten times it's translated in our Bible to boast or to brag about something. Paul said I glory, our glory is in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. We brag on the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. We boast. In the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Five times that word glory is translated to joy in or to rejoice in. Boy, Paul said, I just joy in the cross. I rejoice in the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. So when he says I glory in the cross here What he's saying is it means that uh it means to joy this the word glory means to joyfully lift up, exalt and boastfully can't proclaim the values and the merits of the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what Paul's saying. He's lifting up the cross, he's exalting the cross, he's rejoicing in the cross, he's boastfully, proudly proclaiming the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, Paul, he was used of God to pin fourteen of the New Testament books 14. The book of Galatians was one of the early books. I think, if I'm correct on this, I think 1st and 2 Thessalonians were the first books he penned. under the inspiration of God to be included in the Word of God, the canon of Scripture, as we call it, 1 and 2 Thessalonians, and then Galatians would have been next in line in chronology And so it's very, very early on in Paul's ministry, very early book penned, and the purpose of the book was because the reason he penned it. God prompted and stirred him to pen this book is because there were false teachers creeping into the churches in this region called Galatia. And I was a part of Asia Minor there. And uh there was numerous, numerous churches that Paul had either started himself Or he was very instrumental in starting these churches. And he would go in, he'd go into a town, an area, he'd preach the gospel, he would preach the cross. of the Lord Jesus Christ. People would get saved. Their lives are changed. They'd start assembling together. He'd teach them the word of God. They'd get a little organized. They'd establish a church and uh and uh pastor would be called and chosen, and uh then a church would be gone, then he would move on. And he'd do that again. Then he'd move on and do that again. And he left behind in this area called Galatia numerous churches. And some of them would, after they got established, they would send someone out. They would start churches. They'd win souls and people's lives would be get saved, their lives would be changed, and they'd organize into a church. So it was quite a network of churches that had been either started, as I said, directly by Paul or through his inf influence, indirectly through his influence. Now here's the problem He had trained them, he had taught them the Word of God, they were being trained, but as was the case in so many churches, both then and now. False teachers would creep in. False teaching, false doctrine. And they'd come in very subtly. They'd come in very, I like the way Jude puts it, they're sneaky creeps. They creep in deceitfully. And boy, they start teaching scri uh teachings that are contrary to Scripture. And they start influencing people in that church to live uh their lives contrary to scripture. So Paul is concerned about this. And um we've been noticing this in our Sunday school hour and our Sunday night series. And 2 Peter and Sunday School and Jude were noticing that this was much more common than what we maybe were aware of. The churches were under attack Right from the early days of the New Testament church with false teaching, Paul told Timothy that it is doctrines of devils was coming into the into the teaching. And I'll say this, any teaching that is contrary to Scripture is of the devil. And Paul's concerned about this, and he is writing to these churches. That's what the book of Galatians is. He's writing to these churches, and he's confronting This false teaching. And what they were doing, they were injecting into these gospel, into these churches, they were injecting works. into the gospel message that these people were saved by. They had gotten saved by hearing the gospel. By grace are you saved through faith? That not of yourselves, it's not of works, lest any man shall boast. A person does not get saved by their works Person doesn't get saved by their lifestyle or anything they do for God. All our works are nothing but r uh filthy rags as far as righteousness is concerned. It's just filthy rags. And these false teachers were coming in and saying, oh yeah, you've got to believe in Jesus, but you've got to do this, and you got to do that, and you've got to keep the law. One of the big things, the Judaizers they're called, they were coming in and say, oh yeah, believe in Jesus, but you've got to be circumcised. And you've got to keep these Old Testament laws, these Old Testament um uh commands, these uh uh ceremonies, you've got to keep all that if you're going to be saved. If you don't, if you can trust Christ, but if you don't do this, that, and the other, then you're not saved. And Paul's confronting that. That's what Galatians, the book of Galatians, is about about he's correcting that. They were teaching what we call is legalism. Now that word gets thrown around a lot in some Christian circles and it gets distorted Legalism is simply this, and uh. Legalism is keeping, having to keep the law to be saved In other words, you can believe on Jesus, but you've got to be baptized also to be saved. That's legalism It's adding something. Well you gotta uh you gotta be s uh you gotta believe on Jesus, but you've gotta keep some aspects of the law. You gotta do this and don't do that and stop here and go there and you gotta add things to just believing on If anybody ever gets saved, they get saved for one reason. They believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not of works lest any man should boast. Or by grace are you saved? We are saved by grace. I like this statement. We are saved by grace plus nothing minus nothing. So Paul's writing, he's confronting them. And Paul means business. He's not playing around. And uh I've said this in Sunday school, I said it on Sunday nights numerous times in the last several months we've been studying Um doctrine is not something to play with. Bible doctrine is not up for negotiation. Say, well, what's your doctrine? Our doctrine doesn't change. If it's Bible, it doesn't change. It's not up for negotiation. And so Paul's confronting them about this putting work salvation. If you would, come back to chapter 2. And verse number 16. I just want to highlight some statements he makes. And so we can see how serious he takes this. Look at chapter 2 and verse number 16. He says, knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ. Even we have believed in Jesus Christ that we must be justified. He repeats himself here. He's emphasizing this. That we might be justified by the faith of Christ and not by the works of the law. For by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified. You're saying you don't add anything to trust salvation by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Come over to verse number 20, if you would. Same chapter. He makes this great statement. I love this verse. This will be a great life verse. I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me, and the life which I now live in the flesh, look at this, I live by the what? Faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Faith. Come over if you would to chapter three and verse eleven. These are good verses to underscore in your Bible. Take note of. Verse 11, chapter 3. But that no man is justified by the law In the sight of God, it is evident, for the just shall live by faith. No man is justified by the law. No man. If you're trusting and keeping some laws to get you to heaven, I'm afraid. And you die with that mindset, I'm afraid you're going to find yourself not in heaven for all eternity. You're going to find yourself in hell I tell you, good works will send people to hell. It's by faith alone in Christ. Notice, if you would, verse 13. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. I wrote in the margin of my Bible, substitution. He was judged by the law in our place. He was cursed by the law in our place for our sins. For it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. Christ uh kept the law for us and paid the r the judgment of the law in our place. Look with me at verse uh chapter three verse twenty-four Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster. What's a schoolmaster? It's a teacher. The law is our teacher. He said, well, if keeping the law isn't what gets us to heaven, then What in the world's the purpose of the law? Paul says the purpose of the law is to show us how sinful we are so that we know and realize we need a Savior Um, I'm driving down the road. Now, uh, this would never happen to me, but I'm driving down the road and I'm not paying attention to the speed limit. And uh I would never ever do that. And uh and there's a speed l there's uh um uh not a camera, the sign A speed limit sign there. And that speed limit sign is telling me what the law is, and it's teaching me that I'm breaking the law. And I need a savior. Actually, I need breaks. But do you follow what I'm saying? Look what he says here. He says, wherefore the law is our schoolmaster. Not to save us, not to help us earn heaven. The law is our schoolmaster to bring us to where To Christ. Man, here's the law. I gotta do this and I can't do that. And good night, I've broken the law. I can't I I try to live up to it. I come short And I fall short of God's glory as expressed in the law. Oh, I need a Savior. And the law says, oh, there is a Savior. It's Christ. The Lord Jesus Christ. Look what he says. That to bring us unto Christ. Look at this last statement. That we might be justified by what? By faith. By faith. By faith. Salvation, Paul is emphasizing churches at Glacia, and he says to them in another place, he says, listen, I taught you this. How did you get away from this so quickly? How did you get away from the truth so quickly? I'll tell you how, because these false teachers got in there. They weren't careful, they didn't guard their doctrine And I'll tell you, a church can go south pretty quick if they don't have their guard up. They're not sober and vigilant. That church can go uh get away from Scripture. And so he's he's very strongly correcting this and addressing this very, very serious error In fact, if you would come back to chapter one. Notice how serious he takes this. Verse number one And verse number eight, chapter one, and verse number eight. For though we, look at this, or an angel from heaven. An angel, if an angel shows up and preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, the gospel of salvation by grace, plus nothing, minus nothing, if an angel shows up, And preaches something contrary to the gospel we preach unto you. Look at that last phrase. Let him be what? Accursed. Man alive, I don't want to be accursed of God. That word means to be cut off by God. Paul's not playing games He's saying, listen, don't you let anybody mess with the gospel of the grace of our God. You don't play with it, you don't change it, you don't add to it, you don't take away from it. Even if an angel shows up And starts talking about work salvation and anything other than the salvation by grace, even if he shows up, let him be accursed. Let him be accursed. Look there at verse number, the next verse, verse number eight, or verse nine. And we said before, so say I now again. If any man preach any other gospel unto you, then that ye have received, let him be accursed. Paul's not playing games. And he's very, very serious here. And he's confronting them. Does that mean that, oh, okay, I'm saved by grace, I trust Christ, I'm saved by grace. And just faith in Jesus Christ. Okay, now there's no law. No, uh, there's still a law. John tells us in 1 John that now we have the law of love You know what the law of love is? The law of love is this. I trust the Lord Jesus Christ and what he did on that cross. Buried rose again. I put my faith and trust in him. I'm trusting him by faith, plus nothing, minus nothing. And God forgives me and saves me, changed my life He saved me from going to hell and he reserves a place in heaven. Now the law of love kicks in. And now I want to do right. Now I want to obey God, not to earn heaven, but because God has been so gracious in giving me heaven. You follow what I'm saying? It's e uh what happens is you get the cart before the horse. Say, oh you gotta do this, you gotta work, and then you'll get saved. Then to be saved you gotta do all this. Believe Jesus, but you gotta do all this. Then you'll be saved. That's not how it works. You come and just trust Christ, an old simple, wicked sinner. Sorry, I have nothing to offer, even my righteousness is filthy rags, and I fall before Christ, confess repent and turn to him and trust what he's done for me. God changes my life. Now it's, oh God, what do you want me to do? I want to serve you. I want to live for you. Out of love for him. Would you agree with me? The law was a motivation of the law to keep the law to be saved would be motivated by fear Well, if I don't do this, I'm going to die and go to hell. If I don't do this, I'm under God's judgment. I've got to keep this law. And I keep coming short. I keep coming short. I'm trying so hard. And I keep failing, and the wrath of God is on me, and I gotta work harder. And you never can attain that's motivation by fear. But salvation by grace, I trust Christ I put my faith. He does it all. He kept the law for me. He paid the wrath and judgment of God that the law required because I came up short. He paid that for me. And now I'm forgiven, saved, I'm accepted by God in Christ. And now my motivation to live for him and serve him isn't fear, it's love for what he's done for me. Are you following? And that's what Paul is saying. That's what John and 1 John is saying. And by the way, 1 John is very, very strong in warning and addressing false teaching and things that are not true. And so the book of Galatians, the book of Galatians, now we come back to our text. And chapter 6 and verse number 14, he ends this letter where he's very strongly, it's a strong letter, very doctrinally strong and uh forceful confrontation as false teachings, and he winds down and he says, but God forbid. Oh, by the way, look at verse 13. It says, the last part of verse 13 says, For neither they, these false teachings, themselves who are circumcised, keep the law. They're telling you you've got to keep the law to be saved. They're not keeping it themselves. They're coming up short. Nobody can keep it perfectly They're telling you to be circumcised, but uh they uh for neither they themselves are circumcised and they keep the law, but desire to have you circumcised that they may glory in your flesh. Oh look, uh, I got them to keep the law. It's all about pride and what I can do and what I can't do. Paul says, God forbid that I should glory in anything save the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Paul gloried in the cross. He exalted the cross. It's not me. It's not my works. It's not my commitment. It's not my strength of discipline. It's not my own godliness. It's not my own righteousness. It's the cross that I glory in. Now the question is, what's the cross? The cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. What is he talking about? The cross that he's referring to is more than just two wooden beams attached together. It's much more than uh it has little to do, if or nothing to do with jewelry. Little cross earring. Maybe some of you ladies are wearing cross earring. God bless you. I'm not against it. But that's not the cross he's talking about People wear a cross around their necklace or uh cross for decorations on the home. We have a cross here in the church, and I'm not I'm not railing on that, but I'm saying that's not the cross that Paul's glorying in That's not what he's bragging about, some jewelry he has, or some wooden uh uh uh device that's Boards are attached together. The cross of the Lord Jesus Christ is the very heart of the Christian message It's at the very core of the gospel, the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's referred to all through the Bible. The Old Testament, many types, prophecy of Christ dying on the cross, all through the New Testament, reference to the cross, the cross of Christ, the cross of Christ. What is the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ? I'll tell you what it is. It's the place where my sins Were placed on the Son of God, and he was judged in my place for my failure and my wickedness That's what the cross is. The cross is the place where God's perfect, holy judgment on sin Met his love for me, and God said, I'll pay the price for Dennis Leatherman's sin on that cross, on that cross. And by the way, it wasn't just my sins, it was Paul's sins. And it was Peter's sins. And it was all, every person that has ever lived or ever will live, Jesus Christ on that cross, paid in full the judgment for their sins and my sins. Jesus Christ on that cross suffered hell for every one of these young girls up here and the young fella, everyone across here, every one of us. You know what he did on that cross? I say it so often. Before God, He took responsibility for every wicked thing that has ever come off my lips. Every ungodly, impure, unkind, hateful word that has ever come off my lips. Jesus said on that cross, I'll take responsibility, God, judge me in Dennis's place. Every wicked, dirty thing these hands have ever committed all these sixty-four years Every wicked place that these feet have taken me, every impure, unclean, ungodly thought that has gone through my mind. Every wicked thing I've allowed my ears to listen to, music and gossip and words and jokes, everything, Jesus on that cross said, God, I'll take responsibility for him. And took responsibility for Paul's sins. I understand now why Paul says, I glory in that cross. That's where all my sins were paid for. That's where the price for me to be accepted by God, that's where that price was paid. On the cross. On the cross. Are you listening, girls? Non-Christian religions reject the cross. Muslims reject the cross I was in Sydney, Australia a number of years ago preaching for some preachers. We went out onto a little uh uh not little, it was a very large plaza, just an open shops and different things and thousands of people there. We were given out tracts, came across about three or four uh devout Muslims, I mean hardcore, college age, and they looked apart. So we got talking to them and we're going back and forth about different things and And so finally I just said, well listen here, this is our message to you, fellas. I said, just give me a couple minutes. Here's our message And I went through the gospel. I said, we're all sinners. I showed them Romans 3. 23, for all have sinned. They agreed 100%. All mankind is sinners. They were absolutely on board And I said, the wages of sin is death. And I explained, that's not just physical death, that's eternity in hell, the lake of fire. And I tried to describe what Jesus said about it. They were absolutely on board Every sinner goes to hell. The wages of sin is the judgment of God eternal. They were absolutely on board. Then I said, but God loved you and me so much He didn't want us to go to hell. Jesus Christ came down, became man, and He loved us enough to die and suffer hell for us on that cross. And he was judged in our place. And they absolutely rejected that. I mean, adamantly got angry They said nobody would do that for someone else. They said God would never love anybody enough to do that through their words. God would never love anybody enough to do that for them. They reject the concept of the love of God. They reject the cross. Finally, one of the fellows said to me, they said, Would you do that for me? Would you die for my sins and suffer hell for me? Would you love me that much? I said, I don't know if I would or not. I said, but I know this. Jesus does. Jesus did. And they said, no. We reject that. So we finally talked to men to take a gospel tract. I talked to him, I said, let me have a word of prayer. I said, okay, I pray And they walked off just hard and angry. Non-Christian religions reject the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Cults distort and pervert the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ They have just a created man hanging on the cross, not the eternal Son of God. They they distort the cross. Liberals mock the idea of the cross. Liberal denominations uh take it out songs like what we sang this morning about the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, taking it out of their hymn books. That's mocking what took place on the cross That's rejecting what Jesus Christ did. Oh, you Bible-believing Baptists, a bunch of butcher religion, a bloody religion. Yeah, the blood of the Son of God, the Lord Jesus Christ, that cleanses us from all sin that was shed on the cross. Paul said, I glory in the cross Bible believers glory in the cross. We glory in the cross. I only got a couple minutes, so let me give you two this you real quickly. Number one. We glory in the person on that cross. We glory in the cross because of the person that died on that cross. The cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, Paul said. The Roman government had perfected the ability to crucify people in the most cruel, shameful way. Now they didn't invent crucifixion. It was started by society's Greeks, I think, before the Roman government uh came about. It started out, crucifixion started out according to my research started out as they would simply take a criminal or uh a political enemy or a uh uh some sort of enemy, they would take them, they'd strip them naked, and they'd tie them up on a pole, and they'd just let them hang there till they die. Sometimes a big tree or something. Sometimes a cross is referred to as the tree. That's where they get it from. They would hang them up on a pole, just tie them up there and let them hang there till they starved and uh and and died And over time that became a little bit more elaborate. The Romans got that concept, and they put the idea of putting a cross, type thing, not just a pole, but a cross. Get a cross beam on there. They came up with the idea of nailing the prisoner, the criminal, to the to that cross. Nail them to it And uh and then let them hang there, bleed out and die, and hang there and suffocate or uh and uh and starve till and just leave them there till they die Many times throughout almost most of the time, they would leave them hang there even after they were dead till their bodies would rot and eventually just fall off The uh cross. Cruelty. The Romans then began scourging and beating before they put them up there, usually to speed the process of their death. So they wouldn't kill them immediately, they want him. And they'd strip them naked, hang them up there, total shame, and they'd leave them hanging there. The reason I'm told as I understand as I research this The reason they would leave them hang, and they thought that would be a warning to other criminals, other political enemies, just let them hang there. All right, this is what happens to those that go against the government This is what happens to those who break the law, strip naked, hang up there, suffer until you die, and you'll hang there till you rot and fall off of it. That was the whole mentality of crucifixion. In sevent in uh seventy three BC there was six thousand Slaves had rebelled against the government, and they crucified 6,000 slaves at one time. Can you imagine six thousand crosses across the fields and up on the hills and mountain and people hanging on them until they die and rot and fall off? Can you imagine the stench and the awfulness of that? Thousands upon thousands, hundreds of thousands of primarily men, criminals, political enemies, were crucified. But there's only one cross of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. And the difference between the cross of Jesus and all these hundreds of thousands of others Was the man that hung on it? The one that hung on it. He was not a criminal. He was not a political enemy. He wasn't even a sinner. And yet he hung on that cross, not for his sins, because he had none, but for your sins and my sins. And Paul said, I glory in that cross because of who it was that hung on that cross and paid the price for my sin. Jesus Christ, the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus' crucifixion stands out from all other crucifixions throughout history. The crucifixion of the Lord Jesus cross Jesus Christ, the cross of the Lord Jesus stands out from all other crosses Not on how they crucified him. By the way, the crucifixion of Jesus. Are you listening, fellas? The crucifixion of the Lord Jesus was not different than any other crucifixion of any other criminal. Those others ones beside him, they were nailed to the cross just like Jesus. And how he was crucified, there was nothing unique about how he was crucified. The uniqueness of it was Who was being crucified? The Son of God. I want to remind you, on that cross, it was God in human flesh. The Son of God Himself. We don't have time. I wish we did. Philippians chapter 2, verse 5 through 8 talks about how Jesus laid aside the uh the form of God and became a man and humbled himself and became obedient unto death even the death of the cross That was God, eternal Son of God, co-equal with God, God, the God man that died on that cross. Paul said, I glory in the cross because of the person hanging there. That was the Son of God. Um when uh Jesus was being crucified, there was a centurion standing there, and uh others around him And they saw Jesus Christ and they saw the darkness come down and the earthquakes that took place when Jesus died. And that centurion cried out and he said, Surely, this was the Son of God. This is the Son of God we crucified. What he was saying was: this is someone different than all the thousands we've crucified before. This one was the Son of God. I tell you, we glory in the cross because of the person on that cross. He was God Almighty, God in the flesh. I'm going to remind you that person on the cross was actually the one that created the universe. By him all things were created that are by Jesus Christ. The creation crucified the creator. He came into his own, and his own received him not. They rejected him. They crucified him. The centurion said, This is the Son of God. We glory in the cross. Paul gloried in the cross and here in 2024. September 22, 2024, Sunday. We glory in that old cross because of who it was that died on that cross. It was Jesus Christ, the Son of God, the Creator of the universe. that loved you and loved me so much that he come down and take responsibility for my sins and your sins and say, I'll pay the price of sin for him. I tell you, I glory in the cross. You can you come tell me, say, oh, I'm going to brag to me about how good you are and how righteous you are. Good, wonderful. Go ahead. I tell you what we need to brag about is what Jesus Christ did for us on the cross. That's what's getting me to heaven. That's what's going to get you to heaven. Not your good works and not my good works. It's what Jesus Christ. We glory in the cross because of the person on the cross Let me quickly go on. We glory in the cross because of the power of the cross. What he did there is powerful. First Corinthians 1 18. For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God unto salvation. 1 John 1:7, the blood of Jesus Christ that was shed on the cross. cleanses us from all sin. If any man be in Christ, 2 Corinthians 5. 17, he's a new creature Because of what Christ did on the cross, the power of the cross to forgive my sins, to cleanse me of sin, and make me a new man. A new person. The power of the cross. We glory in the cross because of the person. We glory in the cross because of the power. Only the cross can transform a man from being an old hell-bound sinner to a saint of God on his way to heaven. Only the cross can do that. The Catholic Church cannot do that The Brethren Church cannot do that. The Lutheran Church cannot do that. The Baptist Church cannot do that. Only the cross of Jesus Christ Taking old only the cross of Jesus Christ can transform a man to be an old drunkard and sober him up and clean him up. an old liar and make him honest and a man of integrity, take an old fornicator and purify his heart and mind and his life. Only the cross can take a proud, self-righteous man and humble himself before God when he realizes what God did for him on the cross The power of the cross to change the very nature of an old sinner. We glory in the cross because of the person. We glory in the cross because of the power of the cross. The cross can take an old rebel and make him an obedient servant of God. The cross of Jesus Christ can heal a broken marriage. The power of the cross can revive a dying church. I don't believe there's a church in America. I don't believe there's a church in America, if they get back to preaching the old cross the way it's given in the Bible, that church couldn't see revival. And see that thing come alive and start be a testimony, a witness in their community. I tell you what America needs. America is not needs uh aren't going to be met in Washington. We say it all the time. I tell you, America's needs are going to be v uh America's needs are going to be met in churches that come alive with the preaching of the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the solution to our problems. America needs the cross of Jesus Christ, the gospel of Jesus Christ. The power of the cross, transform an immoral community, an immoral nation. Only the cross can do that. Hebrews 2 verse 12 tells us that through death on the cross, Jesus Christ destroyed him that had the power of sin and death, the devil. We glory in the cross because of the power of that cross. And I'll tell you, what Jesus Christ did on that cross destroyed the power of the devil. Now he's alive and well, don't misunderstand. But I tell you what, he doesn't have to uh we we don't have to let him dictate to us anymore. We don't have to kowtow to the devil anymore. Before I was saved, I was a child of the devil. I was a slave to sin. But the cross delivered me and defeated the devil. And now we're free. Now we'll not be sinless on this side of heaven, but I tell you, we don't have to be servants to sin anymore, though, either. Because of the cross. He destroyed him That had power of death, that is the devil. And then last of all, I am with this. We glory in the cross because of who died on that cross? The Lord Jesus Christ We glory in the cross because of the power of what we've seen it do. I'm looking out over this auditorium. I'm seeing people whose lives were transformed by the power of the gospel, the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. You're standing here looking at a man that is a miracle of the cross. I'm telling you, I just spent a couple days with my mom. Every time I do that, she'll come back and say, I can't believe how different you are than what you were years ago. You know what that is? That's not Dennis. I'm just sorry, wretch. It is the cross. The power of the cross changed my life. And all across here, people who stand and testify. Amen or not? Amen. The power of that cross, the message of the cross, and then the promise of the cross. We look at that cross, I'm going to remind you, Jesus is not on that cross anymore. He died once for all. I don't mean to be unkind, I don't mean to be rude, but the Catholic Church is wrong when they teach that Jesus is crucified over and over and over again in the Eucharist and the Mass. That's baloney. That word baloney is Greek for nonsense. You won't find that anywhere in the Bible. Amen. You won't find it there. Once for all, he died on that cross, was buried, and rose again. Now we have an did you anybody notice anything about this replica we have, the cross up here? Anybody notice anything unique about it? There's nobody on it. Because the price is paid. The price was paid. The promised. Jesus put it this way: for God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten Son. You know what he's talking about? The cross. He gave his son on that cross. That whosoever believeth in him You shall not perish, die and go to hell, but have everlasting life. The promise of the cross is if you'll come and trust the one and what he did on that cross, the Lord Jesus As your personal Savior, he'll forgive your sin, he'll save you from hell, he'll give you eternal life, he'll change your life, and he'll get you to heaven Because of what took place on that old cross. Oh, Paul said, I don't glory. Paul could have gloried in a lot of things. Man, he was Hebrew of Hebrews. He's trained. He knew the law. He was zealous. He's shipwrecked and zip. He said, I don't brag on any of that. That's nothing. I tell you what I do lift up. I tell you what I do brag on. That old cross of Jesus Christ, what he did for me on that cross, that's what I'll brag about. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, God's been good to us. We got a lot of stuff, all these facilities, debt-free, all of it, I thank God for it. But we don't brag on any of that. Tell you what we brag about. It's what Jesus Christ did for us on that old cross All of this is just a result of his grace. All of this is just a result of his mercy of what he accomplished on that old cross. The glory in the cross. May we never get far from the cross. The message of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is the cross of Jesus Christ. What's your church all about? I'll tell you what we're about: the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. What's your message to the world? I'll tell you what our message to the world is. Jesus loved you and died for you on that cross, was buried, rose again. That's our message to the world. Several oh it's been a couple years ago now, maybe a year or so, I had to have a car towed. I have a I have towing insurance on my insurance. Um towing coverage on my insurance. And so I got it towed and I turned in, uh, you know, I I got it towed and um I turned the receipt and everything and I wanted to get reimbursed. I had to pay it up front and I wanted to get reimbursed. And so I turned it in. I got coverage for it and I wanted to get reimbursed. And so a week so went by, nothing. Um, you know, I'm anybody ever notice I'm a little impatient. I mean, I was expecting it like right then and there to get reimbursed. So a week went by, nothing Another week went by another. So I went down and said, you know, I turned in a receipt, I get reimbursed for towing expense. And they said, oh, okay, yeah, we'll work on it. So another week went by, another week of month or so went by, and finally I come down and said, listen, I'm not I've not got my reimbursement. I want it, and I want it now. And um And uh and they said, uh, well we don't have any record that you actually had it towed. I said and they said, we need a receipt. I said, well I turned it in. Well we don't have it here. So I went back to the tow guy and I told him what happened. So he gave me a receipt. He had a copy there. He gave me a receipt and I brought it in. And I showed it to him. And I said, here's my receipt. It's been paid. I paid. That towing's been paid. I'd like to be reimbursed. And when they saw the receipt, they said, oh, okay. They wrote a check out for me right away and gave it to me That receipt is what made a difference. You know what the empty cross is? That's a receipt. It's been paid. Jesus paid for your sins. And that old empty cross is what I come to heaven. Why should I let you into heaven? Because Jesus died on the cross for my sins, paid the debt for my sins. Oh, okay, there's a receipt. All right, come on in. You follow what I'm saying? So we've got to put our faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ to get to heaven. Here's the imitation, twofold. Threefold. Maybe five. I don't know how God may take this and apply it to your life, but here's the thing If you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I plead with you. Get that settled. If you have doubts in your mind, questions about where are you spending eternity. Do not risk going to hell for all eternity. You let us show you from the Bible how you can put your trust in the Christ that died on that cross and know that your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. Number two As a church, let's commit ourselves to get the message of the cross to every single person in our community, in our nation, and around the world. Around the world. New Zealand. I was talking to missionary in Guyana last night. Starting church in New York yesterday, I was talking to missionary. Let's get the message out everywhere. This world needs to hear of the cross of the Lord Jesus Christ. And thirdly, if he was willing to do that for us, if he loved us that much. And let's commit ourselves to live for him. Let's quit playing around with sin and the world. He paid too high of a price for us, to us to be spiritual adulterers and adulteresses with this old world. We need to be loyal and faithful to Him. Amen? Father bless now as we give the invitation. In Jesus' name I pray. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Let's stand together if you would. God spoke to your heart this morning.