Genesis 45, we're studying the life of Joseph. I want to read verse 9 down through the end of the chapter, 9 through verse 28. Genesis chapter 45. started this chapter last week and I want to pick up where we left off and and read down through the end of the chapter. It's an extended portion A scripture we're going to read, but um I think we need to keep it all together. Verse 9 says, this is Joseph speaking to his brothers. He's just revealed himself to them. They're in shock And he's giving them some instructions here. Notice in verse 9, he says, Haste ye and go up to my father and say unto him, Thus saith thy son Joseph. God hath made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down unto me, tarry not, and thou shalt dwell, and he's continuing his instruction what to tell his father And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou and thy children, and thy children's children, thy flocks and thy herds, and all thou hast And there I will nourish thee, for yet there are five years of famine, lest thou and thy household and all thou hast come to poverty And behold, your eyes see in the eyes of my brother Benjamin that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you. And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that ye have seen, and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither. And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck and wept. And Benjamin wept upon his neck. Moreover, he kissed all his brethren and wept upon them. And after that his brethren talked with him. And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, Joseph's brethren are come, and it pleased Pharaoh well and his servants. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, this do ye. Laid your beasts and go. Get you into the land of Canaan, and take your father and your households And come unto me, and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land. Now thou art commanded, this do ye Take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives, and bring your father and come. And regard not your stuff, for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours The children of Israel did so, and Joseph gave them wagons according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way. To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment, but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of raiment. To his father he sent after this manner ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt, ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father, by the way So he sent his brethren away, and they departed, and he said unto them, See that you fail, see that you fall not out by the way. They went up out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father and told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he's governor over all the land of Egypt. Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not. They told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them, and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry them, the spirit of Jacob their father revived. And Israel said, It is enough. Joseph my son is yet alive. I will go and see him before I die I've called it Go Tell My Father. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our study of this portion of Joseph's life tonight. I ask dear Lord that your Holy Spirit would take the truths and the principles that uh are in this passage. I pray you'd open our eyes that we could see them and how they apply to our lives. I yield my will to you, my thanking God. I pray you guide me as I preach and speak I ask that you would fill me with your spirit. I present my body new for that purpose. And I pray you'd help us tonight that we would grow in our faith and we would uh learn some things and be challenged. I ask. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Someone said that God does not promise us a comfortable journey, but he does promise us a safe landing. Uh a couple of our ladies flew this summer for the first time. Charlotte, was that your first time flying? No. You just don't like it. Yeah. Heidi's uh oh and Debbie's first time flying and um so uh and they said it wasn't bad. In fact they're gonna do it again, I think, is what they say. So yeah If you fli flown at all, sometimes the journey, the flight itself isn't that comfortable. It can get a little rough. Last time coming back from a mission trip down with Brother Howe We were out over the Pacific, and I'll tell you it got rough for about 15-20 minutes. It was bouncing all around. It's very good for your prayer life. I was uh one time number of years ago, uh Brother Hal had me come into Wellington in New Zealand And that airport there in Wellington is known worldwide for its very, very difficult to land because it's right at the bottom of the South North Island and the South Islands right there is like this little channel. It's very, very windy. And so I don't don't do this. I watched videos of it before I flew there. Don't ever do that. And um I tell you we came in there, it was it was it was blowing pretty good and the plane, the the runways here And the plane's coming down like this, and when we got down lower, it w the plane we were coming down sideways. He was facing into the wind, and then right before the tires hit, he turned it straight and And I tell you, it wasn't a very comfortable flight, but the landing was just fine. I mean, he brought it down perfectly. Joseph's flight, Joseph's journey has been anything but comfortable. He'd been through quite a bit of uh injustice, accusations, persecution His journey was anything but comfortable, but now we find Joseph coming down for a pretty safe and glorious landing. In other words. As he's coming down to the final accounts of his life, things are coming together exactly the way God said they would. He had faced the crosswinds of jealousy and of hatred and injustice, but now as his brothers show up and the family is being reunited All that's been dissolved. All that's been dissolved. I think it's interesting, and I just I'm more impressed with Joseph all the time. He's certainly not perfect. He's human, just like you and I But he was a man of exceptional integrity. He was a man of exceptional faith in God. And I find it interesting, he did not get bitter when he was in prison. And he did not get proud when he was in the palace. He's just even keel. Warren Wearsby years ago, I heard him say this, or I read it somewhere, but he made this statement. He says If praise puffs you up, criticism will crush you. And what he's saying is, when things are going well, don't get too high, and when things are going bad, don't get too low. Just stay even keel. Just stay the course. And we see that with Joseph. We see little change in his personality or his behavior or his attitude from when he was in the prison to now when he's number two in all of Egypt. He's just revealed himself to his brothers, as we said. Um Joseph is overcome with emotion. If you would go back. to verse number two. We looked at this last week, but it says he chased everybody out. Verse one, and he wept aloud, and the Egyptians heard And the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard, and Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph. He's weeping uncontrollably, apparently, at this point. He's overcome with emotion. And then verse 5 through 8 he explains the situation there. And he says there, notice four times he says, For God did send me. God did send me before you, but God, verse 8. Then down again verse 9. But God hath made me Lord. He's explaining the situation to his brother. He says, You know, Luke, you guys did evil, though he doesn't mention that. They did evil But God worked it together to bring out good. All Joseph's unjust accusations, God was working in all of that To bring this together to work out some good. Here's the thing that I take away from this, and it's such a tremendous lesson. God is able to take our free will decisions Now I hope you'll get this. This is important to understand. We have a free will. We can choose our behavior. Alright? We have that free will. Some folks teach that God is sovereign and we're just kind of robots. They don't say it this way, but it's what it comes out to. We're just robots. And everything's pre-programmed and pre-ordained, and everything we do is God's will. That's not what the Bible says. There are some things that happen that are not God's will Can you give me illustrations? Specifically says in Scripture something that happens that is not God's will. Sin. It's not God's will for us to sin. And any teaching, doctrine that says, well, you know, a person sins because that's God's will. No, it's not God's will. It's not God's will that people perish, die and go to hell. Question: Do people die and go to hell? Yes, they do. But it's not God's will. Um and we could go down the list of things. Now God has given to us the ability. He created us. God has a free will, and he created us with a free will And we can choose our behavior, and we're responsible for our decisions. We cannot push them off and blame somebody. And by the way, we have to answer for our decisions and our behavior. But that is not a threat to God's sovereignty. God's sovereignty, God's control is such that He can give me a free will And I can make whatever decisions to obey him or disobey him. I can act in accordance to his will or I can rebel against his will. But yet he is sovereign. He can take those free will decisions of mine and he can still work good out. In the end, if he so desires. You follow what I'm trying to say? It wasn't God's, listen, it wasn't God's will for Joseph's brothers to kidnap him And plan on killing them and then change their mind and sell him as a sermon. Later on, when God gave the law, it says specifically, you're not to kidnap people. Wasn't God's will. But nevertheless, God could you take that whole scenario, that whole situation and yet turn it around and still bring good out of it. I am glad my God can take my stupidity and still turn something good out of it. Can I get a witness? Praise God for that. Now it doesn't excuse my stupidity, but it does exalt my God And that he can do it. The way I look at it, and I've used this illustration before, but it helps me. The way I look at it, God is like a master chess player. Pastor Matt's big on chess. I used to be in the chess club, believe it or not, back in junior high. And uh, oh, I used to be great at chess, I'll tell you. About a year or so, a couple years ago, he said, Pastor, you want to play chess? I said, sure. And so during our lunch break, we were sat down, we played chess. He beat me in like two minutes. He said, let's play again. I said, alright, that was just a fluke. He beat me in 90 seconds. He said, You want to play again? I said, no, I'm never playing you ever again But a master chess player, he has a plan how he's going to get you in checkmate. He's got it all figured out. He's going to move this, this, this, this, this, this. However, I, playing this master chess player, I make a move that interferes with his original plan to take my king, put me in checkmate And he had his original plan, and I made a move and I foiled that plan. But a master chess player can take my move that I made of my own free will. And he can still maneuver around that and still take my king and put me in checkmate. You follow what I'm saying? And I can foil his plans here and there, but if he's good, he's able to take My interference and nevertheless still accomplish his will. And that's the way I see God as a master chess player. And these brothers wanted to eliminate Joseph, and they wanted to do this, and they and Potiphar's wife wanted to eliminate Joseph because she didn't get what she wanted. And yet God could take their efforts to foil Joseph's life, and yet he worked around, brought him out where he's at. I'm glad we have a God that can that is in control. And so here we are, Joseph's explaining, listen, you meant it evil, God was working this out for good And he didn't say it in so many words, but he's saying, listen, these things you did and the actions you took and the things that happened to me, they were wrong. And it was sin, and it wasn't God's will, but God is able to work all these things and get us here where we can save lives. And I tell you, it's just a rejoicing and a comfort, encouragement to me that when I'm stupid, God can still accomplish His will. And again, that's not an excuse for being stupid, but it is an encouragement after we've done that. So let's look at this passage. Verses 9 through 15. I put this down. I notice the plan of Joseph. Joseph has a plan. And there's no doubt in my mind as I'm studying this that Joseph had been preparing for this day for a long time I think for him, from whenever his brothers were down the first time, that may have caught him off guard. I don't know. I kind of think maybe And you remember he just kind of went back and forth how to respond to these guys. Finally they go back. He ends up keeping Simeon down there. He sends them back I think from that time on, Joseph has been planning on how he's going to reveal himself to his brothers and how he was going to get his father down. Now I think it was a little impromptu. I don't know that he wanted to right at this moment, but he was overcome with emotion. He spelled out, I'm Joseph. He couldn't contain it anymore. He couldn't refrain himself anymore But as far as the plan he had in place, I think he had this for a long time. And so he has this plan here. He's going to instruct him. And it appears to me that he had probably already discussed his plan with Pharaoh. Look with me at verse number ten. He speaks Joseph speaking to his brothers. He says, and thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen. Now the land of Goshen is the best land in Egypt. I mean that's the most plush, that's it's in famine, but still, this is the top land of Egypt. And Joseph says, you shall come and dwell in the land of Goshen, and bear unto me thou in a child. Now come over to what Pharaoh says in verse number 18. Now Pharaoh is talking, and he says, take and take your father and your households and come unto me. Now look what he says. and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt. You know what he's talking about? He's talking about Goshen. He's talking about the same area, the same thing that Joseph has. And that suggests to me that Joseph perhaps had sat down with Pharaoh at some time previous to this and say, listen, I'm going to get my daddy, my family down here And can I put them in Goshen or I'd like to do this? I don't know how he worded it, but it implies to me this had already been in the works This wasn't some impromptu plan at this point. It had already been thought through and discussed with Pharaoh. So the plan of Joseph. What was the plan? Number one, he instructs his brothers. Look at verse 9. Hasty he's talking to his brothers. He revealed himself. He's explained the situation. God's doing this. Don't you guys feel bad. Listen, God was working, and God's work turned this thing around. Haste ye and go up to my father and say unto him, Thus saith my son Joseph. And he goes down through here and he gives A series of instructions to his brothers. A lot of people like to give instructions. Do you ever notice that? People like to tell you what to do. Anybody, when I say that, anybody think of somebody that likes to tell you what to do? Fellas, do not look at your wife But there's usually somebody out there that likes to tell us what to do, right or wrong. Not everybody that tells us what to do knows what they're doing. My advice is don't listen to everybody that gives you instructions. Check out their credentials. Vet them. And make sure it's somebody you want to take instructions to. Somebody said this years not too long ago, I heard somebody say that. I thought it was great advice. Don't accept criticism from someone you would not take advice from. Pretty good statement. Don't take don't accept criticism from someone you would take it you wouldn't take advice from And so people a lot of people like to give instructions. They like to tell us how to do this and not do that and do this and don't do that. Especially if we're going through a rough time. Everybody's got advice. Everybody tells you what to do. This is what you need to do. Or if you're sick, you notice this? If you're sick Everybody tells you, this is what you need to do. Take these roots, you know, drink this vinegar People like to give instructions. A lot of people like to give instructions. Not everybody is good. It's a good idea to follow their instructions. However Joseph was very good at giving good instructions. Remember when he interpreted Pharaoh's dream And he told Pharaoh, Seven years fa uh plenty, seven years famine, how many people remember that? I don't mean you were there, you remember studying He interpreted all that. What was the very first thing he did? When he told him what the dream meant, he didn't wait to see how Pharaoh responded. He immediately said, All right, here's what you need to do Yeah. Appoint someone, take up put up put up uh supplies during the seven years of plenty, that way we'll have it to s uh to get through the seven years of famine. He he gave good advice, and that's why he's in this position. So Joseph is advising his brothers here what to do. He's revealed himself. They're in shock. They don't know if they're coming or going, if he's going to kill them or what. He's trying to reassure them. And he goes, here's what you need to do. Now he tells them, first of all, I find this interesting, he tells them what to say to their father He says again, verse 9, Hast ye go up to my father and say unto them, he says, Here's what you're going to say to Daddy. Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me Lord of all Egypt. Come down to me, tarry not Thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou and thy children, thy children's children, thy flocks and thy herds, and all thou hast. It's interesting, he tells his brothers exactly what to say to Daddy. In other words, he doesn't leave it up to his brothers to give an account of what happened Why does he not want his brothers to give their version of what happened? Because they're liars. He doesn't trust them for one bit. And he wants to make sure this is exactly what you're going to say to Daddy, because hey, who knows what they would say. Something else I find interesting in here is he never mentions to his daddy what his brothers did to him. He doesn't go back and says, listen, you guys are going to go back and you're going to tell Daddy exactly what you did to me. He doesn't say that. In fact, he says, God. Got me here where I'm at. He takes it completely off of them. Isn't that something? Now I would imagine at some point the brothers get back, Dad's gonna say, how in the world did he end up down there? You guys said he was dead Now we're not this isn't recorded. We don't have any account of this, but if I was daddy, fellas, what happened? And apparently probably they came clean at some point But Joseph, right now, sending them back, says, this is what you're going to say. And so he instructs them on what to say. And then he instructs him on what's going to happen, verse 11. And there will I nourish thee, for yet there are five years of famine. Five years, for yet there are five years of famine, lest thou and thy household and all thou hast come to poverty. Um I think it's interesting. Joseph resisted the temptation to use his power And his authority that he has at this point, he resists the temptation to use that for vengeance. He doesn't take any he doesn't he couldn't do anything now. He messed with them for a while, but he puts all that aside and he uses the power that he has that's given to him by God The authority he has, the position he has, and he uses that not for vengeance, but to be a blessing and be a help to these brothers who sold him as a slave. Isn't that interesting? I think Joseph recognized God's the one that gave me this authority. God's the one that put me in this position God's the one that's given me uh uh this power as uh number two in Ecob. God gave it to me not to use for my own personal vengeance, not to use for my own personal agenda. God has given me this position put me in this position and he has given me this authority to be a blessing and a help to others. Anybody here remember King Saul? He had power. He had authority. What did he use his power and authority for? Personal agenda. Y'all are quiet tonight on me. He used it for a personal agenda to attack a perceived enemy, David. He got jealous and envious, and he used the authority that God gave to him to provide leadership for the nation of Israel, to do good and and lead them in God's blessings, and he took that authority, took that power for his own personal agenda, try to get vengeance on a perceived enemy because he was jealous Joseph didn't do any of that. Listen, if God gives us some resources, if God gives us some abilities, and maybe we're in a position where we have some influence and some authority God doesn't put us there for us to advance our own agenda. It is for the good of the people God has made us leaders over. Now that's true in the home. Dad, your job in the home, and we heard some great preaching on fatherhood here this weekend, Saturday particularly. But the job of the father in the home is not to advance his agenda, but use his position to be a blessing and a help for the well-being of that family. Right? And same thing in the church. We all hear horror stories of pastors that use the church for their own agenda. And by the way, they answer to God for that. That position is not for my own agenda or for my own advancement. It's for the well-being of the church, to oversee the church. And that's true for politicians. It's not for our own agenda. If somebody goes into politics and the government and they're and uh and they're just average wealth and they come out four years later multi-millionaires, something's up. Right or wrong. Joseph didn't do any of that. He had tremendous power. He had tremendous authority. He didn't use it for any of his own advancement. He wanted to be a blessing to his brothers And so he tells them what he's going to do for them. He says, one, he's going to care for them. Notice he says there in uh verse 10, Thou shalt dwell in the land Thou shalt be near to me. Oh, verse 11. And there will I nourish thee. The word nourish means to sustain, to support you. It implies some protecting. I'll protect you. I'll care for you. And these are the fellows that tried killing them. These are the fellows that Sold him as a slave and he says, I'm going to take fellas come down. I'm in a tremendous position. I have the ability to do this You come down here, I'm going to take care of you. I'm going to take care of daddy. I'll meet your needs. I'll pay your bills. I'll feed you. I'll put food on your table. I'll give you houses to live in. I'll give you protection. The Egyptians didn't like Hebrews too much. I give you protection. And so he instructs them on what's going to happen. He's going to care for them. And then he says that the famine is still five more years to go. Can you imagine? I mean we had a dry summer here. Can you imagine two years without any rain The devastation that would be. And he tells these boys, he has information they don't have. Fellas, this famine isn't ending next year, and it's not ending the year after that, and it's not ending the year after that. We got five more years of this He says, I'll take care of you. I'll nourish you. I'll provide for you. I'm going to use the resources that God has given to me. I'm going to use the position that God has given me to be a help to others. To be a blessing. He's done that for the nation. Now he's going to do it for his family. And so he tells them, he instructs his brothers what to say. He doesn't leave it up to them. Here's exactly what you're going to say Number two, here's what's going to happen. I'll take care of you, we've still got five more years. Then he tells them what to do What to say, what's going to happen. He tells them what to do. Look at verse 13. And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt. And all that ye have seen, and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither. Did you notice how he refers to Jacob? Anybody notice how does he refer to Jacob as what? My father. He doesn't say our father. Was he the father of his brothers? Yes. But Joseph says, you take care of my father. Here's what you're going to do. You're going to get them and you're going to bring them down here. My father, my father, my father. Now I don't think he was uh disparaging his brothers. I think Jose I think Joseph missed his daddy. I think he loved his daddy and missed him dearly. And he's referring to him as my father. I haven't seen him in over 20 years. I didn't even know if he was alive. I want you to go get him and bring him down here. I think something else I notice here, Joseph loved and missed his father. But notice what he says there at the first part of the verse. He says, You shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt. Why do you think he would want his brothers to tell his daddy about all his glory in Egypt? Think he's just boasting? No, why does a son tell his daddy how well he did in something? Because he wants his daddy to be proud of him. He wants Jacob to be proud. Tell Daddy of all my glory. Now I already said God. Tell him God's the one that did this. But tell him what God has done. I think Joseph loved his daddy very much, and I think he missed his daddy, and he wanted his daddy to be proud of him So the plan of Joseph, number one, involved instructing his brothers on what to say, what's going to happen, and what they need to do Then part of his plan also is to reassure his brothers of his acceptance. Again, come back to verse 12. Notice what he says. And behold, your eyes see. And the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you. He's reassuring them. I wonder, when I read that, I thought, why would he say that? And I study, got studying, thinking it through what he's saying there. And I'm wondering if when he's saying all these instructions, he's given these instructions, he's revealed himself, he's going through all this, I wonder if he doesn't sense on the part of his brothers some skepticism Some doubt. And it's like he stops and he says, wait a minute. That was, look, you see me with your eyes. It's me, Joseph. Now this is what I thought was, oh, his brothers might have been thinking, uh, yeah, right, this is another trick. He's gonna tell us go go home and get daddy and bring all this stuff down. We're gonna get halfway there. He's gonna come and arrest us again. And this time he's gonna put us on the rack and torture us and hang us You know, I don't know. But he stops here and he gives them some reassurance. And several reasons why they should find a short reassurance here is one, he's speaking to them alone this time. He's pushed everybody out. It's just them and him. What language is he speaking in now? Hebrew. How do we know that? There's no interpreter. He's talking directly to them. This is different than all their interaction up to this point. They're alone with Joseph. And he's speaking in Hebrew to them. And then he says, and I'm not sure about this, but look at verse 12. He says, Behold, your eyes see And the eyes of my brother Benjamin. I got to think of what does he mean by that? Your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin. Anybody want to take a guess? And I don't I can't say dogmatically what he means here, but I think I know what he means. Anybody want to take a shot? Benjamin was closest to him, maybe standing there. Benjamin could see him. Ask Benjamin, is it me Ah, I think he's saying to them, hey, look in Benjamin's eyes, look at my eyes. See the similarity? Would you agree with me? Family, they say, oh, he has his mother's eyes. He's got his daddy, they always said he had my daddy's nose. But look in the eyes. Look, we look like each other. He's reassured him, hey I am who I'm saying. I'm t this is for real. It's okay, guys. He's trying to reassure them. He's comparing his appearance with Benjamin. So the first thing I notice here in these first several verses, 13 verses or so, verse 12 verses, 9 through 12, I see Jake Joseph's plan To get his daddy and family back down here. The second thing I noticed in verse 16 through 24 are the provisions that they received from Egypt. The provisions they received from Egypt. Now, here's the thing. Joseph was not ashamed of his family They'd treat him wrong or whatever, and the and like I said, the Egyptians weren't didn't think real highly of the Hebrews, but Joseph wasn't ashamed of his family. He was right there with Pharaoh, he introduced them, he talked to about them He was not ashamed of his family. And by the way, as we said before, he never mentions one time their deeds that they did. That's water under the bridge. That's spilt milk. That's gone. There's no reason to keep bringing that up. It's not going to help the situation. It's not going to help reconciliation. It's gone. Forget it. And he's not ashamed of his family. Listen, you say, Oh, if you knew my family, listen, you ought not to be ashamed of your family You don't have to approve of everything they do. You don't have to approve of maybe lifestyles and all that. But if they're kin, they're kin. And this is his family. These are his brothers, such as they are. And he introduces them with respect. And um and all that. So I just find Joseph's not ashamed of his family. So the provisions of Egypt, I put this down. Number one, these provisions were a blessing. Now let me explain what I mean by that. Look at verse 16. And uh and the fame and the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house Saying, Joseph's brethren are come. Look at this. And it pleased Pharaoh well and his servants. It pleased him well. Pharaoh loved Joseph. There's no doubt about it. They highly respected them. They were so grateful for what Joseph had done for them personally and for their nation. He saved their lives. He saved their nation. They're prosperous. I mean, man alive, they're coming out of this thing. They're going to be fabulously wealthy as a nation. They loved them. And they were eager, this is where I get the idea that the provisions were a blessing. They were eager to be a blessing. To Joseph and his family. Yes, we want to do something. Yes, we want to help you. They wanted to show gratitude. And by the way, that's a good example for us. If someone's a blessing to us, we ought to be grateful. We ought to look for opportunity to be a blessing back and look for opportunity. You know, it's interesting, even the unsaved world a lot of times, will be better at expressing gratitude than some of God's people. And just come back and say thank you and look for an opportunity. Man, they're a help to me, they're a blessing to me. And so their provisions for Egypt was a blessing for Egypt For the Egyptians to be able to show their gratitude and their appreciation for all that Joseph had done for them. So that it was a blessing, but the provisions also were abundant Look at verse 17. And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, this do ye, laid your beasts. That means load them full. Laid your beasts and go get you into the land of Canaan. Take your father and your households. Come unto me. I'll give you the good of the land of Egypt. I'm going to give you the best we got. And uh ye shall eat the fat of the land. We're going to make sure you're taken care of. Now thou art commanded. He says, this isn't a request. I'm telling you, you're going to do this. I'm commanding you. Take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones and for your wives and for your father. Take all these everything you need to get your family down here And uh uh and for your wives, and bring your father and come. Now look what he says. Also, regard not your stuff. He says, don't worry about your furniture and all, just leave it You don't need to bring all that down. Look, he says, regard not your stuff, for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours. We'll take care of you. We'll have houses. I mean, they were living in tents He says, uh we'll we'll do all that for you. And to them, uh, and the children of Israel did so, and Joseph gave them wagons according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provisions for their way. And then um And so it was abundant. It was the generosity of Pharaoh. I'm giving you the best of Egypt. But notice in verse 22 the graciousness of Joseph. To all of them he gave each man, this is Joseph, out of his own pocket, he gave each man ten changes of raiment. That's ten suit coats or ten overall bibs. For some of y'all. Each one got a whole ten raiment uh ten uh changes of raiment But to Benjamin, he gave three hundred pieces of silver and five changes of raiment. So those got ten suits. Benjamin got five suits, but he got 300 pieces of silver, and that's a chunk of money. I don't know, maybe he's going to buy them off of Amazon. I don't know But Joseph was incredibly generous. Question: What did these boys do to earn Joseph's kindness? Nothing. They did nothing to earn Joseph being so kind to them. Nothing. Joseph is doing good to those who treated him evil. Jesus asked this question. Matthew. He said, if you love them which love you, what reward have ye? What's the answer? None. You love them which love you. That's no big deal. In fact, it goes on and says, even the publicans do that. The publicans were the lowest of the low. They were the dirtballs. They were the they were the thugs. They were the thieves, the liars, tramps. And he says, they even love those who love them. And Jesus is saying to the disciples, You're not impressing me, and you're not earning any rewards if you only love those who love you. By the way, drug addicts love those who love them. Drunkards, the worst of the worst, will love those who love them. And Jesus was saying, you and I, as disciples of Christ, as disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ, we are to live above that. Our love is to be purer and deeper and and uh uh more godlike than the love of this world. In other words, he's saying if all you do is love them that love them, big deal. The worst of the worst do that. He's saying, you love them that don't love you. You do good to them that treat you wrong. You be kind to them that rub you the wrong way and you don't like. It's a shame for a Christian to be unkind to somebody, say, well, I just don't like them God have mercy on that level of Christianity, even the world. That's the way the world is. Are you with me? And you see it. You see it. I had years ago, years ago, ladies said to me, somebody's name came on, and they said, well, we're not on speaking terms. I said, well, good night, get over that. That's a shame for a Christian to say that. Amen or not? Come on. We know that's right. We ought to love those who don't love us. We live by a different standard. We're not better than the world, but we don't live like the world. We have a higher standard, we have purer motives. That's simply what I get out of it. And I'm telling you, Joseph is a beautiful, perfect example of someone. It's not all about him. It's not whether it makes me happy or not, whether I like it or not. No, you love the unlovely. Do good to those that treat you wrong. And that is a huge lesson that I see coming out of Joseph and his brothers. And we cannot allow that in our church. Of all people in Garrett County, the folks of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church ought to be able to love the unlovely. You ought to be able to be kind to the unkind. Say, well, I don't like them. Well, hit the altar, confess to sin, and love them anyway. Ephesians four thirty-two, you know what it says. And be ye kind one to another, tender hearted. forgiving one another, even as God, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven who? You. You know what he's saying? Saying what Joseph was doing. He's saying, listen, the same way that God loves you, you love others. The same way that God is kind to you, you be kind to others. Same way God forgave you, you forgave others. I think we do pretty good on this, but visitors come in, they able to sense the fact that we care about and love them regardless of their past or their appearance or anything. And that ought to be true with one another. God forbid a visitor would come to me and say, you know, those people were unkind to me, and they didn't talk to me and they didn't do this. That would be a shame, amen or not. And Joseph, man, he loves these belt boys. Um Oh, notice he says there, I thought this, look at verse 24. So he he gives them all this stuff. He's so gracious to them. He's so generous to them. And notice he says in 24, so he sent his brethren away, and they departed. And he said unto them, look at this, see that ye fall not out by the way. So he's got his brothers, he sends them home, and he says, Listen, don't you guys be falling out on the way home. What's he saying to them? Don't get in a fight among yourselves on the way home, you knuckleheads They're going to start blaming each other. I told you we shouldn't do that. Whose idea was this anywhere? He says, don't be falling out on the way home. So number one, we have the plan of Joseph, how to get his family down here. He tells them, he gives them the instructions, what to say, what's going to happen, what to do, he reassures them Then he gets all these provisions, man. They've got wagons. They're loaded up. They're ready. Everything they need to get the family and household back down there. They're taking off. And then notice the response of his family, and I'll just give this real quickly. Look at verse 25. And they went up out of Egypt and came to the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father. And they went on, and verse 26, and told him, saying. And so their response was: first of all, they obeyed Joseph and the obedience of the brothers. They did exactly what he said. They went up there and they said to their daddy what he told them to say. Said, uh, Joseph is yet alive? He's governor over all the land of Egypt. So you have the obedience of the brothers. Number two, you have the unbelief of Jacob. And Jacob's heart faded, for he believed them not. For twenty years, Joseph's been dead. For 20 years he's been gone. No word, no letters, no nothing, no phone calls, no email, nothing. Joseph's dead. He was told that. He saw his coat covered in blood. And they come back and say Joseph's alive, he's the governor of Egypt. No way, there ain't no way. Now notice they have undeniable evidence. And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not. And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them. They said exactly what Joseph told them to say. And when he saw the wagons, it wasn't the word of his sons that he believed. They've been proven dishonest. But when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry them, and the spirit of Jacob, their father, revived. He said, It is enough. Joseph, my son, is yet alive. Can you imagine what took place in the heart of Jacob? When it finally sunk in, Joseph is alive. He's alive. It is enough. My son, Joseph, my son, is alive. I will go and see him before I die. In Genesis 42, verse 36, Jacob had made this statement: All these things are against me. When in reality, all these things were for him. And a lot of times the stuff that happens to us that we think, oh, this is awful, this is terrible, this is bad A lot of times God is allowing that because he has something good he's setting up. You follow me? A lot of times. Anybody here ever go through a difficult time, an unpleasant time, and you look back and say I would never want to go through it again, but I sure am grateful for what I learned going through there. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah. God uses that We think it's against us. All this is against us. When in reality, if we'll trust the Lord, we'll follow his instructions, he can use that and make it for us. Jacob's family was one of the most dysfunctional families in all of Scripture. Yet they became the foundation for the great nation of Israel. That is still in existence today, and that will, Jesus Christ will rule as King of Israel during the millennial reign. This family was the foundation The founding, humanly founders of this nation. And they're so dysfunctional, it's unbelievable. But one son Decided he was going to trust God and do what's right. And God was able to take that family And make a great nation out of them. Just one person. Do you know God can send revival to a church if just one person will say, I want to get a hold of God and I want to do right and I want to trust God You know, revival can uh an uh a community can be affected if just one church say, you know, we're going to trust God and do exactly what he says. I'm telling you, there's power. Don't ever say that we're a minority. One person thoroughly right with God, with God is a majority. And God used one man, one young boy, with integrity and faith, and he developed used that to put together a great nation. Isn't that good? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you'd help us to learn from this event here that we studied tonight. And I pray, Lord, regardless of what others say and do, regardless of what our Own thinking maybe. Help us, Lord, to be gracious and kind. Help us, Lord, to be like the Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray you'd help us to trust you. When things seem like all things are against us, help us trust you and do what you say, and we'll see, God, that you can work all that out around. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, uh I just I'm uh there's some stuff going on I don't understand. It's not pleasant You say, preacher, I just want to trust God. I just want to do right. Let Him get me through this and see what He brings out of it. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? Some stuff. I just need to trust God, stay faithful, do right And see what he brings out of this. God bless you, a bunch of hands. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, sometimes I get grouchy Sometimes I'm not as kind as I know I should be, and I get in a crawl or somebody crosses me the wrong way, and I get in the flesh, and I don't treat them like I should. And you say, preacher, pray with me that I can follow Joseph's example And be gracious and be kind even when others aren't. Any like that? Amen. It's not all of us. It's probably human nature there. So Father, bless our imitation. Help us to learn these lessons and learn them well. In Jesus' name. Amen.