Mr. Jesse with us for the week. He spoke Sunday morning to the teens and the teen Sunday school class and then preached in children's church and uh He's been helping us out around here. You keep Brother Jess in your prayers. He's been fighting a sinus infection real bad. Ended up at the emergency care yesterday, or Monday, I guess, and uh been down yesterday. He's up and running again So um uh so you keep him in your prayers, but I'm glad that uh he could be with us and I'm glad he can bring tonight's message. So let's get our Bibles out. Well Jesse come on up here and he's gonna preach to us this evening Oh, it's just such an honor to be here. That was a beautiful song. There's just uh I thank God that we're in the house of God tonight. There's nothing better than God's word. Uh I was just uh really touching my heart. Um I'd like to thank uh Pastor for just being so hospitable and uh helping me out, taking care of uh medication, really helping me out and um just been a blessing. Um thank you to the Heath family who's been uh housing me. They've just been uh very kind and very welcoming and Thank you guys and thank you to all the congregation. You guys are just so uh friendly and uh just greet with greet me with smiles and um is my mic on or is this one? And um yeah, just thank you guys for welcoming uh into you guys' house. Um sorry, technical difficulties and um Uh thank you, Pastor Matt, um, for taking me out today and door knocking and um just thankful for uh Pastor Matt and his heart for the teens here and his heart for the community and uh just a huge encouragement to me. I'd like to uh open our Bibles if you would with me to the uh passage of Mark, Book of Mark, chapter 16. Mark chapter sixteen, and I'll just be reading one verse here. Uh bear with me. Uh I'm feeling a lot better and people have been bringing me food. Actually Pastor Leatherman, Mrs. Leatherman, made me a bowl of chicken noodle soup and that just healed me right up I was just awesome. So thank you for that. So we're in um Mark chapter sixteen, verse number fifteen. The Bible says, and he, speaking of Jesus, said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you for your word, God. Thank you for uh the ability to praise you, to sing to you, Lord. Thank you for Your great commission, God, your love for everybody here on earth, and thank you for involving us in your plan, God. Please bless your word tonight and stir our hearts, God, as we live for you and follow you. We thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. The best life that we could ever live is for the Lord Jesus Christ in service to Him. And that saved life, that abundant life, that's where the joy comes from. There's just no better uh life than serving the Lord. And that Jesus Christ died for us, and that He paid for all of our sins on the cross, that we could uh have that eternal life, that we can be forgiven. And um that we can serve the Lord out of love because he first loved us. We don't have to try to earn his love. We don't have to try to work to to gain God's favor because he loves us unconditionally and he loves us fully. And so um He loves everybody. He wants everybody to be saved. And um so as we go out and preach the gospel, we're not trying to earn God's love or God's favor. But instead we're serving him out of that heart of gratitude, out of that overflow of love and what he's done for us. And um, I just think of this um This passage here, this verse, the Great Commission, it was a quote I saw from Hudson Taylor. He was a missionary in China for 51 years, I think in the late 1800s. And he said, the Great Commission is not a suggestion to be considered, but it is a commandment to be obeyed. And this is a commandment that we have the privilege of serving the Lord Jesus Christ in. And he, Jesus, said unto them, Go. And that's the first word that I see in this great commission. The word go. And um how should we go? We should go with a purpose, serving the Lord. And going is half the battle, you know? It's it's for me it's kinda like working out. I don't necessarily always want to start going to the gym, but once I'm there, I love it. And uh that's half the battle, it's just going. And um I thank God that we don't have to be perfect in order to go. We we we can just go and uh we don't have to um Be well educated. We don't have to go to Bible college. You know, the commandment doesn't say go first to Bible college, get an education for four years, and then go preach the gospel. It says go. And that's just the first step. And um the commandment also says it's not go if you feel like it. It's a commandment. We are to go. It's not uh go if uh the weather's nice outside. It's not go if uh we have the time or or uh you know we feel like it, but that there's a commandment to go. That's the first word that I see. How should we go? Well, have you ever heard the saying, what gets scheduled gets done. Well, you know, sometimes if we don't schedule things, we don't make time, things pass us up. And so it's important to schedule that time. Um to go. You know, maybe uh is it is it Thursday nights? So when maybe Thursday nights doesn't work for everybody. So you might have to you know schedule a time. For the teens, we went out Sunday at around four, you know. But uh but the important thing is that you have a time where you go to obey the Lord Jesus Christ in this great commission. And it is a great commission. So we go with a purpose, and we also go with a promise. In John chapter 4, 35, Jesus said, The fields are white already unto harvest. So we have that promise as we go that there are people out there ready to get saved. Um I know for some people and for myself at sometimes You know, we can get discouraged. We can say, well, I haven't seen you know anybody saved. I don't nobody wants to get saved or or how can I how can I go out? But Jesus Christ said, there are people ready to be saved for the gospel. There are people Ready to hear the gospel and to receive Jesus Christ to be saved. Talking about the fields being white under harvest. And um He also said the harvest truly is plenteous. We can go anywhere and see people saved. There's so many people out there. You might know somebody who's lost. You might have people around you. The harvest truly is plenty, as Jesus said. So don't get discouraged. Just go. Go with the promise of Jesus' presence with us. In Matthew 28:20, Jesus said, And lo, I am with you always. Even until the end of the world. And so we have that promise of the Lord Jesus Christ being with us. We have that surety of His presence that He will go with us. We're not alone. The second uh word I see, go ye, this is uh a personal command. In John chapter 20, verse 21, Jesus says, As the Father has sent me, so I send you. Jesus Christ sends us out personally. Um actually when uh Pastor Leatherman first picked me up, the first thing we did, we went out visiting. And um I saw Pastor Leatherman in his nice shoes step in a big puddle of mud, you know, going up to a person's house. And um That was just awesome to see that the pastor um and this his church is ob obeying the Great Commission. But it's not just for the pastor. It's not just for Pastor Leatherman or Pastor Matt to obey this great commission. This is for every believer. Everybody who's saved is to obey this great commission. And um So it's a personal command. It's a predetermined command. What I mean by that is that When Jesus says, go ye, he's speaking personally, and he already knew who you were before he ever gave you this command. He knew You before you were even formed in your mother's womb. He knew who you were. And he still chose to give you and I this great commission. Us sometimes feeling insufficient of ourselves, but knowing that the Lord Jesus is with us, working through us, He knew who we were. And so we don't have to worry. It's a predetermined command. It's a personal command. God will equip you for his work. Whatever the Lord calls us to, he will equip us. He will help us. He will work through us. That we don't have to use our own strength, our own power, but to rely on the Lord Jesus Christ. And it's also it's a personal command, it's a predetermined command. And Since it's so personal, there's all there's some people that only you can reach. God has specific people lined up for every one of us. That he would use us to reach these specific ple people at our work or at our job or somebody that we run into on the street. God has personally given this to us to reach those specific people. Pastor, maybe we'll be able to reach people. Um that you could never reach and you may be able to reach. People that pastor or somebody else here may never be able to reach. So go ye, and that's that's the title of the message, go ye. Where are we to go? Into all the world we are to go. Everywhere we go, we ought to be soul winners. We ought to be soul conscience. Uh no matter if we go to the grocery store. We should be thinking about people's souls, their eternity. It was Dion Moody I was reading about, and he saw souls He saw people as souls that will end up somewhere. And I think it was D. Al Moody who said Everybody walks around with a letter on their forehead. That's how we saw them. It was either an S. That was about S or an L. Now say that that means Gil Moody saw them as saved or lost People people aren't just um people aren't just our neighbors or or our uh grocery clerks. or our relatives or people that we see on the streets, these are souls that need the gospel, that need the Lord Jesus Christ, because they will spend eternity somewhere Either in heaven or in hell. And God has commissioned us to go out and tell these people to preach the gospel. This is a we should see people as Jesus saw people. He looked on the people and he saw them as sheep. Having no shepherd, lost. And he saw them and he was moved with compassion. And I I just ask you here tonight, how do you see people? When you see them and you think, where will they spend eternity? Are you moved with that compassion? Is your heart stirred to see people come to know the Lord Jesus Christ as you do? I know that Lord Jesus Christ has can change our lives, and He has changed many of our lives, has saved us. And we want that for other people As sheep having no shepherd, Jesus was moved with compassion. Now it says, go you into all the world. Let me just say this: we are in the world, but we are not of the world. We are to be separated, meet for the master's use. How can we go out into a world Act like the world and expect the world to see something different about us. We are to be set apart unto God. We are to eschew evil, as it says in Job. We are to be lights in this dark world. Jesus said, Ye are the light of the world. We are set apart, meet for the Master's use. So go ye into all the world. Be in the world, but not of the world. It says, Go into all the world and preach the gospel. And preach the gospel. We are to proclaim it, to lift up our voice and to preach the gospel. We are not to water down the gospel. It is the gospel. There's only one. Now, I want to a lot of people say, you know, the gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Well, turn with me, if you would, in your Bible to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. First Corinthians chapter 15 and here we have a synopsis of we have the gospel and it says in verse 1 This is Paul writing here. I declare unto you the gospel, which I preached unto you. Verse 3: how that Jesus Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. We it says Jesus Christ died for our sins. We, that's part of the gospel. We are to call sin what it is, sin. And because the gospel doesn't make sense to anybody without them knowing about their sin and their eternal the eternal punishment that they face from God, from sinning against God. That's part of the gospel. How that Jesus Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. He rose again that we could have peace with God, that we could have our sins forgiven, that we could have a home in heaven. That's the gospel. So we are to go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. To every creature. Now Jesus was not referring to animals when he was talking about creatures. He was, he knew that some religious folk Looked at some people less than human. The Jews did this to the Samaritans. They looked at the Samaritans, their uh neighbors in Israel, they looked at them as less than dogs. People who weren't even worthy to be spoken to. And everybody needs the gospel. We we should not look down on anybody, whether they be um rich or poor Or young or old, or a different shade of color than we are, or from a different place. But everybody needs the gospel. Everybody needs Jesus Christ. All the people everywhere. Maybe there is someone here tonight that needs to receive Jesus Christ as their Savior. Maybe somebody needs to accept the gospel, believe it. So here it is. That's the great commission that is given to us to fulfill, to go into all the world. To preach the gospel to every creature. So we pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word, God. We thank you for your gospel. We thank you for dying for our sins, sending your Lord Jesus, sending your Son Jesus here and dying for our sins, Lord. That he was buried and that he rose again the third day, God. I pray that if there's anybody here, Lord, that they would receive your Son, Jesus, today as Savior. And Lord, if there's anybody who has already accepted you, Lord, as I know there are many here, Lord, help us to obey your great commission. Help us to go into all the world, preach the gospel to every creature. And help us to follow you, Lord, as you lead us and guide us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.