And uh uh some time ago, just a week or so ago, and uh this verse number ten uh stood out in my mind as I was reading through here. I have it underscored in my Bible The more I looked at it and meditated on it and prayed over it, I thought we'd bring a message from this. Verse number 10. I'd like for us to read it together in unison, if you would. Verse 10, Psalms chapter 9. You ready? Altogether. And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee, for thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. I'm entitled to the I'm entitled it this God Never Forsakes His Own. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord. uh for uh your blessings on us. Lord, I'm very grateful and I'm blessed to be back at Mountain Lake. And uh what a joy this church is to me I thank you for your goodness to us, your blessings on us so many years. And I pray now, again, this Sunday morning, snowy, uh cold outside, but that you would meet with us. And Lord, I ask that your presence would be here in this service. I've been blessed by the singing, Lord, and uh I just kind of sense you're moving already. And so please take your word and through me apply it to each of our hearts and lives. I present my body anew, I yield my will to you. I pray you'd fill me with your spirit. And Lord, I pray you'd deal with us where we're at, as we are, where we're at, in whatever situations we're facing. I pray you deal with us from your word and give us instruction, counsel us, give us leadership, and help us to trust you and follow you and obey you. And I ask this in Jesus' name, amen. The Bible is given to us not just to be a theological doctrinal workbook. Uh when I was in Bible college there was a fellow there and he was a good man so I don't mean to be disrespectful to him in any way. He was a good fella But he was what you some people would refer to as did you ever hear this term, an egghead? Anybody know? I mean he he knew Hebrew and Greek, he knew everything inside and out, he knew all the All the detailed facts of the Bible. He had all these facts. He'd walk around literally with an armload of books. He'd come to church with a Greek dictionary, Hebrew dictionary, he'd come to church like that. And again, he was a good man. I don't uh I don't mean to be disrespectful. And all of that, but here's the thing, I never saw him one time in any kind of ministry Uh he didn't work a bus route. He never went soul one as far as I could tell. Uh not involved in any Sunday school class, no ministries, choir. He got and here's the thing, I think here's where he was missing the point. He got all the details, all the doctrine of the Bible, and he got all that in his head. But he failed to see that the Bible was given to us not to be just a doctrinal theological workbook, but it is given to us to be a manual for how we live our lives. The Bible is uh is instructions. The Bible is given to us by God to be instructions for life How many people anticipate having to make some important decisions this year? Anyone here anticipate having to make sure? It's every year. We have to all the time we have to make decisions, important decisions How many people here ever thought, boy, I wish I had some counsel on how to make this decision. Anybody ever been there? God's given us counsel. God's given us the Word of God. It's counsel for decisions we make in life. The Bible is given to us by God to give us direction in life That's why we've tried all these many years, we've tried to put such a strong emphasis on reaching young people and teaching the Word of God and get in their life, because as they live their life And let God lead and direct us. And young couples. And then as we get older, we need God to lead us and direct us in life. And that is what God has given to us. It's a manual for us to live by. If I ask this, and I don't want you to respond, I think I know what the response is, but if I ask this question, do you believe the Bible? Our overwhelming answer would be yes, absolutely. We believe the Bible. The Bible is the Word of God. But here's the problem, I think, in a lot of situations is we believe the Bible, we say that, but when it comes to following its teachings, Or doing what it says, then a lot of Christians just disregard its teaching. The Bible doesn't say what I think it should say, or if I disagree with something, or If uh if uh something that God says I should do or not do, or some instruction God gives me, or some counsel God gives me from His Word, if it's difficult or inconvenient We live in a day and age in our churches where, well, I'll just push that aside. I'll just ignore it. I'm going to do it the way I want. I'm going to do it the way I see it. I'm going to Make this decision based on my own understanding because now we don't say this, but it plays out this way, because I don't agree with it. That's too hard. I don't want to do it that way And when that is characteristic in a church, now get this, and I'm talking about churches across the board. When that is characteristic in a church, when we decide whether we're going to trust and obey the Bible, whether we're going to follow its instructions, take its counsel, When we are making that decision, that's a good indicator that church needs revival. That church needs revival. Because revival is taking God at His Word, trusting Him, and living as He instructs us. And so the Bible is given to us to be a manual to live by. It's a practical book. It's an everyday book And that's why we emphasize so strongly about spending time every day in the Bible. So it helps me make decisions that day. I tell you it's amazing. And people all across this auditorium could stand and testify. I read my Bible in the morning, and lo and behold, something in that day Related to what I read in those scriptures that morning. And it happens so often. That's God leading us and directing us from His Word. We come to Psalm chapter 9, and as I said, I was reading in my devotions, came across verse 10. And Psalm chapter 9, if you notice right at the beginning above verse number 1, it tells us this was penned by David. I always emphasize this. It was not authored by David. It was authored by who? God. God is the author of Scripture. Holy Spirit of God. God moved upon David to pen these words here. And so it's pen by David. I always like to look at, particularly in the Psalms, try and get the context of when it was written and what the circumstances were. What was going on in the life of the penmen that maybe God used to prompt them to write what they did? And I got trying to study and looking up what people said, you look at the content of the psalm, it doesn't tell us a whole lot, a little bit about what circumstances were, we kind of infers a few things there. And I got looking at what others said, Bible scholars said, see what they thought. And some people suggested that Psalm 9 was written after David defeated Goliath. And uh that could very well be. And I read through it again after that, and I could see where what his thinking was. He makes some statements in there about conquering his enemies, defeating his enemies. It could have been written after David defeated Goliath. Others suggested, now let me ask you a question. Was David young or old when he defeated Goliath? He's a very young man. Others suggested that this was written at the end of David's life. And after he experienced God's blessing, he experienced God's faithfulness and God to give him victory in his life and all that, at the end of his life, he pens this book. at the end of his life. And after I got reading that, either uh conquering Goliath at the beginning of his life or at the end of his life, before he passed away, I came to this conclusion. They have no idea when he wrote this thing. That spanned his whole life. And so whatever the circumstances were, whatever the situation was that he was facing, that maybe God used to prompt him to record this The theme of Psalms chapter 9, I believe, is this. God is faithful. Regardless of what enemies we face, regardless of what obstacles we have to deal with. Regardless of what difficulties that come up in life, we can be certain of one thing. God is faithful, and God will never forsake his own people. God never forsakes us. If you don't get anything else out of this message, I hope you'll take this statement home with you. God can be trusted God can be trusted. You say, oh, preacher, I'm dealing with this. I know. But I'm telling you this: you can trust God through that. Oh preacher, you don't understand what my needs are. Uh I probably don't, but I'll tell you this: God can be trusted. God can be trusted. In fact, I believe that's one of the main themes through the whole Bible. God is faithful. God can be trusted. And so David records this. And now I want us to look there at verse number 10. And I have three thoughts from verse number 10. And I got great inspiration from Pastor Matt, so we'll see how that plays out here this morning. Notice it says, and they that know thy name will put their trust in thee. They that know thy name will put their trust in thee. This is my first thought. Number one, I want us to notice the confidence of believers. The confidence of believers. They that know thy name will put their trust in thee. Biblical Christianity is a no-so religion. I preached a message years ago, and we say I've said this often. Salvation is a no-so salvation. I don't have to hope so. I don't have to think so. I don't have to wonder. I can know for sure, I can know for sure that God has completely forgiven my sins and that when I die, I have eternal life. I spend forever with the Lord in heaven I'm not separated in hell for all eternity. And no so salvation if you believe that, say amen. I was talking to a fellow yesterday, talking to a family yesterday. And we visited a little bit and um as I try to and and any time I make a visit with uh somebody uh we got talked a little bit and finally we were talking about church and where they went and different things. And um I made this statement. I said, you know, I said, you know, we're not trying to get anybody out of their church at all whatsoever. I said, but um, I said, and church, but church is very, very important. Church is God's idea. God expects his people to be faithful to church. It's very, very important. And we mentioned a few other things, very important. Family. I said, but more important than church is knowing for sure that our sins are forgiven, that when we die, we go to heaven, not to hell. And he agreed with me, he says, yeah, you're right, that's important. I said, let me ask you this. Do you know for sure Beyond a shadow of a doubt that when the day comes that you go out into eternity, your body dies, do you know for sure that you're going to heaven and not to hell? And he thought for a minute and he made this statement. He said, Preacher, I hope so. I hope so. So I'm not perfect. I try. I try to do right. And I say, I have no doubt in my mind you try to do right. I said, but the Bible tells us that we can know for sure, without a shadow of a doubt, that God has forgiven all our sins, and that when we die, we go to heaven, not to hell. And I said to him, I said, would you I'd like to share, I'd like to show you from the Bible how to do how you can know that. You know what he said? He said, well, I'd like to know that. I'd like to know that. And I stood there and he stood beside me as two girls came around and we went through the plan of salvation. The whole family, father and mother, two girls all bowed their head, calling the Lord Jesus to be their Savior. And I said to him when I left, I gave him some verses of assurance, and I said, listen, you don't have to hope so anymore You don't have to wonder anymore. God has promised that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's a promise of God. If somebody sincerely and earnestly, genuinely calls on the Lord, putting their faith and trust in Jesus Christ, accepting them as their personal savior, and they're genuinely doing that for forgiveness and cleansing of sin. God says they can they know they're going to heaven. If that person did that and God didn't save them, they didn't go to heaven, then God lied. And God, do you agree with this statement? God does not lie. God does not lie. And he'll never leave us, he'll never forsake us. So he says here, he says, those, he says, uh, and they that know thy name shall put their trust in thee. They have full confidence in God. Or I trust Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, I have full confidence that He says that He will do exactly what He says He will do. I got we talked a little bit, and I was giving them some verse of assurance, the girls there, and um Before we left, I said, you know what you did just now, I did almost forty years ago, May seventh, nineteen seventy-nine. And I didn't say anything about Laverne and Shirley, I just did the other And uh I said uh I said what you did there and I said you know God forbid if I go out it was snowing pretty good at the time I go out here and some maniac truck driver and all truck drivers are maniacs Some maniac truck driver comes plowing into my car and I would be sealed. I said, God forbid, I said, but I'll tell you this, I know for sure I'm going to heaven, not to hell. And I said it's not because I'm a preacher. I said it's not because I'm sinless or I'm better than anybody else. God knows that's not true. I said, because God promised that whoever calls on him should not perish, whoever believes in him, puts their faith in him, should not perish, but have what? Everlasting life. So he writes here, and he says, They that know thy name shall put their trust in thee. There is confidence in the Lord. That phrase, know thy name, is interesting. I like to look up the words and the meanings and how they're used. And I came up with this definition of that phrase, they that know thy name, means this, to be intimately acquainted with To be intimately acquainted with the Lord. And by the using that phrase, know thy name, I think this is what he's implying here. To be to know thy name has this idea, to know intimately who God is. And to know what God is like. Salvation is really being introduced, putting my faith in trust, but it's an introduction to a new relationship with my creator, with my savior Without trusting Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm separated from God. But when I put my faith and trust in Him, I call Him and trust Him, now I have a relationship with Him. And now I begin to know who God is. I begin to know what God is like. Remember when Moses came in before Pharaoh? Pharaoh didn't know the Lord. He was an unbeliever, hardened, hard-hearted pagan He didn't care about the true God. He didn't care about honesty and integrity. He didn't care about right and wrong. He didn't care about heaven and hell. And Moses approached him and said, Let my people go. God has told us, you must let my people go. And he made this statement. He says, Who is the Lord? Who is God? He was totally separated from God. He no doubt had his concepts and his ideas, but he didn't know the Lord. But when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, tremendous changes take place. And now I have a relationship with my God, my Creator. Jesus said in John chapter 3: I'm now born into his family spiritually, I'm a child of God. And this relationship that I have with him as I grow at salvation, I begin to develop that, and I get to know who God is, and I get to know what he's like For 40 years, I wished I'd be a better Christian way. I wished I had made some decisions I made, I wished I hadn't, and others I wished I had. But 40 years I've been learning a little bit what God's like. And you know what I've learned? One thing I've learned? God's faithful. God has never forsaken me, not one time. God has been true to his word. He's been true to me as his child. And what he's done for me, he does for you too. And that's the confidence. They that know thy name. They that know who you are and what you're like. They have trust in you, they have confidence in you This begins at salvation. Salvation is the beginning of an eternal relationship with the God that created me. And then a process begins. A process of learning who the Lord is. And how does how do I learn? How do I know who God is? How do I know who He is and what He's like? How do I learn that? I guarantee you this: it's not from the writings of man. Hollywood every now and then comes out with some movie, some biblical themed movie. And I tell you this, every time, every time they get it wrong. I have no confidence in Hollywood's interpretation of Scripture. Just look at her lifestyles. That explains a lot of it right there. But I tell you how we nurture and develop this relationship with God. Once I'm saved, the way I develop this, I get to know him and I want to know what he's like, the way I do that is by the old black book. The old word of God, get in there and read. And God teaches me and shows me, reveals Himself to me. Through the Word of God. Through the Word of God. Again, that's why I say Uh reading our Bibles every day is so important. I believe every it ought to begin as a young child reading their Bibles every day. Can I say a word to the parents with small children? Can I give you a bit of advice? And it's biblical, solid biblical advice. It's this. You ought to have it sometime every day. You gather the family around and read the Bible together as a family. You ought to bow your heads and pray. Good idea is just have the whole family pray around. Tell you what, that'll solve a lot of problems. That'll heal a lot of wounds. Let the psalm that the Word of God speak to your heart and challenge and introduce it to young people. And all through, as we develop this, we learn more what God is like. One of my boys said this has been a number of years ago, but he made a great statement that encouraged my heart tremendously. He said, Dad, the thing I remember so much about home Is that every night we'd get together, we'd read the Bible, and we used to sing a hymn when the boys were small, we'd sing through a hymn book. We'd read the Bible, sing a hymn, and pray. I don't know about you, but that blessed my heart. And my son remembered that. And that's how we develop our knowledge of God. That's how we learn what God is like. And then personally, spending time in the Word of God personally on a daily basis. And don't just buzz through, oh, help Lord overhill, no godly things here, all right, read my Bible. Made it That's not what we're talking about. I'd rather you r I I I think you ought to try and read your Bible through on a regular basis, but I'd far rather somebody spend a little time get something out of it than race through that thing like a NASCAR race And see who gets to the Revelation 22 first. It's not it at all. It's letting God reveal Himself to me, letting God speak to me. Church services. The Lord said, forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. Why? Because that's where we learn what God is like. That's where we learn what God counsels us and directs us. I don't know about you, but there's been a heap of times where I've been I have a decision to make or something I was involved in or whatever, and I've been reading my Bible, doing all that, but I come to church service and the preacher unbeknownst to him He deals with exactly what's going on in my life, and God helps me, and I make some decision, and it helps me from the preaching of the Word of God. How many people know what I'm talking about? And uh he says, forsake not the assembling of ourselves together. And he tells us other places in Hebrews and other passages: exhort one another, build each other up, help each other, grow, and know what God is like. I sure would love to be able to say that. I would sure would love to have to have it said about me. Boy, I I saw Brother Leatherman. I watched him a little bit, and I learned something about God. I learned a little bit what God's like. Have that said about us. When are our kids? Look at mom, kids, look at dad. Say, oh, that's how God works. That's what God does in the life of somebody that trusts him. That's how somebody that knows the Lord lives. And so the confidence of the believer, they know his name, they become intimately acquainted, they find out what God is like, they find out how he operates. Uh let me give you another way that this re this knowledge of the Lord disrange the Lord is developed. Through trials of life You know, I've learned more about my Creator and my Savior when I went through dark valleys than I did on mountaintops. I've learned more about the I've learned more about God's faithfulness and God's goodness and God's compassion. When the tears were hot on my cheek, than I did when I'm laughing. And I like laughing, I don't like crying. But the trials and difficulties is often when God reveals Himself the most, when He expresses His compassion the most. When he reveals his faithfulness and his help and his power the most. When we go through trials, James put it this way, my brethren, count it all joy. When you fall into diverse temptations, that means trials of life, many various trials of life. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptation, knowing this. That the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have his perfect work, that ye may be perfect in entire, wanting nothing. What's he mean? You grow and mature. And you see how God works and what God does. And it gives you confidence for life. It gives you confidence in dealing with future issues because you learned here by trusting God that God is faithful. He never forsakes us. And so I see here the confidence of the believer, the confidence of the believer. The better I get to know God, the more I understand what He's like. The more I trust him, the stronger my faith in him becomes. I believe one of the greatest priorities in the Christian life is for you and I to get to know intimately our Savior. What he's like and how good he is and what he wants from me and and uh uh and how he can lead me and direct me. Confidence. Number two, I've got this thought from Psalms chapter 9 and verse number 10. I put this down. Consider, first of all, we want to notice the confidence of the believer. And I put this down. Number two, consider the accusations of the devil. Now you look at verse 10, you say, I don't see anything in there that says anything about accusations of the devil. I know it. I think it's implied. And I take this from all of Scripture, and this is what I'm getting at. One thing Satan likes to do, and he's very effective at, is getting us to doubt and question the faithfulness of God. We have three enemies. We have three spiritual enemies. And I'm telling you, our political enemies are nothing compared to these spiritual enemies. Somebody help me. Who are the spiritual enemies? Number one, the world, the flesh, and the And they are very powerful. We got society out there that is an enemy of my spiritual growth. This is a fallen world. Jesus said numerous times, this world does not love me. And if it hated me, it will hate you. This society out there does not care about my spiritual well-being. That's an enemy of my spiritual growth. The world, the flesh, my own sinful nature. I found out my greatest enemy probably is my own sinful nature. The person, I say this often, the person I'm most disappointed in in my life has been me. My own sinful nature is not advanced. This flesh is no friend of grace, no friend of Christian growth. I've got to learn to overcome this flesh. I've got to mortify this flesh. I've got to defeat and put off the works of the flesh. Because it's my spiritual enemy. And the devil. Is my spiritual enemy. And I'll tell you this, he is a formidable foe. Don't underestimate the subtlety. And the strength, spiritual strength of the devil in derailing us. I've been in the ministry long enough. A bunch of you have been around long enough. You've seen the devil mess up a heap of people, right or wrong. We've seen what the devil can do, somebody, get them questioning God's faithfulness, get them doubting God's goodness And get them out there and get involved in sin. All three, world, flesh, and devil, all three have the same objective: to distrust God, to get me to lean on my own understanding, and get me to be my own God. You can't trust God. Follow what He says. That's ridiculous. That's too hard. You don't agree with that. You've got to do it your way. And to get us to distrust God, to get us to think that God has forsaken us. Satan has a two-pronged tactic in this. Getting us to distrust God, and that is this. I put it down this way. Number one, oh well, take your Bible, would you, real quick? Turn with me to the last book of the Bible. Everybody doing alright? Alright, I hope you don't have a snowstroke. Sun stroke in the summer, we get snow stroke in the winter. I don't know about you. While you're turning to Revelation twenty-two, let me just talk about what I think. I would far rather mow grass than shovel snow. Come on now. I would far rather sweat than freeze. You all bunch of vomitable We got a bunch of vomitable snowmen here. Revelation chapter 12. Would you turn there with me? We're talking about the devil. Psalm 9 is telling us, verse 10, particularly, that God will never forsake his own. God can be trusted. He is faithful. Now Satan makes accusations, and his accusation is: you can't trust God. And it's a two-fronged accusation to get us to not trust God and lean on our understanding. And I see in verse number 10 of Revelation chapter 12, he says this. I heard a loud voice saying, In heaven, now has come salvation and strength in the kingdom of our God and the power of his Christ. Now look at this next statement he makes. For the accuser of our brethren. Is cast down. Look at this. Which accused them before God day and night. Satan here is referred to as the accuser of the brethren. And he says he stands before God day and night. Accusing, accusing, accusing, accusing. I put in the margin of my Bible, Satan's ministry. Satan's full-time ministry is accusing you and I before God. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. You know what Satan's doing? Perhaps right this very moment? Standing before God, making accusations. Now, God, I saw what they did this morning. I saw that fight they had before they got to church. God, do you see what music they were listening to driving in? That heathen wicked music. God, you hear what those kids, God, did you hear what those kids claimed to be Christians, lied to their parents this morning before church? It's what he does. Full time, day and night. Accusing, accusing, accusing. The word accuse means this: to stand in judgment of and condemn. To stand in judgment of and condemn. I believe his whole effort in why would he do that? Why would he do that? I think in his distorted mind Satan believes, I think, to some extent that he can convince God that we are such a failure as a Christian, that we are such sorry Christians That God should forsake us. God, why do you put up with that? God, look at them. Look how they fail. Look at this, look at this, look at the stupid stuff they do. Look how they ignore your word Look how they sin and try and hide it. Day and night, day and night, day and night And I, again, I am my impression is that he's trying to get God to forsake us, to forsake us. Now, in spite of whatever the devil may think. I'm glad to know God never forsakes his own. And I may be talking to somebody, you may have messed up. Bad. You may know the Lord is saving you, trusted him. You made some stupid decisions and you messed up really bad. And maybe the devil's gotten your head. God's forsaken you God's given up on you. God's forsaken you. And I'm here to tell you that is a lie of the devil. God never forsakes his own people. He's faithful to us. Even when we're not faithful, he told Timothy. I got this is a little personal maybe, but I got in my head several years ago, I talked to my wife about this. I got in my head. That God was done with me. And I had a verse, and I thought, God's finished. God's forsaken me. God's left me. And I'll tell you, I struggled with that. And I know what the Bible says. I've read it dozens of times, scores of times. I struggle and I struggle. Finally, I came to the conclusion. God did not forsake me. I'm wrong in what I'm believing. I'm going to take God at His Word. I don't know where you are, I don't know what your thoughts may be, but I'm here to tell you, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, God has not, and he never will, forsake his own So Satan does this accusation of the believer before God. Now notice how they overcame him. They overcame him by the blood of the Lamb. I'll say, what does that have to do with my sins being accused by Satan before God, being accused of my sins? How does the blood of Lamb deal with that? The blood of Jesus Christ, God's Son, cleanses us from all sin. And this is the way I imagine it, and I I don't know, this is just my imagination, but I imagine it, Satan's throwing all these accusations of us before God, just constantly, throwing them before God, throwing them before God, throwing them before God And God simply says, I don't know what you're talking about. I look at his record, I see pure, righteous, holy, as pure as the Son, Jesus Christ. Because we are made his righteousness when we trust Christ. And though we fail, practically, our position before God is no more condemnation. Am I making sense? So he accuses us as believers before God, but there's another prong to his attack. One is to accuse the believer before God, the other is to accuse God To the believer. His Satan's message to God's people is this you can't trust God You can't rely on him. God doesn't have your best interests in mind. God is not operating on your behalf, and you need to take things into your own hands. Isn't that what he did with Adam and Eve? He said this. He said, God knows the day you eat thereof, you'll be like God. And you'll know the difference between good and evil. You know what Satan was saying to Eve? God's not being good to you. You can't trust him. He's hiding stuff from you. He doesn't have your best interest in mind. You just listen to me. I'm telling you right now, Satan does not have your best interest in mind. And I see it so often. Well, I know God says that, and I know what the Bible clearly teaches, but this is what I think. You know what you're doing? You're doing exactly what Adam and Eve believed about Satan. I know what God says, but I think this is better for me I know what God says, but I think this lifestyle, I'd be happier with living this way. I'd be happier if I got involved in that. I'd be happier if I didn't have to do this. And what he's doing is accusing God to us, saying God doesn't know what he's doing. We can't trust him. We can't rely on him. We've got to lean on our own understanding. You've got to make your own decisions. And I put it this way, you've got to be your own God. You decide what's right and wrong. You decide what's true and what isn't. You decide. And he accuses God to the believer that God cannot be trusted. That God cannot be trusted. David struggled with this. Come back here to Psalm chapter 9. I hope you kept your place there. And come over, in fact, I just read this this morning in my devotions, and man, it struck me. I said, that's exactly what our message is about. Look at verse number, look at Psalm chapter 13. Just a page over from where we're at, chapter 9. And David is struggling whether God Was faithful or not? Look what he says. How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord? You know what David's saying? God, you've forsaken me. You're not even thinking about me. Well you're not even you don't even care about me. You never gave me a thought, God. You left me Forever? How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul? Having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall mine enemy be exalted over me? David struggled with it. Of all people, David struggled with whether God was listening to him. He struggled with whether God was paying any attention. Now listen, if David struggles with that, good night. What about us? How many of us have ever, in a dark night, during a difficult time in life, have ever thought, God, where in the world are you? Can I get an amen there or not? We thought that. Where are you, God? If you're have you forgotten me? I saw a book. I never read the book. This was years. This is when I was in Indianapolis, youth pastor, and I saw a book and it was for young people, and it said this: If God loves me, why can't I open my locker? You know, these big difficult issues of life. But that's the way we are sometimes, right? God, if you were faithful to me, if you loved me, if you really cared about me, then I would get my way. And everything would be fine. And David struggled with that. You know who else in the Bible? There's a lot of people in the Bible who struggled with it, but you know who else came to mind? Martha and Mary, when Lazarus died, Lord, if you'd been here, Lord, if you hadn't forsaken us, would you forget? We sent for you to come and help. You could have he could have lived. You could have made him well. But you forget Well, there's something else more important? You don't love us? Now it doesn't say that, but that's what I hear in their questioning. Lord, if you'd have been here, our brother had not died. They struggled with whether God was faithful or not. They struggled whether we can trust God or not. They struggled with their faith. And of course, God comes through every time. He said, listen, I didn't forget you. It wasn't nothing more important, and I didn't care about you. But God is doing something in your life. And you can trust me. I'm not going to forsake you. Trust me. Be patient. Let God have his way. So Satan's accusations before God is God, you need to forsake them. They're terrible. Look at them. They are terrible. And he comes to us. You can't trust God. He doesn't want your best interests in mind. He's telling you do this, don't do that. He doesn't care about you. Listen to me, I'll tell you I've got your best interests in mind And the last thing I notice here in Psalm chapter 9 is this: the character of God. I love this last statement. This is what prompted this whole thinking. They that know thy name will put their trust in thee, for thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that seek thee. Forsake means to walk away from. It means to abandon. Xander, would you come up here and you stand right there? Uh oh. Here's my buddies in her man we're tight. Right. Yeah. Put her there. Man, we're tight. We're good. I'm trying to think of something I don't like about Xander. You're just about taller than me. You keep growing, you're gonna be taller than me. What's the deal? You're lifting weights, you're gonna be uh forget you, man. You know what I just did? This is silly. It's a lame illustration. But you know what I just did? I forsook them. I walked away from them. You did a great job. Sit down, Xander. That took a lot of skill and ability. But the character of God is such that God's never going to walk away from us. God's never going to abandon us. He's never going to leave us behind. There is no one in all of history that can honestly and sincerely say, I sought the Lord and God forsook me. There's nobody that can honestly say I trusted God and he turned his back on me. Nobody can honestly say, I put my faith in Jesus Christ and he walked away. Jesus is promised in John, I believe it's chapter 6, He that cometh to me, I will in no wise cast out. He promised in Hebrews chapter 13, verse 5, that great, great statement: I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. He never will do that. And nobody in all of history can stand up and honestly say, God has forsaken me when they sincerely sought him and trusted him. I read about a godly grandmother, and I thought about this with Todd's daddy who passed away last week. And the interesting thing, and I won't go into all the details, Todd was telling me that when he passed away, he fell, and his head landed on the Bible. They had their when they found him, his head was resting on the Bible. Am I right? Isn't that something? You just trusted Christ with me just a few months before. And I just I just think this is just my thinking, but I think God was assuring the family, hey, he's alright. His faith is in my word, it's settled. Isn't that good? But I thought about when Todd told me that, I thought about I'd read about years ago, I read about a very godly elderly grandma. She was way up there in years. And it was in the last years of her life, she would spend most of her time in a rocking chair. And she would keep on her lap an open Bible. And she would rock and she'd read and she'd doze off and she'd rock and she'd read and she'd doze off Finally one day the family would come by and visit with her, but that was pretty much all she did. Read the Bible. They'd come in and there'd be a few pages over. One day they came in and she was like this. The Bible was on her lap. Her body was cold, stiff. She had passed away with the Bible on her lap, in her rocking chair. They came and took care of her and they got the Bible and well, after the funeral, I guess it was, sometime, the family gathered around grandma's Bible and they began flipping through it, and she had verses highlighted and underlined and Little notes here and there. But they kept seeing all through the Bible as they flipped through, they kept seeing in the margin they would see two letters written. T, T. They'd read a ways and there'd be another one. TP. They thought, what in the world? And they've debated among themselves, what is TP? Beside a verse, it'll be TP, TP, TP And finally it got all the way to the back, and inside the back fly leaf of our Bible, it was written, had T, P, and it had an equal mark. Tried and proven. Tried and proven. You know what she learned? God never forsakes. God keeps his word. God is faithful. And she learned to trust him. What a testimony. Look what it says. Look what it says here. Let me read it again. For thou, Lord, hast not forsaken them that trust thee Let's trust the Lord, all right? If you're here and you're not saved, you can trust Christ as your Savior. He'll forgive you and cleanse you of sin. He'll not forsake you, he'll not cast you away. If you're saved, you're struggling in some area of your life, why don't you come and trust God to give you victory and help you? Maybe there's an unsaved person you're trying to witness to. God won't forsake you. You need boldness, you ask him. God's faithful, and he'll enable us to do what we need to do. But let's develop that relationship with our God once we trust him as Savior. Let's develop that and we're going to learn that God is faithful and he's never going to forsake me and I can trust him. Father in heaven, bless this message this morning, I ask, and stir our hearts and help us to have faith in you and to trust you with all our hearts in every circumstance, every situation of life I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many this morning say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. But I have some areas in my Christian life where I just need to learn to trust God and quit trying to fix it myself. And let the Lord counsel me and let the Lord lead me. I need to trust Him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? There are some areas in my life I really need to trust God with. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. I don't know how God may be leading. I don't know how the Holy Spirit may be speaking to your heart, but I know this: God has your best interest in mind. And He loves us. And he's helping us. I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I got someone that's dear to me and they're unsaved. Or maybe they're a prodigal. They're far from God. A heart so burdened for them. Seems like God doesn't care. It seems like God's not working at all. And you say, I'm not going to believe the devil's lie. I'm going to trust God that He is working. He does care. I'm going to keep praying for that loved one. I'm going to keep witnessing to them. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Know somebody specifically. God bless you. Let's pray for them. Let's ask God to help us. Is there someone this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I hope so. Listen, hoping so is not good enough. You need to settle that. You need to get that settled. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure. That my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I can get that settled. How about it? Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. I saw a lot of hands raised. But you know our hearts. Help us to trust you. Help us to step out in faith. Those of us that know your name, know who you are and what you're like, help us to put these issues, these concerns, these burdens in your hands. And let you lead us and direct us. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer is playing the invitation.