Everybody has it there. If you would notice with me, verse number three. The Bible says, Let them praise thy great and terrible name, for it is holy. I circled that last phrase, for it is holy. Then you come down to verse number five. The Bible says, Exalt ye the Lord our God, and worship at his footstool. For he is holy. I circled that phrase. For he is holy. Then down the last verse, number nine, and I would like for us to read this verse together in unison. if you would. Psalms 99, verse number 9. Ready? Let's read it all together. Here we go. Exalt the Lord our God and worship at his holy hill, for the Lord our God is holy. Now here's my problem this morning. Here's my challenge. And it became painfully aware to me as I was preparing the message. I'm attempting to preach. What you have is an unholy man attempting to preach on the holiness of God. It's a man with unholy lips trying to declare the holiness of our God, an unholy heart. So I want to preach this morning and you pray. Ask the Lord to teach us. I'm asking God to reveal to us in this hour His holiness, that we can grasp it. At least to our ability, comprehend what it means that God is holy. So let's pray. Father in heaven. I do come to you painfully, more so than usual, painfully aware that uh I am inadequate for this subject. And I ask, Lord, I thank you, Lord, for the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ that cleanses us from sin, that in Christ, even the most vile sinner is declared pure and good and holy. And so Lord, I present my body anew to you, my lips, my tongue, my mind. I yield my will to you as a holy God, and I ask that you reveal yourself to us from your word through me. That in our hearts and minds we would have a clearer understanding of what you are like and what that means to us. So please bless now this hour, I ask, and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We've noted in some previous messages that God's existence is obvious. It's all around us. We know in our heart and soul that God exists. We know that's true. We look around us in creation and we see overwhelming evidence. Evidence that God exists, undeniable evidence that God exists in design and uh the purpose and all. We just see it around us. We know a little bit by looking at this world The universe, whether we're looking through a telescope or a microscope, we can learn a little bit about this God that made us. I was thinking this week as reviewing some things and we have every November we have Dr. Don Williams come in, a tremendous chalk artist, powerful preacher Having a this will be 24 years this fall. He's planned on being with us. He's 82 years old. As far as I know, he's going out elk hunting with a bow and arrow. in September. So, um, but uh he's getting up there a little, but he's still fine. But um he's gonna be with us. And I was thinking about Dr. Williams and his chalk drawings Of course he'll do six throughout the week. Hang them up on the wall across here. Most of you have seen him. Many of you have his drawings in your home. If we did not know Dr. Williams If we didn't know anything about him, and all we knew about him was the drawings that we saw that he had made, we could learn a few things about him. We would learn one thing, he's a very gifted man. Very gifted. Uh we would learn that he loves outdoors. All of his drawings for the most part, with few exceptions, are mountain scenes or those type of things. So and that that knowing him we know that's true We would know that he is a pure man. I've never seen him do a drawing that was impure or questionable or ungodly in any way. They're pure and simple. He's very accurate. He doesn't do distortions and modern art type things, just squares and lines and stuff like that. So my point I'm trying to make is this. We look at the creation and we can learn some things. About the God that created us. And we noted that in the previous message. And we noted before that we read in Scripture that God exists. So here's my point. There is a God. He does exist. God is. So what does that mean for us? The Bible tells us a little bit about what this God is like. We can't see him. We know he's there. We know he's here. What is he like? Well that's where the Bible comes in. The Bible tells us who God is. He's Jehovah. He's the great I am. He gives us his name. The Bible tells us what he's like, and I jotted a few things down, and I don't know how long we're going to go on this, but Lord willing in the coming weeks, maybe a couple months, we look at some of these characteristics, things that what God is. But we look in the Bible, and the Bible is very, very clear about what God is, first of all, I just put this down. This is kind of introductory, but God is a spirit. God is spirit. When Jesus was by with the woman by the well, he said, God is spirit. God is not limited to any particular place or form. Sometimes you read in the Bible, anybody ever read in the Bible about the eye of God or the arm of the Lord? The ear of God. Does God have a literal eye? Does God have a ear? Does God have an arm? No, he's spirit. He has no physical characteristics. And so when the Bible talks about the eyes of the Lord are in every place, it's just using a term that you and I understand that God can see. If God was limited to a physical eye, he could only see in one direction. He would be very limited if he had a physical eye, but it's simply a term used to help us comprehend a little bit about God. When it talks about the arm of the Lord, it's talking most time about his strength, his great power. And we think of the arm of man, a strong arm. We associate that with God. So the Bible tells us that God is a spirit. Cannot see him. No man has seen God at any time. A great invisible God. So he's not limited to any place or any form. The Bible tells us that God is a person. He's not simply some force like electricity, some positive moral force for good. No, God is a person. He told Moses in Exodus 3, I am that I am. God is a personal God. He uh he uh the Bible uses names for God, uses pronouns. The Bible shows us, tells us that God, this God that exists, that created this, who we can't see But this God has a will. He desires certain things for you and I Electricity has no will. Just some general force has no will. God has a will. The will of God. Bible says that God actually, in Genesis 6, God repents. That's something a person does to repent. The Bible says that it repenteth the Lord that he made man. He was so grieved. This is all evidence of personality, that God is a person. He has a will. He thinks. He communicates. He observes and responds To what he observes. The Bible tells us very clearly that God has emotions. You and I. This astounds me. I I I can't grasp this, but you and I can say and do things that grieve This God that made us. You and I can say and do things that please The God of the universe. That's all evidence of character that's all characteristics of personality, evidence of personality. God is a person. He has emotions. The Bible talks about God being angry. About God being pleased. The Bible says that God is jealous. For his name's sake, for his glory. That's all characteristics of personality. God sees. Are you listening, girls? God sees. And God listens. And God hears. God is a person. He is aware of us. Of course, classic evidence all through the Bible, God is love. God loves us. That's personality The presence of emotion tells us that there is personality. There are things we learned in Sunday school. There are some things that God hates. Oh, God doesn't hate anything. God is love. No, no, no. The Bible has a list of seven things. God's hate list. That's all evidence of personality. So God is a what is God like? He obviously exists. We know in our hearts he exists. We can't see him. What is he like? Well, he's spirit. He doesn't have physical makeup. He's a person. This God thinks and functions as a person. With personality. Something else the Bible tells us about God. God is one. In other words, there is only one God. A lot of the religions of the world will worship many gods that are polytheistic. Theistic for God, poly, many. Many gods. There's only one God. It's only one God. Um so the Bible teaches us there is only one God. He's invisible, he's a person, he sees and functions and acts and has motion and a will, a desire. He can be disappointed, he can be pleased, but he's only one God. Now we read on in our Bible and we find out that this one God is made up as a Trinity. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Now that's a little bit difficult for us to grasp. That's some of those things about a God that is so powerful and so wide, so beyond us that we have to take on faith That God is three distinct individual beings, yet only one God. Of course, most of us are familiar. We have God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, Holy Ghost. God the Father, Son, and Spirit. Now here's the thing. Again, we'll have maybe Lord willing, if God directs, we'll bring a message on that. But we need to understand this. God the Father is God totally, 100%, completely God in and of Himself. God the Son, Jesus Christ, is completely, totally, 100% God in and of Himself. And the Holy Spirit is completely, totally, individually God, completely God in and of Himself. You say there's three gods. No, there's one God Those three individual beings make up God That's what God is, one God and three distinct beings. Jesus is as much God as God the Father is God. God the Father is as much God as God the Holy Spirit is God. The great three-and-one. The great three and one. Now we're getting into realms about God that are tough to grasp. How can that be? So the Bible tells us we know God exists. There's no doubt about it. He's a spirit, he's a person, he is one, he's a trinity. Um By the way, I'll just touch on this and I'm saying this because I've run into this occasionally here in Garrett County. Um I ran at several folks that That hold to this idea that Jesus Christ is God the Father, just in human form. And that the Holy Spirit is God the Father, God the Son, in spirit form. And that there really isn't a Trinity, it's just three different expressions of God. That's incorrect. Jesus Christ is as much God and distinct from God the Father. And he's as much God. You follow what I'm saying? So I I It's not some of the and there's some guys on TV, you gotta be careful, some of these preachers on TV, they'll say Jesus Christ is God the Father Just in human form. That's not true. Jesus Christ is distinctly God Himself, but yet there's one God. So we're in realms here that's difficult to grasp. There's a lot of other characteristics about God given to us in Scripture. Theologians divide them into two categories, and I'll just. throw these out here at you. One category that theologians use to describe God is what they call natural attributes. And other things, in other words, things that are true about God exclusively, that you and I cannot emulate in any way, shape, or form. For instance, God is, here's the big word, I'll tell you what it is. God is omniscient. Omni means all-encompassing, uh omniscient, that part comes from the word science. Knowledge. And simply means this. God is all knowing. God is all knowing. This God that created us, this God that we know exists, we see evidence of him all around, he knows everything. There is absolutely zero ignorance on God's part. Think about that. That means God never learns. Here he knows. He knows everything about you and I. He knows our past. He knows the future. He knows everything. This God that we can approach knows everything. He's all-knowing. Another characteristic, a natural attribute, by the way, you and I cannot be all-knowing. I've met folks who thought they were, but We can't emulate that. There's no way we can emulate that. God is omniscient. Another word they use for his natural objects is omnipotent, all powerful. Man alive, you just look at creation. I the more I'm fascinated with the the galaxy and the pictures coming off of these uh satellite uh telescopes. Are absolutely mind-boggling. And to think that God just spoke this place into existence What kind of power does this God possess that he can speak a son into existence? No effort. Let it be. The power of God is incomprehensible. This God that made us. God is omnipresent. Again, omni all-present is just what it means present. In other words, God is everywhere all the time. I like the little story. I think I gave it last week. A little boy was asked, so I'm gonna give you a dollar if you can tell me where God is. He said, I'll give you ten bucks, tell me where he ain't. You know. I like that. I like that kid God is everywhere. We can't escape him. We can't escape him Um I think, and I'm not sure how accurate this is. I think one of the cosmonauts from Russia, they got up in that I think they were the first to orbit the earth, I think, with a man, if I'm I may be corre incorrect on that. But one of them, I think this is the correct story, said when he got up there, he said, I don't see any God Looked out here, I don't see God anywhere. Somebody said, take that oxygen tank off, you'll see him real quick Listen, God is everywhere. Omnipresent. We cannot escape his presence. God is, the Bible tells us, another attribute. By the way, we can't be that. We can't be everywhere. We can't know everything. We don't have all power. God is eternal. The Bible tells us that God always was and God always will be. Now again, that's difficult for us to grasp. I've had people on occasion over the years, so I was in the ministry, been in the ministry over the years, I've had people say, well, where did God come from? God didn't come from anywhere. He always was. He always will be. That's outside our capabilities of comprehending. It's outside the perimeter of what we are capable to grasp. God had no beginning, he has no end. He is eternal. The Bible tells us very clearly that God is immutable. Simply a fancy word to say never changes. God is the same yesterday, today, and forever. He's not any more powerful now than he was before, he's not any weaker now than he was before. He's not any smarter, he's not any dumber God never changes. From eternity past to eternity future, God remains the same. He is immutable. Now there's another subject, and this kind of strikes home with us, maybe a little more so than some of the others. But God is sovereign Now we know a little bit of that word as we study history, and kings are often referred to as sovereigns over a nation It simply means this. The king has the ultimate in that setting, what we read in history, the king has the ultimate authority in that land. He's the final say, he has all authority. The Bible teaches very clearly, God, this God that exists, and by the way, you and I are in his presence right now. This God that has a person I see, he hears, he's paying attention right now, he's here. This God who from eternity past to eternity future He is the ultimate authority. He controls the solar systems. He controls the molecules. The little atoms and the electrons and protons, and I'm probably by now they figured out what they're made out of. Look down inside there. What holds them together? There's a verse in Colossians, I believe, talking about Christ that says, by him all things consist. The idea there is they're held together. And there's little micros, mini microscopic atoms and protons and neutrons and electrons. What holds them together? Christ. He is sovereign. He rules this world. He rules in the affairs of men. The Bible talks about God setting up one king and putting another down. Now sometimes God in his sovereignty will allow us to have our way. But God still rules over all. Are you getting the impression this God is pretty amazing? is so far above and beyond anything we are or even can grasp this God. So those are some natural attributes. The Bible also presents what theologians have categorized as moral attributes. Now, these are some that you and I can emulate to a degree. For instance, the Bible says that God is righteous. He only does righteously. If God does something, it's right Nobody can argue with it. So you and I can be righteous, not at the level God is, but we certainly can and should be righteous in our affairs and actions with people. The Bible says God is merciful. God shows mercy. And you and I ought to be merciful. We can't to the degree God is. But we can emulate that too a bit. God is love. This God that is so powerful and so eternal, so wise. He loves us. What in the world? He loves us. We're his creation. He loves us. He's true. God is true. Appreciated the song, we uh the song Jennifer sang. You can trust his word. God's true So we're told a lot about God, and the Bible presents these characteristics of God, and they're, if you study them and give them any thought at all, just think about them. It's astounding. However, there is one characteristic that the Bible presents of God. That exceeds all other characteristics. There is one characteristic of God that is above all other characteristics, and that is this. God is holy. God is holy Exodus chapter 15 has the first song ever recorded in the Bible. Exodus 15. It's a song of Moses. And verse 11 of that psalm, that song, it exalts the holiness of God. You come to Revelation chapter number 15, and that same song, Song of Moses, is repeated, this time in heaven, around the throne of God. And again, that song of Moses exalts the holiness of God. All through the Bible, it references the holiness of God, the holiness of God, the holiness of God. The word holy is used as a prefix to God's name more than any other word in Scripture. Holy, holy, holy. God is holy. Now here's my thoughts. Number one, I want us to consider the importance Of God's holiness. The importance of God's holiness. If I do not understand what God is like, then I don't understand God. I think that's one of the reasons we have among all ages, from young people, teenagers up to adults. I think that's one reason we have such a flippant attitude towards God. And we can just, people feel like we can just flippantly agree with them or disagree with them. We can just flippantly give them attention or ignore them. We can just flippantly write them off What what produces that type of mindset? What produces on the part of the creature a mindset that I can have that sort of attitude towards this God? I'll tell you what it is. It's a misunderstanding of what who God is, what he's like. We've all heard the phrase and occasionally you still hear it, but they'll talk about God as being the old man upstairs. That is a complete misunderstanding. Of what God is like. If we misunderstand, if we don't understand what God is like, then we don't understand God. That's a bad place to be. Sometimes people will get on a powerful river and they'll get a little canoe out or something. And if somebody says, do you understand? This river, do you understand what you're placing yourself into? Do you understand what you're dealing with here? Ah I paddled on the pond back at the farm plenty of times. What are the chances that guy's coming out alive? God I'm telling you, you're getting on a river. You have no idea what you're dealing with So if I misunderstand what God is like, I misunderstand God, and that is a bad place to be. I'm telling you, this world is in a bad place. Because they've turned a blind eye to the God that has created them. The God we have to deal with. And we flippantly denied his existence, and we flippantly live our lives independent of him, as if he doesn't exist. So if I don't understand what God is like, I don't understand God. I want to take it another step. If I don't understand God's holiness, at least to some degree, I don't understand God. Because God is first and foremost holy. That is his chief characteristic. And if I don't grasp that, like I said, at least to some degree, I don't understand God. We have churches all around the world that understand that God exists. And they're aware of his existence, but they do not understand his holiness. And so they have a complete false concept. Of what God is like, of who they're dealing with. We have homes Have the little cross hanging on the wall, Bible on the dresser, the coffee table. Might have a little poem here, a Bible Warserver there Religious quote here. Oh, they recognize God exists, and that's wonderful. I'm afraid many of them do not grasp the holiness. Of this God that exists. And if I don't understand God's holiness, I don't understand God. Um, many hearts. I talk to people all the time, of course, being a preacher, being a pastor, I talk to people all the time about God, spiritual things, the spirit world, eternity, heaven, hell, life, death. A lot of people say, oh yeah, I know God exists, but I think God is like, and they'll go on. If I don't understand the holiness of God, I don't understand God. That's the beginning point God's holiness. And what I'm saying is understanding the uh the holiness of God is so vitally important. Vitally important. If to understand God's love without understanding his holiness is a misunderstanding of God's love. God's love is unique in that it is it is it comes out of a holy being I'll try and explain what I mean here. To know God's goodness without understanding His holiness is to misunderstand the goodness of God. To grasp to understand a little bit of God's love without understanding his holiness is to misunderstand his love. The importance of understanding the holiness of God. We often say this, and I say it, and it's true. God sure is good. Amen. We agree with that. We understand that. We understand that this God that is infinitely powerful, that he's eternal and unchanging, all-wise. And this God is good to us. That is true. He is an amazing God. But he wants us to understand, first of all, he is holy. We'd stand before God this morning and address him and say, God, what are you like? The answer would be I am holy. I am holy That's the importance of the holiness of God. Look with me here, if you would, Psalms 99, verse number 3. Let them praise thy great and terrible name, for it is holy. As I said, I circled that phrase in the margin of my Bible I put on the margin holy Verse 5, Exalt ye the Lord our God and worship at his footstool, for he is holy. I wrote in the margin there, holy. Verse 9, Exalt the Lord our God and worship at his holy hill. For the Lord our God is holy. Holy, holy, holy. Is the Lord God Almighty? Take your Bible if you would. Turn with me to Isaiah chapter 6, just towards the back of your Bible there. Isaiah chapter 6. Here you have King Uzziah died. It's a friend of Isaiah's. And in verse number one of Isaiah chapter 6, the year that King Uzziah died, Isaiah says, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne. High and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Now the train would be like the part of his glory, I guess. But look what it says. Above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face. With twain he covered his feet, with twain he did fly, and one cried unto another and said, This is the very presence, immediate presence of God. And they cry out, holy! Holy, holy is the Lord God of hosts is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is filled with his glory. And the posts of the doors moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke. What is the crowning expression of the very immediate presence of God? He is holy. He is holy. He is holy. They did not cry out, love, love, love is the Lord God Almighty. Question, is God love? Yes. But he's holy. The overriding characteristic of God is his holiness. They did not cry out, merciful, merciful, merciful. Thank God, our holy God is merciful. But he wants us to understand he is first and foremost holy. Holy. It is God's uh it they didn't cry out, Good, good, good is the Lord of hosts. Of course, God's good. We all rejoice in that. Thank God for it. It is God's holiness that makes his goodness so glorious. Think about this. I'm going to try and define holiness here in a moment. But the fact that this thrice-holy God is good to you and me. It's an amazing thing. The fact that this perfectly, blindingly holy God shows you and I any mercy at all. Is mind-boggling that a God so holy would be so merciful to you and I When we understand the holiness of God, the goodness of God becomes even more glorious. When we understand the holiness of God, the mercy of God becomes more astounding. When we understand the holiness of God, the love of God becomes more amazing. That a God so pure and so holy would love a people, so sinful And so unholy. The holiness of God. Isaiah chapter 57. Would you turn over there with me very quickly, please? Isaiah 57. And we all through the Bible there are statements like this. I mean, it's full of them. Isaiah 57 And verse number fifteen. For thus saith the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is holy. I dwell in the high and holy place with him that is of a contrite and humble spirit to revive the spirit of the humble, to revive the heart of the contrite ones. God is identified as holy. His very name is holy When we grasp the holiness of God and that his name is holy, then we understand why he says we should not take his name in vain. It is holy. You walk through Walmart, go down the sheets, any market, go to the parade, walk around, and we hear God's name. That is holy. And we hear it used in such flippant ways. Blasphemous ways. Some of the most filthy words known in the English language are tacked on to the name of a holy God. That is of the devil to use God's name, holy name, as a flippant expression Oh my God, do you know what term you are using? Do you know that the angels of heaven cover their eyes at the holiness of that name? And we use it as if it's little dirt we're throwing around I'm telling you, until we understand the holiness of God, we really don't understand God His name is holy. For sake of time, I wish we had, but we won't. 2 Samuel chapter 2, verse 1 through 3, you can jot it down. That's Hannah's prayer of praise after Samuel was born. And she touches in this prayer, it's a very lengthy prayer, but she touches on various characteristics of God. But she begins her prayer exalting the holiness of God. Hannah understood that God is holy. When she approaches him, she is approaching a holy God. God's holiness is one characteristic that completely sets him apart from mankind. It completely sets him apart from all of creation. Nothing is holy as God. God, what are you like? I am holy. I am holy. What does holiness mean? That's the importance of the holiness. Bible, we just touched on it a little bit. But what does it mean that he is holy? What's the idea? The basic meaning of the word holy is simply, you've probably heard this before, simply to be set apart. I mean the most basic cut and dried minimal definition of holy is to be set apart from everything else. Um we see that used in Old Testament where they had the holy instruments in the in the ta temple. They were set apart. They weren't to be used Remember Beltashazzar, he's getting drunk, drinking whiskey and and uh rum and stuff out of the uh out of the instruments that were to be used in the temple, the holy instruments that were set apart for that, and God judged them severely. That's the basic uh most minimal definition of the word holy is set apart. As it's used of God throughout scripture, it has this idea to be set apart to itself because of the uniqueness of its character and purpose. Isaiah 40, verse 25 says this, To whom then will ye liken me? Or who shall I be equal, saith the Holy One? Who do you compare me to? What are you going to compare me to? I suggest to you that's one of the reasons God said we should not make graven images. Should not make an image of God. Any image we try and make of God is going to fall so short it's going to be insulting and demeaning to God. Sometimes the little children will come up after church and they'll have a drawing and they say it'll just be look and it's cute as can be and they'll have a drawing. And they'll say, Preacher, that's you. Oh that's lovely, wonderful. And I have a whole stack of 'em. I try to keep 'em and I put 'em in my office. I have a nice little stack and uh I look like that, huh? Wonderful. If I didn't love you, I'd choke you. But um it's not what I look like. I got more hair than that Now that's silly. But that's the principle where God says anything you try and come up to compare me to is so short it's blasphemous. He is holy. He is set apart. He is completely unique in every aspect of his character. There is no comparison to God's holiness. It's interesting in the book of Habakkuk, Habakkuk God met with Habakkuk. And when he did, Habakkuk was absolutely shattered in fear and trembling. Absolute trauma. When he was approached by God. It's amazing, all through Scripture, when God shows up, people fall on their faces. Moses of the burning bush. Take your feet, this is holy ground, and Moses falls on his face. Isaiah, we read from chapter 6, he had this vision of God. He fell on his face and says, Woe is me, I am a man of unclean lips. There's nothing even approachable to God. So the basic meaning is to be set apart because of its unique characteristics and purpose. God is set apart from all of creation. There is nothing even close to what he's like. He is holy. But it also has the idea of being perfectly pure. Now this is where I think a lot of times we understand in our heart and soul what this means. But to be able to verbalize it, to be able to express it is very difficult. What does it mean to be perfectly pure? I've never experienced that. I'm not even close to that. Negatively, it means has no evil, no flaws, no sin, no darkness. And it has this idea, even nothing neutral. The holiness of God means there's nothing impure, ungodly, or unrighteous. In any way, shape, or form, and there's nothing that's even neutral. It's not good or bad, just neutral. Nothing about God that's that's way. He is 100% absolute, positively purity Goodness, righteousness, sinlessness. It's difficult to express We've never experienced this. What this God is like. And those that have in Scripture, as I just said, fall on their faces in humility and fear. This God is so pure, he is so holy, I can't even approach him. Holiness encompasses God's entire being. Sometimes you'll say about someone, brother uh uh brother Bill's here say, What do you know about Bill? Oh he's a good man. You shouldn't sit there, because I pick on you all the time when you sit there Well you say, what do you know about Bill? I said, Bill's a good man. I'm summarizing everything I know about him into one term. It encompasses everything I know about Bill. He's a good man. Humanly speaking, he's a good man. That means we could surmise from that, well, he works hard on the job. He loves and cares for his wife He loves his children. He loves his country. He's honest in his dealings. That statement, Bill is a good man, encompasses all the characteristics of him. They all come out of that summary. God, what are you like? What is God like? God is holy. It means every aspect of his being is encompassed by the fact that he is sinlessly perfect. Absolute holy. His love is holy. His mercy is holy. His grace is holy. Every word that comes from God is holy. It encompasses his entire being. I thought, how do you illustrate this? How do we grasp this? I heard a fellow, and I thought this was as good as any. But he kind of compared the holiness of God to the Son. Now let me try and explain. The sun is unique in our solar system. There's no other planet, anything like anywhere near its size. It is unique in what it is in our solar system. There is nothing in the universe like God. He is absolutely unique Nothing else like it. The sun is the most powerful force in our solar system. Absolute power coming out from that sun. The sun is blindingly light. I was reading Isaac Newton, apparently, just read this week. That he was doing an experiment and was something on the sun and he looked at the sun with his naked eye in a mirror He was blind for three days. He spent a week in darkness trying to get his sight back, and for weeks there was still affected his sight. That's 94 million what is it miles away? That's a long way. And that thing is so bright in a mirror it blinded them. There is nothing as bright and as as much light in our solar system as our sun. There is nothing as powerful in our solar system as our sun. There is nothing as immense in our solar system as our sun. And I'm saying to you, just to help us maybe grasp this, in the known existence of the world, all existence, there is nothing like our God. There is nothing as powerful as our God. There is nothing as pure and holy, blindingly holy as our God. And you try and approach the sun. And the closer if we would send a rocket ship to the sun, the closer it got to the sun, that rocket ship would be consumed. By the power and heat and light coming off of that. It would just consume it. The only way you could approach the sun, I'm my small mind, is if you had equal size, power, and brightness. To be able to even approach it. And you and I cannot approach God. He is so holy. He is so powerful. He is so pure. We would be consumed. And that explains hell. Hell is a result of the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man. Consumed for all eternity in the flames of a lake of fire. Because God is so holy, anything less than perfect holiness. When I 1979 at the beginning of the year I I knew something had to change in my life. It had to. I did not want to be, I say this so often, I did not want to be the man I was becoming, and I was seemed like there was nothing I could do about it. I began reading my Bibles. Like I prayed one night early in the year. God help me, God help me. It wasn't an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was an audible voice. Read your Bible. I started reading my Bible, and God began revealing Himself to me. And I began to see That I fell so far short of God's holiness I saw how hopeless my situation was. It's like trying to approach the sun in a rocket ship. The more I learned of God, the more hopeless my situation became. The more I learned how pure and holy he was and what his demands were because of his holiness, what he required of me to accept me, I thought there's no hope. I can never attain that level of holiness. I'm going the other way. And I realized how hopeless it was for me to ever know God, to ever have eternal life, to ever have to turn around. But I read about Jesus Who's God in the flesh? And he could be my Savior. And as God, he could approach God on my behalf And he could suffer the judgment of my sins on my behalf so that God would be pleased. Does that make sense? So, as God revealed Himself to me, I saw how hopeless I was in and of myself. I studied as and as time went by and I read my Bible, I eventually got saved, and I began to realize how justified hell is Until we understand how holy God is, we're not going to comprehend how God could have. Why would he let somebody go to hell? You don't understand the level of his holiness, and you don't understand how sinful our sin is Every one of us would agree at some point if a man, if a man would take a little little girl, little one, two-year-old girl, and he would molest her week after week after month after month, and then eventually chop her up and torture her and kill that little girl. Every one of us say he deserves the most judgment we can possibly pour out on a man like that. Agreed or not? That's hideous. We cannot tolerate that It's because of the grievousness of the crime. We understand the holiness of God. Suddenly our sins become very, very grievous. Well you and I describe as, well, it's just a little sin, that's just a little white lie, that's just a little thing. You hold it up to the holiness of God, and it is horrendous. It is horrendous And I learned because of God's holiness, hell is justified. And I saw why Jesus had to suffer such a horrific price for our sins. Because God is so holy and sin is so sinful. The only hope we had was the Lord Jesus Christ to pay a horrific price so that God's holiness could be appeased. We see how horrific our sin is. We see how glorious God's love is. That a whole God that holy would love someone as sinful as me, that He would love me. That he would extend mercy to me and grace to me. What an amazing God He is. But when we understand His holiness, we appreciate His love. We understand his holiness. We appreciate his grace and mercy. We understand how desperately we need a Savior. I read that it's been a couple weeks ago I printed it out and kept it. Apparently during World War II there was a graduate of West Point had been sent over, had a bunch of new recruits, he was taken into battle in Vietnam. First assignment he had was horrific and they got into a firefight and they were overwhelmed according to the story. And they had to evacuate and the helicopters came in. We've seen the pictures of it. The helicopters come in under fire and they're trying to get back out to the helicopters. As they're getting to the helicopters, one of his men uh took some shrapnel or something, got hit And the other guys made it to the helicopter and they look back and there's one of their guys laying out there, you know, in bad shape. But they all knew if anybody goes back to get 'em, they're dead. There's no way they're going to go back and get him and make it. This young lieutenant, just out West Point, fresh out there, he's got his recruits without hesitation. Apparently true story. Without hesitation, he turned around, went back and got the guy. While he's grabbing him, he gets him to the helicopter, but he's getting all shot up Got him up in the helicopter. He fell into the helicopter. Before they got back to the base, the lieutenant died of his wounds. The fellow that he rescued actually lived Shipped him back to the States and he recovered. The parents of the lieutenant that gave his life to rescue this soldier had heard through whatever that this young man was in their area. They wanted to meet him. This fellow that had their son had given his life for. They wanted to meet this guy. So they got a hold of him, they invited him over to come to dinner. I met him at the door and he was stone drunk. They brought him in, they said he was belligerent, filthy mouth. Disrespected them, told nasty, filthy jokes, and they said not one time did he express one bit of gratitude. For what their son had done for him. When he finally left, they wrote this, they said this: Did our son really give his life? For somebody like that. An honor student out of West Point. A good man. Gave his life for somebody. Like that. Are you listening, girls? That is exactly what Jesus Christ did for you and I. Would such a holy God love me enough to give his life for somebody as sinful as I am Yeah, yeah. If we've trusted him, if we've accepted him, there's no excuse for not living for him. Because he is holy, we ought to be holy. We ought to seek to emulate that as best we can. We'll fall short. Lord knows that. But I ought to be, you know, Jesus Christ. God is so pure and so holy. And he loves such a sinner as me. He forgave me. He's my eternal life, so I can be with him. Surely I can live for him. Surely I can keep my life as clean and pure with His help as I can. Surely I can share that message with others I tell you, this was a hard message to study, and it's an incredible challenge to preach, because we are unholy beings trying to comprehend a perfectly holy God. But maybe God can help us and teach us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray, Lord, that You would help us somehow that your Holy Spirit maybe would open our hearts and minds and we could somehow in our finite Understand and grasp how holy we are and what that means and what it means to us. I pray that every deed, word, every deed we do, every word we say would Be said with the understanding that you are holy and you are present and you see and you know. Not pray when we think of your love for us and your compassion and us to it, understand that this is coming from a holy God to an unholy people. That we would love you. We would reverence you. We would serve you with joy and gratitude. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I am. It's an amazing thing. God has been good to me and He has saved my sinful soul. But I need to take a little more serious my walk with him and how I'm living my Christian life. And I need to put some thought in that and keep in mind This God that loves me and what he's like. And maybe this morning, I don't know, God's Holy Spirit may touch on some areas in your heart and life and my heart and life That need attention, need some adjustments. Maybe we just need to, like Hannah, just kneel and say, God, you are holy. You are so holy. And you are so good to me and so merciful. I love you, Lord. I want to serve you. How many sports say, preacher, God has spoken to my heart, and I know there are areas in my life that need attention, that need to be put in line. Any like that by the uplifted hand, how about it? All around All around. I believe we grasp this a little bit, it'll make such changes in our lives. Our whole perspective on things will change. Now there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I have somebody I love dearly, and I don't believe they're saved And they need Christ. And I can't imagine them going out in eternity facing a holy God without Christ. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be a good witness. Maybe it's a young person's parents, maybe it's a child, a friend, a co-worker, a neighbor. But you say, preacher, there's someone heavy on my heart. They need to be saved so bad. And you say, preacher, pray with me. God will help me, be a witness, and be faithful in praying. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, hands all around Hands all around. One last question. Is there someone here this morning? I would say, preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I'm concerned about that Believe me, we don't want to go out into eternity in our sins. You say, preacher, pray for me. I need to have this matter settled. as to where I'm spending eternity. I need to know that God has completely forgiven my sin so that I can face Him and dwell with Him forever. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I'm concerned about that. I need that settled. Any at all? Father in heaven, now you a lot of hands raised. You know our hearts. God, you know everything. And I pray that wherever we're at, maybe there's some here this morning very indifferent God, maybe there's some this morning very concerned about their spiritual well-being. Whatever the case, draw us to yourself. Help us, Lord. Stir us to step forward and trust you and make those decisions that need to be made Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Let's have a good invitation this morning. Jennifer plays the piano. God spoke to your heart. How about maybe this morning just at an old-fashioned altar and saying, God spoke to you