I want us to read together in unison. We're going to read verse 36, and then we're going to read verse 42. We're going to read verse 44. And then we're going to read verse 50. So you got your work cut out for you this morning. We're going to read together. First of all, verse 36. Are you ready? Are you there? Let's read it together. Here we go. Ready? But of that day and hour knoweth no man, not the angels in heaven, but my Father only. Now, verse 42. Ready? Here we go. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. Now, verse 44, altogether. Therefore, be ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh. One more, verse number fifty. The Lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of. I've entitled the message this morning, God Only Knows. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now you'd bless our study, our time in your word. Pray you'd speak our hearts. And as we look at this new year, Lord, I pray that you would stir our minds and help us refocus on the Lord Jesus Christ. I pray that this would be a year of spiritual growth. I pray it'd be a year that we draw closer to you. And we just need your help now to set a pattern here right at the beginning of the year. I present my body anew to you, Lord. I yield my will to yours. I ask with all my heart, Father, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you speak through me to all of our hearts and help us to trust you this morning and to obey you as you direct us, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. A little over twenty-two years ago, my family and I moved here from Colorado, became pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church And I've tried right from the very first service as pastor of Mountain Lake, I have tried very diligently to make the Lord Jesus Christ the focus of all that we do here at Mountain Lake in our messages and our ministries. In fact, some of you all that were here when we came, if you'll remember We put very large letters across the front here. How many folks remember what we put up there? What was it? What did it say? Looking unto Jesus. And that was our motto we came and and uh w that has been my desire, that has been our goal. The church has gotten behind that, and our goal has been focus on the Lord Jesus Christ, to exalt the Lord Jesus Christ in our messages, in our ministries, in our lifestyle, in every aspect of it, to bring glory and honor to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I hate to admit it, we've fallen short. I know personally, I personally have fallen short many times to exalt the Lord as he deserves, but that has been our intention, and uh that has been our uh tremendous desire We particularly emphasize over these years one aspect of the Lord Jesus Christ as far as who he is And what his ministry is, and that is this, is that Jesus Christ is the Savior of the world. That Jesus Christ is the answer to man's need Every single person here in Garrett County, surrounding areas, throughout our country, this continent, around the world, every single person needs the Lord Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. And that has been our message, and that has been our emphasis all these years, on a personal, individual basis. Every person needs to know Jesus Christ. as their personal savior, if they ever are going to escape hell and get to heaven, they must trust Jesus Christ as their personal savior. Now, Jesus is not a Savior of the world. Jesus is the Savior of the world He's not one of many. He's not simply an option. I've mentioned this uh number of years, number of times over the years, but there was a fella Uh not we weren't here very long and his wife had developed cancer. She was dying. They called me up. I didn't know them. They just called the church and um they called up and she said I'd like a visit. Uh got their address, went and visited. They lived down here in Mount Lake Park She told me, she goes, I've I've been diagnosed with cancer. I have a very brief time to live. I'm very concerned about my soul's salvation, my standing with God. Can you help me? I said, well, the Lord can help you. So we took her Bible and I showed her from the Bible how Jesus Christ could, can be, and would be her Savior if she would simply trust him by faith. And uh she bowed her head and she called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be her personal Savior. She came and got baptized, attended for a period of time until she eventually passed away. And she's been with the Lord many, many years now. I believe she was genuinely saved. She had her husband was a Native American Indian. Full-blooded. And um he would come with her to church. And I remember one Sunday after the service, and I had witnessed to him, talked to him, one Sunday after the service, he hung back behind, and we sat up here in this front pew And I sat and talked to him for a long period after the service was over. And I showed him from the Bible how to know Jesus the Savior, how to be sure he was going to heaven He agreed with everything I said. It came time to call on the Lord. And I was just a little hesitant. I was just uneasy about some of the things he had said, and it just something about it didn't set w right with me. And I finally I asked him I said something to this effect. I said his name. I said, are you trusting Jesus and Jesus alone to be your personal Savior? And I don't remember exact wording, but this is what he told me. He goes, what I want to do is I do not want to forsake the religion of my forefathers, the spiritism and pantheism of my forefathers, the Native American Indians. I want to add Jesus. to my religion that I already have. It's basically what he told me. And I told him, I said, I'm I I'm sorry to hear that I said, because you have to accept Jesus and Jesus alone to be your Savior. He is not one of many saviors. He is the Savior. Excuse me. According to the Thessalonians and according to Acts, you need to turn from that false religion and trust Jesus and Jesus alone. The point I'm trying to make is this, young people, is that Jesus Christ is the only Savior of the world. He's not one of many. He is it. He said this in John chapter 14. I, Jesus speaking, he says, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but By me. It's only through Jesus Christ. There is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. And so we've tried to emphasize this over the years. Not just exalting Jesus Christ and always saying doing that, but emphasizing the fact that He is the Savior of mankind. Now we're beginning a new year, 2016 And we want to, at least I do, and our church, we want to remain focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. We want to keep looking unto Jesus. We want him to be the central focal point, uh the main message of our ministry. Let me read to you, if you would, just from Colossians chapter 3. Just listen as I read this very quickly, the first few verses. It says this. Listen very carefully. But if ye then be risen with Christ Seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above, not on the things on the earth For ye're dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God. When Christ, listen to this, who is our life, shall appear Then shall ye also appear with him in glory. Set your affection on things above. Stay focused on the Lord Jesus Christ. Keep your mind stayed. On the Lord Jesus Christ. Keep Him the central uh factor of your of our life and our uh and our thinking and our behavior. Because He's coming back someday. And that is this morning's message. As we focus on Jesus Christ, as we keep him the center of our lives, and we love him with all our heart, and we live for him and him alone. We must keep in the forefront of our minds, Jesus Christ is coming again. This world is falling apart at the seeds. I read yesterday, I stuck it in my notes here. I read this. Think about this. Bill Cosby is arrested for rape. Bruce Jenner is woman of the year. Donald Trump is leading in the presidential candidates. This world is a mess. Good creep But the fact of the matter is seriously this world is a mess. Violence I don't know about you. I've been around 55 years. I remember ever a time where this world has been as violent As it is today. I mean, we've had wars for years, the world has always been at war. But the level of violence on societal level Is uh is alarming. Um of course terrorism is a big issue. The perversion of marriage And the home and what a family is on a wholescale level. There's always been fringe out there. But now, on the wholescale level, in the mainstream of our society, the most fundamental uh makeup of society, the most the most foundational uh uh makeup of society, the home Has been not just fractured but perverted. I've said this often over the years. We are now in a world that has perfected the ability To make that which is evil seem so good, and that which is good seems so evil This world has perfected the ability to take that which is sinful and make it appear pure, and that which is pure to seem so sinful. We live in a world that is falling apart at the seams morally, corruption at all levels of society. And when we look at our world and we look at society, and there's a tendency to get discouraged, and there's a legitimate reason to be alarmed. I want to remind us as Christians, we need to refocus off of this world and the conditions of this world and refocus back on the Lord Jesus Christ. And remember, He is coming back again. In fact, he described in the last days what this world would be like. And uh as we refocus on the fact Jesus coming again. Jesus came the first time, we just celebrated Christmas. He came the first time to be the Savior. The second time he's coming to be the judge. To be the judge. Um I read this week um Warren Wearsby, a preacher, I've heard him preach a number of times over the years, but uh uh he tells a story about a frontier town. And apparently it's a true story as far as I know, but uh there's this frontier town back in the old west days and there was a uh family had come into town on a coach with some horses And mom and dad had gone into the store and they left their small child out on the coach, on the state on the coach there, the carriage that they had come in. And something happened and something spooked the horses and they got loose from the post and they went racing down the street out of town with this little child on the carriage. Well there was a young man there, saw it all take place, saw what happened, and ran out and risked his life and was actually able to get a hold of the uh the horses and some of the uh bridles or whatever. He was able to, at risk of his own life, bring those horses under control. and no doubt saved the little child's life. Well years went by and of course they went their separate ways. The young man that was the hero in that event eventually be ended up becoming judge in a neighboring town. The small child that was on the carriage, as years went by, he turned to a life of crime, became a criminal. The day came where the child, now a criminal, had been arrested, and he was now in court, and lo and behold, the judge of the court that day was the Judge that felt was the young man that had saved that small boy's life back earlier. Well the boy recognized him as soon as he came in. The criminal recognized the judge as soon as he came in And in his mind he thought this is wonderful. This man saved my life back in the day. Surely he's going to be very gracious, very merciful. I'm going to get off okay. He won't do anything And when he stood before the judge, he recalled back that event. He says, Remember, you were my Savior back when I was a small child, and you risked your life and saved my life. And the judge very wisely said On that day, I was your Savior. Today, I'm your judge. And he sentenced him for his crime. I say that to say this. Today, Jesus is our Savior. If you're here this morning and you've never accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, today is the day of salvation for you. You need to accept Jesus Christ and now, not tomorrow, not next week, not sometime this year, you need to settle that today Because today, Jesus is the Savior from sin and from hell. He's our only hope to escape hell. He's our only hope to be delivered from sin. But when he comes back, He's not coming back as Savior. That's what he is now. When he comes back, he's coming back as judge to carry out the sentence of God for man's sin. Jesus is coming again. Jesus is coming again. Now let's look at our text here. And I want to bring a few thoughts here in a little bit of time I have left. A few thoughts. Number one, here's my first thought. The second coming of Jesus Christ is certain. It's certain. Now, by that, using that word certain, this is what I mean. The second coming of Jesus Christ is sure. In other words, it's unquestionable. Without a doubt, Jesus is coming again. Now, I don't know about you, but here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we believe this old King James Bible is God's word. We believe every word of this book is God's word, that it is true and pure in every way And as a believer in the Word of God, we believe the Bible is true. It is true. And if this Bible is true, and it is Then we can be certain Jesus Christ is coming back again. Because there is one doctrine that is prominent all through Scripture, and that is this: Jesus coming back again. It is documented all through Scripture over 350 times the Bible references the second coming of Jesus Christ in both the Old and New Testaments. It is an undeniable fact. The Bible teaches Jesus is coming again If somebody says, well, the Bible doesn't really teach that Jesus is coming again, you mark it down, that person does not believe the Bible. Because the Bible is very, very clear. Jesus is coming again. It is an undeniable doctrine. Every prophecy. Now get this. You say, preacher, how do you know that the Bible's correct that Jesus is coming back again. Now stop and think with me, and this isn't the purpose of the message, but just stop and think with me for a moment. Every prophecy that the Bible gave in the Old Testament, every prophecy concerning the first coming of Jesus Christ. As to where he would be born, when he would be born, how he would be born of a virgin. Every prophecy referencing the first coming of Jesus Christ was fulfilled to the T. In no way was there any prophecy concerning the first coming of Jesus Christ that was not fulfilled or was incorrect in any way. They were absolutely correct. Absolutely fulfilled completely. We have every assurance that the prophecies concerning the second coming of Jesus Christ are going to be fulfilled to the T. Exactly as God says. There is no doubt Jesus Christ is coming again. Mark it down. If you don't get anything out of today's message, you walk out those back doors in a little while. You don't get anything out of today's message. You take this home with you. Jesus Christ is coming again. He's coming again. He's coming back. It is certain. Jesus Christ is coming back. Jesus promised it himself. I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again. Over and over and over, Jesus assured his followers: I'm going to leave you, I'm going to go to be with the Father, but I will return. I will return. I will come back. I'm coming again. Jesus promised. Hey, if if Jesus doesn't come back the second time, then he lied. Right? He promised us And God cannot lie. He cannot lie. Ah, Jesus promised repeatedly he would come again. The angels of God announced at Jesus' ascension this same Jesus As ye have seen him go into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go. The angels promised us Jesus coming back again. Jesus coming back again. So Jesus uh uh promised it repeatedly the angels declared it emphatically that he would come again the apostles taught it thoroughly That Jesus would come again all through the old the New Testament and the writings of the epistles, the writings of the apostles. An epistle is not the wife of an apostle. An epistle is letters written by the apostles to churches. And all three I just thought I'd clarify that for Some of the West Virginia folk and uh Hey how about those mountaineers, huh? Trying to get on your good side. But all through The epistles, the apostles taught very, very thoroughly that Jesus is coming again. Paul went in great detail concerning the rapture of the church The book of Revelation, written by the Apostle John, under the inspiration of God. Very detailed the tribulation period and the events of the new heaven, new earth, and judgment of this world. The apostles went in very thoroughly. They taught all through their inspired the writings inspired by God Preserved in our uh in our Bible. All through that, they taught us very thoroughly that Jesus is coming back again. And they gave us very many details about the coming of Jesus Christ. It is certain Jesus Christ is coming again. You go back into the Old Testament, you even have Old Testament prophets. Who referenced not just the first coming of Christ, but referenced the second coming of Jesus Christ. And gave, in some cases, quite a bit of detail about the return, the second coming of Jesus Christ. In fact, uh generally once a month we take part in the Lord's Supper as the Bible instructs us. We try to follow the Bible's instructions concerning Lord's Supper, try to follow that very, very carefully. It's a very sober, a very Important ordinance of our church and even the Lord's Supper references the second coming of Jesus Christ. He says, this ye and emerge me, and you do uh till the Lord's death uh the Lord's return. Let me uh quote it correctly. This ye uh ye do show the Lord's death till he come. So even the Lord's Supper, when we take part in the Lord's Supper, we're referencing the second coming of Jesus Christ. Now this is not the message, let me just throw this out there, but every child of God ought to take part in the Lord's Supper on a regular basis. God expects that from us. God expects that from us. And don't don't be like some. You say, well, I'm not oil to be. Rather than making things right, I'll just skip the Lord's Supper. I'm telling you, you're just adding sin to your sin. You're map you're multiplying the issue. So when Lord's Supper time comes around, don't don't excuse that well I'm not going to confess myself, I'm not going to make things right to You just make it worse. Why don't we just humble ourselves before the Lord? Say, Lord, you paid an awful price for me. The least I can do for you is keep my heart pure and right. Am I making sense But when we take part in Lord's Supper, we're referencing the fact that Jesus Christ is coming again. We can be certain Jesus is coming again. So my first thought is this, the certainty. The second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ is certain. Number two, my second thought, the second coming of Jesus Christ is scheduled. It's certain we know it's going to happen, but my second thought is that it's scheduled. Look with me here. You got your Bibles there. Look with me at verse number 36. Now pay careful attention to what he says here. But of that day and hour knoweth no man. He goes that Day and hour. The implication there is what? There is a day and an hour that the Lord's going to come back. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 42 Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. The implication is there is a specific hour. That the Lord's going to come. Verse 44. Therefore be ye also ready, for in such an hour as ye think not, a very specific time. The Lord's coming back again. Verse number 50. The Lord of that servant shall so come in a day when he looketh not for him. A certain day, a very scheduled time. And look with me if you would. Chapter 24. Come back to verse 14. I think this verse, this verse fascinates me. Matthew 24 and verse number 14. Now, this is what we're addressing: the idea that there is a very specific day and hour that Jesus Christ is coming back. A scheduled appointment, appointed time. That Jesus is coming back. Now look at verse 14. And again, this verse intrigues me. Notice what the Lord says here. And this gospel of the kingdom. Shall be preached in all the world. Now, question: What does that make you think of? The gospel being preached in all the world. What does it make you think of? Missions. The great purpose of the church to take the gospel into all the world, to every nation, every people group Every city, every village, every home, getting the gospel of Jesus Christ so they have opportunity to believe and be saved. It is the mission of the church to gospel and all the world. Now look at this Look at the rest of the verse. This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto the nations. Look at that last phrase. And then shall the end come. I find that intriguing. I look at that and I get the idea that perhaps God is saying to us, maybe in the mind of God, there is a certain point when the gospel is gotten Uh uh when the gospel goes to everywhere that at that point then the Lord Jesus Christ comes back. I don't know, and I can't say emphatically, dogmatically on this But I wonder if missions doesn't play a key role in the timing of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ, in getting the gospel into all the world. You and I have a part In getting the gospel into all the world. As we give the faith promise, as we go on mission trips, as we give ourselves the availability to go into all the go to a country, a foreign country, and uh service missionaries, we have a part in this great mission. But I wonder if it doesn't play a role. And it seems that intrigues me, as I said, that verse there does. God, here's what I'm trying to say. The second coming of Jesus Christ is scheduled. I mentioned this in Sunday school this morning. God does not wing it. You know, anybody here ever wing it on something? Sure. Some of y'all are winging it right now. God does not act haphazardly. God doesn't just do things off the top. Our God is a very organized God. Our God operates decently and in order. And with that in mind, and you look at creation and you see even the timing of the planets And and uh uh the rotation of the planets around. And when our uh uh scientists were able to send uh rockets to the moon and Mars in different places, they are very much dependent upon the exact timing. An organization of this world, of this universe. And that tells me, and my study of scripture tells me, that God is not chaotic. God is not haphazard. God does not just wing things. It's not, well, Jesus will come back when I feel like it. Oh, we'll come up with some time. At some point we'll figure out and he'll come back. No, no, no. I am convinced that God has a very specific day and hour appointed that Jesus Christ returns to the planet Earth. Scheduled. It's scheduled. It's certain, we can be sure, Jesus Christ is coming back again. We can be certain of that. It's scheduled. God has a very specific time and He has a very specific plan. I'm convinced in my mind there is a day and an hour when the rapture of the church will take place. Very specific time. Maybe morning, maybe noon, maybe night. We don't know when. Might be soon, might not be for a long time, but I'm convinced there's a very specific time When that angel will shout, and the trump of God shall sound, and the dead in Christ shall rise, and you and I which remain will be caught up together to be with the Lord in the air In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, it may be in a church service, it may be at night as we sleep in our bed. We don't know when, but God knows when And that rapture takes place. God has the seven-year tribulation period all planned out. He knows exactly how that thing will come together. And Revelation gives us Quite a bit quite a uh uh uh fantastic picture of events during the tribulation period. God has that all scheduled Then at the end of that seven-year tribulation period, Jesus Christ splits the eastern sky, and physically every eye shall see him return to earth and bring the judgment of the nations and set up the millennial reign. God has all that scheduled. All that's scheduled. There's no doubt there's a very specific time and hour and day when Jesus Christ returns And so, number one, the return of Jesus Christ is certain. We can be sure he's coming back again. The return of Jesus Christ is scheduled. God has a very specific day and hour, a moment, when the rapture takes place and these events begin. And Jesus Christ returns to earth. Let me give you my third point, and this is the where where I get the title of the message. The second coming of Jesus Christ is secret. Now let me explain what I mean by secret. By secret I mean this. When that day and hour is, we are not told. We don't know. Only God knows when Jesus Christ will return. Only God knows when that rapture will take place Notice again with me, verse uh in here in Matthew 24, notice again with me, verse 36. But of that day and hour knoweth what? No man. No. No, look, he emphasizes this. He elaborates on this. On that day and hour Knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven. The angels know he's coming back. They told us, but they don't know when. They don't know the day and hour. No, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. Come down with me at verse 42. Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come. Verse 44, wherefore be ye also ready, for at such an hour as ye think not, the Son of Man cometh. Verse 50: The Lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, in an hour that he is not aware of. Jesus Christ is coming again. God has, I'm convinced, a very specific day and hour appointed for the rapture and the beginning, the events of the final days of this earth and the return of Jesus Christ. God has all that scheduled. But he's kept it secret from you and I. We don't know when that's going to happen. The Lord is emphasizing the fact that He that we do not know when He is coming back again. It was a question that captured the minds of the disciples. Come back to the beginning of chapter 24 with me, if you would. And in verse number, well we'll start in verse number one. And Jesus went out and departed from the temple, and his disciples came to him for to show him the buildings of the temple. Now look what Jesus said. Jesus said unto them, See ye not uh see ye not all these things? Verily I say unto you, there shall not be left here one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down. Now I kind of imagine you and I would probably say something, if not exactly the same, very similar, to what the disciples said. Look at verse 3 And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately, saying, Tell us, Lord, what's the next word? When shall these things be? And what shall be the sign of thy coming in the end of the world? They wanted to know when Are all these events going to take place? When is this going to happen? Now the disciples had in their mind, they had it, that Jesus is going to come and he was going to be their king. He's going to run Rome out of Israel. They're going to become an independent nation. They had a political mindset that he was going to be the savior of the nation politically. And of course, that's not what Jesus was coming for. He was coming to be the Savior of the world from sin and hell. Well, they figured that out. Of course, he's crucified, he's buried, he's risen again. They figured all that out. Now they're thinking, okay, he's died for the sins, he's buried, he's rose again. Turn with me with me, if you would, to Acts chapter 1 And they come back to the same question. In Acts chapter one And it says, I'll begin reading in verse 4. You get caught up when you get there. And being assembled together with them, Jesus commanded them that you should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which saith he, ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence. When they therefore verse six, when they therefore were come together Look at this. They asked of him, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel They revert back to their old thinking. Alright, he's risen again. He's not going to die. He's died for our sin. Now he'll set up the political, he'll deliver us politically. Now he'll set up the nation of Israel. Look what the Lord says. And they want to know when. Lord is it now? Now are you going to tell? When is it? Are you are you going to do this now? Look what he says. Verse 7. And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power I put in the margin of my Bible, beside that verse, I put this, it's none of your business. That's what he's telling them. When is this going to happen? What's the timing? When? Is it today? Tomorrow? When is this going to happen? And he said basically, in so many words, it's none of your business. When this takes place, I'm giving you responsibility. You carry out those responsibilities, you worry about getting the gospel to every person on this planet and let me worry about when I'm coming back again. When I'm setting up the kingdom. So the return of Jesus Christ, as far as the timing is concerned, when it takes place, it's a secret. It's none of our business. God has given us responsibilities as Christians, and we are not to concern ourselves with the timing of his coming. But with the fact that he is coming again. Now, is it good and is it right to look for the Lord's return? Absolutely. If I understand my Bible correctly, I believe I do. We ought to anticipate the return of Jesus Christ. We ought to anticipate the rapture of the church. Every single day we're alive. We ought to get up in the morning thinking, you know, the rapture could take place today. This could be the day. Even the Apostle John at the end of the book of Revelation, at the end of the Bible, his prayer, his final prayer was this: even so come, Lord Jesus. He was longing. He was anticipating. He was looking for the return of Jesus Christ. God knows when that's going to happen. I'm convinced God has a day and an hour established when the rapture will take place, when the tribulation takes place, when the second advent takes place. He's got all that laid out. He knows when it'll be, but he has not given you and I that information. When that's going to happen. We ought to look for it. We can anticipate it. Here's my point. It is wrong to set dates as to when Jesus is coming again. Every so many years, some yard bird preacher, and I use that term in Christian love Some crackpot preacher will come along and they'll think they can get around the clear statement of Scripture that no man knows the day nor the hour. In fact, even Jesus Christ the Bible says does not know that hour. You say, how can that be? How can Jesus being God not know when it takes place? I'm telling you, it was Jesus as man had laid aside that knowledge, and he had laid aside that awareness as incarnate God, a man in the flesh, and he laid that aside. But the fact of the matter is, God only knows when he's coming back. In fact, the Lord goes down through here back in chapter 24, he kind of goes down through here and he says, just like it was in the days of Noah Everybody's going about their lives and doing business and marrying and getting married and just doing their stuff, and they pay no attention to the warnings of Noah, and they pay no attention to the coming judgment. They paid no attention. Until that flood came, and they were left out. Lost. And he says, That's the way it's going to be when the Lord comes back. You don't know when it's going to happen. And the world people are going to go on, they're going to be living their lives and doing their thing and and uh uh working their jobs and playing their games. And many of them aren't gonna pay any attention to the Bible teaching That Jesus is coming back someday. In a day when we don't know, an unexpected time, they won't pay any attention to that. Before they know it, the rapture will take place, and the loss left behind The Lord is emphasizing the fact that we don't know when Jesus is coming again. He goes down through the says just like a thief breaking into a house. Nobody knows when that thief comes in. If the guy knew when the thief was coming in, he'd be have he'd have his guns ready, you know. He don't know when it's coming. A thief breaks in, he's unexpected. He said, that's the way it's going to be. Nobody knows. The day or the hour. And the Lord goes to great length to emphasize the fact that nobody knows. We do not know. God only knows when the second coming is going to take place. The early disciples, I'm telling you, you read your Bible carefully, Book of Acts especially, they were fired up. About the truth of Jesus' second coming. They were fired up. I'm convinced as I study my Bible, I'm convinced every one of those early disciples The book of Acts, after the Lord ascended to heaven, every one of them thought, Any day thou, he's coming back. In fact, in the Thessalonians, Paul mentions That he anticipated the Lord coming while he was still alive. We which are alive and remain shall be caught up. Paul fully expected The Lord's coming in his day. And they were fired up by it. And I'm telling you, the second coming of Jesus Christ was not some dry doctrine on a fundamental doctrinal statement of their church. It was a living truth in their lives. It affected them how they lived their lives. It affected them how they interacted with other people. Jesus could come back today. I've got to be on my game. I've got to keep my heart right. I've got to keep my mind pure. He may come back today. It was a practical truth. Now here we are in 2016. How many of us have heard this and heard this and heard this? And it's we our minds and our hearts have become dull. To the reality of the fact that Jesus could possibly come back today. You say, preacher, you say he's coming back today? I'm saying God only knows when he's coming back. It might not be for another 500 years. It might be in five minutes. We don't know We don't know. But what we do need, we need to get some of that old New Testament anticipation, New Testament excitement, New Testament revival about the fact that Jesus is coming back again. And let that affect our lives. And think about the implications that the rapture could take place today. What does that mean? What does that mean for how you and I view our lives and interact with others? Today, by the end of the day, I could be standing in the presence of Jesus Christ. It's a secret. God only knows when the Lord's coming back. The early disciples fully anticipated the Lord's return any day. But today, little thought. Little concern. I want to end with one more passage of scripture. If you would turn with me to 2 Peter. 2 Peter. You know I found out? God's no dummy. God knows. And God knew that in your day and my day The concern and the anticipation and the expectation of Jesus' return would grow dull. And we would become indifferent to the promises of God. And he warns us in in uh 2 Peter chapter 3. And beginning in verse number 3. Knowing this, are you there? 2 Peter 3. 3. Knowing this, there shall come in the last days, look at this, stauffers Walking after their own lusts and saying, Where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. Jesus said in the last days. The promises and the warnings of the return of Jesus Christ are just going to be something people scoff at. They're not going to take it seriously. They're not going to give it any thought They're not going to allow the reality of that event to affect how they live or how they think or how they behave And they're just going to go on with their lives, and they're going to do their thing, and they're going to be self-centered, not Christ-centered, and they're going to be living for themselves in the here and now. But he tells us in an hour that you think not, then the Lord will return. Then the Lord will return. Here's what I'm trying to say this morning. Number one, Jesus Christ is coming back. Number two, his coming is scheduled. God knows exactly when that will be. The day and the hour. It's all playing out. It's not just winging it. It's not some helter-skelter thing. God has a plan God has a schedule. And thirdly, He's kept that schedule from us. He is the only one that knows when Jesus Christ is coming back. Our responsibility is to trust him and obey him until that day. Live the way he's instructed us to live. Get that gospel of Jesus Christ to every single person on this planet. This world desperately needs Jesus Christ. People are dying and going to hell. They need Jesus Christ. And it's you and I's responsibility to get that message of Christ, the gospel, to them. We don't know the day or hour. It's none of our business. But we ought to anticipate it. We ought to live for the Lord. Let me ask you a question in closing. If you knew, if you and I knew that Jesus Christ was coming back in 2016, Let's bring it down a little bit. Suppose we knew for certain that Jesus Christ was coming in January. Let's narrow it down. Suppose we knew that for a fact Jesus Christ was coming back within the next 24 hours. Let me ask you a question. Would you need to get saved real quick today? You're here this morning, you're unsaved, you've never trusted Christ. Let me tell you this, if you have opportunity to be saved and you reject it, and the rapture takes place, you will never have opportunity to be saved again. Never see I'm a church member doesn't matter. I've been baptized, doesn't matter if you're not saved and you reject the opportunity to be saved and the rapture takes place Thessalonians tells us you'll believe the lie of the devil and you will never have an opportunity to be saved. So if you knew that Jesus Christ is coming back, let's just For speculation, say within the next twenty-four hours. And by the way, we don't know that he isn't. Would you need to get saved today? If you're here this morning, you're not saved. I'm pleading with you with all my heart. You need to trust Christ today. Don't put that off. Don't put that off. If we knew for certain, just speculating, if we knew for certain that Jesus Christ was coming back tomorrow, within the next 24 hours, are there some changes that need to be made in your lifestyle? Are there some hey, sometimes they're hard decisions, but if I want to be right with God, and if I want to be ready to stand before Jesus Christ, There's some hard decisions to be made. And I'd venture to say, if we knew for certain that within the next 24 hours he's coming back, those decisions won't be quite so hard If we knew that for certain. I'm here to tell you, we don't know that he isn't. It's a very real possibility the Lord could come back. Within the next twenty-four hours. We don't know when. Are there some changes that need to be made to your life? Uh, if we knew for certain, just suppose, if we knew for certain the Lord was coming back in the next twenty-four hours, is there somebody you needed to witness to? Some loved one. I need to sit down and take the word of God and show them how to be saved. Maybe one last time before the Lord takes me on to heaven. Is there some person needs to be witnessed to? Uh is there some change needs to be made? Uh is there some Bible reading you need to get Get in, I need to read my Bible a little bit before the Lord comes about. Uh maybe there's some ministry I ought to be involved in. If I knew the Lord's coming back this year There's a ministry I need maybe God's been dealing with your heart about a bus route or some visitation ministry or soul winning babies, blankets for babies, or some ministry of reaching others and you say, I know Jesus coming back, that God's been dealing with my heart I need to get active in serving the Lord. Is there some change? Some ministry? Maybe giving? God stir in your heart about giving to missions? Getting that gospel in the Kazakh stand somewhere and you say, God's been stirring my heart, I know he's coming back. Maybe a little extra effort to get the gospel on the altar. Well, I don't know. But you and I individually need to stop and examine ourselves in light of the fact that Jesus Christ is coming back and we don't know when. We must be prepared. We must keep our hearts and minds yielded to the Lord. Every day anticipating, perhaps today. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that this truth of the return of Jesus Christ would stir our hearts. Lord, no doubt many of us have adjustments. Many of us have things that we would be very earnest about, Lord, if we knew that you were coming later today. I pray that that possibility would stir us to love you more, anticipate your return, and serve you diligently with our whole heart. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many folks this morning? You're a Christian. You've been saved. There's no doubt about it. You've trusted Christ. That's settled fact. But today there's a Christian. There's some adjustments that need to be made in my life. There's some priorities that need to be rearranged in light of the fact that the Lord is coming again. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Pray with me. That God will help me make those adjustments. That God will deal with me. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, yes. There are some areas in my life. The Spirit of God It's dealt with my heart from the Word of God. I need to get some priority change. God bless you. There's hands all around here. Now, you say, preacher, are you saying he's coming back this year? I'm saying I don't know he isn't. I don't know when he's coming back. We don't know. But we ought to live every day as if he were anticipating. There's some here this morning say, preacher, I have someone dear to me. Maybe it's a family member, a friend, co-worker, a neighbor, associate. They're lost. And you say, preacher, I'm so burdened for them. Maybe it's a parent, child, I'm so burdened for them. I want God to help me, give me boldness and wisdom. To share the message of Jesus Christ with them. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, there's somebody dear to me. I'm so burned for. God bless you. I tell you the first step in winning them to Christ is praying. Praying. Asking God for wisdom and boldness. One last question. Is there some this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven? Nobody in the right mind wants to go to hell. Nobody in the right mind wants to be left behind. After the rapture, and you say, Praeture, I'm concerned. That and I would like for God to help me settle this in my heart and mind That my sins are forgiven, and that when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. When the Lord comes back, I go to be with him, not left behind up in hell. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me that God will help me Settle this matter of my salvation and where I go when I die. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven. I'm concerned about it. Any at all? Any like that at all? God bless you. How about it? Any others? Any others? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. We look to you, Lord. We trust you. We believe your word. We want to be right, and we want to do right, and we want to please you. So help us now in this invitation to respond in faith, trusting you and making those decisions, making those adjustments that you deal with us about. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together our heads.