Isaiah chapter 46, a different passage than what we read in our scripture reading. We're going to be looking at a number of passages this morning. Isaiah 46, while you're finding your place, Mr. Hamburger and Mrs. Hamburger. had a little baby girl. Guess what they named their little baby girl? Patty. I like that one. That one's right up my that's Tom Gravely's fault. He told that to me right before church. And crack me up. That's a good one, Veronica, huh? She got tickled. Isaiah chapter 46. I'd like for us to read together verse 9 and 10. Isaiah 46. Verse 9 and 10. All of us reading together in unison. You got it there? Here we go. Verse number nine. All together. Remember the former things of old. For I am God, and there is none else. I am God, and there is none like me, declaring the end from the beginning. And from ancient times the things that are not yet done, say, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure. We began earlier in the summer just a, I guess I'd call it an informal series on God. We've considered God's existence. Is there really a God? Does a God exist? And the answer is yes. There absolutely is a God. Our conscience, in our heart and soul, tells us. That God exists. Every human being that has ever lived was born with an awareness of God's existence. You see, atheism is a very temporary condition. Philippians chapter 2 tells us that the day will come when every knee shall bow and every tongue shall confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. I do not believe for one minute there is anyone born an atheist. We are born aware of God's existence. We look around us in creation, and we see incredible design. We see order. We see purpose. We see laws. And creation tells us that there is a God. The fact that there are what the world calls laws of nature imply to us very clearly that there is a lawgiver. The fact that there is an effect tells us there has to be a cause. Design very clearly tells us there is a designer. So our conscience tells us that there is a God. Yes, God does exist. Creation tells us that there is a God. God does exist. And we look in the scriptures. I believe the greatest argument for this uh the existence of God in the scriptures And the scriptures declare very clearly, yes, God does exist. In the beginning, God. No defense, no argument, not presenting any proofs. Just beginning with the divine assumption that God is and God exists. The Bible tells us a little bit what God is like, what his name is, characteristics of him. We look to God and we say, God, what are you like? And God answers from scriptures emphatically, I am holy. I am holy. He answers from scriptures, I am love. God does not just love, he is loved. I am merciful. And this morning we look in the scriptures as we cry out to God, what are you like, God? And he answers, I am sovereign. So this morning I want to speak on the subject. God is sovereign. We'll explain what we mean by that. Let's pray together. Father, we ask now as we look into your word. That you would speak to our hearts. I ask, Father, that you would open our hearts and minds that we can know you. We can understand who you are and what you're like. I pray you would show us very clearly what your will is for our lives, what you expect from us as your creation, what our obligations are to you as our Creator, reveal your love for us, your plan for our lives. I pray you'd help me and all of us to trust you. To follow your instructions and to love you in response to your love for us. Fill me, I ask, Lord, with your Holy Spirit so that what I just asked can take place. That you would speak through me and accomplish these things. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As Baptists, we understand that the Bible is the sole authority for mankind. The Bible is our sole authority. The Bible is given to us by inspiration of God. 2 Timothy 3, verse 16. This book is given to us by God. God breathed. This book, the Bible, is without error. Psalms 19:7. The law of the Lord is perfect. No mistakes. I never have to c I can I I never come to God's word and sign and look and say, oh, that's wrong. Never wrong. Perfect. The Bible is our, I put it this way, our flawless guide and manual for life. This book tells me how to live. This book gives me warnings. Gives me promises from the God that created this. Gives me instructions on things to do and not to do. The Lord told Joshua in chapter 1, he said, This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. The Bible is our guide and manual for life. The Bible tells us who God is. As I said in the opening statements, we know God exists. We can see His hand in creation. We know in our hearts. And we look into the Word of God, and the Bible tells us. That God is one God. There's not many gods. We referenced in our Sunday school hour, we had a letter from one of our missionaries to the Mormons. And how they uh were there are actually many gods as far as Mormons are concerned. And uh that uh as God a as man is now, God once was, as God is now, man can become is kind of their motto. The Mormons are wrong. There's not a lot of gods. You cannot become God, and God never was man. God is God. There's one God, always has been, always will be. The Bible tells us that God is one God. He's eternal. He's holy. He's loved. He's all-powerful. He's all-knowing. He's merciful. In our scripture reading in Psalm 99, the Bible said that God reigneth. We have our passage here in Isaiah. says that he declares the end from the beginning. He says at the end of verse 10, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure. In 1 Chronicles 29, I'll just read several passages, several references here. We won't take time to turn to all of them. But in 1 Chronicles 29, 11 and 12, the Bible says, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory. And the majesty for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord. Thou art exalted as head above all. Riches and honor come of thee. Thou reignest over all. In thine hand is power and might. In thine hand it is to make great and to give strength to all. Psalms 115 verse 3 says, Our God is in the heavens, he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. Proverbs 16, 9 says, A man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. Again, we come down through here, Psalms 103 and verse 19. The Lord hath prepared his throne in the heavens, his kingdom ruleth over all. Proverbs 19, 21 says that there are many devices in a man's heart, nevertheless, the counsel of the Lord that shall stand. And we could go from Genesis to Revelation teaching us and showing us very clearly that God is sovereign. Now, what do we mean by that? We don't use that term a lot. We used to, over in the old country, as they say, in England, they would refer to their kings as sovereigns. In other words, they had the ultimate authority. They were the ones in control. And when we say that God is sovereign, what we're saying is this. God has supreme power over all things. God has complete control God has all control. I put it this way: God has independent control. He and he alone rules creation. He is sovereign. This is one of the major teachings in Scripture, the sovereignty of God. God upholds and governs all things. From the galaxies that fill our universe to the subatomic particles that make up all of matter, God reigns over all. He rules over all. When we were small, we were taught a little song, and probably most of y'all know it. It's a pretty well-known song. But it goes like this. He's got the whole world in his hands, he's got the whole world In his hands, he's got the whole world. In his hands, he's got the whole world in his hands. I thought I'd get a greater response from that. He's got the sun and the moon. In his hands, he's got the sun and the moon. In his hands, he's got the sun and the moon. In his hands, he's got the whole world in his hands. He's got the little bitty baby. In his hands, he's got the little bitty baby. It is sense, he's got the little bitty baby. It is sense, he's got the whole world, it is sense. He's got you and me, brother. In his hands, he's got you and me, b sister, in his hands, he's got you and me, brother. In his hands, he's got the whole world in his hands. Cute song, huh? You know what we're singing? God's in control. God is sovereign. Just a very simple, cute little way of declaring that God is in control. God is sovereign. Now, three thoughts along God's sovereignty. Number one, I want us to consider the reach of God's sovereignty. The reach of God's sovereignty As supreme governor over all creation, this God that we know exists, now we can't see him, he's invisible. But we know he exists. He's everywhere. We already looked at a little bit. He's omnipresent. He's here right now We're in his presence now. He's all-knowing. He knows what's going through our minds. He knows what everyone is dealing with. This all-powerful God And we find out that he is sovereign. He is the ruler. He reigns. He is the king of kings. Governor of all the most farthest reaches of the universe. He rules and reigns over it all. The reach of this sovereignty. Well, he is in control of the physical universe. We see that clearly in Scripture. In Jonah chapter 4, we find Jonah is all bent out of shape because God was merciful to Nineveh and did not judge them, and Jonah this carnal Prophet sits on a hill over top of the city waiting for judgment, and God doesn't send it. And he says, I knew God was a merciful God. I knew he wasn't going to judge them. The Bible says that God prepared a gourd. God is sovereign over the physical universe, and at God's will, a plant can come and will come up out of the ground. God prepared a gourd. God then, the Bible says, prepared a word. And God, in his sovereignty and his authority and power over the physical universe, God could prepare a worm to be at a very specific place at a very specific time for a very specific purpose. Then the Bible says that God prepared a wind. The gourd withered. The worm killed the gourd and God controlled the weather. God had a wind blow at a very specific time in a very specific direction for a very specific purpose. This God that exists. is sovereign over the physical universe. In Joshua chapter 10, he stops the sun in the sky. What kind of power? What kind of authority does this God have that he can make the sun stand still in the sky? This is the God that you and I bowed our heads to this morning in prayer God is sovereign over the physical universe. If you would turn to Job, we're not too far from Job. Come back to Job chapter number 37. We find that God is sovereign in the physical universe. He controls the weather. How many people here have ever complained about the weather? Oh, it's so hot. If somebody says it's too hot around me one more time Just wait a month. I know what y'all are going to be saying. Everyone is complaining how hot it is in about two months. Oh it's so cold. Job chapter 37 And notice with you, I'm going to begin reading in verse five. Now this is and um I wish this wasn't true, but I complained about the weather myself. Look at verse five. Job thirty-seven. God thundereth marvelously with his voice. Great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend. For he saith to the snow, Be thou on Garrett County, on the earth Likewise to the small rain and to the great rain of his strength, he sealeth up the hand of every man, all that all men may know his work. Then the beasts go into their dens and remain in their places Out of the south cometh the whirlwind, and cold out of the north. By the breath of God frost is given, and the breadth of the waters is straightened. Also by watering he weareth the thick cloud. He scattereth the bright cloud, and it is turned round about by his counsel. That they may do whatsoever He commandeth them upon the face of the world in the earth. Did you see that? The clouds and the rain and the snow and the weather do whatsoever God commandeth them. Verse 13. He causeth it to come. Now look, notice he gives a few reasons for weather. I thought this was interesting. He causeth it, the clouds and the winds and the rain and snow, to come, whether for create for correction Sometimes weather is God correcting us. Sometimes weather is God's response to our actions. Then he goes on, he says, whether for correction or for his land, sometimes weather is simply for the good of the land, for crops and uh gardens and plant life and animal life. We have to have rain. We have to have these things for our substance. And sometimes God sends it for that purpose. Or for his mercy. Sometimes God gives us a nice day, not because we deserve it, or not because the earth necessarily needs it, but just because he loves us, and in his mercy, he gives us a nice day. God is sovereign over the weather. Do you remember when Peter and them were in the boat and the storm hit and they were fearful and they woke the Lord? And Jesus Christ In his sovereign power over the physical universe, the physical world, he said, peace, be still. And the storm stopped. And the water was still. The sovereign power of God over this universe What a mighty God we serve. Sovereign, sovereign. Hearken unto this, O Job, stand still and consider the wondrous works of God. I wrote in the memories of my Bible there, how to respond to weather. We see the power of God in a storm when we thunder, our first response ought to be, what a wondrous God we serve. So God is sovereign. The reach of this sovereignty, what exactly does God control? How much authority does he have? How much power does he have? Well, he has power over the physical universe. The physical world. Remember the parting of the Red Sea? All through Scripture, from Genesis to Revelation, we see God having power over the physical world. I want to suggest to you that God also has power over the spiritual world, the world of angels, both holy and fallen, Satan and his hosts. God has power and authority over them. We could go down, I have probably 25, 30 verses I put down here, and there's scores and scores of others. In Exodus 23, the Lord told Israel, I send an angel before thee. God commands the angels. And they respond in immediate and total obedience to God. He sends these powerful angels before Israel. In Psalm 68, 17, the chariots of God are 20,000, thousands of angels. The Lord is among them in Sinai in the holy place. Verse numbers ninety one eleven for he shall give his angels charge over thee to keep thee in all thy ways. Psalms one hundred three verse twenty Bless the Lord ye his angels that excel in strength That do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word. God rules over the spirit world. He has control over the angels. He speaks and they respond. He commands and they obey. Psalms 104, verse 4, Who maketh his angels' spirits, his ministers a flaming fire? Jesus said in Matthew chapter 26, thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels? I like Hebrews 1 verse 14. Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation? God assigns angels one of the responsibilities to care and minister for you and I. I believe it with all my heart. I think the Bible is very, very clear. There are angels right now in this presence, in this assembly, in this church service, in this building right now, unseen to you and I, but as real as you and I sitting here, there are angels of God in this service. They're beholding us. There is a spirit world just as real as the physical world And you and I are part of it. And God rules in the spirit world. He rules over the angels. He rules over the physical world, the weather, and the earth, and the planets. All move at his command. God is sovereign over Satan. It may seem like Satan is in control, and he is the God of this world, but I'm here to tell you, Satan does not control this world. God does. In Job chapter 1 and 2, there's a fascinating event, and it just captures my imaginations, and I'm fascinated by what takes place. Job is declared to be in chapter 1, the beginning of the chapter, he's declared to be a good man, just and upright. In fact, God says he's perfect in all his ways. Doesn't mean he was sinless. We see that later on in the book. But he was mature and complete in his faith in God. And his walk with God was everything God expected of him. And an argument ensues, not between Job and God, but an argument between God and Satan. And God instigates it. And Satan comes and presents himself before the Lord. And the Lord, God, says to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? God is in a sense, and I don't mean to be irreverent here, so bear with me, God is in a sense bragging on Job. Satan responds as you would expect Satan to respond, oh yeah. And I'm paraphrasing here, he says, only reason he's living for you is you're so good to him. You've hedged him about, he's wealthy, his kids are living for God. No wonder anybody would do that if you gave that to him. God said, All right, you can touch him, but don't kill him. And Satan responds, and you know the story, his property is gone, his cattle is gone, his children are killed And the Bible says at the end of chapter one, he says, the Bible says that Job worshiped God. Wow. Lost everything. And he worships God. He recognizes God's authority over him to take and give. And he submits to that authority by humbly trusting and obeying God. He worships God. Satan comes before God again, chapter 2, and God says, Hey, if you consider my servant Job, he remains faithful. And again, I'm paraphrasing here, he remains faithful even though you moved me to touch him. Satan says, yea, skin for skin, yea, that all the man hath will he give in exchange for his life. You touch his body, he'll curse you to your face. God again puts a tremendous amount of faith in a man. God putting faith in a man, he goes, alright, you can touch his body, but you can't kill him. Of course, Satan responds. Job breaks out in boils, unbelievable pain, unbelievable sickness. His wife turns on him. It's interesting. His wife says, Why don't you just curse God and die? That's exactly what Satan was suggesting Job would do. His friends turn on him, start throwing baseless accusations at him. But Job remains faithful. He wavers a little, he asks questions. But he grows through it. And at the end of the book, he's a stronger man for it. His faith is stronger, and his understanding of who and what God is is stronger. But the point I'm trying to make is this. Job could not do anything, or Satan could not do anything to Job without God's sovereign permission. He could not move against Job without God saying, Okay, but no farther. Satan is real. And Satan is an unbelievable liar. An unbelievable liar, that would make sense. He's a murderer. If Satan had his way in your life and my life, we would be destroyed. But Satan could only move as God allows. I was in Indianapolis and it was a Saturday morning and every Saturday morning we used to take our teens out soul with them. We'd go through different parts of the city, knock on doors And we're going through one lar very large apartment complex one Saturday morning and we had divided up and my wife was with me and there was a couple other teen teams around us and kind of spread out and kind of see each other and I knocked on the door of an apartment. I can still see it in my mind's eye. At the end of the little hallway there's a door. I knocked on the door, a lady opened up introduced myself. I was the assist the youth pastor at the Thomson Road Baptist Church, my wife Kathy, we're visiting, we'll leave an invitation. And uh she immediately began sobbing. She's probably her mid to late 40s. And she says, Pastor, they called me, I had introduced myself to Pastor Danais. She goes, Pastor Dennis, will you step in? I didn't know her, never met her. My wife was there. We stepped inside. She was sobbing. I said, What's the matter? She goes, my son, my old my youngest son died of cancer about a year ago. So I'm sorry to hear that. She goes, we just found out this week that my oldest son is diagnosed with the exact same cancer. I said I'm sorry, and we tried to counsel the She says, I went to my pastor. Now this was not our church, this is some other church. I went to my pastor and I asked him why. Why is this happening? Why? And she said, my pastor's answer was It's just Satan wreaking havoc. It's just Satan let loose on you and your family. And in her tears, she said to me, I am so scared of Satan. I said, I don't mean to be disrespectful to your pastor in any way, but your pastor's wrong. Satan cannot do anything but that God allows it first. I can't answer the the question why, but I do know this. God is still in control, and God can take this and use this horrific situation and turn it around and bring good out of it. And I pointed her to Romans chapter 8 verse 28. for all things work together for good to them that love God, who are the called according to his purpose. Yes, Satan is real and Satan can wreak all kinds of havoc in our lives, and if we choose to listen to him, if we believe his lies We're gonna pay an awful price for it, but what I'm saying is this, God is still in control. So the reach of God's sovereignty is not just the physical universe, the weather and the earth and the planets and all that, but it's also the spirit world. And Satan and the angels, both holy and fallen, have to answer to God. Satan or uh uh Satan is submissive to God. He operates under God's control. So the reach of God's sovereignty is the physical universe, it's the spiritual world. I want to suggest to you God's sovereignty is over the political world, the nations It's interesting. God raised up Pharaoh for a specific time, for a very specific purpose, as God used him In that setting, to enable the children of Israel, under the leadership of Moses, to flee Egypt. We see God's sovereignty. When Joseph was down in Egypt and God moving through dreams and uh circumstances and false accusations and the hatred and jealousy of his brothers to promote Joseph First, very down, very low into the prisons of Egypt, and then miraculously up to number two in command of the nation. As God was sovereignly working in that nation to put Joseph in place to spare the nation and eventually set it up for them to come out years later. When I first got saved, I was 1979. That next year I went off to Bible college. It's not long after I was saved. And I took uh several classes in history. I just enjoy history. First class. I'm a fairly new Christian. I'm in Bible college and We're in history class, and the professor stands up, and one of his first statements is this, all of history is his story. And as we studied history and looked back over the nations, as some would rise and they would fall, we could see the hand of God. Setting up one and putting another down. Moving the nations at his command. In Ezra, we're told that God moved on the heart of the king to let the Israelites go back to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple and rebuild the wall and rebuild the city. Here's a pagan man. He has no there's no benefit to him in letting Israelites go back to Jerusalem, yet God moves on his heart like he does a river. And prompts him to give Israel the permission to go back, the Israelites' permission to go back. That's the sovereignty of God. Over the nations of our world. Psalm 75, verse 7 says that the Lord putteth down one and setteth another up. In Revelation chapter 15, verse 4, it says, Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou only art holy. For all nations shall come and worship before me, for thy judgments are made manifest. I think it's good for America to recognise God is God. And we can think as a nation, as we've been looking at our conference this past week and Sunday school, we referenced a little bit, as a nation, we can think we can ignore God We can think that we can just put away his commandments. We can violate his law. We can blaspheme his name. We can ignore his instructions and think it's not going to affect us in some way. And think that there are not consequences. to violating the laws of our holy God. We are only fooling ourselves. Because God's still in control. God still is God. He is sovereign over the nations. He is sovereign over the physical universe, the spiritual world, the political world. I'm going to suggest to you the reach of God's sovereignty also extends into our individual lives, our individual worlds. Abraham instructed his servant to go back to his homeland and find a way for his son. And the servant prays before he approaches. He says, Lord, work this out. And uh he makes very specific requests. And he gets there, and lo and behold. He gets to the well, and I'm trying to abbreviate this. He gets to the well, and lo and behold, there is Rachel. She comes out and she waters the uh camels and she provides water for him And he says, I see the hand of God bringing all this together. It wasn't a coincidence that things took place exactly as he had prayed. That was the sovereignty of God. moving people, moving hearts, and putting circumstances and situations together We see it all through Scripture in Exodus chapter 4 and verse 11. The Lord said unto him, Who hath made this is Moses? Saying, Lord, I can't be the leader. I can't, I can't, I can't talk talk, I can't talk, talk, talk very good, Lord. I think Moses was exagger Trading is inability to speak And God responds and says, This. And the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? Who maketh the dumb and the deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? Had not I the Lord? What is he saying? He's saying, God is saying, listen, I'm in control. I'm the one that made you the way you are. I'm the one that gave you the characteristics you have. I'm the one that Form the body you inhabit. I'm the one that gave you the various characteristics of your life. I determine the size of your nose. I determine how much hair you have. God made us the way we are. God designed us the way we are. And rather than going around and trying to be something we aren't, we ought to thank God for He made us what we are. And our young people are being fed a pack of lies that they have to look a certain way or they have to have these certain characteristics. Or they have little or no value. I'm telling you, every person has value in the eyes of God. Now we have this absolutely ridiculous movement of re of re redesigning our bodies I'm telling you, God made us the way we are. He is sovereign in our lives. People joke around about me being bald. Don't bother me one bit. I don't see what in the world a guy would want hair all over his head for anyway Jesus said, the hairs of your head are numbered. Hey, it's a whole lot quicker for me, praise the Lord. God gives us our individual characteristics. Now that doesn't mean that we don't take care of ourselves and we shouldn't, you know, take care and do what we can, that this is the temple, the body's spirit. But God made me. God is sovereign. Deuteronomy 8:18, but thou shalt remember the Lord thy God, for it is he that giveth thee power to get well. Proverbs 16:1, the preparation of the heart of man and the answer of the tongue is from the Lord. It's interesting. So many times and those that are involved in the soul winning ministries of our church and you get out and talk to P. I'm telling you You want to see the reality of the spirit world. You want to see the reality of spiritual warfare. You want to see the reality of God working in lives. Come with us out soul-winning. And we'll take people and we'll visit with them. And we'll open the Bible, we'll begin talking to them. One of the things I like to say to folks when I'm sharing the gospel with them, I'll say, have there been things happening in your life recently? That have caused you to think about God or religion or the Bible, you'd be amazed. With few exceptions, the people say, you know, there have been things going on. Uncle so-and-so passed away. My husband and I were just talking about heaven and hell. Yeah this, yeah that And you can see God working in their lives. That's the sovereignty of God. God working and moving. I believe with all my heart, I believe with all my heart, right now as we are sitting here, God, the Holy Spirit of God is working in people's lives all around our community, drawing them to himself, working on us, opening our eyes, moving on them All they need is somebody come and tell them how to be saved. Now believe and be saved. Trust Christ. God's sovereignty in our individual lives. Proverbs 19, 21, there are many devices in a man's heart. Nevertheless, the counsel of the Lord that shall stand. Proverbs 20, verse 24, man's goings are of the Lord. Matthew 5, 45, the Lord Jesus said, That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven, for he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good. He sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust. God's working in our lives. God's working in your life. If you're here this morning and you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, I know one thing for a fact: God's working in your life to draw you. to the point where you would accept him as your Savior if you just will. Those of us that know Christ as Savior, I'm telling you, God's still working in our lives. Are you listening, young people? God's still working in our lives. To draw us to be strong in our faith, to trust him more and to follow his instructions, obey him, to love him. It's not coincidences God is in control. God is sovereign. So the reach of God's sovereignty is from the farthest extents of our universe and the microscopic elements that make up the far-reached planets. To the spirit world, to the nations of our land, to our own individual lives, God's sovereignty. This God is all powerful and sovereign. Now That spooks your average independent fundamental Baptist. They say, yikes, are you preaching Calvinism No. Because my second point is this the restraint of God's sovereignty The fact that God is control in control, that God is sovereign, does not mean that we are just a bunch of robots pre-programmed by God and we have no say, we have no free will. And we just operate as God operates. Years ago I had a situation I was working with someone and not part of the church. And there was an incident where I was pretty certain some horrific things, if they did not happen, they were attempted to take place on the part of this person. And I felt like I needed help and I called a preacher, a friend of mine, and I said, I got this situation, I'm not sure how to deal with it. He goes, I've got this fellow, he's a preach pastor, and uh he's a great counselor, and uh he could help I said, alright. I didn't know this guy. I called him up. I told him the situation. He made this statement to me. He goes, well, if it did happen, and I'm talking something horrific, he said, if it did happen We just understand that that was the will of God, and thus we act accordingly. I said, how in the world can you suggest that this action would be the will of a holy God? I don't buy that for one minute. See, God's sovereignty, and I use this term of the best term, but I use it a little hesitantly, but God's sovereignty is restrained. In other words, though God controls everything, nevertheless He has given to you and I a free will. And I can choose to trust him or not trust him, and I can choose to obey him or not obey him, and I can choose to love him or not love him freely. The Calvinists teach, the Calvinists teach that God is sovereign and everything that happens is the will of God. Everything that takes place was predetermined from before the world ever existed. God laid it all out exactly how it's going to happen, and everything has to happen. If that's the case, then we're just robots. If that's the case, then I have no choice. Two guys were arguing after church about the sovereignty of God, and one guy said he took a big leg of chicken. He said, it was preordained before by the councils of God before the foundation of the world that I eat this leg of chicken. And as he throwed it up to his mouth and opened his mouth about to bite in, the other guy who didn't agree with that grabbed that chicken and threw it in the woods and he said, not that leg wouldn't Sometimes I'll have Calvinists, and it hasn't happened lately, but I used to, they would write me letters and they'd on the emails different things and different messages they can online and they'd take issue with some things And I'd and in the early days I'd debate and go back and forth. And after a while, I got something like that. I would just write back. It was preordained before the foundation of the world by the Almighty, inseparable counsels of God That I believe in the free will of man. We have to be a, I guess, forget it, never mind that. But here's what I'm trying to say. Calvinism will take the sovereignty of God to such an extreme, an unscriptural extreme To suggest that nothing happens outside the will of God. If it happens, we have no control. It's God's in total control, and we have no say in the matter. God's not at all planned out The sovereignty of God does not mean that man has no free will. The free will of man is seen all through Scripture When God told Adam and Eve in the garden, he said, You can eat of any tree of the fruit of the fruit of any of these trees except the tree of the fruit of the knowledge of good and evil. And man had a choice. Adam and Eve could freely choose to obey that instruction or disobey it. And of their own free will, they chose to disobey God. And the consequences of that decision to disobey God were horrendous. And by one man sinnered into the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for we've all sinned. It doesn't say by God's predetermined sovereign will, death entered, sin entered in the world. No, by one man. All through revelation. In fact, the revelation ends. Whosoever will may come and drink of the water of life freely. God's sovereignty is not threatened by man's free will. I was reading a book by a Calvinist that suggested, I know I'm a little theological here, but bear with me. I read a book by a Calvinist and said that if man has a free will, if we can choose of our own free will, then God is not sovereign. That's a lie. If God being in control is dependent upon all his beings being robots, that's a pretty weak control If the only way my wife will love me is if I pre-program a chip into her brain where she has no other choice but to love me. That's a pretty shallow relationship. That's a pretty weak love That has no choice. God determined it. I love him whether I want to or not. That's not the sovereignty of God as presented in the Bible. That's a distortion. God chooses some to God in his sovereignty chooses some to go to heaven and some to go to hell, and they have no say in the matter. They're just pre-programmed to do what God has sovereignly determined. That's not love. That's cold, hard, fatalistic distortion Of who and what our God is. Yes, God is sovereign. God is control. But God's sovereignty is such that he can give to his creation a free will And you and I can choose to obey him or not. And we can choose to love him or not. And we can choose to trust him or not. And we are responsible for the consequences of those decisions. But at the same time, God is in control. I put it this way. This is the way I see it. There are many things that happen outside the will of God. But nothing happens outside the control of God. You understand? Romans 8. 28. All things work together for good. Does that mean that everything that happens is good? God wanted that to happen? No. I'm suggesting to you, God in his love and holiness does not want some drunk to kill his family in a drunken stupor. That is not the will of God But it happens. Does that mean God isn't in control? Yes, God's in control, and if we will trust Him and do accordingly, He can take a horrific thing that happens outside of His will and He can still work that around and bring some good out of it. You follow what I'm saying? Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly. I want to show you one more and then I'll go on. I think you catch what I'm trying to say here. Turn to Matthew chapter 23. To me, it is clear as a bell. In Matthew chapter 23, a person rejects Christ and dies and goes to hell for all eternity in hell. Well, it's the will of God. No, it isn't. The Bible says very clearly: God is not willing that any should perish. Well, he's in control, so it happened, so it must have been his will. No Just because he's in control, just because he's sovereign, doesn't mean he does not allow things to happen that he does not want to happen. It's not his will. His will is for that person to be saved. Matthew chapter 23, verse number 37. Jesus is looking over the city of Jerusalem. His heart is broken. He had come to be their Messiah and they had rejected him. Oh Jerusalem, verse 37, Jesus says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem. You can hear the Empathy in his heart, the sorrow. Thou that killest the prophets and stonest them which are sent unto thee. Look at this. How often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings? The Lord says, my will for you as my people is that you would come and trust me and follow my instructions and live for me and honor me. What's the next statement? And ye would not God's desire for Israel, they would come and trust him and live for him and love him, but they would not Does that mean God isn't in control? No, God's in control, but He has given to you and I a free will. And within the sovereignty of God, we exercise that free will. If I did not have a free will, if everything I said and did Was predetermined by God. I had no choice in the matter. I'm just a pre-programmed computerized robot How in the world would I be held responsible before a just God for my actions? If an unsaved man or woman had no choice, they were pre-elected to go to hell, how in the world could a They stand before a just God at the just great white throne, and God say, Depart from me. They had no say, they had no opportunity That is unjust. And that is unscriptural. Yes, God is sovereign, but you and I Have been given by God the tremendous privilege of exercising our free will. Of trusting them or not trusting them, obeying them or not trusting them. And every day we make decisions. And many times those decisions are outside of the will of God. And we have to deal with that. It's called sin. And our redealing with it is confessing that sin and forsaking that sin and coming back to God and saying, God, I'll live for you. I want to make it right. So God is sovereign from the partless reaches of the universe to our own individual lives. He is in control and he's working circumstances and we're living under his life. But that Sovereignty, and I don't know if there's the best way to put it, but I'm putting it this way, is restrained in that God has given to us a free will. And it doesn't threaten him at all. Brother Leatherman, I'm a I'm a young man. I want to get married, go into ministry, want a good wife. The univers Tennessee Campbell University in their science department, they've developed a preacher's wife. She's pre-programmed. She will love you. She will trust you, submit to you in every single area. No other options. She's programmed to do that. To be honest with you, on the surface kind of appealing. Or Is a lovely young lady, and of her own free will, she chooses to love you as her husband. Of her own free will, she chooses to trust you and submit to you and follow your leadership and help you be what God's called you to be. Now she might choose not to do that sometimes. But when she does, it is her choice. Which would you rather have? Which would be the deeper relationship? Which would be real? Free will choice. And that's the way we are with God. God created. He said, why did God give the option for man to sin? In his sovereignty, he wanted man to choose to love him because God chose to love us. God wanted us to freely trust Him and freely love Him because God freely trusts and loves us. So God's sovereignty is quote unquote restrained in that He gives us a free will. And I want us last of all, and I end with this, I want us to consider our response to the sovereignty of God. All right? God's in control. There's things happen. I I'm telling you, I saw things happen this week that was God doing it, not man, not circumstance, not coincidence. Now, how do we respond to that? That God is in control. I have a free will, I can trust that, I can submit to that sovereignty, or I can resist it. How do I respond? Well, first of all That takes away fear. If God is in control and He controls the weather and He controls all these things, He is sovereign over all of this. I don't have to be afraid. The Lord told Joshua, they're about to cross, miraculously cross the Jordan River and enter in, and He's already told them, you're going to have victory. That's the sovereignty of God. And he says to Joshua, fear not, for I am with thee. Jesus tells us not to fear, because God takes care of, and I'm paraphrasing, but God takes care of the sparrows. And he says, if I'm taking care of the sparrows, you don't have to be afraid. I'll take care of you. You know what that is? That's the sovereignty of God. And I don't have to be afraid, and I can trust him. I'm the older I get, the more I realize I'm in less control of this thing than I think I am. When I first came out, you know, I had the whole world by the tail. I'm in control. Here I'm fifty-six and it's like I don't feel like I control much. Much of life is beyond our control. Nothing in life is beyond God's control. I don't have to be afraid. I can trust Him. He's in control. Did you ever hear somebody say this? Wow, you go into situations, I'm not sure what to do. I'm not sure what to do. And somebody that's been there and done that, they say, don't worry, I've got this. Did you ever hear that? I've got this. Don't worry about it. Oh, really? Yeah. Okay. Good. As a child of God, God's sovereign. God says, and I don't mean to be irreverent in any way, but God says, I've got this. Trust me, I've got this. I've seen I've seen great Christians go into very fearful surgeries With total peace and total joy and total confidence that whatever happens, God's got this. God's got this. So the fact that God is sovereign, God's in control, takes away my fear. I can be grateful in trials. James says, My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations, knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect in the entire wanting nothing. If any be lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally, obradeth not, it shall be given him. Let him ask in faith Nothing wavering, for he that wavers like a wave of the sea, dream with the wind and toss. And that man thinks you'll receive anything of the Lord. What's he saying? When I go into a trial, God is in control. God has allowed this trial. It might not necessarily have been his will, but in his sovereignty, he allowed it to happen. Work with people over the years working uh they're going through difficult times And I say, why would God, why is is this what God wants us and then might not necessarily be what God wants, but God allowed it And because he allowed it, we can be sure that God can and will bring something good out if we'll just trust him and follow his instructions. Doesn't necessarily mean it was his will. I come from a broken home. You know that. Was it God's will? That my parents' marriage fall apart? No, God hates putting away From the beginning, it wasn't it was uh the Lord Jesus said from the beginning he created male and female. What God is joined together, don't let man put asunder. No, it wasn't God's will But God allowed it to happen. He could have intervened and said, no, you've got to stay together. But he didn't. Through that, my daddy came to know Christ as Savior. Through that my sisters and I trusted Christ. Through that later my mom came to know Christ. My dad, just the last time he was down, we were talking about Dad said, you know, if we'd have never had marital problems, we were in a dead liberal church, we were unsaved on our way to hell, if that would if God had not allowed that to happen, we would have maybe perhaps never sought the Lord and ended up good people with a whole marriage dying and going to hell. So no, it wasn't God's will. But God allowed it. And because he allowed it, something good could come out if we would just trust him and respond in a proper way. So even in trials We can count it joy. The sovereignty of God brings humility and faith to our planning You know what's a good thing, not just to say, but to keep in our minds when we make plans, here's a good statement. Lord willing. Yeah, we're going to go to the Ark Museum and the Creation Museum. Go down the Ark in October. Lord willing. Because God may have something else. The Lord might come back by then. I'd be fine with that. I'd rather go to heaven and see the Ark of the Covenant in the heaven than go to Kentucky and see a wooden replica of the Ark of the Water. Amen So it humbles us. I'm not in control. Somebody said, man making plans, the Lord just laughs. Last of all, our response brings confidence to our life. God's in control. God before us, who can be against us? The devil is not in control. It's wreaking havoc. We have the choice. We can listen to him and do follow his influence or not. The world's not in control. They think they are. My flesh is not in control, this world. Oh, I let it have its way. I pay a price for it. But God's in control. God's in control. God in His sovereignty is working in your life and my life to bring us to the point where we will be willing to trust Him as our Savior. I look back before I got saved, and I can see things God was doing. Prepare me and break me down. I often said this: God will never save a person against their will. He will not save a person against their will. If you're here this morning and you don't want to get saved, God won't save you against your will. Go ahead, keep saying no. Go ahead, keep hardening your heart. Go ahead, keep stiffening your neck. God's not going to save you against your will. But I'll tell you this, God is pretty good at making us willing. God is pretty good at breaking us down. We say, okay, Lord, I willingly will trust you as my Savior. It's true for living for God. You know, Christians can stip in their neck Child of God can harden our hearts. And God won't bless us and God won't use us if we don't want to. I'm telling you, he's pretty good at breaking us down. Remember he sent the hornets in to drive the pagans out? They weren't willing to g uh they they he didn't make them leave against their will, but he sure made them willing to go. Preacher, you ain't getting me out of this church for nothing. Oh yeah, throw a hornet's nest in here This past week, I got a call. Said, Pastor Leatherman, I haven't been to your church in many, many years. My mother-in-law is passing away. She's on a ventilator. She's not conscious. I just thought I'd call you up and see if you wouldn't go visit her and talk to her before she dies, if somehow she could get saved before she dies. I said I'd be more than glad. Thursday we had to go to Morgantown anyway for a my wife had a meeting and Drove up to Morgantown, went in the hospital while Kathy was in her meeting, and I asked for the name. They showed me where she was. I didn't know what to expect. I knew the lady. She'd actually been out to church many, many years ago. couple times. I went back and sure enough she was there, ventilator, everything. I thought, well, uh my plan was I'm just gonna read the plan of salvation in her ear Tell her how to be saved. Who knows what's going on inside her heart and mind. I walked up and I took her hand. I said her name. And her eyes went. She looked over at me. I said, This is Pastor Leatherman. Do you remember me? I said, can you hear me? Do you understand what I'm saying? I said a few pleasantries I said her name. I said, I'm here. I want to show you from the Bible how you can know for sure your sins are forgiven. That you go to heaven and not to hell. Would that be okay? And for the next 15, 20 minutes, I took my Bible, fully alert, responding to everything I said. And when I offered her to call on the Lord and trust in her Savior, not a sound came from her lips, but her lips moved in response to me helping her pray to call on the Lord I said, did you understand what we just did? Did you just call on the Lord and trust him sincerely from your heart? She's blinking. I gave her verses of assurance. You know what that was? That was God. Bringing her to be alert, giving another opportunity to trust Christ. Isn't that an amazing thing? God, this God that we can't see, that's all powerful, that always was, always will be. He's holy, he's one God, and he is sovereign. And he's in control, and we can trust him. And if we call on him and trust him as our Savior, He'll forgive us and save us. Isn't that amazing? I like Chip the response to this. I years ago I gave an illustration, a chess game. And you and I are praying, let's suppose I'm playing chess against a master, chess master. This guy is the greatest in chess. I've got my little strategy. I'm gonna get down there. I'm gonna get his king. Check me, I'll beat this knucklehead This guy's phenomenal. And every play I make, he counters it and blows it away. And lo and behold, out of dumb luck, I do something that messes up his plan. Heh heh heh, I got your queen. But if he's a good chess player, he can take that, even though that's not what he had planned, he can still work that thing around. And still win that game. And that's the way it is with God. We make our moves and We may mess up what God's will. We may go outside the will of God, but God's still powerful. God is still sovereign. And he can take our mess that we make. If we'll trust him, he can turn that thing around and he'll win in the end. Does that make sense? Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, this tough concept. To preach, Lord, but I pray you would help us get a hold of this fact that you are God and you are in control. Nevertheless, we have responsibilities. We have our free will, no doubt. But help us to trust you and rest in you and believe you and let your will be done in our lives. And we'll give you the glory. With our heads, eyes closed. How many this morning say, preacher? I know I'm saved, no doubt about it. I've trusted Christ of my own free will. I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. You say, but I I'm not living for him like I ought to And if that's true, I know this: God's been working in your life. Conviction and chastisement and things have been taking place, and God's trying to draw us to trust him and live for him like we should. And how many would say, preacher, pray for me? My Christian life isn't all it ought to be, and God's been dealing with my heart, and I want to just submit to him and let him have his way. That I'd be that Christian God tends to be. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, God has been working in my life as a child of God. God bless you. Many hands all around. God's been working in my life I have no doubt I'm talking to some folks, or some very specific issues that God has been dealing with in your heart that are not according to his will. And God's not leaving you alone and he's persistent in his dealing with that. And my invitation to you this morning is this, let the Lord have his way. Yield to him, submit to him, let him have his way. And God will bless you. So some of you this morning, preaching, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm not sure my sins are forgiven that when I die, heaven's my home and not hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. That God would help me settle that. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm saved on my way to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I need God to help me settle that. Any at all? By the uplifted hand. How about it Now maybe there's some been saved, not baptized. Maybe you're not attending church like you should, reading your Bible, whatever it may be. Let the Lord have his way in this invitation. Father bless now. As we come to invitation time in Jesus' name. Amen.