I've had new revelations from the Lord and good But um we praise the Lord for a good service this morning, good crowd out. Of course, uh uh the group from downstate helped us with our attendance statistics tremendously. We appreciate But uh had a number of other folks out visiting families. And uh do I understand correctly? Someone trusted the Lord this morning? Was it down in children's church or somewhere? Someone Trust of the Lord after the service. Amen. Praise the Lord. So um that's good to hear. And I tell you, there's a number of young couples been coming out. God's really working in their heart We stayed after, had some folks stay after. We had a little meal with some of the folks that have trusted the Lord, and uh it's encouraging, exciting to see them hungry uh to grow and stay study their Bible and whatnot. Uh J D just trusted the Lord a week or so ago and he said he's been reading his Bible and God's been working in his life and uh we have a number of others. So it's good to see Noah and Chloe's mom here. And uh they're hungry. They uh um uh she uh gave testimony to Kathy and I that God's really been working in their heart and uh they've gotten married, praise the Lord, mom and dad, uh knowing Chloe's mom and and And her boyfriend got married. Amen. That's the right thing to do. And uh she quit smoking. And God's given her victory over that. And uh, you know, to you and I, that may look well, but I tell you what, that's God working in their life. God giving victory and growing. So you pray for these folks that have trusted the Lord recently. And we got some plans. We really want to try and help them, take them by the hand spiritually. And take them step by step and help them live for God. And so we've got a number of others we're working on. And so I'm just excited what the Lord's doing. And uh let's look at our Bibles, if you would. Genesis chapter 6 I'm not going to preach the whole message. I just want to touch on one thing here. And if you would notice verse number 9, Genesis 6 and verse 9, these are the generations of Noah. Noah was a just man and perfect in his generation, and Noah walked with God. And Noah begat three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence. And God looked upon the earth, and behold, it was corrupt. For all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth. And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me. For the earth is filled with violence through them. And behold, I will destroy them with the earth. Title of the Message, God Has a Plan. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to hearts. Father, as we look into your word, I ask tonight, Father, that you would help me get right to the point here. I pray you'd take this horrific condition that we find the world in in our passage. Help us to glean from it, apply to our lives the truths that are presented here. That we can be good Christians, that we can be testimonies, bright testimonies in a dark world. I ask you to fill me with your spirit, Lord. I present my body anew. Speak through me, I pray, to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. The more I'm studying this, the more I'm convinced That at this period of time that we're reading here in Genesis chapter 6, this was the worst moral and spiritual condition that this world has ever been. I do not believe that since these days right before the flood, these years previous to the flood, I do not believe the world has seen the level and the uh the amount of wickedness that the condition was then. Never Before or after this period of time, have there been so many wicked people, so wicked, as it was during these days right before the flood? The Bible says there is one other period of time that will come close to the corruption and the wickedness of these days given to us here, and that is the days preceding the tribulation. Actually, if you study the context, it's during the tribulation period. And even then, in my mind, I'm not convinced that it will be as wicked, as perverse During even during the tribulation period, as it was in the days before the flood. And the reason I say that is this. When that flood hit, there were eight saved people. Out of possibly over a billion on the earth. Noah's daddy and Noah's grandfather, no doubt, were saved, but they died off right as the flood approached. So at best, there's a handful. During a tribulation period, there will be millions of people saved. There'll be people who've not heard the gospel get saved. Of course, they're going to lose their life almost immediately And so what I'm trying to say is this: man had failed, God, so Thoroughly. Did you catch what he says there? It says, verse 12, behold, it was corrupt. And all flesh had corrupted his way, God's way, upon the earth. Man had completely failed in God's Just switch over to we always have a plan, right? Plan B. Man had failed so grievously And I I don't know about you, but there's a some of these verses here bother me. And the reason I say that is it presents An aspect of God that is contrary to my view of God. And that is this: it's almost like God is frustrated. Look with me if you would, verse 5. And we looked at this previously. God saw the wickedness of man that was great in the Uh God saw back the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continued Now look at this. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth. And it grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created. From the face of the earth. Look at the last part. For it repenteth me that I have made him. To me, it I I get the impression here, and I get a I see an aspect of God that I don't typically think of God as being frustrated. Almost, now I want to be very, very careful in this, but it's almost like God is saying, I made a mistake in making man. Now, we know God makes no mistake. So I think what the situation there is, man had so rapidly and so thoroughly corrupted himself. That God is, as much as it's possible for God to be frustrated, God is almost frustrated. But having said that, God has a plan. God can deal with man's wickedness. God always has a plan. And as it appears to me, as I've been saying, it looks like frustration on God's part, nevertheless, God is never at wit's end Anybody here ever been at Wits End? Anybody here live somewhere else besides at Wits End? It's like, man, what do I do? Every time I turn around, it's something else. Thank God, though he's aggravated with man and he repents him that he made man Thank God he's not at wit's end, he still has a plan. God always has a plan. Joseph understood That God always has a plan. Now keep your place here. We're going to come back and we're just going to look at one phrase this evening. But go to the last chapter of the book of Genesis. Same book. Just go all the way to the end. Chapter 50 Now, Sunday Night Crowd, we know the story of Joseph, right? Not Noah, Joseph. See, women are always trying to correct you. It's just constant. Sarah is never gonna live that down. I will remember that Joseph was had the brothers, they were jealous, the coat of many collars, you know the story. Joe Joseph had a rough ride, but go to chapter 50, and what a great verse in uh verse number 30. His brothers, of course, you know the story, he becomes number two in Egypt and saves the world from famine. God does all this And um after his daddy dies, um his brothers come to him and says, these brothers were such liars. What's everybody all worked up about? Chapter fifty, verse twenty. Who said thirty? This day started out better than its ending. Genesis chapter fifty verse thirty and you know the end. Joseph's Genesis chapter fifty verse twenty. You know how it ends up. Joseph's daddy Dies, they go back to the promised land, they bury him, they show up back in Egypt where the food is, and his brothers come to him, and Michael Sand, they're such liars And the first thing they say is, Daddy told us before he died that you're not supposed to do anything to us for lying to you and doing all this stuff we did to you. I wrote in my Bible, liar. I don't know Marshall. They're lying to him. He never said that. But Joseph understands. This is what I'm trying to get at. Joseph understands that God always has a plan. Regardless how man, regardless how man may try and interfere and mess up God's plan, God still has a plan and he can work around and through man's shenanigans. Look at verse 20. Tell me this isn't a classic verse. But as for you, Joseph speaking to his brothers. But as for you, ye thought evil against me. Well, how about these next two words? But God. But God meant it unto good to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive. Ah, you messed up, you lied, you tried to murder me. You covered it up. You've been living a lie for all these years and You meant evil to me, but I'm telling you, God has a plan and God can work around it and God accomplished that. I wrote in the Mars of my Bible, beside this verse, I put Romans 8. 28 And we know that all things work together for good. To them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. God always has a plan. And though it looks like God is at the end of his rope, he's at wit's end, he's frustrated, I wish I had never made man. Yet nevertheless, out of this disaster, God is able to work and turn things around. Now, not only did God have a plan for mankind, even though they messed up so bad I'm here to tell you tonight, God has a plan for your life. Now I don't know the details of everyone here. I know everyone pretty well here tonight. But you know, there's always things in people's lives that no one else knows about. Huh? There's always things there. And I don't know. You may be sitting here tonight and in your mind and in your heart and soul you may think, you know, I have messed up so bad. I've gotten so far out of the will of God. I've gotten so far away that as of earlier years, what I thought I would be and what I thought I would do for God, I've just messed it up. I'm here to tell you, regardless of how you may have messed it up, God still has a plan for your life. God still has a purpose for each and every life. Now, come back to Genesis chapter 6. And I really wanted to preach down through these four verses or so here, 9, 10, 11, 12, and 13, 5 verses. But I'm just going to zero in on the first, and we want to look at the components of God's plan for saving planet Earth. Not from global warming. But to save planet Earth from global wickedness. That's pretty good. I just thought of that. I'm going to change the title Now notice what it makes up. Look at verse nine. These are the generations of Noah. Hmm, that's interesting. You know what we have here? We have the centrality of Noah in God's plan Now that phrase, these are the generations of Noah, is an interesting phrase. The word generations there is not the same word. The word we get the generations there from is not the same word that's used for generations in other places in the Bible. The word generations here is not referring to Noah's origins. He's not talking about Noah's grandpa and great-grandpa and his genealogy The phrase, these are the generations of Noah, has this idea, and a couple Bible Hebrew scholars suggest this, it has this idea This is the story of Noah. This is the record of Noah's experience. That's the idea here. Because he says this, these are the generations of Noah. Then he doesn't go in and give his generations. He starts telling the story of Noah's involvement with the great flood. And he is telling us here, this is the story of Noah in God's plan for saving the earth from total wickedness. Matthew chapter 1 and verse 1 begins. The Gospels, the very first verse in the New Testament, says, these are the generations of Jesus Christ. You know what the Gospels are? Matthew, Mark, Luke, John? They're the story of Jesus. In fact, you could make an argument the whole New Testament. is the story of Jesus Christ. Now Matthew includes in those generations his lineage for legal purposes, for his legal claim to the to the throne of David. But nevertheless, it is introduced as the story of Jesus. And so we come back to Genesis 6, and we notice these are the generations of Noah. This is the story of Noah. We look at this as the story of the flood, but it's really the record of Noah. God using a man to accomplish his plan. And the truth of the matter is, God always uses people. When God was going to salvage mankind from total annihilation because of their wickedness and their violence, God came up with a man. Before he ever came up with a plan. God uses people, not programs. You guys use neighborhood Bible time. down there, correct? I love neighborhood Bible time. Been involved with it since 1985. We have Bible time here every year. We say sometimes, boy, God uses Bible time. Fact of the matter is, and I may be splitting hairs a little bit, but God doesn't use Bible time. God uses the people who work Bible time. You can't bring a program in and put it in a church and have that program do anything for God. It has to be people God uses people. He doesn't use programs. He doesn't have materials. I am so grateful for the facilities God has given us here at Mount Lake in a bit of a this church. I love driving down or I got in, like I said, I had to run down to Cumberland real quick and I got in about quarter to six and uh it was dark Of course snow's falling, it's Garrett County. And um but I came up the road here and I saw this church with the lights on and uh and everything and it just stirred my heart. I love these facilities I love the pews, I love the carpet, I love the the chandeliers, I love the pulpit, I just love everything But the fact of the matter is God can't use these materials without people. He needs teachers in the Sunday school classes. He needs people to drive the buses and pick 'em up. He needs people to sing in the choir. He needs somebody in the sound room that knows what they're doing. And uh I'm teasing, Dave. And um, uh but you follow what I'm saying God uses people. So God is going to rescue the world. God's going to save mankind. They're so wicked. What's he do? I gotta make an ark. No, I need a man And he gives us the generations of Noah, the story of Noah. The entire Bible is a record of God using people to fulfill his plans. I was thinking as I was preparing this, I was thinking about, remember Naaman? How many people remember Naaman, the Syrian uh captain of the Syrian host? I love I love that story, Naaman. Isn't that a cool story? And um uh Naaman, God wanted Naaman to get saved. And so, what did God use to get Naaman to Elisha so that he could get saved? Anybody remember the story? A little maid that was taken captive from Israel previously and somehow ends up being Naaman's wife's maid. And Naaman comes down with leprosy. And God uses a little girl. Oh, that my Lord would go and see the prophet in Israel, he would cure him of his leprosy. And God uses a person to bring salvation to the captain of the host of Syria. God uses people. What about Moses? God's people are slaves, held slavery in slavery in Egypt. God's plan is to get them out of Egypt into their own land. So what does God do? I'm going to send a program down there. Drop it out of the sky. Here's a program. No. I'm going to drop swords out of the sky and let them fight your way out. No. What does God do? God finds an 80-year-old man in the back side of the desert, gets his attention and says, I need you to fall Fulfill my plan. I need you to be a key component to fulfill my plan for the nation of Israel. And God used Moses All through the Bible, God uses people, God uses people. Um John the Baptist We need somebody, God uh sending his son, Jesus Christ. He's got a plan for the salvation of the world. But he needs a man, he chose a man to go first and prepare the way. He doesn't put clouds in the words and people read it. He sends a man What did John the Baptist say? Are you, they said, are you the Messiah? John the Baptist said, I'm not the Christ, I'm not Messiah, I am the Voice of one crying in the wilderness. God needed a man. God used a man to prepare Israel for the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. What about Samson? God needs a bunch of Philistines dead Uh could God have dropped meteorites from the sky and hit them and wiped them out? Sure. That's not the way God operates generally. So God gets Samson. Question, Samson, good guy, bad guy. Instead of Samson more than any other Old Testament person, the Spirit of God came upon him. But if I had to read it, Samson messed up as much as any old other Old Testament person also. God uses people, but Samson shows me that God uses imperfect people. How many people are glad for that? Praise the Lord for that. And so God uses people. Naaman's little maid, his wife's maid, Moses, John the Baptist, Samson. Hey, there's a giant out there terrorizing the people of Israel. I need someone, I need to get rid of that giant. I know I'll make a tree fall over on his head when he walks by. No, God generally doesn't operate that way. So what does God do? Finds a little shepherd boy, a teenage boy that can that is a dead eye with a slave. And uh he sends them out there and uses him to kill Samson. God God uses people. This world is so wicked. I wish I'd not even made them. My heart is shattered. What in the what a mess. I got a plan. I can I can work this out. Save mankind. In spite of how wicked they are, I can still save mankind. But the first thing I need to do is get a man. I need to get somebody So I can implement my plan. God uses people to fulfill his plan. I got thinking about my life. And you could do the same thing. I look back since I got saved. God uses people to bring people to Christ. Do you know that? God used my daddy's testimony and his prayers, his witness to me to bring me to Christ. Somebody says, Preacher, I got saved reading a gospel tract. Nobody I didn't use anybody to get me saved. I was saved from reading a gospel tract. Somebody gave you that track. Somebody printed that track up, somebody put it out where it's available. God uses people. God uses people. Uh I look back on my life and folks when I first got saved and uh started going to church. By the way, first thing when I got saved, first thing I want to do is go to church. Isn't that strange? And uh so I got to church two guys, Arden Musselman and Terry Wilcox, latched onto me like magnets on Steel. Refrigerator. Like magnets on a refrigerator. Arden and Terry, they came uh say I mean I wish you could see me when I walk. I mean hair, I wore it my first time I went to church, no joke. silk built bell bottoms. Wore a black silk shirt, a button down to here open, and a gold neck Necklace and I went to church. John Travolta. Tell me this And those guys, hey, those guys looked beyond all of that and they said, There's a kid just got saved. They took me under their wing and they taught me verses And they taught me how to live for God, and they went through about a six-month discipleship faith. And I thank God for those two men. God used them to help me. Me grow and get grounded in the things of God. God uses people. I think uh He's led me down to Tennessee Temple and Dr. Lee Robertson, Tom Sexton, Charles Holmeshire. I think a people God has brought into to my life and help me. God uses people. I'd say some of y'all are sitting there, you're thinking of folks God brought in your life over the years. And how they influenced you and God used them. God uses people. Now, the flip side of that coin, Satan uses people too. Satan uses people. Just as God uses people to help us grow and be what he wants us to be and accomplish his will and his plan for our life, Satan's no dummy. He sends people across our way, not going to help us or going to hinder us. Us. We talked about it, we started talking about it Wednesday night, stumbling blocks. People who hinder us. Now, God gives us people. Hey, hey, thank God for godly Christian parents who help teach kids the way of God. Amen? God uses parents. Uh thank God, and I'm not blowing my own horn, but thank God for good pastors I look back over the pastors I had over the years and how God used them to teach me the Word of God and help me understand the things of Scripture. Thank God for mentors and godly Christian friends and teachers, Sunday school teachers, and Teachers who helped us in the things of God. Thank God for fellow church members that help us live for God. I tell you, it stirred my heart as past this afternoon. We're back there eating spaghetti. Anytime we eat spaghetti my heart is stirred. Beyond that, um we're back there and has have provided something he could stay after in time mingle with the new believers and to see them sitting down with them talking about the things of God and sharing what God had done in their life with these new believers. I tell you that's what it's all about. Thank God for godly members, but Satan has his people. And he'll send people why uh our way. Not to influence us in a godly Way, not to help us be what God wants to do and fulfill God's plan and purpose for my life, but to hinder that. And draw me off away from what God's best is for me and what God's will is for myself. God uses people, but Satan uses people also. Now what I need to do is heed those that help us If somebody is trying to help me live for God and be what God wants me, somebody's trying to help me from making bad decisions and doing things that's going to hurt me and my future, I need to heed that. Listen to them. Let them influence me. Noah did. We're going to talk our second point, and we're going to not get it tonight. It'll have to be next week. But we're going to talk about the conduct of Noah in that ungodly and wicked world. Noah had a conduct that was pleasing to God. We need to heed these folks that do that. Allow two things I want to end with. One Allow God to use the people he brings in your life to help you. Listen to them. Take what they have to say to heart. Let them influence you to be what God wants you to be. Those that Satan sends away, that is obviously drawing you away from the things of God and what is right, avoid them. Stay away from that. That's not always easy. But don't let them draw you away from God's plan and purpose for your life. So number one, let God use the people that He sends into our life to help us grow and be what we should be. The second thing I want to leave with this Allow God to use you to help accomplish his plan in other people's lives. Wouldn't it be great to stand before Jesus? Christ, and he would say, This is the generation of Dennis Leatherman. This is the record, the story, the history of Dennis Leatherman. And then go on how God used you or I to accomplish his plan in the hearts and lives of people around. Um, I was thinking as I was preparing us, I thought about Kazakhstan. That country's on my heart every day Sometime through the day I pray or think about that country. I thought, how are we going to reach? How can our church reach that country? 15 million people. The other side of the world. If that country's reached, it's going to be reached because some people let God use them. It's not going to be programs. It's not going to be, it's going to be people that God uses to reach lost souls in Kazakhstan for Christ. I got thinking about Oakland. Would you agree? Oakland meets Christ. You know, we're at a point now there's about as many bars in this county as there are churches. Did you know that? I venture to say a Sunday night, there's more folks in bars tonight than there are in churches in our county. in the movie theater than there are in church. Isn't that sad? I don't know if I'm correct on my statistics, but I'm guessing I'm pretty close. Garrett County needs Jesus Christ. The only way Garrett County is going to come to Christ is if somebody lets God use them. Thank God for team. I had a run to more uh Cumberland. I was able to give some tracks out and some literature. Thank God for a team of folks this afternoon in the ugly snow and yuck. We're out knocking on doors, trying to share Christ with people. Wouldn't that be something? God uses someone, say, here's a little gospel literature that tells you how you can know you're going to heaven. That person gets saved, the family gets saved, they begin to have an influence and how an entire generation can be affected because someone says, I'm willing to let God use me. What about your family? What about your workplace? God wants to use you and me in our world just as badly as he wanted to use Noah in his world. Now, much, I'm not trying to disrespect any other church, but I don't believe God's calling us to build arks. I think they're building on the same time frame Noah did Hundred and twenty years. Don't put that on the internet. But um but God does want to use us. And God has a plan for us just like he wanted to use Noah and had a plan for him. Isn't that good? And that plan may be missions. That plan may be being a faithful witness here in Garrett County. That plan may be a witness in your classroom at school. That plan may be a witness in our neighborhoods, bus ministry, whatever. But God has a plan and he wants to use us To fulfill that plan. And God sends people by in your life that want to help you and help me to fulfill his plan for us. We need to heed them. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, as we go in the invitation, as we're about to take part in Lord's Supper, I pray your Holy Spirit would search our hearts If there's some area, any area that we are getting out of line of your will for us, Brother, if there's people you're sending our way trying to help us. Be what you intend for us to be, just like you sent Noah to 120 years preach righteousness. Lord, help us not to be like the folks that rejected what God was trying to do through Noah, but help us to heed Those you send our way. Help us to be the person you can use to influence others for Christ and to fulfill God's plan and purpose. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many tonight would say Preacher, I want God to use me to fulfill his plan in getting the gospel to every lost person in this world, whether it's Kazakhstan, Oakland, wherever it may be, but you say, preacher, I want God to use me like he used Noah. To fulfill his plan. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Goodness, of course that would be the desire of a Christian. Now God's not going to call you to build an ark. He may not call you to go to Central Africa But he does have a plan for us and he does want us to use us to be a witness. Wherever we're at, ski slopes, workplace, Walmart, wherever it is, he wants to use us to be a witness. God uses people. Now, if God's sending folks by and they're talking to you and warning you and they're trying to help you, don't push them away. Listen to what God's doing. Let God have His way. Father bless