Well he asked me to say something about this card and then he said everything there was to say about it. So there's nothing for me to say Let me just say this. And again he mentioned giving to the church. The difference between the tithe and your offerings to the church, that comes to to take care of the ministry right here. Missions giving does not come to the church only, it just goes through the church uh to the mission field. And so it's totally different. But I I I would like to just uh share this with you, and I was thinking about it while he was talking. I don't know of anything in the Christian life that will that will continually strengthen your faith in God And change your life as far as your confidence in the Lord, as faith promised will do. When a person gets a hold of faith, promise, giving, and latches on to really what the Bible says about it, and and and you're not gonna when you first get involved, you're not gonna know much about it. But God will teach you over the years. June and I have been giving the faith promise missions for fifty years. We started in nineteen sixty-seven in Bible school. We were faced for the first time giving to missions and we were just struggling going through Bible school just Not even able to pay our school bill and had a missions conference and the pastor started talking about giving the missions and and I didn't believe that he would uh tell me that I had to give demissions when I couldn't even pay my school bill. But I realized that uh God was telling me I needed to give demissions. And fifty years ago, June and I Made our first uh faith promise uh commitment uh five dollars a week And now our missions giving is more than double of what what our tithe is, and God has just blessed in just a tremendous way. And I'm convinced, and I can look back and see it. Now you're not going to see it while you're giving when you start and what but there'll come a day You'll be able to look back and you'll be able to pinpoint things that happened, things God taught you. And the way God moved you, and the way God blessed your family and your kids And you'll be able to you'll be able to just put it with the faith promised giving and uh see God's blessing because you give commissions. Now it's uh it's not easy to start giving to faith promise missions, especially when uh you know you may be struggling sometimes and there's always a testing time I'll never forget preaching a missions conference in Oklahoma City years ago, and uh they were having services uh morning and evening. And each service they would have a man come up and share a testimony about his missions giving and what a blessing it was and you know and they would talk about things that they knew God had done. And uh toward the end of the conference, this fellow got up and he said, Well, he said, you know, he said, I am on a fixed income. And I can't really tell you how God has increased my giving and my income over the years. Well, that was different And all of a sudden I perked up because I didn't know what in the world he was going to say and where he was coming from. He said, But this is what I can tell you about faith promise giving. I have seen God take what I have and increase it in the way it lasts. And the way I see things come into my life and the way I see the money that I have, even though it's a fixed income, how God just stretches it and protects it. And he was able to see that. And that's an exciting part of the Christian life, to get out yonder and be able to look back and say, God did that. Amen. So as you pray about it and you're faced with it, uh don't be afraid. Now it might be uh you know, God might ask you to do something that you just Do not understand. But realize, make sure it's God. And then realize that God is not going to ask you to do anything That He does not plan to do Himself through you. God will not ask us to do anything that He does not. Already have the need planned and in his mind's eye met Now I wanna I want us to think about that tonight. Um I wanna do something. I had something else planned, but I just Already felt that we might go this direction. I want to ask you to turn to Genesis chapter 15. Genesis chapter fifteen. And we're going to start there tonight. Let me pray and ask the Lord just to bless our time. Father, we thank you for the opportunity to open the Bible. Thank you for what we've already heard, these testimonies and and presentations and God it's exciting to see what uh you do through people's lives and and uh thank you for this church, thank you for this congregation God, there are people here that just have been so faithful, and you've blessed and used them over the years. And I want to ask That this week would be no exception. I want to pray that you would that you would bless these folks, their faithfulness. their willingness to uh let you do what you want in and through them and just make this week an exciting time and this coming missions year The best ever here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Now tonight speak to us. Thank you for the Bible. Holy Spirit. We're going to ask you tonight now as you move in our midst to give us understanding where we need it. Only you know what's needed and We ask you to just do a special work in each and every one of us. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Now I want to look at how God provides. And this is a tremendous example of how God provides. God has a plan for your life, God has a plan for mine. And God has a plan to put in our lives what is needed to carry out His plan for our lives. He equips us. Now we would like to think that we're smart enough sometimes and we have the ability to put it all together and make it happen. We are not going to make anything happen that counts for eternity Except the Holy Spirit of God is involved in it. He is going to do it And if God calls us and puts us someplace, then He's going to make it happen. Now I want you to see a good example of that. Way back with Abram You know, God has called him and called him to be the uh father of the nation of Israel, starting this new people. his people. And in verse thirteen of chapter fifteen of Genesis, the Bible says, And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years. Now think about this. Abram is just starting in this thing, and God tells him, this people that we put together You're going to be in bondage for 400 years. Now you and I know. We know where it's headed. We know what is going to happen. But imagine him telling Abram this. Well he's just starting. Abram, this is what I've got ahead for you. They're gonna be afflicted. And then he says something even stranger. Look at this. In verse 14, and also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge. And afterward shall they come out with great substance. They're gonna be in bondage for a hundred years, gonna be in their affliction, but I'm gonna judge those people. That have you in bondage. And when when you come away from those people, you're going to come out away from them with a bunch of stuff. You're going to come out with great substance. Now imagine. Don't you think Abram stood there and shook his head and said, now what in the world is this all about? What's going to happen and a uh and great substance? What in the world is that all about? Well, God knows. Let me ask you to turn now to Exodus. Chapter three. Exodus chapter three. Now we're to place that That he's called Moses. They've been in bondage now almost 400 years. And now he calls Moses to go into Egypt and lead the children of Israel out of Egypt. And we know what he went through with the burning bush and convincing Moses. And then he comes to verse 21. It says, And I will give this people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. And it shall come to pass that when ye go, ye shall not go empty. Now he's telling Moses the same thing he told Abram. But every woman shall borrow of her neighbor, and of her that sojourneth in her house jewels of silver and jewels of gold and raiment And ye shall put them upon your sons and upon your daughters, and ye shall spoil the Egyptians. They tell neighbor or Moses the same thing. You're going to come out. Once you go down and leave the children of Israel, you're going to come out of Egypt, and when you come out, you're going to have a bunch of stuff. Now let me just show you a couple of words here. That are different than we use them today. Verse 22 it says, But every woman shall borrow of her neighbor. Now that word borrow there has the thought of to to require or to request. It it even has the thought of making a demand. So what he's saying there, when you come out of Egypt, you tell the people they are to request this, they are even to demand that these things are given to them. And then the word down at the end of verse 22, the word spoil, that word has the thought of to snatch away or to rescue or to take and and he's and here's what he's saying to Moses. Now when you come out, uh you tell the people that they are to to even demand this stuff, and then when the Egyptians offer it, you tell them to take it Take everything that's offered. That's what he's saying with those two words. Now go over with me to chapter 11. Chapter 11. In chapter eleven, verse one, now they have they are going through the plagues, they've gone through all the plagues except The last uh the last thing with the death coming to the firstborn of every household where the blood is not applied. You remember that? In chapter 11, verse 1, it says, And the Lord said unto Moses Yet will I bring one plague more upon Pharaoh and upon Egypt. Afterwards he will let you go hence. When he shall let you go, he shall surely thrust you out hence altogether Now he's been giving him problems. You know, you can go and not go and you can't take this and take that. He says he's gonna he's gonna not just let you go. He's gonna tell you get out of here. He's gonna thrust you out Verse 2, speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man, here it is, borrow of his neighbor. Make that command, make that request, and every woman of her neighbor, jewels of silver, jewels of gold, and the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover, the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt in the sight of Pharaoh's servants and in the sight of the people. Now go over to chapter twelve Chapter 12, verse 30. Now as we come to this, death has come to every household where the blood was not applied. Great wailing, great suffering in the nation. And verse 30 of chapter 12, the Bible says, And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he and all of his all his servants. And all the Egyptians. And there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead. And he called for Moses and Aaron by night and said, Rise up and get you forth from among my people, both ye and the children of Israel, and go serve the Lord as ye have said There's the thrusting out. And take your flocks and your herds as ye have said, and be gone and bless me also. And the Egyptians were urgent unto the people, upon the people, that they might send them out of the land in haste, for they said, We be all dead men And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneading crops being bound up in the their clothes upon their shoulders. Here it is now look. And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses, and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver and jewels of gold and raiment. And the Lord gave the people favor in the sight of the Egyptians so that they lent. Now that word lent and the word borrowed there in those verses. It's the same word, making that request, making that demand. They lent unto them such things as they required. And they spoiled the Egyptians. They took everything they gave to them. Now, I want you to think about this. God told Abram, hey Abram Here's what the what's going to happen. You're going to be in affliction 400 years, but you're going to come out there with great substance. Don't you think Moses or Abram just You know, what in the world is this all about? Like us when we hear things like this often, sometimes over our head, we don't even we don't even hear it the way we ought to hear it. And then he tells Moses and gives him detail. Here's what you're to do. They're to make requests, they're to make demands, and they're take everything that's given. So here they're going through this. And the people are doing what they've been told, but they do not really understand what this is all about. So here they come out of Egypt. And they bring all of this silver and all of this gold and all of this raiment and all of this stuff. They have no idea what it's for, but God has a plan. God wants a place built that he can meet with his people. And he is putting it in the people's hands. Exactly what's going to be needed. To do the job that he wants done. Now let's go over to chapter 35. We get to chapter 35. Verse one And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel together and said unto them These are the words which the Lord hath commanded that ye should do them. And then he goes down and talks to them about Uh the offering, the working six days, resting the seventh day, then he gets to verse five. Look at verse five. Take ye from among you an offering unto the Lord. Whosoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it. an offering of the Lord, gold and silver, and he goes all through that. Now, now think about this. God has put this in their possession. God has given them everything they have Now there comes a time when God says, now it's time to give. Now it's time to do with. What I have put in your hands, what I have planned for it. And then down in verse ten, look at what it says in verse 10. Now here he's talking about the workers, those that he has prepared to do the work. It's amazing how God Gifts each of us to do different things. We have different abilities. Different God-given abilities And that's what the church is all about. God putting people together and different abilities to do different things so the ministry can be accomplished Verse 10 he says, and every wise-hearted among you shall come and make all that the Lord hath commanded. And then he talks about the uh the building of the uh place that he wants to meet with his people. Now let's go over to chapter uh uh thirty let me see about thirty uh six. Let's see here No, look, no, third uh uh verse twenty first, verse twenty of chapter thirty-five. And all the congregation of the children of Israel Israel Departed from the presence of Moses. Now get the picture. He has talked to them about giving. He has talked to them about working. They all have the plan now. They've been given everything it need it's needed. Now Moses gives them the plan. They're all gathered there. It's like a like a big church service and and a pastor stands up and says, now here's what we're going to do, and we're going to need this from the people, and we're going to need this one to do this, this one to do this And then once the instructions were given, I can just picture here in my mind, they just sort of get up and they mosey back to their places where they live to ponder what Moses has said. Now they've got to decide. What am I going to do with all this stuff I have? Now Moses wants me to give. Now Moses wants me to work. Now chapter 36. Verse 136 it says, Then wrought Basleil and Holiah. These are the two men that are the supervisors of the workers. They've been designated for that, they've been gifted for that, and every wise hearted man in whom the Lord put wisdom and understanding to know how uh to work all the manner of work for the service of the sanctuary according to all that the Lord had commanded Talking about those workers now coming together. And Moses called the Bezilel and Nelia, and every wise-hearted man in whose heart the Lord had put wisdom even everyone whose heart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it. And they received of Moses. Now look at this. They received of Moses All the offering which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary To make it withal, and they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning. Now here's a picture. People come every morning and they bring offerings to Moses. Moses takes the offering and gives it to the workers. They go out and spend the day working in the sanctuary. Next morning the people come again, they bring, give Moses gifts to the workers, they go out. Now, notice, notice verse uh Verse 4. And all the wise men that had wrought all the work of the sanctuary came every man from his work which they made. And they spake unto Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work, which the Lord commanded to make. And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying Let neither man nor woman make any more work for this offering of the sanctuary, so that the people were restrained from bringing. You know what that tells me It tells me that they had some left over. God put in their hands all that was needed to do the work, but he put in their hands what he wanted them to have also. You see. Verse seven. For the stuff you thought I was using the wrong word there, didn't you? For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make it and too much. Now here's what I want you to think about tonight. I want you to think about what these people went through. Hey, they were made out of the same stuff you and I are. And they had all this gold and all this silver and all this raiment and all this stuff put in their possession. And then all of a sudden Moses stands up and says, okay, now it's time to bring some of it back. God wants an offering. God wants to do something now. And they had to make a decision. They had to decide, am I going to be involved in this offering or not? And he talks about the heart. The heart is that decision-making place. When he talks about the heart here, he's not talking about that organ that pumps blood through our veins. He's talking about That emotional part of us, that part that God wants to uh cause us to make the decision to do what He wants. Now here's what they went through, and here's the progression that you and I have to realize must take place in our lives. Go back with me to chapter 35, verse 20. The congregation had uh gotten all from Moses, and now they go back to their places. Now in verse 21, look at what it says. And they came everyone's everyone whose heart stirred him up. Now that's where it begins. You see, you and I do what we are stirred to do. We use our possessions the way we are stirred to use them. Every person sitting in this building tonight, you're involved in something socially You have a places that you spend your money. You have places that you spend your life. You have things that excite you. That's the thing that stirs us. We do what stirs our heart And what it's saying here is, God wants us to be stirred about what He wants to do in our life. He wants our hearts to be stirred. That emotional part, that that part that makes the decision, he wants it stirred. He wants it stirred to spend time with him. He wants it stirred to put him in his rightful place. He wants to stir our hearts to listen to him as he talks to us about his plan for our lives and how he wants to use us and what he wants to do with our lives. And that that's where it begins. If we're not stirred to do what God wants, we're not going to do it. We're going to do what we're stirred to do. We have a football team down our way. Redskins. They're getting to be a little bit of a football team. They have a stadium just around twenty, thirty minutes from us. Down the beltway there. Used to hold a hundred thousand people. They've cut it down a little bit because they're not as good as they used to be. But those people, uh it's crazy When they play a game there, those people come in there right after daylight I mean right a right at daylight. They pull in there and set up in that parking lot. And they start cooking and drinking, and it's all day and finally they go into the ball game and they don't even know what's going on most of the time. Most of them don't And then they are there till dark that night and come out of there fighting traffic and they you know why they do that? They're stirred to do it. That's what stirs them. Huh? Now we can criticize them, but you and I have things that stir us. And it's sad when we let something stir us that interferes with what God wants to stir us about. See? Because we're not going to do what God wants. My wife, my wife is a thrift store person. How many of you related to the thrift store? I like that because it's cheaper than Walmart thrift store But she's a thrift store person. It's hard for her to buy much at a uh regular store because of her thrift store prices. And uh she's sort of an expert at it. We have people in our church, and people come into town, they like her, they like her to take them because she she just sort of knows what to do and how to do it. Years ago we had a uh rod iron patio set. You know what I'm talking about? Sat in our backyard and it sat there for a long time, rusted. I'm not a fixer-upper person. Now I do have a toolbox. It sits in the corner of the garage. And uh It's uh it's not really wise for me to even go to it. My wife gets nervous if I do. Our daughter was visiting one day and she said, Oh, I'd like to have that I'd like to have a rod iron patio set like that. My wife said, You can take that one. It's rusty, doesn't look good. So she took it. Her husband's a fixer-upper. Boy, he took it. Next time we visited our daughter, there it was. I mean it had been sanded and painted. My wife looked at it, see the wheels turning, man, why'd I give that to her But she wanted a ri another wrought iron patio set. She wanted one. She looked for one. And one day she went to the thrift store and there it was. A wrought iron patio set. Great price. Man she took off to the church, where my son is our pastor She knew I I didn't have to pick up truck, she couldn't get me, so she went over there and ran the office, said uh told the secretary, said I need to talk to Mike. She said, well he's meeting with someone he'll be finished just no no you don't understand. I've got to talk to him right now. Well it won't he won't be long. No, you've got to get him right now. I've got to have Mike He had uh he had to come out. He had to go with her to go over there and pick up that draught iron patio set. Got there just before somebody else got the thing. But she got it You know why she got it? She was stirred to get it. Now you and I can relate to that, right? Huh? We get stirred up about things. We get stirred up about something we see, something we want, something that appeals to us. We get stirred up. That's what he's talking about here. These people got stirred about giving to that tabernacle. Now wait a minute. God had already put in their possession what was needed. And then he said, Give me part of it. And their hearts were stirred to do it. Then it moved to this. Look at verse 22. And they came both men and women as many as were willing hearted. Willing heart. You see, when we when we're stirred about something, it leads to us becoming willing to do it. Huh? When we're stirred about something, we have a drive to do it. We want to make it happen. But first there's that stirring. And then comes the willingness. Hey, listen, you and I are willing to do some things. You know what we're willing to do? What we're stirred to do. That willingness is automatic. We want to do it, and and the more we're stirred The more we will we will not let anything block our way from doing what we want to do. And a lot of times we get in trouble, right? Because we're stirred in the wrong direction, making the wrong decision. It looks logical, it looks profitable, but we find out it's just not. And then it leads to this. Look at verse 25. And all the women that were wise hearted. When we're stirred by God We become willing, and it leads us to make wise decisions. Wise decisions. That's why it's important To let God stir us. And this week, this week is a time that we're concentrating on Worldwide evangelization, getting the gospel to the world And if we're going to make wise decisions this week, it's going to be because we let God stir us To become willing to make the wise decision. We had a couple in our church years ago They came to our church on uh Easter Sunday. Uh Everybody goes to church Easter. They just got they got up Easter Sunday, drove up the traffic light in Kent uh Clinton and turned left. We were the first church they came to. So they drove in the parking lot, came in, both of them walked the aisle that day and got safe. And uh this man was one of the nicest men I have ever known. Never I I never heard anything negative from him from him. Just an encouragement, just positive. And he came to me one time after they've been there a number of years and said, the pastor said I'm going to be retiring and we're probably going to move. And he said, I just wanted to let you know what we were planning to do and I didn't think anything about it. Everybody in DC is doing that one time or another. And so after a few months he came back and said we put our house up for sale. We're going to be moving down to St. Mary's County. It's just a couple of counties down from us. And uh he sold his house. I told him by the church down there, and they moved and uh went to church, but not as regular as they were at independent. After a few years, I got a call from his daughter one day, and he said, Pastor, dad is in the hospital at Malcolm Growe Hospital. That's on Andrews Air Force Base. And he said, would you go see him? They have they have uh diagnosed him with cancer, terminal, and just given him a short time to live. I said, I'll go right over there. So I went over to visit. And I opened the door, just walked through the door, and when he looked at me, here's what he said. First thing out of his mouth. I should never have left Clinton. I should never have left Independent Baptist Church. I never thought anything about it. But man, that was on him. And that's the first thing he said. He must have been guilt-ridden because he knew he had made an unwise decision. Great fellow. But he lets something, he and his wife let something stir them That caused them to b become willing to do something that was not wise. And you and I We would like to be protected from that, wouldn't we? Huh? And the best way to be protected from that is to let God stir us. Let the word of God stir us. And the best thing you can do this week is just ask God, God, you stir my heart. With what you want to do, what your plan is for me. And whatever he tells you, you can mark it down. He's already supplied what's needed. Amen. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight would you say, preacher? That's what I really want. That's what I would like. I would like my heart to be stirred by God. I would like for him to to touch my life this week. And just to help me experience his presence, his activity, would you pray for me and pray with me that God would help me to see that As he deals with me and as he shows me the direction he wants me to go. Would you slip your hand up if that's you all over the building? God bless you. What a great sight. Why don't we uh begin the conference by just doing business with God? Why don't we just make an altar up here, get alone with God? And just get along with him and tell him, God, I want to make wise decisions. Help me to be there. Help me to do it. Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless the invitation. I pray for your blessings on these folks as you've spoken to hearts. God help us this week to make good decisions. Decisions that would benefit us personally, our families, our church. Bless these folks and bless this congregation. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, penis playing. Why don't you slip out of your place and come right now? Why don't you get along with God and say, God, that's what I want. I want I want to see your hand. I want to see your supply. Help me not to miss. Help me not to miss Well you want to stir my heart. Oh you slip out of your place in common. Just let God do a work in your heart tonight. Maybe there's some young people, maybe there's some folks tonight that will just you need to step out of your place and get along with God and say, God, here's my life. I don't know what you want, I don't know what you have planned, but here's my life. You take it, you do what you want. It's yours. Would you come?