And all God's people said, Praise the Lord. Matthew chapter six, if you would And we're working our way through the Sermon on the Mount. Greatest sermon ever preached by the greatest preacher that ever preached. If you don't get anything out of this series, you're going to remember that little statement. We've been saying that every Wednesday for years. We're working through this. Matthew chapter 6. I just wanna I I was gonna just read verse 24, but you know what? I think we're gonna read Verse 19 down through 24. And the reason I want to do that is because this is all one section. This is all one topic. He's dealing with. And I want to read it all together. I know we've already looked at uh first several verses in this passage. Matthew chapter 6, verse 19. Of course the Lord Jesus Christ is speaking to his disciples, he is discipling his disciples. He's teaching them what it means to be a disciple. If you he basically he said to him this, he says, You claim to be my disciple, well then these things ought to be true in your life. This is how your life ought to be. This is what your heart ought to be. This is what you ought to be. Verse number 19, he says this: Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. Where Mother and Rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in Heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, where thieves do not break through nor steal. Then he gives an explanation. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. Then he makes a next statement. It looks, seems like it's just unrelated and it's kind of hard to grasp, but I think he's tying it in here. Verse 22, he says, the light of the body. is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? Now last week we looked at that. I think he's just addressing the fact that be divided. Our eyes, our focus, ought to be singular on the Lord. Well he's talking about up there and not divided. Then he expands again when he gets down to verse 24. He says, No man can serve two masters. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. You cannot ye cannot serve God and mammon. I want to talk about verse 24 tonight. God and mammoth. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, I thank you for the word of God. We thank you for this sermon that's been recorded and preserved for us in your word these many years. Lord, as we look at this passage tonight, I ask that you would challenge us as Christians No doubt, Father, each of us here tonight would claim to be saved and claim to be a disciple of the Lord. I pray, Lord, if that's true, that you would teach us now what this verse means and how we are to live our lives. I ask, Father, with all my heart, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and speak through me, present my body anew, and yield my will to you, and pray that you would be our teacher, you would be our preacher. Open our hearts and minds and help us to leave here, Lord, tonight, understanding this a little bit better and our faith and commitment a little stronger. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Verse 19, really all the way down through 34, through the end of this chapter, of course the sermon itself continues on. uh to the end of chapter 7, but this section here, 19 through 34, he's dealing with a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. If I'm a disciple, he's dealing with my relationship with the world Talks about that, our treasures here on this earth or in heaven, our focus, is it here on this earth and things of this world or is it on the Lord, God in mammon? Then verse 25 through the end he begins dealing with us worrying about things of the world. You notice there he says, take no thought, verse 25. The idea is don't be anxious about this, don't be worried about this. Um God's going to take care of you. So he's dealing with our relationship with the world. Now I think verse 24 When he says there, no man can serve two masters, either hate the one and love the other, or cl he'll uh uh hold to the one and despise the other, you cannot serve God in man. I think he's summarizing Verses 19 through 23. I think he's kind of bringing that point to a conclusion. He's rehashing it. Basically, I think what he's doing there is he's telling us why We shouldn't lay our treasures up on earth. And why we should lay our treasures up in heaven. Why we should be single-minded uh focused, have or I be single. I think he's explaining to us why he told us to do what he told us to do in the f previous verses. How many folks here, how many folks here either have kids in the house now or you did at some point? Children, you raised children. How many people ever told your child or children, told them to do something? You to just direct it wasn't a discussion. You said do this. How many people ever did that? How many people the kid your child ever said why? How many people ever said this to him? Because I'm your dad, that's why. Or or here's another version. Because I said so. Anybody ever get that? Yeah. They don't need an explanation, right? I'm the authority. I told you what to do. No explanation needed. How many of you agree with me? God has every right in the world to tell us to do something and just say because I said so. Sure he does. In fact sometimes he does do that in the Bible. He tells us to do something. He doesn't give an explanation behind it But the interesting thing is here in this passage, the Lord tells us, don't lay up your treasures on earth. Lay them up in heaven. And he could just tell us to do that, and he has no obligation to explain to us why he has to do that. But it's kind of like he kind of goes to lengths here To tell us why we ought not to lay our treasure up on earth and why we ought to lay it in heaven. He explains earlier, he says because Moth and Crut uh Moth and uh Uh rusts are corrupt and thieves break through and steal and if you lay 'em up in heaven that's not gonna happen. And if your eye is if you're du you know, if you got Double-minded if you're not focused on Christ and you're looking at things of the world also and trying to as a disciple I'm looking to Christ and I also got my eye on the world. I'm double-eyed kind of, he says, gonna mess you up And he takes quite a bit of time and he explains to us why he's telling us to do this. Now God's not obligated to tell us why. Now here's my question. Why does he explain to us why he's telling us to do that? Why would he do that? He doesn't have to explain, give us an explanation, but he does. I think there's two reasons. One, he cares a lot about us. I've I was tempted to put it this way, and I think I'm correct on this, I'm sure. I'm tempted to put it this way because God respects us God respects us and it's respectful. Here's what you should do. Let me tell you why. And simply out of respect. But I think there's a second primary reason, more of a primary reason, is because this is such an important subject. What we are investing our lives in is so important. What we are living for As a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, what am I living for? What is my purpose in life? What am I investing my life in? And I believe it's so important that he wants to explain to us, listen, this is why you should do this. This is important. He is giving a fairly lengthy and strong warning to his followers about Not being double-minded about not living for this world and living for temporal things. We only have one shot at life. It's all we got. We're born wherever we're born, into the circumstances, whatever God's circumstances God puts us into. And we've got one shot at life. There are no do-overs. The Hindus, I guess, are wrong when they say we get resurrected and get another shot. They are wrong. That's a lie of the devil. We got one shot and we get to the end of our life And whatever we've invested our lives in, whatever we've lived for, that's what it is. We can't go back and try again. Now I'm glad that as we go through life, God often gives us second chances. I praise the Lord for that. But as far as our life is concerned, there are no do-overs. And I believe what the Lord is telling us here in so many words, at least the implication here is that we need to give serious consideration to what I am investing my life in. We need to seriously think about What am I living for? What am I investing? My effort and my resources and my abilities and my time? What am I investing it in? Am I investing it in The world? Or am I vesting in the Lord? He says, lay not up your treasures upon earth, and he contrasts that with heaven. What am I living for? The here and now, the temporary things? Am I investing my time and effort and resources, my life into something that whenever I leave this earth, it's all left behind? It was temporary, it's gone What am I investing in something that lasts beyond the grave, that lasts beyond the here and now? Verse 24, he terms it this way, two masters. And we'll look at that, or God or mammon. And so it's a strong, strong exhortation from the Lord here to disciples To really consider, what are you living for? You claim to be a follower of mine. You claim to be a disciple of mine. Now what are you investing in? What are you living for? Where are your loyalties at? I got a couple points here. I broke it down. Number one, my first thought is this. I notice the Lord addresses the masters in our life. Look again at verse twenty four of the first part. No man can serve two what? Masters No man can serve two masters. He's telling us here, we do have masters in our life. You say, preacher, we live in a free country. There's nobody over me. Oh yeah, we're serving somebody We're all serving something. The word master there has this idea. Or let me look at the word serve first. In fact, the word serve there is used twice. Did you notice that? No man can serve two masters. Then you come down to the bottom. You cannot serve God and mammon. The word serve there is a strong word. The word it comes from or the word our English word comes from Very, very strong word. It has this idea to be a slave. Now we go to the restaurant. My dad and I had lunch together today. We had a pleasant time. And uh he paid for it. That's even more pleasant. And um But uh we had lunch together and uh the lady came over and she served us She took our order and she brought us our drink and she brought us our uh food, rattlesnake pasta. I ate a salad and um She served us. Would you like more drink? Sure. And she brought more and she served us. That is a very that is a very gentle word that she served us. That is not the word used here The word used here is a slave. She was not our slave. I couldn't tell her, listen, my car really needs cleaning. Go out and wash that slave. I want that. But that's the idea here. No man can serve two masters. No man can be a slave. The other aspect of the meaning here is to be in bondage. No man can be in bondage to two masters. If I'm a slave and I'm in bondage to this master, I'm a slave and in bondage to this master, and they're giving me diametrically opposed instructions. I'm in a mess. Right? And so the word serve here. If you would, keep your place. Come over to John. Here it's used. Same word is used. And it kind of gives us a little idea of the strength of this word, John chapter 8. The Pharisees used the same word. They were in discussion with the Lord. It just kind of helps us, I think, see this how strong of a term this is. John chapter 8, verse 31. Verse 30 spake these words, many believe them. Then verse 31. Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him. So here's Jews that got saved. If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed. Alright? They believed on him. He says, all right, you want to be my disciple, then do what I say. Continue in my word. Then he makes this classic statement And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you what? Free. Now look how the Pharisees respond. They answered him, We'd be Abraham's seed. And we're never in bondage. It comes from the same word is what the Lord's saying here. Cannot serve two masters. cannot be in bondage. They said, we're Abraham, see, we've never been in bondage to any man. How sayest thou we shall ye shall be made free? Now look what the Lord said. Jesus answered them, verily, verily I say unto you, whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin. Same word again, comes from the same word. So this is a strong term when he says you cannot serve two masters. You cannot serve God and mammon. You cannot be a slave to both of these. You cannot be in bondage to both of these. It has to be one or the other. Now come back to Matthew here again, real quick, and I want to look at the word masters. Cannot serve two masters. Master there, uh what's your idea? Let me give a little feedback. What's your idea when he says you cannot serve two masters? What would be the idea of the master Alright, a leader is stronger than just being my leader. Somebody can be my leader but not say be my master. Ah. One of uh one of the ideas behind I heard somebody say it is an owner. It fits in with the idea of being slave and in bondage to. No man can serve two masters, two owners, has the idea of having ultimate, having complete authority over. Um controlling. I I just thought of this as kind of I I've never been in the military, but I imagine be a little bit like somebody in the military in boot camp. Man, they tell you what to get up, when to go down, what to do this And this is no joke. You've heard people use this as a joke. I'm telling you first hand witness this happened in Indianapolis. We were having a big meeting. A big preacher was there. I was youth pastor. We had all the teens. This one guy just kept running his mouth. He was first time visitor and uh afterward I was so mad they were so disrespectful I got all those t I want to meet all the teens after church. I got them all together and I'm chewing them out. You guys were horsing around that preacher was up there disrespectful. He's And they're all sorry, Pastor Dennis, sorry. And this visitor, this new guy, he's like I'm looking at his kneecap, you know, he's the guy's huge. I said, and you were talking too I was chewing him out And um we got going on I said, what are you gonna do with your life? He says, I just joined the Marines. I said, Really? And I'm telling you he said this to me. You don't believe me, but it's true. He said this to me. I was tired of school and everyone tell me what to do. Alright, good. You go to the Marines. That'll work out fine, I'm sure But that's the idea of the word master here. No man can serve two people, have complete authority over them, completely control them. He can't do it. Then there's another word I want to look at here under this idea, the masters of our light, all the way down the end of the verse, you cannot serve God and mammon. This is interesting. The word mammon actually comes from, the Jews used it, but it comes from a Syrian god of wealthy success. The mammon was actually a false, a pagan god that was their god of financial success. And apparently as I studied it, the Jews began using it as a term to refer to just uh uh or I'm sorry, this the the Syri uh it is the Syrian pagan god of uh great wealth Great wealth. I've added the word success. The Jews took that God and began using it as a term to refer to tremendous success. Could be in any area of life. Mammon, he's very successful financially. He's very successful in the business world. He's very successful in what he is mammon. Success. Primarily financial success. And so, I think by using the term mammon there, it's not just money, it's not referring to money, it's talking about success in any way. But I think by using this term mammon And I believe I'm correct, he only used it one other place in the Bible in Luke where it's a record of the same conversation. I think he's implying, by using this term that refers to a pagan God, I think he's implying that success, worldly success, and financial success can very easily become an idol. Become a God in my life. Now that's not I don't think that's exactly what he's stating here directly, but by implication, by using that term, he's contrasting the false God's quote-unquote masters, authorities of this world versus the true and living God, the ultimate authority And how we can take the things of this world and they can become idols, they can take the place of God and become idols to us. I read about a preacher said that uh I was reading a preacher had written that he had a very, very wealthy fellow in his church, extremely wealthy. And the preacher goes was preaching on tithing and using our finances for the glory of God and trusting the Lord and obeying the Bible instruction with our finances. And uh the fellow met with the preacher during the week and said, Preacher, I need to talk to you. And he sat down and he says, You're preaching on tithing. He says, I see it in the Bible, I understand that. He says, But preacher, uh I I make so much money for me to tithe. On the my income would be such a huge chunk of money. He said, I just don't know how I can do that. The preacher very wisely said, Well let's just pray. He says, You pray and then I'll pray. And so the fellow prayed, Lord, uh uh help pastor to see my help help me understand and just help me in this And the preacher prayed. The preacher said, Lord, reduce this guy's income to the point where he can afford to tithe. I thought that was pretty smart of the preacher. And what was this guy doing? This m his financial success was mammon. It had become of God to him, and it was more important, that was more important to him than submitting to the authority or the master, the ultimate master in life as a disciple, as a believer disciple is the Lord Jesus Christ. What was he trying to do? He's trying to serve two masters. Well, I want to be a Christian, I want to be a disciple of Christ, but I also want to hold on and serve this mammon. We are all under the mastery of two masters. All of us are. Well you say, oh no. You say like the Pharisees, oh no, we're Americans. We're not we're not Nobody's our master. Oh yeah, yeah, we are. I put in two categories and I'm using the one term a little broadly here, but maybe the master of the world Serving the master of the world. Let me ask you a question. How would you define if somebody is worldly, or the preacher is preaching about worldliness? What would that be? What does he mean by that? What are we talking about, a worldly Christian or being worldly? Anybody take a shot at that? being is is is conforming to the ideas and philosophies of the world. Oh, I hate it when you give the right answer. Don't give the right answer. Okay. There's what we say a lot of times. Tell me if I'm wrong. Here's what we say a lot. Oh, being worldly is is uh listening to rock and roll music. Being worldly is dressing immodestly. Being worldly is going to the movie theater. Being worldly is drinking beer. Being worldly is and we have all this little list of things. And if you do that, you're worldly But Brian really hit the nail on the head. Worldliness is really a value system. It's a way of seeing life. It's a way of It's a philosophy in a ways, if you want. I put down a value system. When I begin adopting the values of the world as opposed to the values of God, I am worldly. When the world's priorities become my priority, then I am worldly. When the world's reasoning, when I adopt the world's reasoning, then I'm becoming worldly. The church at Court, we're studying in Sunday school. They were very worldly in that they started thinking and reasoning the way the world did. And they started prioritizing things the same way the world did. And they adopted the philosophies of the world. So, you know, being worldly would include these external superficial things, but there's a lot deeper problem in worldliness it goes to my values and my priorities and how I think. What did the Lord say in Romans 12? He says, be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the Renewing of your mind. It was the way they think. It's the way we think that causes us to be worldly. The correction of being conformed to the world is renewing my mind. And so the world is a powerful master. And if I allow the world's philosophies and the world's principles and the world's priorities and the world's reasoning and I start adopting that, I I am becoming, I am being controlled so to speak. I am being I am putting myself in submission to the world. Uh well there's several aspects that this shows itself. Sometimes it's in a matter of trying to gain power. I want to have authority. Well, that's what the world does. The world was authority. What did Satan say in Isaiah 14? He says, I will be like the Most High God. He didn't want to destroy God or eliminate God. He just wanted to have the same authority God did. That's what he told Eve. Basically convinced Eve she can make her own decisions. You don't have to listen to God. You don't have to serve God. You're free. Eat that fruit. God's not treating you right. And all she was doing was becoming worldly and submitting to his mastery as opposed to God's. We're all we're all under some master. Either God or the world. Power. We see it in government. I'm convinced there's people run for office not because they want to help our country be a better country, they just want to have some power They just want to have authority over other people. We see it in in in uh in employment. Man, people work their way up so they can tell the others what to do, not because they have the good of the business or the good They just I want to be that foreman so I can tell others what to do. Employment in social circles. He's the alpha male. You tell everybody else how to dress. It's funny. You s uh we were talking who were we were just talking before here. Oh Tom was asking about teachers. And we say, you know, uh sometimes there's a certain mentality that wants to tell everybody else how to dress. Everybody else, you know, even they say, oh, this is in style. Who's deciding what the style is? Oh, this is the latest. According to who? People want to tell us how to dress. Identically the same. Right? Uh and I might be stretching this a little bit, but it's true in church. Brother Koblenz Sometimes people want to get an office and get a position in church, not because they're really concerned for God's glory, the advancement of the gospel. I just want to have a say I just want to be able to throw my weight around. That's worldly thinking to gain power. What did Jesus say? When I'm weak, then am I strong? When I he that exalteth himself shall be abased, but he that humbleth himself shall what? The exalted. Complete opposite of the world's thinking. So it displays itself in a desire for power, a desire for possessions. Things have more money, more stuff, bigger four wheeler, nicer purse, a coach purse I'd rather have an engine purse than a coach purse, but I don't even know what I'm talking about. But the desire to have stuff. The world's philosophy. We were touched on this before. The world's philosophy is he that dies with the most toys wins. And he dies and he goes out into eternity with nothing. Nothing. Philosophy, the world. Pleasure. Getting what I want. Man, if you only live once, go for all the gusto and live it up, and live it up and die with nothing. You've served serving one or two masters. That's the world thinking. That's the world's philosophy. The world is very, very powerful. I want to suggest to you, and I'm including myself in this, I'm saying us, I'm suggesting to you that we are more influenced by the world than we care to admit. We deceive ourselves into thinking that we're much more spiritual than what we really are And I'm afraid the judgment seat of Christ, we stand before the Lord, we're going to find out this world had more influence on us than we care to admit. And I'm including myself in this. So the world's thinking it's a powerful, powerful master. And I suggest to you the world is a merciless master. The world will take and run us down and master us and and and use us as slaves and when we're done it they're done with us. Prodigal son. When the money's run out, nothing left. Nobody's there to helping them out. The world's not there helping them out. So worldliness is very powerful. It's very subtle. We can talk and sing and act Christian and yet be very, very worldly in our thinking, in our values, and our priorities. We can talk, sing, and act Christian yet be mastered by the world's values. By the world's values. So one mastering says, no man can serve Two masters. One of the masters I'm suggesting to you is this the philosophy of this world, this earth, the temporary thinking, the temporary goals and values and priorities of this world. That can master us if we don't if we allow it. Or the Lord. No man can serve two man. He either will hate the one or the other. You cannot serve God and mammon. It has to be one or the two. What we need to do, if I am serving God, if I am a slave to God, I'm in bondage to God. As opposed to being in bondage to the world, I understand I'm just a pilgrim passing through this world I'm not investing my life and every resource and everything into this world. I'm just passing through. Now I am passing through this world. And I would like to leave a heritage for those coming along behind me. I'd like to leave behind a good, strong church preaching the gospel whenever I'm off the scene. I'd like to leave behind We don't want to get the idea, well, I'm just passing through, so, you know, we're just not going to worry about winning anyone to Christ, not going to worry about training the next generation. No, no, it's not that mentality I do want to have an effect. I would like for my children and grandchildren to have a little bit of, like the Bible says, praying for our government that we can live quiet and peaceful lives. I'd like to have an influence on them, but I'm just passing through. I'm not serving this world. So he says the Lord addresses the masters in our life. One of two. All of us here right now. We are either in bondage to the Lord God Or we're in bondage to the world. You say, Oh, I'm in church Wednesday night. I just sang uh what did we just sing? Hymns. What will we sing? Tell it to Jesus. We just sang all that. I'm not worldly. I'm telling you, we can sing and talk and act and dress worldly uh Christian and be very, very worldly in our thinking and our values So I got to stop. I can't serve both. It's one or the other. Say, well, I'm a little worldly, but I'm really committed to Christ. He it's not for me, it's against me. Lord countered that. Number two, the Lord addresses, very quickly, I want to give you a couple other thoughts here from this passage, the Lord addresses our attempts to modify our devotion or service to the Lord. We do what I just referenced. We want to be, oh I want to fit in the world, but I also want to be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. He says you can't do that. Look, he says there no man can serve two masters, then he explains For all that think you can, he makes this statement. For either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one and despise the other. Two diametrically opposed masters. The word hold there, I thought this was interesting. Or else he will hold to the one. The word hold there has the idea what we would think of being loyal to. He'll be loyal to the one or despise. The word despise means think very little of. And be very, very loyal to one and think very little of the other. So I'm serving one of two masters, either world or the Lord. I'm holding to one, I'm very loyal to one and think little of the other, or I'm holding to the other, being very loyal to the other, and I think think very little of this. And we see it in Christianity. We'll sing the songs, we'll go through the motions, we'll have a little ministry, we'll be doing our stuff, but brother, we are loyal to the world. We're holding to that. And God, you know, we'll give God our little time, our little compartment. I'll give them Sundays or Wednesdays, and I know I'm talking to a pretty devote crowd tonight, but this is reality. That's what the Lord's addressing. Israel was guilty of this. And I wanted to take some time and go back and look at some references, but we don't have time for it. But You go back when you're reading through the kings, reading through the historical books about Israel after Solomon and after the divided kingdom, and you've got a bunch of guys or kings that are just a mess. Some are good, some are disaster. I have a hard time with Ahab. I just man he just thinking of him gets me bent out of shape. But uh you get the and why pay attention. You'll get these times where they're under the gun and the Syrians are coming in on them or somebody's coming in on them and the very first thing they do is they raid the temple, get all the gold, strip it off the walls, take all the gold, and they send it out there and they'll hire the Syrians to come in or they'll try and pay off their enemies. And the interesting thing is they never take that money out of their own pocket. Always go to the temple and get it. It's always the things of God are the first thing to go. And I know we all say, those stinking Israelites, they are so worldly. And the bills pile up and we've got that payment for the four-wheeler and I've got my missions. Well, I've got to make the payment on the four-wheeler. So I can't give my missions this week because I gotta pay for the four-wheeler. Eh, we'll just strip some gold off the wall of the temple. We'll pay that. Now you're getting quiet on me now. Come on. Isn't that what we do? Well, this, well I don't have to do that, but I have to do this. What are you holding on to? Which am I holding to? The temporary things of this world or the things of God? Mammon or God? Israel held on to mammon Well, we can't let them raid us. We've got to strip the temple. I was thinking maybe if they hit the temple on their knees and prayed and sought the Lord, they wouldn't have to worry about them coming in. They got right with God. That went over like a lead balloon. But what I'm trying to say is I think the Lord is addressing here is we have a tendency to want to modify our devotion to the Lord. So that I can fit in with this world and not be a sore thumb. I made this statement recently and it's been kind of haunting me a little bit, but we've got to get to the point where we are comfortable not fitting in with this world We've got to get to the point where we just I don't have to have what the world tells me I have to have. I don't have to do what the world tells me I have to do. And I don't have to go where the world tells What I need to do is be loyal to God And love him and hold to him. That's what the Lord is addressing. It's possible to think of myself as a very spiritual man, yet be mastered by mammon. Still have this world thinking, this temporary thinking, control me. Then the Lord gives a mandate and I'll have to end with this Ye cannot, now he's just he's not explain I guess this is explanation, but he's making a very blunt statement here. Ye cannot serve God and mammon And in my mind's imagination, I see the Lord standing on the mount here, and there's a great host of people that have accepted him as their Savior and their claim to be disciples And his twelve are all around him there, and he looks out at him and he says, You cannot serve God and Mermon. And he makes a very strong, blunt statement to them. And basically, I think what he's saying is this: it's either me or the world. You won't be my disciple. You've got to make a decision. There's a mandate here. You can't play games. You can't be on again, off again, you can't be hot and cold. If you're lukewarm, I'm going to spew you out And that theme is all through. Turn with me, if you would, to Luke chapter 14. I mean, he gets specific. And you talk about being blunt. Luke 14 And verse number 25. Now, if this wasn't in the Bible, I almost would have a hard time believing the Lord said it. But it's in the Bible, so we know He said it. Luke 14, verse 25. Then there were great multitudes with him. And he posted on Facebook, we have record-breaking crowds at church this Sunday. No, look what he does. It's like he's deliberately trying to thin the crowd out Great multitudes heard him. And he turned and said unto them, If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brother and sister, yea, his own wife also, he what Cannot be my disciple. I think he's just reiterating in different terms what he's saying here. Scott or mammon, you can't serve both. Now, we could talk about what he means by hating our family. It doesn't mean we should, and Brother Davidson touched on this, but it doesn't mean we should be so spiteful and hateful to them. We love our family. What he's saying is our loyalty, our love, our devotion is to him. The way I like to illustrate this, I've done this a number of times over the years. When I first came, we had a missionary family. Oh, what was his name? Sharp looking guy, a beautiful wife, lovely kids. They went to Kenya. They were in Kenya. Christians. Christiansen, wasn't that their name? Anyway, they were over there and we get the reports back and I mean they're living in oh and before he went over and he went and visited with them, they'd come through and he had a very good job there, the beautiful home in the Midwest. He had a beautiful wife and family. I mean just everything you would like And he took them all to Kenya. And they lived in this just a rat hole, basically. And he'd write back, and the people were, the fellows were assaulting his wife. And saying nasty stuff all the time. He's asking him for prayer for his section. And his girls got to a teenage years and then they expected them to give up their purity and all the fellas wanted his girls And they're living in that environment, in that culture. I can see somebody saying to Brother Christian, Brother Christian, you must hate your family. You must hate your wife and kids. Why would you take them over there? Anybody that loved their wife and kids wouldn't take them over there. I'm telling you, I knew him. He loved his wife and kids very, very much But he was serving God. And his loyalty was God. His love for God superseded, overruled his love for his family. And we have to go over. They were willing. It wasn't like they went unwilling. Does that make sense? You follow what I'm saying? So that's what the Lord's talking here. But he says, listen, if you love the things of this world, even your family, more than me, you can't be my disciple. You've got a world mentality And whosoever, look at verse 27, whosoever doth not bear his cross and come after me can be my disciple. Listen, the last thing the world says is, bear your cross. This world says dog eat dog. You may get your way. You do what you gotta do to get your way. The Lord says, oh no, you bear your cross. For which of you? And then he goes down through there. And look at verse 33. So likewise, whosoever be that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. You know what he's saying? God or mammon What is it? So he gives this mandate. Farmer had two cow, had a cow. And the cow, I don't know if this is common or not, but the cow had two calves. Is that normal? Is that common? A little rare? Happens. Alright. So a cow had two cats. One was red, one was white. So the cow the calves are born as and he said, Well praise the Lord. God's blessed us. We're going to give one of these calves to the Lord. His wife said, That's a wonderful idea. Which one? He goes, Oh, I'm not sure yet. We'll let 'em grow and see how they turn out. About six, eight months went by. He came in the house and said, Wife, something terrible's happened. He says, What's wrong? He said, The Lord's calf died. She said, the Lord's calf? How'd you know which one it was? Well, that's the one I was thinking the whole time, to give the Lord the one That died. Now we laugh at that, but what's he doing? Mammon. Mammon. He's holding to mammon. He's loving the income. He says, we've got to decide. Yeah, but Jose talks about an unfaithful wife. And she takes her husband's name. But she's out there flirting with other guys all the time, and she wants their attention, she wants their affection, all that, but she wants her husband's name What does the husband say? It's either them or me. Right? It's God or Mammon. And that's exactly the way the Lord is. You want to take my name as a Christian and you claim to be my disciple? Well, either you're going to hold to me and love me. Be loyal to me, or it's going to be the world. One or the other. And that's the mandate he gives to his disciples. You've got to make a decision. Indecision in this matter, well, you know, I I love the Lord, but you know, I don't want to be an oddball. Indecision in this matter of devotion to the Lord is actually a decision to not be devoted to the Lord. Indecision is a decision. Because our default standing, our default condition is loyalty to the world. We're born with a sinful nature. This world's greatest ally in my life is my sinful nature. The devil's greatest ally in my life is my sinful nature. So my default standing, my default condition is loyalty to the world. And so I accept Jesus Christ as my Here and I say, you know, God's been so good to me. I love him. I want to be a disciple. I want to take up my cross. He says, all right, you've got to make a decision. You'll be my disciple. It's either me or the world, one or the other. Data Mammon, that's the mandate. And so that's the challenge to us. Where is my loyalty? What is my love? What is my commitment, my dedication? Is it to the Lord, the things of God, treasures in heaven? Or am I not single-eyed, but is my eye evil? I got one eye on the Lord and one eye on the world. He says you can't do that. You can't serve both of them. One of these is your master. You can't serve both of them. The Lord's calf died. That's the world's thinking. Let's not be like the world. Amen? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us and challenge us and help us. Lord, as we see this old society we live in deteriorating, becoming more ungodly and more pagan. I pray that we would be clearer and more distinct in holding to you and loving you and investing our lives in eternity in the things of God. Putting this world behind us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, like me, this passage challenged me tonight? This passage really challenged my devotion and my dedication to the Lord. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand's raised. I was studying this. Lord stirring my heart. And let's make sure that it's God and not mammon that we're serving from our hearts, not just an outward show, but genuinely. Father, bless us now, bless this invitation we ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed