Thank you for giving our lives purpose and meaning. Lord, we're so grateful for how you've made us in your image with emotion. We understand joy and sorrow. You've given us intellect. We can think and reason. God, you've offered to us freely eternal life through the Lord Jesus Christ. So I pray that by knowing you we would understand a little bit more who we are What our existence here is for. So fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I yield my body to you just to be an instrument, Lord, for you to use and speak through me. And challenge us and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I'm beginning each of these serve these messages being a little redundant, and I'm doing that on purpose But last a month or so ago we began looking at the whole idea is is there a God? And if there is, what is he like and what does that mean to me? Well, we come to the conclusion that the evidence for God's existence is overbe overwhelming. The evidence for God's existence is abundant, undeniable. Everywhere we look, we see Evidence that there is a God that created us, a God with intelligence, a God with incomprehensible power. We look all around. Whether we're looking through a telescope or a microscope, we see order, design. I I got thinking of this this week, and again I don't mean to rehash this, but in any other area of life or study. If you see design, you immediately assume there's a designer. If you see a mathematical equation, you understand somewhere there was a mathematician that did that. And money, if there's money in an account, you understand somebody put it there. In every other field of study, we understand the concept of affecting cause. But when it comes to our origins, it seems like people just throw common sense out the window, and now we see design, but there's no designer. We see purpose, but there's no reason behind that purpose. And we want to suggest that all of this intricate design and this phenomenally complex world we live in, even on the most microscopic levels, we're going to say, oh, that's just happenstance and chance. I believe anyone that foolishly denies the existence of God is denying the very obvious. Everywhere we look, we see God. Everywhere we look, we see the hand of God. The evidence is overwhelming. Two times God declares in the book of Psalms, he makes this statement. The fool Hath said in his heart, there is no God. That's in Psalm chapter 14, verse 1. Then again in Psalm 53, verse 1, the Bible says again, the fool Hath said in his heart, There is no God. How foolish to deny this something that is so obvious in front of our very faces! I looked up that word full and did a little study on that. It has various aspects to its definition. One definition is this: to be without any sense. The person is a fool, according to the Bible, they don't have any common sense. And sometimes we walk around, we wonder, is there any common sense left in this world at all? The word fool has this idea, and this is what applies to our subject, I think. One of the definitions, the word fool, how it's used, is for my mind to be closed to reason. Another definition, to be insensitive to the truth And the idea behind that definition, if according to the Bible, a fool is someone who the truth is right in front of them and it has no effect on them at all. They are insensitive to truth. The truth is all around them, and it doesn't affect their thinking, it doesn't affect their reasoning, it doesn't affect their living. They simply are completely oblivious to what is so obvious around them. A fool. The fool has said in his heart there is no God, in spite of the fact of the overwhelming evidence we see on every hand. Another definition of the word fool, which falls into other categories perhaps, but somebody who acts disgracefully. Somebody who acts disgracefully, according to the Bible, is a fool. And so, again, I come back to my statement. Anyone who foolishly denies the existence of God is denying the very obvious all around us. Only a fool disregards the obvious evidence of God's existence, and they do so to their own peril. To their own peril. So, we've spent a good bit of time looking at the egg the existence of God. We know in our hearts he exists. God created us with an awareness of an existence. We look in creation and we see his evidence of existence. We look in the scriptures and it's confirmed. In the beginning, God. There's no argument for God. There's no presentation of a list of facts to prove God's existence. The Bible just states God is Begins with that assumption. So now we want to know what is this God like? This God that is so powerful creates everything just with his spoken word. What is this God like? How does he think? Is he how does he interact with us? Does he interact with us? Well, we began looking into the Word of God, and we find that God has a name. God's name, he says to Moses as he's to go into Egypt and confront Pharaoh, and he says, Who shall I say, who shall I tell him send me? He says, Tell them I am sent you. Other places God gives his name as Jehovah. The meaning of the word Jehovah ties in with that statement, I am the self-existing one. Now that's a fascinating study in and of itself. That God is self-existent. God is not dependent upon anybody or anything to exist. He is self-existent. You and I are completely dependent to stay alive and exist. We have to have air. We have to have a number of things. So but God is self-existent. He is completely independent of anything outside of himself, the eternal and self-existing one. What is God like? Well, his name is I Am or Jehovah. He has a name. We noted that there is one God, unlike many false religions throughout the world who worship many gods. God declares Himself, I am one. There is none beside me. No other God. However As we study the scriptures, we find that this one living and true God, one God, yet he consists of three distinct individual, separate personalities. God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Each individual personality completely and wholly God each and of themselves. Yet One God. One God. We know it as the Trinity. It's obvious in Scripture. How you say, how can that be? That's a good question. I don't comprehend that. God, the great three-in-one. Maybe we, those that know Christ as Savior, will get to heaven. Maybe we'll see and understand. Maybe we'll comprehend how that can be. But for now we see it very clearly in Scripture. So our God is an amazing God. He's a person. He has a personality. He has a name. He has a makeup. Three and one, a Trinity, this God that created everything that exists, our mind, reels. Try and grasp who this God is, what he's like. He's eternal. We find that the God that exists, that you and I We're created by. He from eternity past to eternity future, he always has been, always will be. God had no beginning, God has no end. He transcends time. He's eternal. Eternal. People say, every now and then I'll get in a discussion with someone outwitching somewhere or something, and people say, well, where did God come from? God didn't come from anywhere. God always has been and always will be. He is eternal. We live in, the only thing we've ever experienced is the limitations of time. I like to refer to it this way. We are prisoners of the present moment. I cannot go back, I cannot go forward. Now is the only place I have to operate. But God is eternal, He transcends that. And so it's difficult for us to grasp etern, no beginning, no end. God is omnipresent. Anywhere you go, God's there. We cannot escape his presence. The entire universe cannot contain God. He is omniscient. He knows everything. God never learns anything. He knows. He is all knowing, omnipresent, eternal. Last week We noted what I consider, if I understand my Bible correctly, I consider to be the chief characteristic of God. We put it this way, if somehow, and I don't mean to be irreverent in any way, but if we would approach God and say, God, what are you like? And if God would answer us, I believe he would say, I am holy. I am holy. Complete perfection. Complete purity. Complete goodness. In my mind, I try to visualize things, I view it as a blindingly holy God. Cannot be approached by anything that is impure or even common. He is holy. Holy. Holy. That is, as I said, I believe that God declares to be his strongest characteristic that he is holy. However Just as strongly as God declares Himself to be holy, He also reveals Himself to be love. Love. This God that inhabits eternity. He does love, but more than that, he is love. John chapter, first John chapter four and verse eight, we read the two statements. God is love We find that throughout Scripture, that statement in varying forms, God is love. A. W. Tozer, I enjoy reading A. W. Tozer, a tremendous Christian author and and speaker of years gone by. He made this statement. He said the fact that God is love is one of the greatest truths in all the universe. It is the unmovable foundation of all hope for mankind. Think about that. God exists, that's obvious. We cannot with integrity deny the existence of God. We understand from Scripture these other characteristics of Him, eternal, all-powerful, that we see that He is holy. But the fact that this all-powerful, holy God loves me, that is amazing. As long as God exists, and as long as God loves mankind, there is hope for mankind. You say, preacher, my situation is hopeless, my circumstances are hopeless, I see no way I'll ever be happy again, I see no way everything will ever be right again, I see no way anything can possibly work out for the glory of God. For uh my good or God's good, or I don't see any way it can possibly happen. Listen, as long as God loves you, there is hope It is the foundation of all our hope. This all-powerful, all-knowing God loves me. The fact that this blindingly holy, infinitely wise, all-powerful, all-knowing God loves me. Loves you, loves all of mankind, is the greatest news in all of history. I could see, I was thinking this through, trying to think this through a little bit, I could see, now knowing me I could see how a perfectly holy God would despise an unholy man like I. The little bit that I grasp of what it means that God is holy and what I know about how sinful I am, for that holy God to despise an unholy That makes sense. I that makes that's rational. I can understand that. A perfectly powerful God, all powerful God. I can understand how an all-powerful God would despise a weak and limited man like myself. I can understand that. I can see how that God infinitely powerful would despise somebody that is so weak, mankind is so weak. I can grasp how a wise perfectly wise God would despise a man that is so foolish and despise mankind that acts so foolishly You say mankind does not act foolishly? I challenge you to turn the news on this afternoon. See if my statement isn't true. I can see how an infinitely wise God would look at infinitely foolish man. And despise us and say, no, no. But that's not the case. This holy, wise, powerful God loves us. He loves us. God loves me as a sinner. God loves me in my foolishness. God loves me in my weakness. God is love Listen, how many people are glad God loves you? Say amen. Praise the Lord for that. We've sung that since we were kids. Jesus loves me, this I know But God does not love you and I because we are lovely. A parent makes a very grave mistake when you say things like this to your children, you better behave, or God won't love you. You better obey me, or Jesus won't love you. That, excuse me, but that is a lie of the devil. God doesn't love us because we are lovely. God doesn't love us because we live a certain lifestyle. God doesn't love us because we've attained to some level of righteousness. God loves us not because of anything we are. He loves us because He is love. The love of God for you and I does not find its source in anything we are The love that God has for you and I find itself in what God is. He is love. He is love. He doesn't just love, he is love. God's love is incomprehensible. Again, A. W. Tozer made this statement. We cannot grasp the fact that God is love any more than a child can grasp a star. A child can see the star. A child can point to the star. A child can be directed perhaps by that star if they're traveling, but a child can never ever grasp that star. And you and I, we can see God's love and things he does for us on a daily basis and throughout our lives We can point others to the love of God and we try to do that on a regular basis on Thursday nights we go out and visit with folks and tell them how much God loved them enough that Jesus Christ died for their sins so they can be forgiven by accepting him as their Savior. They can go to heaven eternally with this God of love. Saturdays, go out on the bus routes and try and round up children and teenagers, anybody, be willing to ride our bus in and bring them in and we'll teach them about the love of God. We can sense the love of God. See the love of God, we can point others to the love of God. But in this limited bodies, in this limited world, we will never be able to grasp. The love of God, the depth of it, the quality of it, the character of it. I had just one thought. We could preach for years on the love of God. In fact, I read years ago, I read the biography of D. L. Moody. And if I understand it correctly, there was a period in Moody's ministry early on. Of course, for those who are not aware, D. L. Moody was a phenomenal evangelist. Back in the late 1800s, early 1900s. He preached around the world. There are estimated millions of people came to know Christ through the ministry of D. L. Moody. Very uneducated man, just a very simple man The power of God was upon him. And early in his ministry, he said that he was preaching somewhere, and his preaching was kind of harsh. This preaching was very hard. And a fellow from England, I believe, came over. He was preaching in Chicago. And Moody didn't go to hear him. His wife did, and that evening his wife came home and he said, how was the message? She said, he preached on the love of God from John 3. 16. And he's going to preach on that same subject, that same verse, uh I believe it was for a week or two weeks. Moody said, I want to go hear that. And Moody said those messages on the love of God transformed his ministry. And God began using them in phenomenal ways. We could preach on the love of God for years and years and years. This morning, and uh uh just to reassure you, I'm not gonna preach this morning for years and years and years. We will get out before we all died, Lord willing. I know some of you were concerned about that. I want to try and tackle one aspect of God's love. God's love, as revealed in the Bible, is unchanging. It is eternal. God himself is unchangeable. One of his characteristics, as revealed in scripture, is that he never ever changes. When God back Six, ten thousand years ago, whatever it was, when God spoke this world into existence, when he said, Let there be light, God is exactly the same now as he was then. For 19 billion years before that, as we understand time, God is exactly the same today as he was then. In unfathomable future, eternal future, God will be the same then as He is at this moment in time. God is unchanging. And because God is unchanging, and because God is love, therefore God's love is unchanging. If love is what God is, then God is unchanging, then the understanding is, the conclusion is, His love is eternal. His love is unchanging. I want you to take a passage of scripture, if you would, and turn to Jeremiah with me, Old Testament, one of the profound scripture verses in all the Bible. Of course, all the Bible is Inspired, all the Bible is profitable for doctrine reproof, but this verse absolutely stands out. Jeremiah chapter 31 And verse number three, if you're in the habit of underlining or high highlighting verses in your Bible, I highly recommend Underlining chapter 31 and verse number 3. If it isn't already, that verse ought to be highlighted one way or another in every Bible. Jeremiah Chapter 31 and verse from number three. Look what it says. The Lord hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Look at this. Yea, I have loved thee with a what? Everlasting love. Therefore, with loving kindness have I drawn thee. I have loved thee with an everlasting love. Everlasting love The fact that he uses that phrase everlasting tells us several things about the love of God. That tells me, one, that God's love never had a beginning. From eternity past, God is love. From eternity past, God has loved you. God's love has no beginning. God's love has no ending. From everlasting to everlasting. God loves you and God loves me. From eternity past to eternity future. God loves us. God loves has no. Here's the idea. This is the picture in my mind. From eternity past, as difficult as that is to imagine, God has always loved me. Always loved you, loved each individual. By the way, the Bible does not present God particularly loving populations. God loves individuals. I can see that God would love mankind, but I don't see that he would love me as an individual person. You're wrong. God loves mankind because mankind is made up of individual people that he loves. So eternity pass God's love had no beginning. Back when God spoke the world into existence, God loved us. When Noah was built in the ark, God loved you. When Moses was parting the Red Sea, God loved you. When Elijah's on Mount Carmel praying down fire, God loves you. Didn't change one bit. When Jesus was hanging on the cross, God loved you. When Christopher Columbus discovered America, God loved you and me. It had no beginning. God never started loving you. I'm going to put it this way. I think this is right. God never fell in love with you. He always loved you. From the beginning of time. You have never, ever, ever been unloved From the moment of your conception, from before that, God loves you. God's love has no beginning. God's love is no end. You say, oh, but if I mess up, huh? God's love is no end. What if I end up doing this? That's what sometimes we'll have people trust the Lord. They'll accept Jesus as their Savior and get saved. And they'll say, All right, good. Saved. My sins are forgiven. Praise the Lord. I'm on my way to heaven. God gave me new life. But what if I mess up? Doesn't change the fact. You're a child of God, God loves you. God's love is no beginning, God's love is no end. And here's the part I like. God's love, if it's everlasting. It pauses or has no interruptions. We are in Indianapolis. I was youth pastor there and once a month we had a ministry down at the prison and we'd go down to the it's actually a county jail. We went down there and of course Indianapolis is a bigger city than Oakland and so there's quite a few inmates there and We had a tremendous ministry and got to know some of the guys and and really enjoyed it and and and uh some great guys that loved the Lord in there But inevitably we'd get with somebody, we'd talk to them, and they'd say, we'd present the gospel to them, we'd touch on the love of God, and evitably we'd have somebody say something like this. God could never love me after what I've done. God could never love me. Nobody would love me for what I've done. I tell you, one of the greatest joys of the ministry was to be able to open our Bibles to Jeremiah chapter 2 31 and verse 3 and show them that God's love for them never had a beginning. He always loved them, he always will love them, and doesn't matter what they've done now, God loves them now. Has no interruptions, no beginning, no ending. This holy God, this all-powerful God loves me. Back in the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth All things there created the stars, the moon, he separated the light, the firmament, go through that whole process there early in Genesis. He creates man from the dust of the He breathes into man the breath of life, takes the rib from the side of man and creates woman and presents him to man. And God looks and everything he had made, the whole situation, the whole setting at that point, God says, it was good. In other words, it was exactly as he intended. Everything was the way God wanted to be. It was good. And what did man do? Man sinned against this God. He broke God's law. He sinned. He ate the one thing that he was told not to do, and he did that. Man sin. When news here, I'm just putting this in our way of thinking. When news got to heaven That man had sinned, that sin had entered the world. When that news got to heaven, what was the first thing God did He came down to earth to rectify the situation. He came down to earth to restore that relationship. He didn't destroy the world. He didn't destroy Adam. He didn't send him to hell. His very first instinctive reaction was to come back down and restore the relationship. And uh why? Because he loved Adam. He did not create mankind to die. He did not create mankind to be judged for their sin and cast into hell. Sin is an intruder into man's existence. Judgment and death is an intruder into our existence. God loves mankind. He made you and I to live and live eternally with him in the heavens. But sin came in and has separated that and brought death. Sin the very first thing God did was come down and address it and try to do do what do his part to make it right. And leaves it up to us to accept it. And so God's love is eternal. From eternity past to eternity future. Turn with me, if you would, to John chapter 13 and verse 11, if you would. Everybody doing all right out there? Alright. John chapter thirteen, verse eleven Of course, Jesus' ministry is mighting down. He's coming the time for him to be crucified. John chapter 13 and verse 11. John chapter that is not the verse I want. John thirteen, eleven. Having loved his own For he knew them and should betray him. Therefore he said, The verse I want, I apologize for that, but it says this having loved his own, which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. Now Chester, your job is to find that. Chester's always the one that finds them when I get the wrong reference. Did you find it? Ready to go. Here's the point. It's coming to the end of the Lord's ministry. His disciples are about to forsake him. When he is taken by everybody's looking around trying to find it. Alright. Ah, Bill. Was it? Thirteen one. Thank you very much. I'm gonna start sending my sermons to Bill to get proof checked first. Hebrews 13 verse 1. I put down two ones there. Notice now therefore, now before the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come, That he should depart out of this world unto the Father. Look at this. Having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. Here's the point I think he's making here is the fact that he knew the disciples were about to forsake him. He knew they were about to walk away from him. He was going to be left alone. Peter's about to deny him. Judas is about to uh uh betray him. The disciples are all going to forsake him. And he makes this statement very clearly. I love them and I love them unto the end. Regardless of what actions they take, regardless of how badly they fail, I will love them to the end. He loved them before they forsook him. He loved them after they forsook them. My point is this, there is nothing you or I can do to cause God to stop loving us. Nothing I can do. He is love Romans 5. 8. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. You and I, God is love. We don't have to live up to some level of obedience. We don't have to have some sort of uh achievement for God to love us He loves us sinners. He loves us as we are. Now that does not mean that God leaves us as we are. Hebrews chapter 12 tells us that whom he loves he chastens. You and I are living in sin. If we're disobeying God, he doesn't stop loving us, but he does intervene. As a child of God, and he corrects us and he chastens us because he loves us. Listen, there's no parent in the world. That says, oh, I love my children. I'm going to let them run and do whatever they want. That's not love. That's irresponsibility. That's dangerous for the children. Oh, I love them. The kids want to play out in the middle of the road? Well, I love them too much to tell them to get off that road. Well, you're a knucklehead. You don't love them at all. You don't even know what it means to love them. Because God loves us, he chastens us. Because God loves us, he intervenes when we do wrong. As a child of God, once I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, now I'm his child. He doesn't let me just go on. He chastens us, he corrects us. And that is evidence of God's love. It's because he loves us. God's love is eternal. Never begins, never ends. Nothing I can do can stop it or hinder it. God loves you and I as much as he loves Jesus. Think about that. God loves you and I as much as he loves Jesus. Are you still there in John? Go with me if you would to John 17. I think that's right. So he says, God loves us as much as he loves Jesus, that's blasphemy. John 17, verse 23. Please be right. Look at this. Jesus is making his great prayer here. He's praying to this Father. And he says, I and them and thou in me, Jesus speaking to God the Father, thou and me, that they may be per made perfect in one, that the world may know that thou hast sent me. Look at this And hast loved them as thou hast loved me. Wow. See how much does God love me? He says, I love you as much as I love Jesus Christ, my son. That's pretty intense That's pretty amazing. God puts it this way in John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. I love that word so. Inexpressible, unable to express. I think God is able to express His love, but you and I are unable to comprehend it. For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son. God loves, God is love. God, what do you like? I'm holy. I am love. And I love my creation, and I love the man, mankind that was made in my image from eternity past to eternity future. I love you. Nothing you can do can stop that or hinder it. It is unchanging. The only thing you and I can do is receive it and respond to it. Prodigal son, we know the story. Son takes the father's inheritance off the far land, squanders it, and riotous living. Not long, the funds right. They always do. The sun's in a mess. It's in the hog pen. In fact, he's so bad off. It's wanting to eat the husk that the pigs are eating. He reasons with himself and he comes to himself, the Bible says. And he says, I'm going to go back to my father's house. I'm sure he won't receive me as his son. I'm sure my father hates me for what I've done. I'm going to come back to my father and maybe he'll let me be a servant. Maybe he'll let me just live in the servant's quarters and eat the servants' food and just work as one of the servants. I can't be any worse than this, so I'm going to go back to my father. While there, the father runs out to him, meets him out there, and the boy begins his confession, Father, I've sinned against heaven and against thee. The father doesn't even let him end. He says basically says, shut up, son. Bring the calf out in calf. Bring the ring. Bring the robes. Let's go. We're having a party. My son's coming home again. Let me ask you a question Did that father love the son before he went off to the far country? Sure he did. Took care of him, treated him good. Did that father love the son when he came home? Sure. My question is this, did the father love the son because he came home? I'm suggesting to you that father loved the son just as much when that son was in the hog pen. As he did before he left and after he got back. That never stopped loving that son. There was nothing that boy could do. to make his daddy not love him anymore. And that is the God you and I serve. There is nothing you and I can do to make God stop loving us. And because he loves us, that means my life has purpose. Because he loves me, he has a plan for my life. He wants to use me in his service. He wants me to be somebody in his family. He loves me. What I need to do is like that prodigal son, I need to come back and experience that love. The daddy loved him the whole time he's in the hog pen, but he wasn't experiencing that love. He had separated himself from that love. It was there. All that boy had to do was turn around and come back. And he experienced it. If you're here this morning, you don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. If you don't have that settled in your heart, I'm here to tell you this God that created you, that created everything, this God that is here now in our presence He loves you dearly and he wants to forgive your sin and cleanse you and give you a new life, eternal life, take you to heaven someday, save you from going to hell, but he will not do it against your will. You have the option, I have the option, I can accept what Christ has done for me on that cross and be my personal Savior, or I can say no thank you, I'll try and deal with it on my own, I'll try and make it on my own. If I accept what Christ has done for me on that cross, And believe in Him and trust Him, God will come in by light. His love will pour into my heart and soul. That's there the whole time. The Bible says the love of God will be shed abroad in our hearts. And new life. When this old ticker quits ticking, I go into the very immediate presence of God. He loves us. If you're here this morning and you've been saved, you've trusted Christ as Savior. But maybe you've wandered. Down in your heart you know you're not right with God. You know you're out of fellowship with God. You're saved But I'm not what I ought to be. I'm here to tell you God loves you very much. And I know one thing. If you're saved, I know one thing is true. God is working in your life to bring you back into fellowship with Him. God is working. He's bringing events, he's bringing things to your mind. He's working events, he's chastening, he's doing things to get you and I back to experience his love and fellowship with him. He has a plan, he has a purpose. But first of all, Savior. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that for it is a tough subject to grasp. I pray your love that you would help us, your Holy Spirit would help us sense and understand to some extent how much you love us and what that means to our everyday life. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say this morning, preacher, I needed this morning to be reminded that God loves me. I tell you, the events and situations of life can be overwhelming. And we can forget There's a God in heaven loves us dearly. He's not given up on us. He's not forgotten us. He is working. He has a plan. Is there any this morning say, preacher, I needed to be reminded that God loves me. Any like that by the uplifted hand? My hand is raised. God bless you, hands all around. So some here this morning say, preacher, in my Christian life, I know it's not all lined up the way it ought to be. I know there's areas where I'm out of tune with the Lord. This morning, maybe as a Christian, as a saved man or woman, say I need to renew that dedication. I need to renew and get back in fellowship with God there where I ought to be. And God's love is drawing you, and God's speaking to your heart. You say, Preacher, pray for me. As a Christian, I need to renew, get back, and renew my dedication to Christ. Any like that by the uplifted hand, God bless you, hands all around. There's areas That really need attention. One last question. There's some this morning say, Preacher, I'm not sure that when I die I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in the right mind wants to go to hell. God doesn't want And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me, that God would help me settle that in my heart and soul, that I could know that my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. I don't want to die and go to hell. I need that settled. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I need to know that Jesus is my Savior. I'm on my way to heaven. Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised, various things. You know the heart. And I pray you'd help us to respond in faith now and make those decisions that need to be made. Make those adjustments that need to be made. And help us, Lord, to respond. To your amazing love you have for us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer played a few verses of imitation.