Psalm 40 verse 1. We started this a couple weeks ago. My intention is, in the next uh year, is to preach through Psalms chapter 40. We're halfway through verse 1. But um I don't know about you, but God's been stirring my heart as I've been studying this. He says in verse 1, of course this is David. Under the inspiration of God, he writes this, he says, I waited patiently for the Lord. And we looked at that pretty in depth, what it means to wait patiently. Then he goes on, he says, And he, the Lord inclined unto me and heard my cry. I put it this way, God heard my cries, the thought tonight. So let me just make a few introductory statements. We'll give an invitation, we'll make some take the offering, make some announcements, and then we'll move on. So Father, bless now as we just uh share a few thoughts from this statement here from David under your Holy Spirit's inspiration. I ask that The same Holy Spirit that led David to pen this, I pray that same Holy Spirit would fill me as I try and preach on it. That you would teach us what this means and how it applies to our lives, and that you would do that through my lips. So guide my thinking, the words I say, I pray you would be under Uh under your control, Lord, under your direction, your leadership. Keep me from saying anything outside of what ought to be said. And so I yield myself to you and ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. You remember we pointed out we don't know what the circumstances are behind this psalm. We don't know what day situation David was facing. We're not given any of that. And uh whatever the specifics were that he was dealing with. One thing is obvious as we look at this psalm, particularly the opening statements, is uh he was in a situation that was very unpleasant. Did you pick that up? Says he but look at verse 2. He says, he brought me up also out of a what? A horrible pit. Would you agree? That sounds unpleasant. That sounds then he says uh brought me up out of hard place out of the miry clay. Uh that I don't know about you, that sounds pretty yucky to me So, whatever situation he is in, it was not pleasant. And he wanted out. And that's what's prompting this whole prayer of his. is to get out of this horrible pit, get out of this miry clay, whatever that is, and we'll look at that in depth in some future message. Now my question was, I asked myself, is how did he get into this situation And again, we're not told. We don't know any specifics about it other than it's obviously very unpleasant. Is it possible it was something of his own doing? Maybe he made some foolish decisions. Maybe he took some bad actions and got himself into A horrible pit, got himself into miry clay. Now we know David is capable of doing that, right? We studied his life, we found that he made some decisions that cost him dearly And hurt him and his family, and hurt the nation of Israel. Now he was a great man. He was a man after God's own heart. But even the best of God's people can be stupid sometimes. Right, or can I get a witness? Sometimes we can say and do things and we end up in a horrible pit. So I don't know that It was some action he took, some decisions he made. We don't know that. Maybe very possible it was because of the actions of someone else Maybe someone else treated him unjustly. Maybe someone else treated him unfairly. Said and did things that drove him into a pit, into a miry clay, and he finds himself in a situation not of his own doing. But the victim of other people's actions. And we know that was true for David. King Saul pursued him unjustly, accused him of criminal actions. And David suffered the consequences of another person's actions. And many of us here know what that's like. We've been hurt by other people. We've had to uh deal with things not of our own making but other people. And by the way, sometimes other people had to deal with some stupid stuff we did. You know it goes both ways. So, whatever the case is, we don't know what his situation is or what caused it. But this we do know. We know how he responded. And that's important. Whether it's someone else did him wrong and he's dealing with the consequence, whether he did was stupid, sinful, and he's dealing with it, whatever the case is, we know how he responded to the horrible pit and the miry clay. And how we respond to difficulties reveals a lot about our character. It says a lot about who we are and what we're like, how we respond when a difficulty comes our way. If somebody mistreats us or disrespectful to us, somebody Does me wrong and it costs me, it hurts me, and I I'm in a miry pit. I'm in a uh I'm in a in a horrible pit and miry clay because of what someone else did. How I respond to that says a whole lot about what kind of person I am. He talks about waiting patiently. So apparently he was in this situation for an extended period of time. And how he how we respond to delays Reveals a lot about our character. How we react and how we respond to situations, difficulties, and disrespect and delays. How we respond to that says a lot about the level of maturity we're at in our faith. Get bitter and angry and react. We respond in kind to somebody who treats us disrespectfully. Oh, yeah, I'll treat you the same way. All that says a whole lot. About what kind of person I am and what my level of maturity is in my walk with God. The strength of my faith is revealed to how I respond to horrible pits and miry clay. We see how David responded. I noticed three things, and we've touched on this a little bit, but I'm looking at verse 1 again. I noticed three things. He responded patiently. He didn't react. He waited patiently. He didn't fly off. He didn't mouth off right away. Anybody here ever somebody did something and you reacted and afterward is like, man, why'd I do that? Can I get a witness? David was mature enough in his faith. He was mature enough as a man of God. He had enough character about him that he could restrain himself Control himself and not just react and fly off. He waited, he waited patiently. And then we notice he waited prayerfully, prayerfully. He says, notice there in verse 1, and this is what I'm eventually going to get to in the next week or month or so. He inclined unto me and heard my what? My cry. He prayed. And then he reacted praisefully, patiently, prayerfully, he prayed. Somebody, whatever situation it was, he prayed about it. That tells us a lot about a man's faith, about a man's maturity. How do I react? React in prayer? Well, let's pray. They did you wrong. Yeah, well, let's pray And then he reacted praisefully, and the whole rest of pretty much the rest of this chapter, this psalm, is him praising God. For being so good to them and hearing them and answering them and helping them through that. And so just these opening verses tells us a whole lot about David, about his maturity, and it challenges us. It convicts me. I look how David responded, and I look how I generally respond. And I say, Lord, I've got some growing to do. I've got some maturing I need to do. I need to work on my character. And so, David. Now there's two words here and I'm going to end because I'm not going to get to the outline itself. But there's two words here I do want to touch on before we shut down. It says, He inclined unto me. Now, David is describing God's response to his prayer. David is telling us how God reacted when David prayed. And the first thing he says is, God inclined unto me. Now that's not a term we're real familiar with. And I did what I do is I did a word study on it. I want to see what the word means it came from. I want to see how it's used other places in Scripture. And the word inclined, I thought this was interesting, has this idea has this idea. The word itself that it comes from means to stretch out So used in context and used how you look how it's used other places, it has this idea to stretch the ear out in order to hear more clearly. You ever do this? Somebody's talking, you do this. Anybody you see uh uh can everybody see me? Are you awake wait are you awake, you see? Stretch the ear out. David said, cried unto the Lord, and he inclined. He stretched his ear out. The word incline has this idea to turn towards somebody. In other words, he said, I prayed, I cried out to God, and God turned to me, he stretched the ear out. God has this idea. One of the definitions I came across was this, to stoop down. The idea is this, the word picture I got from this is a little child comes up and uh uh in compassion. And in concern and interest in that child and what they have, you come and you stoop down and you look them and you listen to what they're saying. David is saying this. He says, I was in a horrible pit. I was in miry clay. I cried out to God. God stooped down. And he listened to me. To stretch the ear out. Again, it has the idea to give special attention to, to lean in closely To hear what you're saying. The whole picture we get of just that one word David uses in describing how God responded to his prayer is in my mind, it's a picture of a loving father. Stooping down, his child is crying, his child is hurt, he's he's unhappy, he's you know unpleasant, and the loving father stoops down. And pulls the child over and listens very carefully what they're telling them, what happened. Their hearts broke and what their needs are and what they want. He said, God of the universe that spoke all this into existence. When I cried to him, he leaned down and he listened. Inclined unto me. And then he says, He heard. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry. Again, I did a study on that word heard, and it means a whole lot more than just being aware of some sound. Did you ever hear someone talking, but you didn't had no idea what they were saying? That's you hear the sound, but you don't hear what they're saying. Follow? David saying this: God heard me. It wasn't just sound coming off my lips. It wasn't just something that God knew I was saying something, but no, he inclined and he heard what I was saying. All through the Bible, God refers to his people having ears to hear In Deuteronomy chapter 6, verse 4, we won't turn there. But he says, God says this to Israel, hear, O Israel. What he's saying is, don't just hear sound coming off my lips, don't just hear the sound coming off my prophet's lips, Moses and others. Hear what I'm saying. Get what I'm saying? It has, again, it's similar to the word incline, but it's a little different. It means to listen attentively. I want to be able to understand what is being communicated to me, what is being said to me. And David says, God, when I cried unto him, he heard me. He understood what I was saying. He understood what I was dealing with. He understood what I was going through, how I felt. He understood my fears and my worries and my concerns. He heard me. Not just sound, he heard me. It means to listen with an intent to respond. I'm glad we have a God that inclines to our cry. Listen David did not have any more access to God than you and I have We had men's prayer meeting just before church this evening, 6. 30. The God we prayed to down there in the Sunday school room, it's the same God David's talking about here. Twenty five hundred years ago or thirty five hundred years ago, whatever it is David cried unto God, and God inclined unto him and heard him, and that's the same exact God that you and I pray to. Loretta and I were talking about praying for family and different ones while the choir was practicing. Loretta Pastor Letham and you, if we know Jesus Christ the Savior, we have access to the exact same God that David had. He has no more special favor with God than we do. He may have been a great man. He was a man of uh after God's own heart, and God blessed him in wonderful ways. But in Christ Jesus, we have the exact same access David had. In fact, even more intimate, we can come into the holiest through the blood of Christ. Just the thought that God inclines and bends down. What are you going through, Dennis? I understand. I hear you. I understand what you're saying. I'll respond. I'll respond. David is saying, God paid attention to my cry. God understood my situation. He understood what I was saying to him, and he responded. And he responded. And then you go on and he goes on and tells how God responded God answered his prayer and God saw him through that horrible pit, brought him up out of it, and God brought him out of that miry clay, and he set his feet on a rock and he established his going all in response. The David's cry and prayer to God. Now I'm getting way ahead. I'd like to expound on that. We'll have to do it next week, I guess. But it wasn't instantly he had to wait patiently. But he knew God was listening. He knew God heard. And get this. He knew God cared. God cared. I don't know what any of I don't know what we're going through. I know I got stuff I deal with just like everybody else. I can't tell you how encouraged as I studied this and thought on this To know that the God that He's everywhere, he's omnipresent, He's here right now, He's paying attention. He's just as real here as if he would move this. We know He's here We pray to him and he hears us and he inclines unto us and he cares. I mentioned this this morning. Let's learn to pray. Amen. Let's get our families together and pray. Let's teach our children to pray. Let's see what God will do. See how God helps us. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless us now tonight. I thank you for Brother Adams and the good work he's doing and how you're using him. And God, we want you to use us God, we need you to help us deal with the issues of life and the valleys and the pits we find ourselves in. And God, we need you. And our church, we want you to revive us. We want to grow and make a difference in our community for Christ. God, we need you to see that happen. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many people say, preacher, I got some stuff I really need to pray. I need to learn to pray. I need to pray. Any like that? And maybe God used this to challenge us and encourage us to seek the Lord and wait on Him, wait patiently. But seek them, Father, bless our invitation now I ask. In Jesus' name, let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed.