For us and through us tonight. And I pray that you'll be attentive. And uh listen, I understand that you get up early in the morning. Anybody here get up early in the morning? Yeah. I get it. And so I'm going to respect you and your time tonight. I'm going to get you out of here by 11. 30. So don't you worry about it. Take your Bible, please. Ephesians chapter 3. Ephesians chapter 3. And I want to speak to you for a few minutes this evening on this thought. God is able. You believe that? God is able Pardon me, Ephesians chapter 3, look at verse 20. Now unto him that is able. To do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us unto Him. Be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Let's pray Father, we're thankful for this evening and this opportunity to be together. Lord, I am so grateful for the opportunity to preach to these people. And I'm thankful for their faithfulness. Lord, I know that they do get up early. I know they work long days. And I do not take for granted that they've come here tonight, not to hear me, but to hear from you And I pray that, Lord, you would meet that need in their life. I pray that you would challenge each and every one of us, but I also pray that you would encourage us and help us to see that no matter what this world is, you're greater And you can work, and you can use us. So Lord, help us to see those things, convict our hearts. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The Israelites had gone from joy of a great victory to where they really were in tremendous despair. When they left Egypt, they were just praising God. They had been taken up out of that place. They had been enriched. They had seen God work miracle after miracle after miracle. But God had marched them from Egypt down to the shores of the Red Sea And as they stand on the shores of the Red Sea, they understand that humanly there's no way they can get across that sea They look to their right and to their left and they are in the middle of desert. There's no way they can go to their right and have it sustain a million people, and there's no way they can go to their left. There's enemies to their left And to complicate things, charging down on them is Pharaoh and his armies, and they have this incredible machine of war called the chariot. And they are racing down on them and they're furious because uh Pharaoh let them go and now they want them back and they want the wealth that they gave them back and they want their slaves back And their intention is to hurt them bad. They're so upset with Moses that now they say this Because there were no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? Wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us to carry us forth out of Egypt Is not this the word we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians, for it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians than that we should die in the wilderness, man. You know how easy it is to go from being the greatest guy in the world to the biggest dog in the world? Well, Moses experienced it because they were praising him when they were delivered from Egypt, but now they were cursing him And it was all his fault, and he got him here, and what was he going to do about it? And they stood on the shores of the Red Sea and they just couldn't imagine how they were going to get out of this mess. And I love what Moses does. He says to him, Fear ye not, stand still. Let me interpret that. Shut up. Just shut up. You see, Moses understood that they weren't there by his direction, they were there by God's. And it was God that had brought them to that place. And they stood on those seashores so that God could show them what he was on their behalf because what they were facing today wasn't anything As bad as what they were going to face in the future. No, the Israelites were boxed in, but their greatest problem was that they had the sea in front of them, they thought, and the mountains and the desert to the right and the left. And they thought their greatest problem was that Pharaoh's army was coming from behind. But their greatest handicap, their greatest problem was their perspective on their lives was contained in the box of their own abilities. They thought because they couldn't figure it out, because they couldn't see how it could be done, because they didn't know where to turn. They thought for sure nobody knew what to do. But they serve a God who was able. God who was able. God who was able no matter what their circumstance was, to deliver them from that circumstance and to make them able. If you don't take anything else away from this message tonight, will you take these three words? God is able. Will you say them with me? God is able. They forgot that God was able. They forgot that God is bigger than our mind. God is bigger than our ability. They forgot that God is bigger than our resources. They forgot that God was able to do what they could not do. And man, how stunned they were! When that sea opened up for them and then closed down on those enemies. The picture that Paul uses, the words that Paul uses just paints a picture of of an overwhelming rush of water. And then what he says to us, what God was able to do that day for Israel God is still able to do today for his people. God is able. Now I want to ask you a question. Do you believe that tonight? Do you believe that God is able? Do you live your life like you believe God is able? There may be a difference. I want to give you three thoughts tonight, with that as our understanding for the introduction. I want to talk, first of all, about the great possibilities of our God. Number two, I want to talk about the great poverty of our minds, and then God's great purpose in our lives. Let's start with the great possibilities of our God. I want you to notice a word to begin with in there. I want you to notice that word able. You've probably, if you've been in any Baptist church for any period of time, you've probably heard the word that I'm about to use. But I want you to know that that word, Abel, is the Greek word. Now, you say, preacher, are you a Greek scholar? No. But I do own a strong concordance. And like I said, it makes me dangerous, all right? That Greek word is the Greek word dunami Duna me. That doesn't mean anything to us. But when we look that word up and we see what Mr. Strong says that word means, it simply means this. To be possible. To be possible. What it means when we see that God is able, now unto him that is able, we can understand that. Now, unto him With whom everything is possible. Unto him with whom everything is possible. As I read my New Testament I see that God sent an angel one day to a young maiden girl, a young virgin maiden girl named Mary. Mary was a a righteous young lady, she was pure in her heart, and she was living for God, and she was excited Because God had brought into her life the man who was going to be her husband. And she was excited about that. They were engaged. She was espoused to be married to Joseph. And this angel comes to Mary and says, Mary, I want you to understand something. I want you to understand that you are going to bear a son. I don't know what Mary's reaction was at first. Well, sure, maybe someday when Joseph and I are married and our marriage and our home is together, sure, maybe I'll bear a son. And that angel makes her understand he's not talking about future. He's talking about right now. You are going to uh be with child and you're going to bear a son. And Mary had the same reaction that you and I would have had. She says to the angel, wait a minute. I I'm not with child and And I've not been with a man, and I'm pure, and and my heart is right, and and no, I'm not going to bear a son. And the angel says to her, Yes, you are Because the Holy Spirit of God is going to overshadow you, and God is going to do in you what only God can do. A virgin is going to conceive And she is going to bear a child, and he is going to be Messiah, and he is going to become our Savior. What the angel says to her is this For with God nothing shall be impossible. God can overrule nature. God can change biology. God can do anything He wants to do. Can somebody say amen? God can do that which is impossible to us. Do you believe that? That wasn't strong enough. God can do anything that we deem impossible. Do you believe that? Do you act like that? You trust him enough to do what seems impossible for you to do to you. You see, too often, believers, we've got a world to win. We've got a world to change But we live as if all we can do is what we think we're able to do And we never trust God in the way and take a step out for God in the way where God can prove to us that he can do something through us that we think is impossible for us to do. He is able, he is able to do that which is impossible in you and I. Hey, I don't know about you, but for me, I understand how God could do the impossible in Moses. I understand how God could do the impossible through David. I don't think a giant's any problem for David. I can see how God could do the impossible through Peter, step out of that boat and walk on water. I can see how God could do the impossible for the Apostle Paul. Be stoned and left for dead outside the gates of Lystra and get up. I don't have any problem Reading the names of the Bible and the circumstances of the Bible and say, My God is so great, my God is so big, there's nothing my God cannot do. But then when I come to Mike Edwards. I'm not sure God could do that with me. I'm not sure God could do that in my life. I mean after all, I I don't know this, and I I don't do this, and I don't have this ability and that ability. And you know what we do? We take God and we put God In our box. And we say, God, I'm going to limit what you can do through my life. Here's number two. That's the great poverty of our minds. God's ability and possibility are infinitely above ours. One of the goals of our lives ought to be to think like God thinks. If you've got a pencil, write this next thing down. We will never ask like God wants us to ask until we think like God wants us to think. See that verse again, verse 20. Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all we ask, and why don't we ask it? Because we don't think it God will never will never be able to ask like God wants us to ask until we think like God wants me to think. Consider for just a moment how God, in his word, challenges us about how we think. He says in Isaiah 55, verses 8 and 9. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts Hey, God, get this. Ready for this? God is smarter than me. God knows more than me. God thinks in a way that I don't think. And listen, one of the passions of my life ought not to be satisfied that I don't know the mind of God. I ought to be passionate about finding out the mind of God I ought to know the will of God about everything that comes into my life because if I pray according to his will, I know that he hears me. And I'll have that thing for which I ask. Now I know God's smarter than us. I know God knows more than us. But God isn't saying that So it ends all the discussion and we can never understand what he wants. He's saying that to challenge us to step up out of our flesh. and out of our own abilities to seek by the help of the Holy Spirit to understand his thoughts and to bring our life into And turn with them. He reveals to us that much of our failure in prayer is because we ask them this. He says ye lust not and have not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain, ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not. And then he says, here's why you don't ask Ye ask and receive not because ye ask amiss that ye may consume it upon your lusts. Sometimes we don't have adequate prayer lives because We're all about us. And to be honest with you, we're not so much interested in what God wants to do through us. We're interested in coming up with an agenda that we can bend his will to please us. We ask amiss. Then he reveals to us that if we know and pray according to his will, that we will have what we ask. You say, preacher, we know all those verses. We've heard all those things. What are you saying to us? What I'm saying to you is Is that the passion of every life in this room and the purpose of revival in our hearts is this let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. I am to desire to have the mind of Christ. And when I think like Jesus thinks, When I am controlled by the Holy Spirit to see the plan and the will of God for my life, and I pray in His name and according to His will I become a powerful being, not through the strength of my flesh or the force of my will, but through the power of Almighty God. I'll never forget an experience I had with a missionary. And he was a friend of mine. We went to school together back before the flood. And uh he was home from Spain and he and he was at our church reporting, and he and I just had a time in the morning where we just were gonna have breakfast and just be friends. and try to encourage each other. And I'll never forget I took him to IHOP. You know, we only go to the up finer restaurants, IHOP. And uh on the menu that morning, and I don't know if I can ever say this right, but it was Rudy Tootie All fruity or something like that. And it was some kind of fruit-covered pancake. Rudy Tootie, fresh and fruity. That's what. Rudy Tootie, fresh and fruity. Now that's preaching you won't get everywhere. And I saw him struggling. I I saw him just he was looking at that menu so intently, and he's he'd look up at me and then he'd go back down and and then he said something to me that changed my understanding. He said to me, he said, Mike, I've been thinking in Spanish so long I can't think in English anymore. What is Rudy Tootie fresh and fruity? I said back to him nobody knows Now I'm laughing at that moment, but I'm telling you, the Spirit of God later that day said, Edwards, you know what your problem is? You think too much in Mike. You think too much in Edwards. And if you could learn to think in Jesus and to think in God, it would revolutionize your life. And you know what, Edwards? You encourage a missionary, hey, you go to language school and you learn how to speak that language and You go to that culture and you immerse yourself in that culture and you speak that language because it's essential if you're going to reach those people. You gotta speak like they speak, you gotta think like they think, you've got to understand their words and understand their sentences. Don't you rest until you know that language But Edwards, but Edwards, you're not passionate about learning the mind of Christ. That's why your prayers are puny. That's why what you can accomplish through God is less than what it ought to be because you're thinking in Edwards. Every decision you make is based on what you think can be done, what you think needs to be done. And if you would ever come to the place in your life where you would think like God, where you would spend so much time investing yourself to know the mind of God about something. Now, let's think about what that means. Because if we're going to know the mind of Christ, we're going to have to go to school and learn that language. Let me tell you where you go to school to learn that language You go to school early in the morning when you set yourself down and you open this book and you begin with prayer and you say, God I don't want my interpretation. I don't want to see what only I can see. I want your Holy Spirit to bring to me what you are saying to me. I want to understand your heart on this matter. You say, preacher, I just don't have that ability. I just don't know how I could do that. I want to show you something this morning, this evening, whatever time it is, I don't know. Let's read that verse again. Now, unto him that is able. What did we say able did it meant? It meant do to me, it was to be possible. With God it is possible. To do exceeding abundantly. And God wants to do great things in and through our lives. Above all that we ask or think Boy, if we would just get our hearts straight and our minds thinking like God thinks. But how do we do it, preacher? According to the power Now I want you to notice something. The word able and the word power are the same Greek word. Do nam e do namiss. It's the same word. The possibility lies within you. Notice what it says. that worketh in us. It is the Greek word inner Gao. You've read it before. You've even quoted it before. Because you'll find it in James chapter 5 Where it says that the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. It's the same word. Get this. Here's what it's saying. Listen I'm God, and with me nothing is impossible. And you can learn to think like I think, and you can learn to ask in such a way that I'll work in your life How? How God? Because that miracle working power is already working in you. It's already effectually, effectually, fervently working in you. And his name is the Holy Spirit. Spirit of God. We've become so afraid of the Spirit of God that we barely say his name in churches anymore. I want you to know he's part of the Trinity. I want you to know he's as much God as Jesus and as much God as God the Father. And I want you to understand. that you and I are to be filled with the Spirit of God. That simply means that we are to be controlled by the Spirit of God. And we have the greatest power the universe has ever seen already in us. Hey, you got the Holy Spirit the day you got saved. February of 1975, I went down on my knees. I went down a lost man with no ability other than what my flesh could do. No ability at righteousness, no ability to serve God. When I went down on my knees and prayed that simple prayer, God, if you can save a sinner like me, will you save me? Answer: yes. Holy Spirit in my heart. It ain't never been the same since And it's unbelievable the possibilities. Can I tell you a story? Thank you I went off to Bible college, preacher. This is a good day. I took my second semester, I took a course called homiletics. Homiletics is where you learn how to write a sermon and preach. After my first sermon, I preached a sermon on ten points of the high priesthood of Jesus Christ in the book of Hebrews. It was fascinating. Everybody passed out. Now I promise you what I'm about to tell you is true. Brother Ron Walker, who was the homiletics professor, found me in the hallway later. He came up and he put his arm around me and said, Mike There's a lot of ways to serve the Lord besides preaching. As serious as a heart attack. I went home that afternoon and I said, God, I don't think I missed what you told me to do. I don't want to come out of here and fail. And I said, I think that man's right. I don't think there's anything within me I don't think I'm a good talker. I don't think I'm a smart fella. I just proved it, God. I did the best I could. And the professor told me, probably ought to think of something else. That night in the quietness of my room, God said, I've got you exactly where I want you now. It was never about what you could do. It was never about what you thought you could do. It was about what I can do through you if you will yield yourself to me. I have put miracle-working power in you, effectual fervent power in you. Stop trying to put me and you in a box Every one of us in this room, I think, would give a testimony of being saved tonight. And I'm telling you, with the people that are in this room and the Spirit of God working in us We could shake this town. It could not resist us. Not because of who we are, but because of who God is. My wife and I several years ago moved into a new home 15 years ago and I'll never forget this, had a basement and We were having company over and she was kind of rushed and I said, honey, I'll we were going to have some people in the basement and upstairs. And I said, I'll go clean the basement. Now that scares her to begin with, but I said, I'll go clean the basement. I'll run the sweeper in the basement. I don't know about how you are at your house, but at my house, the good vacuum sweepers upstairs and you know the old that that one that barely runs is downstairs in the basement So I'm down there in the basement, I'm getting I've dusted a little bit, cleaned up, picked up, got the sweeper out, and I'm ready to sweep and you know I get that eighty-five-foot cord unwound from it and finally that and About the time I got the cord on wound, the phone rang. And I went and answered the phone, and it was somebody that needed to talk to me, and it took 30, 40 minutes. When I was done and hung the phone up, I went back to the vacuum sweeper and I hit the on switch and nothing happened Man, I got aggravated. I called up to that step. I said, hey, what did you keep this vacuum? You know, it's always her fault Why did you keep this vacuum sweeper if it doesn't even work? And she hollers back down the steps. Did you plug it in? Did I did I di did I plug it in And we laugh at that. That's how we live as believers. We've got everything we need. We've got the tools we need. We can win souls. We can see our children live for Jesus. We can deal with the problems at work. We can deal with those difficult people if we will simply stop trying to do it. in the strength of our own flesh and say, God, you made me. God, you're in me. I know you're in me. And God, if I will surrender to your Holy Spirit And allow you to work through me. I know that we can do these things. You know what we're too busy doing? Instead of plugging into the Holy Spirit too often, we're grieving him. I won't spend long on this, but I want to tell you something. A lot of times when believers like you and I, we're we're fundamental Baptists, we're the good crowd, we're here on Monday night. Sometimes when we think about grieving the Holy Spirit, we think of somebody involved with pornography, and that does grieve the Holy Spirit. Or we think of somebody who had an affair and that does grieve the Holy Spirit. Or we think of the drug user or the alcoholic and that does grieve the Holy Spirit. But I want to tell you, good fundamentalists and good fundamentalists, I want to tell you that's not anything that the Spirit of God listed when he said, You grieve me. Let me read you his list. You ready? Grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you're sealed unto the day of redemption. Let all bitterness You know what fundamentalists do that grieve the Holy Spirit? We carry bitterness and grudges. He says, in wrath and anger. You still lose your temper? You're still impatient with people? Hey, don't you shake your finger at the drug addict. You're grieving the Holy Spirit Clamor, evil speaking, you gossiping, you cursing, you say words that hurt instead of help. Don't you point your finger at the alcoholic? You're grieving the Holy Spirit. And we walk around with these things. And we wear our fundamentalist badge because we don't do all those bad things that the fleshly people in the world do. But here's the truth We're not pure in our hearts. We may not be guilty about the sins of the flesh like the world, but we carry the sins of the spirit and think it's okay. And it's not okay. And we grieve the Holy Spirit of God, and He doesn't have access to us to use us because of those things that we let ride in our heart. As if it weren't enough to quench the Holy Spirit or grieve the Holy Spirit, we also quench the Holy Spirit. Say, how does a good person like me quench the Holy Spirit? I don't know. We've had two invitations. God spoken to you and you said no? You quenched the Holy Spirit. I don't know. Did you pass somebody and God sent witness to that person and you said no? You quenched the Holy Spirit. You know what? Sometimes the Holy Spirit we can say no and no and no and resist and resist and resist until it's not that he stops speaking, we stop listening. Because we've quenched the Spirit of God. May God help us to understand that the Spirit of God is in us because God wants to use us. Because God wants to bless us. God wants to do exceeding abundantly above all that we can ask or think. God wants to save a lost world God wants to change the lives of people. God wants to be a help and a blessing in cities, communities, all across this country. He just needs his people to plug in. The great poverty of our minds never comes to the place where we're willing to think like God thinks. Here's the last one. The great purpose of our lives. I want you to notice verse 21. Unto him be glory. In the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. You know what the great purpose of my life and your life is? It is to bring glory to God. You know how our generation is living? We are living as if our purpose is to allow God to be good to us Well that's why I'm here on earth. God, I just want you to be good to me. I want you to make it okay for me. I want you to make it convenient for me Hey God, I believed on you. I trusted you. You owe it to me to be good to me. No, he doesn't. Your life is not about just having it good. It is about bringing him glory. That's why from time to time he'll bring us to the seas or to the shores of the Red Sea where we don't know what we're going to do. Because he wants glory from our life. He wants us to trust him and see him work through us and miraculously do things. We're to bring him glory in and through the church. Then God adds this. He says, throughout all ages. Do you see that? Unto him be glory in the church throughout all ages. Now I've really studied that word, and I want you to know that it means it can mean two things. Number one, it can be applied personally. God wants to get glory through all the ages of Mike Edwards' life Can I tell you one of the greatest regrets in my life? I think about it every day of my life. I did not know Christ until I was 23 years old. I wasted my young adult. I wasted the first years of our marriage. I wasted the first years of being my daughter and my father's, or my son's father I wasted my teenage years. I wasted them because I did not know Jesus Christ. God wants to be glorified. I see these young men. I heard Austin play tonight, Evan to play last night. I want to tell you we don't only encourage that because we think young men or are cute, or kids are cute, we encourage that because Austin, that's exactly what your life is to be lived for, to give glory to God. God wants to be glorified in these little children. Preacher, I don't know if you thought about it, but I but I know you have thought about it. But you have thrilled me. And I hope, I hope, I hope You get on that bicycle down there on Sunday and ride it down the aisle. I'm praying you do that. I'm excited for those kids, and I don't mind giving them a bike. I want them to be excited to come to church. I want them to learn to love the Lord. Hey, it says through the church, in the church, church is important. I want children to know that they can glorify God in their lives. I want teenagers to know They can glorify God in their lives. It is an insane father who thinks that the teenage years are a time when your boy can just show wild oats and your girl can just do her thing. No, in their teen years They are to bring glory to the Lord. By the way, when we get old enough to get married and have babies, God doesn't give us children so that we can use them as an excuse not to bring him glory in the church. I may be meddling there. Let me tell you something else. When we're empty nesters God wants us to bring him glory through the church. And let me tell you this. Now I'm going to go to meddling big time. When we're old and everything hurts, God wants to get glory from our lives through the church. There's never a day we retire from God. We may retire from work, we may change speeds, we may have to do some other things, but never one single day do we retire from God Every day of our lives is to bring glory, not only personally, but I also want you to understand that God has been God in every age of this earth. He adds that thought, world without end. Did you know that God did the impossible in creation? Yeah. And by the way, I'm not afraid to say that God created the world in six days and rested on the seventh. And I'm not afraid to say they were twenty-four hours a day. And I don't need to find a gap and I don't need to find an excuse. I just know God. God is able to do the impossible, and he did the impossible by speaking the world into existence. You remember that day? You remember that now I was alive. You remember that day when God did the impossible for Noah? And taught him how to build an ark, and he built an ark and shut him in and saved those eight souls through that flood. Hey, you remember that day God did the impossible for Abraham? And he was an old man and past the years of being able to father a child, and his wife was beyond the years of being able to have a child. Remember that when God did the impossible for them? It wasn't a problem for God. Remember when God did the impossible for Moses and Israel? Remember when God did the impossible for Mary? Remember when God did the impossible for Paul? And for Peter and for John? Remember when God did the impossible and sent a great awakening in our nation? Remember when God did the impossible over and over and over again. Can I ask you, when did that stop? It didn't I have people all the time come up to me and say, Preacher, I don't think revival is possible in this world. I think we've gone past the point where revival is possible. And I want to tell you, from the bottom of my feet to the top of my bald, beautiful head. I want to throttle them. I want to tell them that's exactly what those Israelites said to Moses. It's too late. Nothing can be done. We're going to die on the shores of the Red Sea. And God spoke into their lives. It's not impossible for me. And I don't care who is president, and I don't care who is in Congress, and I don't care what party's running it, and I don't care what China does, I don't care what any of them do. With God it is possible. If God's people stop putting him in a box. Say, God, you can use me. God, you want to use me. And God, I'm going to give myself to you to be used. Let me ask you this. What can He do in your heart and mind? You give God permission to let you dream great dreams and have great visions of how He can use your life Let me ask you this. What is in your life that you're in bondage to? And you just can't seem to break it? You've tried to break it. You've tried to get over it, but it just keeps, it seems like it keeps coming back, and you've just finally surrendered to it. I just want you to know you don't have to. Which one of you have given up on a child who's away from the Lord? Get back on your knees and start praying for that child. Which one of you has given up on your church, given up on your country, given up on your marriage, given up on your boss, given up on your your your your your place of employment, giv things in your life that God has put you in that place to be the difference maker. If you will stop saying, well, think we can do it. Start saying with God all things are possible. I'm just about done. I hate to get done, but I'm just about done. I've got a message. I won't preach it, but it's called Amazed, Afraid, Assured. And here's the thought of it. Jesus is walking towards Jerusalem and they know he's going to be arrested. And the disciples are amazed and man, they're walking with him. We're going back to Jerusalem. And it hits them about 10 steps in that if they go back to Jerusalem and he gets arrested, they're very likely to get arrested as well. And they go from being amazed to being afraid. And then Jesus, sensing the fear in them, says to them, stops them and says, now, listen, let me help you. Let me tell you what's going to get happened or what's going to take place. And he says to him, I don't want you to live in fear. Here's what's going to happen. They're going to arrest me. They're going to arrest me unfairly. They're going to spit on me and beat me and crucify me. Now that's encouraging, isn't it? But here's what he says. But on the third day, I will rise again. You know what we want? We want the third day without the first two. Because we don't think that God can take care of us God can use you. Stop limiting yourself. Well, I don't have much money. God's got the cattle on a thousand hills. Owns the silver and the gold in all the mines. Well, I don't have much education. I don't talk real good. Moses didn't talk good at all. Worked out real well with him. Well this, well that, well this, stop it. You know what you do have? The effectual, fervent power of the Spirit of God working in you. Yes, you can have victory over that sin. Yes, you can see your children honor God. Yes, that away child can come Yes, you can lead that boss to Christ. Yes, you can run a bus route and get kids in here. Yes, you can win your neighbors to the Lord. Yes, you can. break that sin. Yes, you can get rid of that bitterness. Yes, you can see that marriage restored. Yes, you can. Not because of who you are, but because with him. All things are possible. God is able. Would you pray with me Heavenly Father, I pray that you would help us to see it tonight. God, we we so limit you. We so limit you.