Samuel chapter twenty-three, if you would turn in your Bibles first. Samuel twenty-three, the life of David. Uh while you're turning there, I got a nice um A card in the mail. Actually, Monday we got two really nice cards in the mail. And anytime a card has money on it, it's nice. Money in it. And this one says, Dear Pastor Leatherman in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church family, God put on my heart to thank you for broadcasting FBN every day. I have been listening to FBN for about one and a half years. I am blessed every day for the preaching, teaching, and the beautiful worship music. Thank you for helping to share the gospel. You don't need to thank me. I just follow the leading of the Holy Spirit. May God continue to bless you and your family and your ministry. The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ be with you. And she signed her name. And uh just an elderly lady here in the area, I think she lives down Swanton somewhere if I remember correctly, but uh and sent a nice little check there to help with our radio station. Isn't that a blessing And uh we had another one. Uh somebody else had written and and I guess they're listening on the radio or something, but heard some of our messages and uh wrote and asked, sent a nice check and asked if we'd send a list of sermons from Sunday that they'd like to check all some sermons they'd like to get. And so that's always a blessing. So I thought I would share that with you 1 Samuel chapter 23, I want to begin reading in verse number 6. I got a couple things going against me tonight. One is my voice still is not back up and running. How many people notice that? Anyone notice that So we've been preaching revivals uh last night and Monday night, Sunday night, and uh got through with the help of a little friend. My wife made a little concoction for me here. And I said, where did you come up with that recipe? She said, some guy had a cabin down in West Virginia out behind Ankle Mountain where she grew up. And uh he had he'd bring out drugs and so and I don't I don't know what's in there but boy, it sure helps. And um so I'm gonna be slipping on this while we're gone. And um now before any rumors get started, it's not moonshine, it is honey and lemons. Lemon juice and honey there. So I'm gonna do that. And the other handicap, not only my voice, but our cordless mic has gone on the fritz, and we can't figure out what's wrong with that thing So I'm going to stand behind here. So and the third thing going against me is y'all just ate a big meal and all y'all are falling asleep. I already had a couple people say, Preacher, you better keep me awake tonight. So you pray for me. Verse 6, 1 Samuel 23. We're studying the life of David. He's on the run. King Saul is after him. And um we'll pick up in verse 6. And it says, And it came to pass When Abiathar, the son of Ahimelech, who was Ahimelech, who remembers from previous study? He was a high priest there in the city of Nob, the city of priests, where the tabernacle was And uh David had fled there, and there he got some food from Ahimelech and he got Goliath's sword, remember? And then he left, went on, and uh had a little scheme that didn't work But King Saul found out that David had been there, he comes down, and he ends up, and this is just hard to imagine, but King Saul, the king of Israel kills has the high priest of Israel killed and all the priests there in that city, women, children, just a massive slaughter. It's horrendous. So Dave uh David now is on the run, and we pick up here, the son of Ahimelech, the high priest, escaped the slaughter of King Saul. And it says there he fled to David to this town of Keelah, and we'll review that here briefly, that he came down with an ephod in his hand. And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into my hand, for he is shut in by entering into a town that hath gates and bars. And remember, we said Keilah was a highly fortified city. Right? Remember that? And Saul called all the people together to war to go down to Keilah to besiege David and his men And David knew that Saul secretly practiced mischief against him, and he said unto Abathar the priest, Bring hither the Ephod. Then said David, O Lord God of Israel, thy servant hath certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Kelah to destroy the city for my sake. Will the men of Kelah deliver me up into his hand? Will Saul come down as thy servant heard? Now let's just stop there a little bit. What do we remember happened in Keilah? Anybody remember just earlier in this chapter? Philistines remember David went to bed, ceased the city taking their food, David came down Yes. David was on the run from King Saul. He gets word. Somebody comes and tells David, hey the Philistines are attacking Keilah. And David goes over, he's just got a handful of men, and I believe it's a miraculous victory. He gets over there, he defeats the Philistines, protects the city. In fact, um But look up at verse number 5, the last phrase in verse 5, it says, so David saved the inhabitants of Keilah. So keep that in mind. David just risked his life. He acted on faith. He did what King Saul should have done. Went over and defended the city and saved the people. Now look what happens. Verse 11, Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his Saul's hand? Will Saul come down as thy servant hath heard? O Lord God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And the Lord said, he will come down. King Saul's coming down after you, the Lord says. Then look at verse 12. Then said David. Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of King Saul? He just delivered them. He just risked his life. Saved their lives. And look what the Lord says. And the Lord said, what? They will deliver thee up. Isn't that something? That's something. I've entitled the message, God Knows, and I think when I get to the end of the message, the title maybe will make sense. So let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our study of this portion of David's life. Lord, you've recorded in your word for us for a reason. He said all these things are given for our examples that we can learn from them and our faith would grow. So I pray that that would be the case tonight as we study a little bit of an obscure passage here in the Bible. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and you would be the teacher and preacher tonight through my body. I yield my will to you, present my body, and ask with all my heart you fill me with your Holy Spirit. And I pray we would learn from this, and yet you would apply it to our lives that we could live good, godly, victorious Christian lives with the joy of the Lord and please you So help us is my prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. I had to go to Cumberland early this morning. I had a doctor's appointment down there. I was driving back, and I don't know why. But I got thinking about in this old world we live in, there is a lot of unkindness in this world. Has anybody noticed that? Now I want to be careful, because sometimes we can get obsessed with the unkindness. I want to quickly add, there's a lot of kind people in our world. There's a lot of good people, very gracious. Even unsaved people can sometimes be very, very kind, very, very gracious. So I don't want to be unbalanced in my assessment here, but nevertheless, it's undeniable there's a lot of unkindness in the world. In fact, you go back all through history And you find on the part of mankind, you find a consistent and an abundant amount of unkindness It wasn't long after Adam and Eve disobeyed God and sin was introduced to man's experience that unkindness reared its ugly head when Cain rose up against Abel. and killed his own brother. How many people agree with me a brother killing his brother is not very kind? That's an understatement. And then all the way through, all the way through, you find unkindness, unkindness. All the way even into Revelation, you find people crying out to God to be avenged for the martyr and the bloodshed Because of their faith unkindness. Now, here's my question. When I was driving up the hill, up the mountain, coming back up into Garrett County, I got thinking, why are people unkind? Why and and all of us are guilty also, right or wrong. We've been unkind. Why is that? Anybody want to take a shot? Why is there unkindness on the part of mankind? Sin nature, that's the bottom line. Uh I anything else? Anybody else think why somebody might say or do something that's unkind? Jealousy. Jealousy? What's that? They're thinking of their own problems. I I I any others? Self-centered? Pretty much our bottom line answer is it comes back to self-centeredness, selfishness, pride, and the old said nature. Now I put a couple reasons down here, and um, and we're going to end up what you all just suggested, but I put one down. I think sometimes there's unkindness Uh not necessarily deliberately unkind, but sometimes just careless. Do you ever say something without thinking? And boy, you hurt somebody, you realize afterward that wasn't a very kind thing to say. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Didn't deliberately want to be unkind to them. Didn't didn't mean to be. I just spoke without thinking and said something and then afterwards I wrote uh realized it was unkind or acted, just did something and um and then realized boy I I didn't mean that the way it came across and I didn't mean to be unkind And you go back and apologize and try and explain, listen, that that wasn't my intent. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I've done that. I like to joke around. Anyone? Uh notice that a little bit. I like to have a good time. I like to laugh and joke. But sometimes if I'm not careful, I get carried away. And I've had on more than one occasions I've had to actually, some of y'all maybe remember, I've had to apologize from the pulpit where I said it's open jokingly and uh it came across as unkind. So sometimes unkindless un uh there's unkindness not deliberately, not because they're mean or selfish But just careless. Don't think about it and just say or do something not thinking and end up hurting somebody. We all understand that. I think there's another cause of some kind um unkindness And sometimes it is um it's uh because of ignorance. Maybe there's a situation, somebody's dealing with a circumstance or a situation, and I'm not aware of what they're dealing with. And I say or do something meaning well, but it comes across because I didn't know everything that's involved, because I didn't know all the background of what's going on I do something and it comes across as unkind. Anybody follow what I'm saying there? And the intentions may be well, uh, you know, but I just don't know. I saw something the other day, a week or so ago And I don't remember where where it was or what it was. I was reading something. And they had a graph and and uh I sh I wanted to print it out and I didn't. I wished I had put it in my Bible, but they had a graph and it had like this bar across there. And it had a little section here and it says what you know about the situation. Just a little section. Then it had this whole big section and it says what the situation really is. You follow? And what happens a lot of times, the situation involves a whole lot of stuff that I don't know anything about. All I know is that this little bit right here and I make a judgment or I make a statement or I take some actions based on just a little bit of what I know of the circumstance when there's a whole lot more and sometimes I say or do things that that hurt people You follow what I'm saying? So in kindness, sometimes we're just careless, we don't think. Sometimes we mean well, but I just don't have all the information and my actions are misinterpreted or I do something that really isn't helpful comes across as unkind. But the unkindness that we think of is selfishness, is the big, big cause of unkindness. Selfishness. I consider myself Very, very important. Self-importance. Now I'm sure most all of us would never say this, but I'm telling you, we think it I deserve better than this. I deserve to be treated better than this. I deserve that. It's self-importance. We lift ourselves up. Self-love or self-will. I got thinking just on the world scene, how many people are hurt and imprisoned and tortured and killed simply because they don't believe the way I believe? They believe something differently than what I believe. So therefore, uh, you know, there's a whole religion built upon killing the infidels You don't believe the way we do, we're going to kill you. We need to kill the infidels. You don't believe the way we do, therefore we're going to be unkind to you. We're going to take your life Now let me be quick to point out, Christianity does not believe or teach that at all. Our purpose is not to kill unbelievers or kill those or destroy those who don't believe the way we do. Our purpose is to win them over to the truth and to love them and and do good to them and try and win them to Christ. And so uh the self-importance. Uh you don't believe the way I do, so uh therefore you we're gonna be unkind to you. You have something that I want. So I'm going to be unkind to you and people break into homes and steal things and take things. We were just talking and some of you maybe I had forgotten all about this, but there was a fellow as a member of the church here years ago, truck driver, uh down in down south somewhere, and somebody robbed him and shot and killed him in the truck And he had they had they wanted something he had. And so they took not just what he had, but they took his life. Self. Self. You don't do what I want you to do, or you don't treat me the way I want to be treated, and therefore we're unkind. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, there is never justification for unkindness. Never, under any circumstances at all, is a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ justified in being unkind to somebody And so uh, but we come down here and we find King Saul. That leads me to what we're looking at here. Would you agree with me? King Saul was tremendously unkind. He is being incredibly unkind to David. I mean, that's an understatement. He is being deliberately unkind. He has destroyed David's family. He's thrown javelins at him. He's run them out of his home. He's run them out of the city. He's trying to kill them. He's killed priests. He's killed just about an entire city. And he's being deliberately and tremendously unkind. I thought, why is King Saul so unkind? You say, well, he's selfish. Well, yes, but let's boil it down. Number one, I think He's being unkind because of insecurities. I believe King Saul is not right with God. He knows he's not right with God. There's a huge vacuum in his heart and soul And here comes David along, and David has exercised tremendous faith in God. God has used him to defeat Goliath, he's used him to defeat the Philistines, and he sees in David everything he is not He sees in David everything he should be and he is not. And rather than humbling himself and saying, Lord, I want to be right, I want to be what I should be His insecurity swells up and he lashes out and he and uh he is unkind and he and he treats David so unkindly. By the way, this insecurity of King Saul shows itself on occasion. We're going to see it here in a little bit. If you remember reading through your Bible, there's occasions where David had opportunity to kill King Saul, remember? took his sword and his assistant his his uh his bodyguard said kill him here's the chance kill him david says no i'm not gonna touch god's anointing remember and he yelled out King Saul! And King Saul said, David, you're a better man than I am. I'm putting my own words. I'm wrong. I'm wrong. You know what that tells me? He knew. He knew the whole time. He knew the whole time. So King Saul is very insecure, but he has that same problem we all have, that self-importance. I'm the one that deserves to be getting the praise that David's getting. I'm the king, he's not the king. I should be getting this way. And I think it's a little bit of this. I deserve to be treated better than the way I'm being treated. Now listen, I don't know about you, but that strikes a little close to home. We get that way somewhere. We lash out at people because we think that they should be treating us better than the way they're treating. I tell you what helps cure helps me Deal with that. If I just remember that if I was treated the way I deserve to be treated, I'd be burning in hell right now. So the very fact that I'm not being judged for my sins, the very fact that I'm not in hell right now for all the sins I've committed, it doesn't matter how people treat me, I'm better off than I deserve to be. Amen or not And so that self-importance here, now that brings us to our context. And I tried to bring this out when we were reading through here David and his 400 men disgruntled, uh, what were they discontented, they were in debt, and they were distressed. Just a rough motley crew he's got with them. And they go and they act on faith and they sought the Lord and God said, Go deliver uh Kilah from the hand of the Philistines and they acted on faith. They're outmanned, they're outgunned, but they trust God and God gives them a victory and they save this little town And uh David showed them kindness. And the interesting thing is their response back to David is not what you might expect. What would you expect if a handful of band of men, rough ruffian men, under David, they come in and deliver your city or a pretty fortified city, but by miracle of God they deliver you from a powerful enemy How would you think you would respond to that? You would at very least say what? Thank you. Uh you might do some more things. Uh I've not been over there, but I understand in Europe they have m monuments and memorials to the British and American armies that delivered them from the uh from the Nazi, the Germans, when they came over and they'll have statues up of different soldiers and memorial plaques And they want to honor those that risked their lives and gave their lives to defend them. I would imagine in in the center square of Keilah, they would maybe put a statue of David up. Now I'm being facetious. But that's not how they respond at all. Not at all. And so we're going to get to that. There's no rewards, there's no gratitude, and there's no honor shown to David and his men. Now, I like to take a passage as we're working our way through here, the life of David. I want to take these verses I read and a little bit of time we have, and I like to break it down into bite-sized segments and then see how it applies to our lives. And what I have here first of all in the first part of verse number seven, I put this as my first point. Notice the report that comes to Saul. Look at verse seven there with me And it was told Saul that David was come to Kelap. I thought that just caught my attention. It was told Saul. Come back over to verse number one of chapter 23. And notice it says, then they told David. Now you got here, somebody shows up and they told Saul. Come down to verse number nine. And David knew that Saul secretly practiced against them. Verse 10, David said, O Lord, thy servant hath certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keelah. Man, there's a lot of word being spread around here. I got thinking about that. They don't have any social media. Nobody's tweeting that Saul, that David is down in Keilah. How did Saul find out? How did David find out? Oh, there's no social media going on. Nobody's posting it on Facebook. Did you see on Facebook David's and Caleb? There's none of that. In fact, they don't even have cell phones And alive. Somebody will something something will happen and uh I'll call someone up. Hey, did you hear? Yeah, I already had five calls. I already know. They didn't have cell phones. They didn't even have phones attached to the wall They didn't have telegraph. They didn't have any United States Postal Services. No carrier pigeons. How in the world is this word being spread? You know what I found? You know what I came to the conclusion? People talk. People talk. And back if you read your history books, it's fascinating how they would travel from town to town. And when somebody would show up in a town, uh one of the first things they would ask them if they came from another part, they say, what's the news from back east? I used to like to read about mountain men out in western out in uh Western uh America in the mountains in uh in uh the Rocky Mountains and stuff. Do you ever read those? Jeremiah Johnson and all that stuff. I used to like all that and I'd read the those guys were weird. But um And I'd like to I used to like to read Louis Lamore and all that stuff. And one of the things they would do, somebody come from another area, first thing they wanted to know was what was the news? What's the news? And I think that's the case here. People are going back and forth. And uh people knew. People knew what was going on. I think uh there was no doubt King Saul had spies out, he had folks out there Trying to find David, tracking what's going on. And people talk. So this report comes to King Saul that David is down here in Keila. Then the second thing I notice in the last part of verse 7 and down through verse 8, I notice Saul's response to this information. He receives the report. He gets this report. David's down in Keilah. Notice how Saul responds. The Bible doesn't tell us that Saul knew what David did in Kelan. There's no record here that Saul was told that David had delivered the city from the Philistines. But you'll never convince me Saul didn't know about that. I'm absolutely certain Saul knew exactly what had taken place, word had spread These folks in Keilah had thought they were goners. David shows up and I'm telling you, there's no doubt in my mind that knew that Saul knew exactly What David had done down there. He knew about David's concern for his fellow Israelites I don't know what's going on in Saul's head, but I'm thinking Saul's thinking, you know, that really is my responsibility to do that And here he saw David had showed concern for his fellow Israelites. He shown that he had saw that uh he was aware, no doubt, that David had ex had shown bravery against these Philistines. Uh David had a miraculous victory. Now what would you think? Now try and get you in my mode of thinking here. What would you think the normal response for a king of a country whose one of his T cities was miraculously delivered by a very, very brave band, small band of men risked their lives and they protected that. What would be the natural response from the king of that city, w of that country, would be what? You'd be very grateful for that. You would be uh uh this is an occasion on behalf of the nation On behalf of the Israelite people, we want to thank you for what you did for our country. But he doesn't. That is the exact opposite response. And you know, that's pretty much been the experience of God's people throughout history. God's people, or God's people, do something that's a blessing and that's a help. And those that are opposed to the Lord and the things of God, they never see the good that's done. All they can do is try and find some fault with it. Right or wrong? You know what I'm talking about? It's been true all through history. It's been true of Christians. You know, the newspaper. They find some Christian or some pastor or some Christian leader messes up and does something stupid. And man, it's on all the pages and all the headlines and all the breaking news. But every week of the year there are churches, good people, good Christians, good churches, good pastors that are helping people and feeding people and seeing souls saved and drunkards being delivered from liquor. And you know what? That never makes the news, does it? They never come up and say, thank the Lord for the church that's winning souls and that's seeing lives changed. They never do that. In fact, the Lord Jesus Christ How many times did Jesus heal somebody? And the only thing the Pharisees could do was rebuke him and find fault with him because they were a sinner, or it was on a Sabbath And they never came and thanked him and praised him for the good that he did and the and the and the miracle that was performed. You say, Brother Lemon, that's not right. That's just not right. Yeah, it's not right, and that's the way it is. And so what do we do? We just keep on doing good. Just keep on helping the people of Keilah. You keep on winning souls. You keep on helping others. And whether they praise you or they uh persecute you, we just keep on doing what's right, right? And so King Saul hears this, and there ought to be praise, and there ought to be gratitude, but Saul is in such a pitiful state. He has no concern, no interest in the well-being of his country. He has no concern in the well-being of his people. And he's selfish. I put down selfishness as a terrible frame of mind. Selfishness is a terrible frame of mind to have. Look what happens here. I noticed that his selfishness distorted his view of God. Look with me at verse number seven, would you? It was told Saul that David was come to Keelah, and we're assuming he knew what happened there. And Saul said, notice who does he evoke here right away? God. All of a sudden Saul's talking about God. God hath delivered him into my hand. Is that true or false? Did God deliver him into King Saul's hand? No. No. Saw was so self-focused, so absorbed with his own his own thinking, his own self. He was so absorbed with himself. That he got in his head that now God had somehow lined up with his obsession with destroying David. He is in his imagination, in his self-delusion, has convinced himself that God is okay. In fact, God is working with him and helping him destroy David. The fact of the matter is it was the exact opposite. God was protecting David from King Saul. And I'll tell you what selfishness will do. Selfishness will destroy our view of God. And you'll be amazed, and maybe some of you not so much, but you'll be amazed as pastor things and uh particularly letters I get and and uh things that come to me that people are trying to Use God and have God justify the most wicked, ungodly, perverse sins you can possibly imagine. I got a letter it's summer several months ago, back in the summer. Or maybe it was the beginning of the summer, midsummer, I don't remember, not too long ago, but it was a letter from a uh church in Denver addressed to me, Dennis Leatherman, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. It was a it was a um Universalist Church in Denver. And I looked them up, the address, and found them on Google Earth, and I stuck a pin right in it. No, I didn't. But it was a universalist church in Denver, and they wrote me a letter, and they were condemning me and judging me. They said, if there is a hell, you are the one person going to hell. And they said, you judge others and you're condemning others, and they judged me and condemned me because of their supposed that I was judging and condemning people. And all it was was a simple position we hold that the Bible clearly teaches that fornication is sin. Of all forms, fornication of all forms is sin, and it must be confessed and repented of for God to forgive. And yet they were using scripture and they were turning God to support a very perverse, fornicatious lifestyle. And so when we get so absorbed with ourselves, if we're not careful, we can begin to use God to justify things that are He clearly condemns. Turn with me if you would and keep your place here real quickly to Romans chapter number one. We see this clearly. Where uh If we're not careful, we get absorbed with ourselves, we get so focused, we get humanistic in our thinking that we begin to distort an accurate view of God. Romans chapter number one, and verse twenty is a classic verse. It's a good one to memorize. It says, For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen. by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead. Now look at verse 21. Because that when they knew God, question, did King Saul know God? Yeah, he's anointed of God. He prophesied. Kingsaul knew God, because that when they knew God, look at this They glorified him not as God. In other words, they didn't hold him in the position of God. They had replaced God's role as God with themselves. What's the next statement say? Because when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful. Oh Now look what happens. And became what? Vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. In other words, their thinking was affected And their perspective and their understanding about God was distorted. And look what it says. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. Oh, Saul sounds religious. Oh, he sounds wise. God's delivered him into my hands. You know what my response is, Saul, you're a fool. You're fighting against God. It says they changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man. God has become a tool in the hands of King Saul in his mind. He's using God To justify what he's doing. So selfishness will distort our view of God. I put this down. Number two, selfishness abuses the trust of others. Come back to Samuel here. And look what happens. He said, God hath delivered him into my hand, for he is shut in by entering into a town that hath gates and bars. God's doing this. God isn't doing this, King Saul And Saul, look at this, called all the people together to war to go down to Keilah to besiege David and his men. Who are these people he's calling together to war? Who would that be? It'd be his military, right? That's who's going to go to war So he's calling up the draft, he's calling in the guys, arm themselves, and he's getting all out there. Let me ask you a question. Is he calling these men to risk their lives Disrupting their lives and risking their lives so that the good of Israel can be forwarded? No It's for his own purposes, his own selfish, distorted purposes, his own vengeful purposes. You know what he's doing? He's using other people He's using them for his own goals, his own purposes. You know what that is? That's selfishness. Selfish people use others to accomplish their own ends. Uh selfish people use and abuse other people. I'm telling you, if they would go to war with David, now they don't, God's got other plans, but if they would, a lot of these people would lose their lives simply for Saul's own wickedness. Can I make this statement? Selfishness hurts other people. It hurts other people My last one I put down, which is what I just said. Selfishness hurts innocent people. Look at the last part of verse 8 Go down to Keilah to besiege David and his men. That word besiege is translated some places to show hostility towards We're going to go down and we're going to be mean and we're going to be unkind and we're going to hurt them and we're going to kill them if we can Selfishness produces unkindness. Selfishness is never grateful. Selfishness hurts innocent people. I put this down in my notes, and the Lord spoke to my heart about this. You and I must fight selfishness tooth and nail. We cannot tolerate it in our lives. We must fight pride, tooth and nail And we must fight ingratitude. In fact, I'm coming to the opinion that the root of almost every sin is simply ingratitude. Not grateful for what I have and not grateful for what the Lord has done and what the Lord has done for me. So you have King Saul's response, he gets this report that David is down in Keilah, and no doubt he knows what happens there. His response is to uh is to um uh uh is a selfish response. He wants to go down after David. Then number three, I notice in verse 9, 10, and 11, David's return to prayer. We're seeing this more and more on the part of David. How many times, how many folks here have heard me say repeatedly, this whole section of David's life is preparation for the king? Anybody? That's exactly what's taking place. And you know what's happening? David is learning his lessons David is passing the test. Early on, he's reacting. He's leaning on his own understanding. He did some stupid stuff. But now he's in that cave of Adullum for a little while. He's alone God's dealing with them. He's seeing things a little bit and he's starting to learn. And he returns the prayer. We saw this back in the first part of the chapter. Look at verse number nine here. It says, And David knew that Saul secretly practiced a mischief against them, and said to Abiathar the priest, that's the high priest's son, Bring hither the Ephod And uh then the David said, O Lord God of Israel, thy sermon hath continu certainly heard that Saul seeketh to destroy Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake. I notice a few things about David's prayer. First of all, I notice the concern of God for David. Come back, if you would, to chapter 22. And look with me at verse number five. This is David who had messed up in chapter 21. He gets to that little cave in Adullah. He's been alone for a little while. He's reassessing things. And look in verse 5 of 22. And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in this hole, depart, get thee to the land of Judah. Who do you think said sent Gad by to David? The Lord did. You know what? The Lord's concerned about David. And he sends Gad by, and Gad, the prophet of God, gives David direction. And David trusts him and follows the direction of the Lord. Now, Gad's not in the picture, but uh God had sent Abiathar, the son of the priest. And now he's there and he has this thing, this ephod. How many people read that and thought, what in the world is an ephod? Anyone think that? I looked at it And uh to be honest with you, there's a lot about the ephod that we really aren't certain of. It was a type of garment that the high priest wore. It was kind of like a vest In fact, I wanted to get one of the um master club vests that the kids wear. It was very similar, I believe in style as one of those uh uh it was like a vesture a vest type thing like the master clubs kid uh kids wore it was worn primarily by the high priest It had various gems and jewels on there representing the tribes of Israel. And it was, and if I understand, and it's a lot, like I said, there's a lot of questions about this. We're not told a lot about it in the Bible. But apparently this ethod played a role in God communicating with his people. The priest would wear it into the temple and for various reasons and different scenarios. In fact, other people would wear it. I think David wears it at some point. And I don't know how, and I don't know exactly why it was this way, but this FI had some role in certain circumstances where God would communicate his will or give direction to his people. with this ephod. And again, I really can't tell you more about it than that. But other than this is what I'm getting at. And this is what stood out to me When David needed this, when David needed to hear from God, God was there. God had a man there. Every time David needed direction from the Lord, the Lord had somebody there, God had some way. to give David direction. I wrote in my notes, God has not abandoned David. God has not abandoned David. He had given his word to David, you will be king And God is with them the whole way. Now let me leave this. Let me try and make application here. How many folks here, you're saved, you know it. Say amen. You know, God said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. That's a word and that's a promise of God. And regardless of what we may go through, regardless of how confusing things may be We can rest on that and be assured God will never abandon us. There's one of my favorite verses in all the Bible, Hebrews 13, 5. Jesus said, I will never leave thee. And David is finding that to be true. God had not abandoned him. And God sends the the people by at the right time. So the first thing I noticed in David's prayer is God had a concern for David. He had the right man there with the right materials so that David could get a hold of God and get direction. The second thing I notice in David's prayer is the contrast between David and Saul What a huge contrast. Saul is assuming that God is with him. Oh, God put David down here so I can kill him. So you're you're wrong. You have a wrong assumption. David doesn't assume anything. David come and asks God for clear direction. You know what I think King Saul should have done? He should have sought the Lord, say, Lord, how should I be responding to David? How many people think God would direct him differently than the way he's going? Sure. Listen, let me say this. Don't ever assume you know what God wants you to do. Don't ever assume. Always make sure I've got God's will. I've got God's leading. Go to the Word of God. That is why it's so important. That we read and study and know this book, because this is God's ephod, so to speak. This is how God communicates to us. This is how God leads us and directs us. Through his word. So we have this contrast. David asks for clear direction. Saul assumes God's all for whatever he's doing. The third thing I notice in David's prayer is the consideration of David Now this gets interesting. You get in the heart and the attitude, you sort of pick up David's perspective, how his thinking is. Look at verse 10, the first part. He says, Then said David, O Lord God of Israel. Look down at verse 11 in the middle of the verse. Oh Lord God of Israel. And then come back up to verse 10. He says, O Lord God of Israel, thy what? My servant. You're not going to find Saul using that term. David says, I'm your servant. Oh Lord God. This is a term. He's referring to God with great respect. You are the Lord God of Israel. And he says, thy servant. And that is a phrase of humility on David's part. The best thing you and I can do before the Lord to find direction is humble ourselves. Say, Lord, you show me. Oh, Lord God, I need you. Look down at verse 10. I thought this was interesting. Notice that the last part of verse 10, he's praying. He says, Thy servant has certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keelah. Look what he says. To destroy the city for what? My sake. David's feeling a little personal responsibility here. Who is Saul blaming for all his problems? David. David's saying, man, this whole city's in danger by King Saul for my sake because of what I did. And he says that repeatedly. David has learned the important characteristic of taking responsibility. Taking responsibility. We live in a world today that blames everybody and everything else for us. And David is not that way. He humbles himself before the Lord. I'm your servant. You are the Lord God. Lord, it was my, I feel responsible for this here. And you know what I see? I just see a man of great compassion. And he's concerned not just for his own well-being, but he's concerned for this city. Now the last thing, and I am with this, is the revelation of the treachery. of these folks here in Keilah. Look at verse 12, the last part. David said, Will the men of Keilah deliver me up and my men to the hand of Saul? Man, my, if I didn't know this, I'd have thought, no, there's no way. Not after what David did for them. And look what the Lord says. The Lord said, they will deliver thee up. And alive, I know I don't want to talk about Keilah. I want to talk about these people and their response. But what I want to see here, what I want us to notice here, is something about the Lord. And that is this. God knows. God knew what these people were going to do. God knew if David stayed there, he knew how that whole thing would play out. God knew that Saul, if David stayed there, that Saul would come down. I put it this way, God knows all scenarios. God knows what will happen tomorrow if I make certain decisions, and God knows what would happen if I made other decisions. God knows every possible scenario. You stand here. I wonder what would happen if I went down this road. God knows. I wonder what would happen if I went down this road. God knows what would be, God knows what could be, God knows what will be. He knows the outcome of every possible scenario you and I would ever face. You and I would ever face. So you say, what does that have to do to me? So what? I'll tell you what it does have to mean. If God knows every possible scenario of every decision I make, Looks like to me it'd be pretty smart on my part to look for God look to God for direction, right? God knows if I make this decision, He'll know what comes out. If I make this decision, He'll know what the results of that would be. If I make this decision, He knows what those results will be. I don't know what those will be. So it looks like it'd be smart of me, say, God, which is the best decision for me to make? Because you know the outcome of every one of them. Follow my thinking? So the wise man is going to look to the Lord for direction. Secondly, I put this: the wise man is going to listen to the Lord for direction. Lord, you show me which direction to go. Here's the problem. Sometimes God shows us what we should do and we don't agree with them. Ever been there? Feel like God used to do this and I think, oh, I can never do that. And I found out it's usually best, let me take that back. I found out it's always best to listen to what God says Look to him, find direction, and then when he gives it to you, shows me what I should do. Best thing is go ahead and do what he says. Don't argue with them. Don't try and rationalize it. And the last of all, I put this down, the wise man allows the Lord to direct him. Lord, direct me. Lord, show me. You know the outcome. You know the outcome. David prayed, he listened, and he responded. I was reading about folks over in Ghana, West Africa. We got missionary, the Hernies are over there, we just had them with us here not long ago. And over in West Africa, there's heavy Christian influence in that country, uh, from the leadership on down. And um I was reading this article and they said that people in Ghana Like to name their kids after religious stuff. And they said there was one fellow, his name was Hail Mary. And he had a plumbing shop. It was called the Hail Mary Plumbing Shop. Another guy's name, they named him in the Ghana language, I Love Jesus, was his name. You could re f they said you could refuel your car at the God is great gas station. I don't know, I'd get gas there I think And he said there was an American over there, and he was touring the country, and he had a guide, and the guide's first name was this, God knows. Imagine having that for a name. Everything you do. Hey, God knows. What's your name? God knows. God knows. I don't know about you, but uh might make you think, huh? God knows. Corey Denboom. Anybody recognize that name, Cory Tenboom She said she said this, always trust an unknown future to a known God. That's good advice. And David's learning that. Lord, you lead me. You direct me. I'm going to trust you. I'm not going to lean on my own understanding. God show me. What's going to happen? What should I do? And that's great advice for you and I. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you would teach us to pray. Lord, help us and teach us to wait on you and let you lead us. And Lord, when you give us warnings in your word, help us to heed those warnings. God, when you give us instructions and things to do, help us to follow those instructions and do what you say. Help us to trust you, Lord, to wait on you. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say this evening, preacher, I've got some situations in my life, I've got some scenarios? I believe God knows how they'll play out. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll wait on the Lord and let him lead me and not lean on my own understanding, but just trust him to direct me and lead me. Because he knows what's best. Is there any like that? Now the uplifted hand, I have some scenarios, I got some situations. God bless you. It's part of life. Part of life. There's some here tonight say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. God knows. He can show us. He tells us in his word how we can know for sure our sins are forgiven. That when we die we go to heaven, not to hell, and we can have eternal life here on this earth. Turny here tonight say, Preacher, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven, that when I die, go to heaven and not to hell And you'd like for me to pray that God would help you settle that in your heart. Is there anything like that? Have the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. Pray for me. Father in heaven.