This is our memory verse. I hope you're working on it, trying to memorize this. Verse 17 says, Well, in fact, let's read this together. All right. I know we quoted it, but let's read it again together. Verse 17, James chapter 1, all together Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. I want to speak this morning on this subject. God sure is good to us. God sure is good to us. Every good gift and every perfect gift. cometh down from the Father of lights. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, Lord, it sure is a blessing to be in the house of God. The fellowship with your people has been so encouraging Lord, the music has blessed my heart, the special. And now, Lord, as we look into your word, I pray that your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds to what you have for us. Lord, that we could know you a little bit better, understand who you are and what you're like, and just a little bit better, that we would grow in our faith in you And be a good witness to this community in our world. So fill me with your spirit is my prayer this morning, Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart. Again, in this hour, I pray you'd speak through me to each and every heart. Change our lives. Help us, Lord, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Whenever we were a child, I imagine most of us or many of us here, when we were a child, we were taught little what I call poem prayers Anybody know what I'm talking about? For instance, before we went to bed, what was a little prayer? Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul decay. Anybody learn little prayers like that when you were little? There was another one that we were taught. Now I'm not big To be honest with you, I'm not big on quoting little prayers and memorizing little prayers. I we tried to teach our boys just talk to the Lord from your heart, though we they learned these, but um I think it's just good to pour your heart out to God But nevertheless, we learned these. Another one that we learned as a child, many of us, was before we ate a meal By the way, I read this past week where H. A. Ironside, anybody recognize that name? Great preacher, years gone by, he's president of Moody Institute, Bible Institute, years ago, back in the mid-90s But uh he was down south somewhere uh preaching, he had lunch, he went in a restaurant, and uh he sat down to eat, and there was another fellow there, the place was kind of crowded, and he had one There was one seat at the table open. The fellow said, Do you mind if I sit here with you? He said, No, sure. And he had a seat and uh uh H. Ironside, his food came, and he bowed his head. For a moment and quietly thanked the Lord for his meal, and he looked up and the fellow is staring at him. And he says, Do you have a headache? And he's he said, No, I feel fine. He says, Is there something wrong with your food? He goes, No, why? He says, Well I saw you put your head down there for a few moments and he says, I just thought maybe you had a headache He goes, no, I was thanking the Lord for the food that he provided. He says, I always thank the Lord for the food before I eat it. And the fellow said, well, I never do that. I work hard for my food. I work hard for my money. I earn it I don't have to thank anybody for it. I just eat it. And H. A. Ironside said, well, you're a lot like my dog. That's exactly what he does So I'm grateful that as a child was taught to thank the Lord for our food before we ate it. And one of the little poems that we were taught was this. God is great. Say it with me. God is great and God is good. And we thank him for this food. And then sometimes you'd tack on and bless all the missionaries and grandma and grandpa and you go down the list. God is great, and God is good. And we thank him for this food. You know, actually, that little poem prayer, as I call it, tremendous truths in that little poem. Do you agree with me? God is great. He's great in his person. He's great in his works He's great in his love and his thoughts and his plans towards us. He's great in his power, his wisdom His understanding and his purposes. God surely is great. Would you agree with me? God is great, and God is good. God is good. He's good to us. And we thank him for our food. You know, we would you agree with me? We ought to be thankful. God is so great and God is so good. The only proper, appropriate response To the greatness and the goodness of God is gratitude and thankfulness on our part. preached along these lines not too long ago. And I I I'm of the opinion, I I'm convinced, the basis of the Christian life is not duty to God or obligation to God, although we do have duties and we do have obligations, but that's not the basis and the motive of living the Christian life The basis and the motive of living the Christian life is gratitude for God's goodness to us. That ought to be our every motive. Say, why do you live for God? Why do you try to live for God? Why do you try to because he's been so good to me. I'm grateful for what he's done. I want to live for him and please him because of the goodness of God. In that, I'm not big on little poems and little poetic prayers. I teach your kids to pour their heart out. Just say thank you to God. But that's a good little statement there. God is great. God is good. And we thank him for our food. I believe you and I as believe how many folks here you're saying, you know it? Say amen So anybody here would consider yourself a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ? You say I'm seeking to live for the Lord, I want to follow the teachings of Christ. Anybody here feel consider, I would like to consider myself a disciple of Christ Not just a believer, but I want to live for him. I want to follow his teachings and his instructions, his leadership. And I believe as believers in general and as disciples in particular We ought to have a desire to know God. And by that I mean this. Know what he's like. Know who he is and what he's like. What are his characteristics? How does God operate? What does he expect of us? What does he like? What does he dislike You know you did that. We did that when we first met our spouse. We're young. We're kind of getting romantically interested. Anybody remember those days some a long time ago? And what we do, we'd ask questions. Well, what's your favorite color? Oh, it's pink. What's your favorite food? Um, peanut butter and jelly, you know. And uh we'd ask, any anybody know what I'm talking about? We wanted to know them. We want to know what they were like and what they liked and get to know more about them because we were interested in them, interested in having a relationship with them. Well, as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, as a disciple of Jesus Christ, we want to know more about our Savior, what he is like. What are his interests? What does he dislike? Of course the Bible gives us all that information. Paul, the Apostle Paul said in uh in um Philippians chapter 3, he said that I may know him. Chapter 3, verse 8, and then verse 10, he said, This, I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ. Then down a few verses later he says, that I may know him and the power of his resurrection and the fellowship is of his suffering. Paul was Telling those believers, Aaron Philippi, he was saying, I have a hunger in my heart, I have a desire in my heart to know the Savior, what he's like. To know Christ. I believe that you and I as believers, we ought to want to know what our God is like and what our Savior is like. You know, I I'm I worry sometimes about someone who claims to be born again, claims to be a child of God, and has no interest whatsoever in the things of God. That bothers me. There's something wrong with that mentality. Paul was hungry to know what God was like. Now, let's look at our passage here. And we're thinking about God is so good. God is good. We're going to learn this morning that our God, our Savior, is good to us. Now our text here, our passage, it's a transition passage. The verses leading up to it there, verse number 13. And down through verse number 16 are uh our transitioning. Verse 17 says tells us that God is the author of everything that is good. How many people have something good in your life? You say, I can find at least one thing in my life that's good. Anyone at all? That's the majority. You can trace, you and I can trace every good thing in our life we can trace back to God He is the author. Every, every good gift and perfect gift is from above. And so John in James 1, 17, he's telling us that God is good. He's the author of everything good in our life. But you come back to the previous verses. And you find he's talking about the evil that is in the world that is off in the rise. Look at verse number 13. Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. Don't ever say that God led you to do something sinful. Don't ever say that. Well, God's tempting me to do evil. No, God never does that. Look what he goes on. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of what? His own lust. And enticed. Then when that lust got conceived, it bringeth forth sin. And sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. And then look at verse 16. He gives us strong caution. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Don't be wrong on this matter. Would you agree with me? Those verses there I just referenced, they're kind of ugly. Anybody agree with me? That's talking about the lust of our heart and sin and temptation and death. He's talking about the evil That is not just in our world, but listen, the evil that's in our own hearts. That's in our own hearts. Let no man say we're tempted, I'm tempted of God. For God tempteth no man, neither is he tempted. But we are tempted, we're drawn away of our own lust and enticed. And do not err, my beloved brethren. Don't mess up on this matter of temptation. Don't mess up on this matter of sin. Don't you mess up on that. Do not err, my beloved brethren. Then he transitions to verse 17. Every good gift. It's all about the evil, the sinfulness. But every good gift is from above. Can I suggest this? Every evil thing in the world we can trace back to the devil Every evil, sinful, wicked thing in the world we can trace back to the influence of Satan. Every good gift is from above. We can trace the good things in our lives to our God. He's the author of all that is good. God is the author of all that is good I want to notice three things about the goodness of God. Here's my title. I like the title. God is so good to us. God is so good to us. Number one, I'd like for us to consider the definition of God's goodness. Now, what do we mean? What does the preacher mean when he says God is so good to us? What do we mean by that when we say God is good? Well, Mark chapter 10 and verse 18, a fellow came to the Lord Jesus Christ, and he said to him, Good master! He called Jesus good. And Jesus responded, and he said, and I'm putting in my own words here a little bit, he said, Why do you call me good? Why are you calling me good? And then he made this statement: There is none good but one. And that is God. Now, just a little aside on that text there, Mark 1018. Just a little aside, what was Jesus saying when this fellow came up to Jesus, said, Good master, Jesus said, hold it, why are you calling me good? There's none good but one, and that's God. What was Jesus saying about himself? He was saying he's God. He said what he was doing was saying, are you calling me good because you understand that I am God? Or do you have a misconception that somehow we are good in and of ourselves? And so he's referencing his deity there indirectly. But he makes that statement: there is none good but God. God is good. Now, again, what do we mean by that? When we say God, anybody know that song? God is so good. God is we sing it with me, God is so good. God is so good, he's so good to me. What do we mean by that? Lewis Howe, our missionary down in New Zealand, have opportunity to go down, he has a little saying, he signs just about all his correspondence with this. God is good all the time, all the time God is good. In fact, I think one of the last times I went down, Brother James brought some bought some hats that said God is good. Right? Didn't you, James? Did you? No, you didn't Never mind. James didn't do that. He never does anything for me. But um, no, I'm kidding. Uh we had some hats. I thought you got them for me. We took them down and said, God is good all the time All the time, God is good. What do we mean by that? What does Lewis Howe mean when he says God is good? Well, I think there's two aspects to it. If you wouldn't keep your place here. We're going to look at a number of verses quickly this morning. Would you come back to Psalms with me, the book of Psalms? And chapter 119, Psalms, if you open your Bible, right smack dab in the middle, you'll be in Psalms most likely Psalms 119 is the longest chapter in the book of Psalms. It's the longest chapter in the Bible. Psalms is the largest book in the Bible But if you go to Psalms chapter 119 and look with me, if you would, at verse number 68. Psalms 119 is the Word of God chapter in the Bible. Nearly every verse, I think maybe every verse, maybe with a few exceptions, references the Word of God in one way or another. And in verse number 68 The psalmist makes this statement, Psalm 119, verse 68. Speaking to God, he says, Thou art good. And then he tacks on another statement. Thou art good and doest good. Teach me thy statutes Now, he tells us two things about what we mean when we say God is good. When he says thou art good, he's talking about the nature of God. An attribute of God. God in his very nature is good. Then he says, and doest good That is talking about the actions of God, the behavior of God. His deeds are good God's very nature is very uh characteristic of his very essence is goodness. It's a i it's part of his nature And because God is good in his very nature, his makeup, that produces good actions And good deeds. Thou art good and doest good. I put in the margin of my Bible beside that verse: God is good in his nature and God is good in his actions. Thou art good and doest good. Now, God is good in his very nature. I looked up the word good. What does the word good mean? Well, in this case, when referring to God, it means this: to be morally excellent. God is morally excellent. There is nothing bad. There is nothing evil. There is nothing unkind. There is nothing unfair. There is nothing unjust about God. He is morally excellent. He is good. Nobody can ever honestly say God's been bad to me. Nobody can say that. Because he is good in his very nature. God cannot contradict his nature. There is no being in existence that is perfectly good in their very nature as God is. God cannot be anything but good It's his nature, it's his makeup. I was out, uh there's two things. I told the ushers back there this morning early when folks were coming in, there's two things I fight every Sunday morning. I mean all-out battle. Total commitment, fighting it with every ounce of my being. One is the devil. How many people understand the devil fights the preacher on Sunday morning? Yeah, he fights the Christians coming out. Some of y'all have been fighting them trying to get the church here this morning. I fight the devil every Sunday morning. I mean I fight him tooth and nail And I also, the other thing I fight every Sunday morning is is leaves out there at the door. I fight those leaves, they blow in that door there, they're all over. Anyone ever come in here see me fighting those leaves ever I was out there this morning. I've got this big weapon. It's called a leaf blower. I crank that thing. That thing will blow a car over. And I got there and I blow those leaves. I'll take hip out. I'll be blown. Get them all blown out. Come back in, put it away, back over, and they're all right back again. This morning I was out there blowing those leaves. The wind's blowing them. I'm blowing them. They're blowing back. I didn't cuss, but I was getting mad at them. I'm blowing I'm working those things away. And I got thinking about our message this morning. I tell you I had a little bit I had a little bit of a stirring of God in my heart blowing those stupid leaves this morning I got thinking, I don't know why God's so good to me. I got thinking about, while I'm blown away there, I was thinking about things in my life and what God has done for me. And I thought, I wonder why God's so good to me. I look at myself, I look in the mirror, I look at my life, and I think, man, I look, and God's been so anybody here, God been good to you? Does anybody know what I'm talking about when I say that? I don't know why God's been so good to me. Anybody understand what I'm saying? I thought, I don't know why God's so good to me. I got thinking, I know why he's so good to me. Not because I deserve his goodness, but he's good to me because he is good. And his very nature. He can't be anything other than good because it's his makeup, it's his nature. Nobody's ever going to stand before God at the judgment and say, God, you weren't good to me. That is a lie of the devil. By the way, that's what the devil tried to convince Adam and Eve. God's not being good to you. He won't let you eat that fruit. Well, he knows. If you ate that fruit, you'd be way better off He's not being very good to you. I'm telling you, anytime that thought comes to our mind that God is not good, I'm telling you right now, that is a lie of the devil. Don't you believe that God is good in his very nature. He can't be anything other than good. God does not have to try to be good. Anybody say to your kids, you went, you dropped them off, or you They're going somewhere. Now you be good. Anybody uh say that? Yeah. Any of you fellas, your wife said, Be good. Uh to Yeah. You be good You don't have to tell God to be good because He is good. God doesn't have to try to be good. Anybody here in a situation you're surrounding someone, they just get on your nerves? And you're and you just want to you want to bark at them or you want to be grouchy to them and you say, Nope, I'm a Christian, a disciple, I need to be nice and I need to be good, and I have to work at being good. Anybody know what I'm talking about Yeah, don't look at your spouse. God doesn't have to try to be good. He doesn't have to put it on. It just is. What an amazing God we have. He's good in his very nature. Not only do we mean that God, when we say God is good, not only do we mean that he is good in his nature, but we mean he is good in his actions. All through Scripture, we see the goodness of God. We see his kindness. We see his love and his mercy, his generosity. We complain. Anybody well we complain sometimes that um oh I wish I had a nicer car. Wish my wife would buy me a nicer car. Or uh, oh, if we only had a little nicer house. Oh, if I just had better anybody, do it anybody here ever complain? Raise your hand if anybody here has ever complained. See, some of y'all are are not telling the truth We complain and we gripe, but the fact of the matter is God's been pretty good to us. He's been pretty good to us. He's been pretty generous to us. Did you know? Uh just the fact that we're saved is pretty good. We've heard the gospel. We've had the opportunity to hear the truth of Jesus Christ. There are millions and hundreds of millions, maybe billions of people in the world, have not had the opportunity of eternal life. Like you and I have had. God's been pretty good to us. You know we live, I there's no doubt in my mind, greatest nation in the world We are free. We have prosperity. We gripe about things and we worry about things. But I'm here to tell you, we still got it pretty good. God's been pretty good to us. God is good in his nature and it produces goodness in his actions. God's actions are rooted in his nature. God is good. God is good. So number one, what do we mean by the def what do what do we mean by God is good? What's the definition of goodness? He's good in his nature, his very makeup, and it produces goodness in his actions. Number two, quickly I want us to consider the display of God's goodness. I suggest to you, first of all, that we can see God's goodness in his creation. In Genesis chapter number one, verse 31, when God was done creating the world, it says, And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. I tell you what, I don't know how you can't. I'm so captivated with the night sky anymore. Since I got these new lenses in my eyes, I am captivated by the night sky And I look up there and I see, and you can't look at the beauty of the night sky, the awesomeness of it, and not say, God is great and God is good. You see the beautiful we lived in we had the privilege to live in Colorado for a few years, Boulder, Colorado. We love every chance we had, we go up in the mountains. We were right at the foothills, and we go up in the mountains And man, the beauty of those mountains and the beauty of those trees. I think every person, every American, ought at some point make it out to the Rocky Mountains and just see them. And you see the goodness of God in creation. Brother Wilbur and I like to uh watch the birds coming in to our bird feeders And um he's got more and nicer ones than I do, but um they come in there and those little birds and you look at them and the beauty of their feathers and the coloring of them And the ability, and you look at that and say, man, what a good God created these little creatures. I like to work in the flower bed, I'm not very good at it. But I like to work in the flowers. And man, you look at some of these flowers and the beauty in these flowers. And you can't help but say, what a good creator. We see God's goodness in creation. We see God's I think it's not a coincidence that a lot of outdoors people and country people that spend time, a lot of them fear God. They're not all saved, but they see the hand of God. They see the goodness of God. And they appreciate it. God's goodness is displayed in creation. Now, all of creation's been stained by man's sin. There's no doubt about it. This whole world, Romans tells us, this whole world groans under the curse of sin, yet God's goodness is still displayed. I love these sunsets we've had lately with that brilliant colors. I remember anybody remember the little cartoon Ziggy? Anybody remember that little cartoon used to be in the paper? I had one, I had it cut out for years, it's deteriorated, it's gone. But it was a picture, Ziggy was standing on a hillside, and it was a sunset, and it was just brilliant orange. And Ziggy was standing there like this. Go, God, go! I loved it. The beauty and goodness of God. Yeah, this world stained by sin This world's under the curse of sin, but God's goodness still creeps through. I like Romans chapter 1 verse 20. It says, and the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, even his eternal power and Godhead. Now, in so many words, what Paul is telling us, we can look at this world's creation and we can see the goodness of God Now it's stained, as I said, don't forget, it's under the curse of sin. One day God's going to burn this thing up, create a new heaven, new earth But I tell you, we see the goodness of God in creation. I put this down. We see the goodness of God in his working in our lives. God's here's a good statement. God's goodness is personal. He's not good to us just in a general sense, but I'm here to tell you: God is good to each and every one of us individually. As an individual person, God is good to us. We must not allow the disappointments of sin and the heartache of sin and the lies of the devil to blind us to the goodness of God in our lives. Now here's a danger. And some and some Christians fall prey to this danger. And all we ever can see is the negative. And all we can ever see Is the bad, and all we can ever see is the sin. And all we can ever see is the dark side of a fallen human race. And it's there, and it's real, and it's true But I'm here to tell you, God is still good to us, even in a fallen world. And if we all we focus on is the disappointments and the heartaches And the failures and the shortcomings that sin produces, if that's all we focus on, we'll be blinded how good God really is to us. Don't go walking around griping and complaining how everything isn't this and everything isn't that and this isn't this and that isn't that and they're doing this and they're not doing that Get your eyes off of that and get your eyes on a God that is good in his very nature and is good to us even in the midst of heartache and disappointment and trial. Would you take your Bible turn to Genesis with me, the last chapter of the book of Genesis? I doubt seriously there's one person that has been through the trials and heartaches and injustices. As a fellow by the name of Joseph. And at the end of Genesis, Joseph makes a phenomenal statement that is a challenge to all of us. Genesis chapter 50. All the way to the last chapter of the first book of the Bible and down to verse number 20. How many people are familiar with the life of Joseph? Familiar with it. His brothers sold him into slavery. Uh working as a slave unjustly. He did nothing wrong They were simply jealous, sold him into slavery. Down there, Potiphar buys them. In the kingdom of Pharaoh, Potiphar's wife makes false accusations. She comes on to him And she falsely accuses him of making advances on herself. He's thrown in prison for a rape he did not do. And for two years at least, he suffers down there. He's forgotten about And at the end, of course then you know the story. Then they had the dream, Joseph uh Pharaoh has the dream, and Joseph interprets it, he's exalted to number two. And millions of lives are saved because of God's leaving there. We know that. Now look at chapter 50 and verse number 20. His brothers come to him. Now they had lied about him They betrayed him. They sold him into slavery. They're the ones that got this whole terrible thing started. Look what he says to them. But as for you, ye thought evil against me. True or false? Yeah, they were going to kill him. They were out. They made his life miserable. But look at his next statement But God meant it unto what? Good. To bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. In spite of all the injustice that Joseph faced, in spite of all the unfairness and mistreatment and disappointments and heartaches and fear. He went through. Joseph never got his eyes off of a God that is good in his very nature, and he said, God has meant all this for good. Now here's our problem. We get so caught up on all the evil that others are caught up in even ourselves we fall into And we forget to look at the goodness of God. God is good to us. And it doesn't matter what you say, well brother, you don't preacher, you don't know what I'm going through. I know I don't, but I know this. There's a God in heaven that's good in his very nature. He's good to us. I'm way ahead of myself. I'm going to have to start winding down here. But the very fact that I'm not in hell right now is evidence of the fact that God's pretty good to me. Somebody says, Oh, my life's been hell on earth. You don't know what you're talking about. You have no clue what you're talking about The fact that Jesus Christ would offer Himself so that I could be forgiven and escape a devil's hell and have eternal life and be spend eternity in the presence of the Creator of this place. That's pretty good. That's pretty good. God displays his goodness in creation, in working in our lives, in his salvation. That's what I was just talking about. Salvation is of the Lord, and everything about salvation is good. I still love Romans 5:8. I'll tell you that verse means more to me every day goes by. But God commendeth his love toward us. That while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. What a verse. What a tremendous truth. Romans 8. 32, he that spare not his own son will freely give us all things. I'm not quoting that correctly. If all God ever did for me was save my soul from sin in hell and give me eternal life, He'd been awfully good to me. I'm reading this year, I've referenced it a number of times throughout the year. I'm reading this year a book on the Persecuted Christians around the world, contemporary and of years gone by. You know what I'm noticing? A common theme through these folks that have been uh beaten and tortured and imprisoned and s and uh solitary confinement and and shot and killed For their faith in Christ, a common theme I'm seeing is they always praise the goodness of God One fellow I read the other day, Romanian prison, just got a little bit of food every day, just horrific conditions. He's a preacher of a church. That was his only crime was preaching the gospel Spent years in prison and get a little bit of food. Every day he'd thank God for being so good to him. I'm telling you, you talk about conviction. God's been so good to him. He gave me eternal life. Many of them say this, as I'm noticing, I'm reading this. Many of them say this. I need to be kind and gracious and forgive my persecutors so that they can come to know the Christ that saved me. I may be the only one that is able to share the message of Christ with them. I've got to be a good Christian. While they're pulling their fingers off and torturing them. I tell you, salvation. If God didn't do anything else for us, if we were in prison the rest of our lives and God saved our souls, he's been pretty good to us. He's been pretty good to us. God is so good to us. The definition of his goodness, the display of his goodness, let me end with this, the demand of his goodness God's goodness to us should produce a response on our part. It should produce a response on our part. Now, I want to remind you: you and I cannot earn God's goodness. God, you owe it to me to be good to me. You better be good to me. No, no, no, none of that. None of that. You know what we deserve? Deserve is judgment. We deserve his wrath. But God so loved the world. He gave his only begotten son. And whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. That's pretty good, huh? How do I respond to God's goodness? How do I react? How does it affect my behavior and my life and my thinking? Oh, God's goodness to me. Do I just say, thank you, Lord, and then go on my miserable way? Or do I stop and say, Lord, I owe you something? How do I respond? I put down a few ways, and I want to give them to you very, very quickly. Number one, I put this down. Because of God's goodness, I ought to repent from my sin. Say, where do you get that? Turn with me, if you would, to Romans chapter number two. Romans chapter number two. How does God's goodness, how should God's goodness to us affect us? Romans chapter 2, and look with me if you would at verse number 4. Romans 2 and verse number 4. Well, verse 3 says, And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things, and doest the same? That thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Or look at verse 4. Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing, look at this last phrase, look at it The goodness of God leadeth thee to what? Repentance. God's been so good to me. I don't know why He's been so good to me. But he deserves my obedience. He deserves my obedience. How in the world, and we're guilty of this, we are guilty of this. But God gives so many good things to us, does so much good for us, and then we in our hearts and minds go and deliberately disobey Him, deliberately violate His holiness. But God's so good to us. You know why God tells us that there's certain things we should do and there's certain things we shouldn't do? You know why God tells us that? Because he doesn't want us to have any fun, and he knows that uh he just wants to lord it over us. No, no, no, no. He loves us And he knows that me living in sin and disobeying him is not good for me. It hurts me It harms my life. It harms me physically, mentally, spiritually, emotionally. Sin is bad for us. God is so good to us. And we think, you know, Lord, you love me. I need to turn from this. And give my life to you. God has been good enough to us that every one of us owe him everything we have in our. We owe him our everything. How selfish. I think the most selfish person in the world is the Christian that will receive the goodness of God. And then not live for God and just go and live in sin that violates God and grieves his heart. Just disregard God that's so good to us. One, I ought to repent of my sin. Two, I ought to receive this Jesus as my Savior. For God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son. I tell you, the greatest good expression of God's goodness is Jesus Christ coming for you and I. We can have eternal life. We ought to receive his son. Let me give you the last ones real quick. We ought to rest in his promises. God keeps his promises. You know a good man keeps his word, right? God is good. He keeps his promises. You find a promise of God and you hold on to that because God keeps his promises. Remember when I got saved, I didn't understand assurance of salvation for the first month or two. I knew I trusted Christ, I knew I called on the Lord, I knew my life was changed, but I didn't understand what it meant to have assurance that I was saved. I read Romans 10. 13. I read a sermon by John O'Race on Romans 10. 13, and it dawned on me. It says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, well, I knew I was a whosoever. And I knew I called on the name of the Lord. There is no doubt about it. In desperation at my bed, I called out to Christ to be my Savior. I did exactly what that verse said. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Not might be, not hopefully will be, not could be. That's a promise of God That whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. I walked away and I said, God, if I'm not saved, If I know I called on the Lord, and if I die and go to hell, then God lied to me. Because he promised that whoever calls on him shall be saved. And I settled in my heart and mind, God does not lie, He's good. And that settled it for me. Never questioning more whether I was saved or not. And I thank God for that. Rest in His promises. Seek ye first the king of God. All these things shall be added unto you. God keeps his word. He's good God. Rest in his promises. Rejoice in his salvation. Repeat the gospel to others. You know what the word gospel means? What's it mean? Somebody help me. Good news. You know what makes it so good? Comes from our God. Jesus Christ died, buried, rose again. The gospel of Jesus Christ is too good to keep to ourselves We ought to be out there telling other people, hey, listen, on the job, rather than out there graming about how terrible the economy is and what a terrible president we have and how awful our neighbors are and how broke I am and how expensive gas is. How about we get out there and start talking to people about how good our God is? I would have given a stronger amen to that than what I got, but I say amen. This world knows it's miserable. This world knows it's in a mess. This world knows things aren't working right. They know that. What they need to hear from God's people is there's a God in heaven that loves you and can save you and change your life and give you something to live for. that is better than some stupid economy or worrying about what how much big a house I'm going to live in. Amen. Last Thursday night, a week ago, I was knocking on doors. Dave Heath was up with me. We're knocking on doors, a little apartment house downtown Well, I was come around the corner. There was a fella standing there smoking a cigarette. It's raining. It was cold. It's dark. I said, hey! He said, hey. You wonder what in the world this guy's out here. I said, uh I'm Pastor Leatherman at the Mount Lake Baptist Church. Can I leave an invitation with you? I came up on the step beside him there and he goes, sure, thanks. I asked him he goes to church. He goes, yeah, sometimes my family got me going out here to this church. And I said, well that's good. And I said, church is important. I said, let me ask you this. More important than going to church is knowing for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven. You go to heaven and not to hell. I said, do you ever think about it? He goes, yeah, I really do He said, this is kind of amazing actually that you come by and talking to me right now like this. I said, well, let me take a moment. He said, I'd like to show you if I could You'd be willing. Let me show you from the Bible how you can know for sure you go to heaven, not to hell. Would you be interested? He goes, yes. He flipped the porch light on there, and I got my Bible out and I went through the plan of salvation with him. His name's Aaron I said, Aaron, you believe you're a sinner? Yeah, I know I'm a sinner. I know I am. I showed him how the wages of sin is death, and I explained to him that that means not just physical death, but Spiritual death, eternal death, separated from God forever in a place called hell. And I wish I had a photograph of that man's face I was telling my wife the other day, it was a look of terror on his face as I explained to him that our wages of our sin is death and hell. And that if we die unforgiven, we're separated from God forever and whole. I mean, he looked at me with absolute fear in his eyes. I said, if you died now, where would you go, Aaron? I'd go to hell. I'd go to hell. I said, God doesn't want you to go to hell. He wants you to go to heaven. God's a good God. I showed him how Jesus died, suffered hell for us, was buried, rose again. I showed him if we turn to him and trust him with all our heart or forgive our sins, give us a new life, an eternal life, a home in heaven. I said, Aaron, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. He said, you believe Jesus died? He said, yes. He said, you know you're a sinner, you're concerned about that? Yes. Would you be willing to call on the Lord and trust Him as your Savior? He said, absolutely. He bowed his head with me. I helped him call on the Lord. I said, and we were done. We said, Amen. I said, Aaron, did you mean that? He said, I meant it with all my heart. He's and he said this, he said, I can't believe you come by here. I can't believe you've come by here tonight like this. This is amazing. And I used an illustration that eternal life is a gift from God. I had given him a tract and a flyer, and I said, I used the illustration, I said, here Aaron, I want to give you a gift. I said it's not much, just a piece of paper, but it's a gift Now you can take it or you can reject it. You can receive it or you can say, no thanks, I'm not interested. I said, but you received that paper from me. You received that gift, and now it's yours. You possess it, it's yours I said, that's what eternal life is. God offers you a gift. You can accept it or reject it. And of course, he prayed and accepted it. And when I was leaving, I wrote his name in my Bible and got his information, I always do that. When I was leaving, he stopped and he said, Pastor Leatherman, this is the greatest gift ever. This is the greatest gift ever. You know what that gift comes from a God that's awfully good. A good God. That offers to us the gift of eternal life. You pray for Aaron. He moved away that week. I don't know where he ended up. He told me he was moving. But you pray for him. I'm going to try and track him down. Let me ask you this. Are you focused on the badness of this world, or are you focused on the goodness of God? Wouldn't it be wonderful if there was a group of people in Oakland that all they could talk about is how good God is. All they were thrilled about was how good God is. God's been awfully good to us. Father in heaven, please help us, Lord, to never forget that you are a good God. Lord, you're holy, no doubt about it. There's other aspects. But Lord, we want to know you and we want to understand how good you are. We have no reason to reject you. We have no reason to resist you and rebel against you. We have every reason in the world to just give you our all. Help us, Lord. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I allow the things of this world just to get me down And cloud my vision of how good God is. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I just allow those things. Well how other people act and my own failure. Don't let that happen. So some here this morning say, preacher, I've not been living for God like I should. I know there's areas in my Christian life I need to get in line. He's been too good to me. for me not to trust him and obey him. Any like that, but the uplifted hand preacher, there's areas in my life really need attention. God bless you. How many would say, preacher, I need to be more bold in sharing the goodness of God, particularly the gospel I need to be more bold in getting out. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. I need to be more vocal about how good God is and what he's done for us. God bless you. There's some here this morning who say, preacher, I need to be saved. I've never received Jesus Christ, the greatest gift ever, and I need him to be my personal Savior. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Say, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this settled. Any at all? Now Father, bless our invitation we ask in Jesus' name.