Psalm chapter forty, if you would. I want to read the first three verses. We're going to look at the second part of verse one. The Bible says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry He brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my goes. He put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it in fear, and shall trust in the Lord. I know we've been looking at verse number one, particularly the fact in verse one that David cried unto the Lord, and he said, the Lord heard his cry. Now last week we looked at a couple words he uses here, and then I want to look tonight, and this goes along with what some of our testimonies were, on this matter of prayer. And David prayed. He cried unto the Lord, and God heard his cry. So that catches my attention. What was it about the prayer of David? The way he prayed, what his prayer consists of, that got the ear of God. That God heard him and responded. And so let's let's have a word of prayer and then we'll try and maybe glean something out of here that would help us. Father, I ask now you'd bless as we look into this statement by uh David so many years ago. And preserved it for us. You promised us, you've told us very clearly that all scripture is given by you, and it's profitable for us. So I pray you'd help improve our prayer lives. Or I pray that our prayers would be effectual, that they would be effective. God, when we pray, you would hear And God, you could respond, and so help us on our part to um to pray in such a way that you would hear our cry So fill me with your spirit is my request. I yield myself to you anew and ask that you would speak through me and help and challenge us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. If you remember, we pointed out that word incline there, caught my attention, and we pointed out last week it means to stretch the ear out or listen to very carefully to stoop down. David said when he prayed, God responded to his prayers by inclining to his prayer, giving very, very close attention to what David was saying. And then he uses that term, God heard my prayers. And you remember we said, pointed out the fact that it doesn't mean that God just heard words coming off my lips or uh even heard just the expression of my heart. You know, sometimes we and often, probably more often than not, our prayers are not verbally expressed outwardly Vocally, but they're prayers of the heart, right? We understand that. And we see that through Scripture. And God hears that. He says, God heard that In other words, he understood what I was saying. He understood the burden of my heart. He understood and he cared about what I was dealing with and what I was facing And the word heard there means to listen intently, to listen with understanding, to listen with the purpose of responding. He wanted to hear what David was saying so he could respond to it. David says, God heard my prayer. Now my question is, what was it about David's prayer that prompted this from God? And God would do that. Is there anybody here like me would say I want God to hear, incline his ear and hear my prayers also? Anyone like that? I do. I got some burdens on my heart and my life. I have some needs that I want God to hear me. I want him to decline unto me And so some things about David's prayer here that maybe we could incorporate into our prayer life And that God would help us. And I'm speaking with the assumption that we all have a prayer life. Right? Every Christian ought to have a prayer life. And my advice after 46 years knowing the Lord, 40 plus in the ministry, My advice is there ought to be a time when we set aside, schedule a specific time throughout the day, preferably in the morning. That's Jesus early in the morning when it's apart to pray. Maybe for you it's evening, whatever. But there ought to be a time when I schedule, I discipline myself and schedule myself to get alone with the Lord. Let him speak to my heart from his word and then have prayer. Pray to him I think it's uh uh Christian ought to have a prayer list that we go through. And so um so maybe we can glean something here and and God would help us in our prayer list. The first thing I notice is Here is I put this down. David talked to God plainly. He talked to God plainly. Obviously, he says, I cried, I waited patience, Lord. He inclined in me and he heard my cry. He obviously expressed to God what his concerns were. He was in a horrible pit. He was in miry clay. And he told that to God. He told God, this is my situation, this is my circumstance, this is what I find myself in, the circumstances I find myself in. And God, I want out of this pit I went out of this Myri clay. Say, what was the pit, the horrible pit? What was the Mayri clay? We're not really told, and we'll look at that in a future message But my point is this, Paul, or David was very, very plain in telling God what he wants. Sometimes we can get awfully we can get here's the word, it's verbose. We can get awfully wordy in our prayers to God. God's not impressed with how wordy I can be in my prayers. He's not impressed with how fancy my prayers are. I'm convinced God just wants us to be plain. Just tell him, this is my situation, this is my circumstance. Now we understand that God is omniscient. What do we mean when we say God is omniscient? What do we mean by that? He's all-knowing. Omni is all-encompassing. Science is the second half of that word, knowledge, all knowing. So the fact of the matter is, God already knows what my circumstance is before I ever bring it to him God already knows what my situation I'm facing, what my need is, before I ever express it to him. He already knows all of that He knows what my desire is. He knows what I would like, what I want. But he tells us over and over and over again to bring our requests. Make your requests know Wants us to express it. Some of you parents will know what I mean by this. Sometimes we know what a child's dealing with, you know what he's going through, but we sure like to hear them come and tell us and ask us for help. Anybody know what I'm talking about? They just come up and climb up in our lap and say, Daddy, I just need you to help me with this. Daddy, I need you to help me with that. I think that's that phrase, and we preached on this some time ago, but the little phrase in the New Testament is used three times, Abba Father. Abba Father. It's just a little child coming to their daddy and just pouring their heart out and just speaking plainly to God. You say, preacher, I don't know big words. And you know, how do you pray to God? I don't know. And God's not worried about big words. He's not worried about formality in our prayers. He just wants us to be plain. I remember Mike Stubler, we referenced him a lot. I got thinking of him the other day and just miss him so dearly. And if when he first got saved, he started coming out the church and you could see him growing just from the get-go. Many of y'all remember And he came down to men's prayer meeting one evening, one Sunday evening, first time he'd asked me about it. He said, I think I'm going to come down to that thing. I said, come on down And um we were down there and we shared some prayer requests and we usually split up and two or three guys together and pray. Depending on the crowd, we'll spread up Split it up down there and Mike was with me. I said, Mike, you want to pray? He says, I would I don't know what to say. I'm I'm not I don't know how to pray. I wouldn't know what to say out loud I said, well that's fine. I didn't want to press him. And so I prayed. The next week he came back. I said, Mike, you want to pray? He says, I'm not sure what to say. I said, Mike, just tell God what's on your heart Just tell them what you need, what you want. And it was one of the most plain, simple prayers you ever heard. Dear God. And just told God what he wanted. I tell you, God will hear that prayer before he hears some fancy uh going on and on and on prayer. Anybody know you know what I'm saying? David just, he's I cried unto the Lord. I just told God what was on my heart. I told him what my needs were, what my situation is what I desire, what what I want God to do. And the interesting thing, if you go through the Psalms and look at the Psalms that David penned, that God used David to record for us Most of them, if not all of them, are a prayer of some sort. And I tell you, a great study, and someday uh we'll do it. I got all these series I want to do, and I'm running out of life I told my wife the other day, I said, man, I want to do a series on this, I want to do a series on that, but I who I don't have enough life left in me to do all of these So we have to have church more often than just Sunday morning, Sunday night noise, so I can do my series. I got one amen there, amen. I heard a couple oh my's. But if if you go through, and a great study would be, and I find this fascinating, you go through and look at the prayers of David. And what he prayed, what he said to God, is fascinating. It's just simple stuff In fact, a lot of times he's just talking plainly to God. He's telling God what's on his heart, what's on his mind. Anybody here ever just uh say something to somebody you really didn't think ahead of time, it just came out, it was on your mind, and afterward you thought, oops David does that, but he does it to God. He just pours his heart out to God. I got looking through some of these, and there's places where he's complaining To God. Now, I don't know about you. I think for most of us, maybe all of us, but for most of us, complaining comes pretty naturally. Right? Too often we tend to just complain more than we praise. Man, it's so hot today. Oh, it's freezing going to be freezing tomorrow. And it doesn't matter what we complain. Well David took those complaints that come naturally for most of us and he poured them out to God. He complained to God. Notice, come with me to Psalm 142. I think we're going to just stay in Psalms here. Psalms 142. And uh notice uh I'll read verse one, but I want to notice verse two. Psalms one hundred and forty-two. He says, verse 1, here's a he's repeating a little bit what he said there in Psalms 40. He says, I cried unto the Lord with my voice. So he's being vocal with this, not just in his heart. With my voice unto the Lord did I make my supplication. That's his request. He's wanting something from God. He's wanting God to do something. Then look at verse 2. This is interesting He says, I poured out my what? Complaint before him. I showed before him my trouble. Somebody says, Oh, you shouldn't complain to God. David did Now, complaining, do you agree with me? Complaining usually comes natural. I don't know anybody that ever taught their child how to complain. It just comes natural. We tend to complain. When we have a complaint, I think the best thing to do is take that complaint to who? To God. Tell God what that complaint is. Lord, you know, Lord, I wish it was 75 degrees year-round sunshine all the time. I don't like snow You know? And so David poured his complaints out to God. He was being mistreated. People were hounding him, treating him unjustly, and he poured his complaint out to God. We find him sometimes criticizing other people to God. Lord, they're doing this and they're saying that and they're treating me this way. He just talked to God. What was on his heart, he told it to God. In fact, some places it sounds almost like he was gossiping. About other people. King Saul sometimes he's just telling God, hey, he's doing this and he's not doing that. And these people are doing this and they're doing that. That sounds to me like gossip. You say we should gossip to God. I'm telling you, quit gossiping to other people and gossip to God about other people Right? People did and I don't know if you ever knew this, probably not. I'm not in our church, I'm sure, but sometimes people will gossip about the preacher. It's true, I've heard stories of that, of the places where that happened. I don't mind somebody gossiping about me as long as you're gossiping to the Lord about me Preacher, Lord, that preacher went so long this morning. Tell God about it. Amen. What my point I'm trying to make is this. What I got from this, David spoke very plainly to the Lord. He told God what was on his heart. Now, of course, the attitude behind it, submissive and being grateful, several times he says to the Lord, Lord, how long? I'm not going to have to deal with this. Lord, how long do I have to do that? There's a world of difference between talking about someone to other people and talking about someone to God. And if we have an issue with folks, if we don't like what somebody's doing, if we think they dress weird or whatever it might be, rather than going around talking about Let's get on our knees before God and say, God, please bless them, lead them and direct them. This is what I think. David talked very plainly to God. Now, most of his prayers were praising. Most of his prayers were rejoicing in God. David had a spiritual maturity about him, that he saw the good of God, he saw the grace of God And the interesting thing is when David prayed plainly to God, just told God what was on his heart and mind, what his need was, a lot of time God changed his attitude in the midst of the prayer. I don't know if you've ever experienced this. I have. And I've come to the Lord in prayer and I had some issues and situations I was maybe unhappy with or I thought should be different. And I come and I and I prayer and I and any time I spend my time in prayer, I try to start out worshiping the Lord and praising Him for a little bit until I get to my request, confessing issues that I need to confess uh before i there are very few. Uh but um uh and then get and I and I wanna have these things that I think should be different or things I think uh aren't right or whatever. By the time I get to that part of the prayer After I'm done worshiping God for his glory, his majesty, his power, his wisdom, his love, his goodness, and then I praise him for all he's done for me and saving my soul, my family, my Give me a home and all these things, and then I confess how sinful I am, good night, and this and that. And by the time I get to my pr my request, my whole attitude about that request has changed You follow what I'm saying? Let me show you. David did that. Go to Psalms chapter uh da da da Psalm chapter 13. Psalms chapter thirteen. And notice uh verse number five. Psalms thirteen Well, let's start in verse 1. He says, How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord? Forever? How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Does that sound like complaining? It does to me. God, what's taking you so long? Good, great. He's complaining to God. He's just speaking plainly. He's just telling God how he feels, what he thinks. He's telling it to God. Then look at verse number three. He says, consider and hear me, O Lord my God. Light mine eyes. Lest I sleep the sleep of death, lest mine enemies say, I prevailed against them, and those that trouble me rejoice when I move. So he tells his request to God. He complains But look what happens in verse 5. There's a change takes place. Pay attention to what he says. But I have trusted in thy mercy. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. Now look at verse 6. I will sing unto the Lord, because he hath dealt bountifully with me. Do you get what happened here? There was a change of attitude. There was a whole change of perspective. When he started out his prayer, he's complaining. But when he ends up, he's praising. He's rejoicing. He's thanking God. My point is this in Psalm 40, he says, I cried and he heard my cry. David prayed He spoke very plainly to the Lord. Get it out of your head that you have to impress God with your prayers. If I'm trying to impress God or press my brothers, sisters, anybody else, if I'm trying to impress anybody with my prayers, I ain't praying. Was it last week? What when was uh Brother Chris Miller here? Was that two weeks ago? Man, two weeks ago. He mentioned um he mentioned uh uh about uh praying and um oh he mentioned the book, John O'Rice's book, Asking and Receiving And he promoted that. I highly recommend that. In fact, we gave that out here years ago in a book in a paperback form. It's a tremendous book on prayer. And one of the things Dr. John R. Rice points out in that book is just tell God what's on your heart. Just talk to him. Just be plain. Just talk to him. Just tell him. Just tell him. Did anybody notice we don't use prayer books around here? We don't have a little read. All right, we're going to read prayer number 422. Now we sing hymns. But our prayers are from our heart. We tried to teach our boys when they were small. We didn't have memorized prayers. We might have had some we we didn't teach them memorized prayers. God is great and God is good. I just wanted my boys tell God what was on their heart. Just talk to them. Just talk to God. Do you ever drive down the road, just get talking to the Lord? Just talking to them. Number two, number one, he spake, David talked to God plainly. Number two, I put this down. Wait on God's timing. Wait on God's timing. He says, I waited patiently, and we spent a good bit of time looking at that phrase, that statement. I waited patiently. I believe a huge factor in answered prayer is patience. Patience. Anybody here get impatient? Sometimes we ask God for something, and if we don't get it right away, well, God didn't answer my prayer. Wait patiently. When we well, I put this down. When we claim God's promises, we need also to trust His timing. Just wait on Him. Just wait on Him. Trust Him. I don't know anybody that ever waited on God in vain. I never regretted waiting on God. My daddy prayed, and I I reference them a lot, but my daddy prayed for nine years that his boy would get saved. I know there's others have prayed a long, long time, but just wait on God, His timing. And then thirdly, and I'll end with this, don't fear intensity. Don't be afraid to be intense in your prayers. Notice he says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my what? What's it say there? Are you with me? Everybody's still with me? He heard my what? My cry. He doesn't say he heard my meditation. He doesn't say he heard my whisper. He doesn't say he heard my soft little request. He said he heard my cry. Now God does hear our whispers. God does hear the simple the little quiet things we say. We express our heart to God just quietly. But we must not be afraid of being intense in our prayers. That word cry does not mean a calm, quiet, rehearsed prayer. It's not some book he got out and said, all right, I'm going to pray prayer number 97. We have no prayer books. We have no ritualistic prayers. David cried. He cried out to God. It was intense. I'm convinced he got alone with the Lord, maybe out in some wilderness area, out in the woods, and he cried out to God. The word cry means to lift up my voice in a passionate, intense way. It's a loud, passionate, urgent cry. It implies desperation and distress. Word cry implies helplessness. Little baby cries. And they need their parents to do something for him. David said, that's what I did. I cried to God. I needed him. To get me out of this horrible pit. Get me out of this I cried unto the Lord. David cried. Hannah cried. Remember the story there in 1 Samuel? Hannah wanted a baby. She prayed and prayed and prayed and finally she went there. They went to the temple every year and she offered her sacrifices. And there at the temple she got alone with God. The Bible says she was praying in her heart, but she was praying so intensely, her lips were moving, she was talking to God, and her lips were moving, she wasn't saying anything verbally, not out loud But she was crying in her heart and her lips were moving, and the priest saw her, and he thought she was drunk. I always thought, what kind of spiritual discernment did that priest lack? And he didn't understand that this woman was of heavy heart and crying to God. Hannah cried, David cried. Jeremiah, I just finished reading Jeremiah a week or two ago. And he cried to God. He was intense in his prayers. Jesus cried. The Garden of Gethsemane, Hebrews tells us he cried out. I think we could use a little intensity in our prayers. When's the last time? When's the last time your heart was so broken over an unsaved family member? An unsaved friend, somebody that was lost, and they die in their sins, they go to hell. When's the last time? You were so broken over that. He just cried out to God with intensity and passion. Oh God! They years ago there used to be old revival meetings. They give the invitation the Pray for their own sins that come and confess and repent, forsake your sins, and they come fight folks come and pray for your lost loved ones, your lost mother, your lost father They're in sin. Come and pray for your children that are away from the Lord, don't know the Lord. And folks would come to the altar and we have accounts where people would be crying at the altar and just weeping, and they leave and their tears were all over the altar. Not a show, not some facade, but a passion, a broken heart. I believe our churches could use some good old-fashioned, passionate praying again. Broken heart, crying out to God. You say, Preacher, I don't have that. Why don't we ask God to break our hearts again? Why don't we ask God to put some passion in our hearts again? We come to Him intense. There's been times, situations I was facing in the last thirty-two years here, and I'm being a little personal here, so forgive me But literally on this altar right here, I literally crawl up on the altar, laid myself on the altar, weeping, saying, God, I need you to do. God, I need you to intervene. That's what David's doing. We must not be afraid of being passionate, of being intense in our prayer. Prayer is not some formal ritual. It's a response from my heart. Prayer is not being elegant with my words. About being a burning desire in my heart for God to do something. We're coming up to revival next week. I'm asking God to send a real revival. To heal hearts, convict of sin, convict of sin, deep-seated sins. Besetting sins that control. And I think if we pray and pray passionately, earnestly, like David did, Maybe God will incline his ear and hear our cry and bring us up to another level of a walk with God we never dreamed was possible. Bring us up to another level of the power of God upon our ministry and my personal life and witness that I've never experienced before. And I believe all that comes in response to prayer. Amen. Are you with me? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would do that. The disciples came to you, Lord, when you were here on earth, and they said, Teach us to pray. They saw you pray, and they wanted that burden, they wanted that passion, that plainness. And help us, Lord, to just bring ourselves to you, bring our hearts, pour our hearts out in simple words that we understand, and God, that you would hear us. Put a little fire in our soul. Put a little passion in our prayers. Break our hearts, I pray, Lord. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many would say, Preacher, I want to learn to pray? And in a passionate way that God hears me. God responds, is there any like that? I need that. Oh, I want that. And my heart and life. I want that. We wait on God's timing, trust him, and look to him. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen.