Book of Hebrews tonight. We're going to be in the 11th chapter of the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 11. We're going to read from Hebrews chapter 11. This is an unusual message for me. It's different from every other message that I preach. You've heard me preach a few times already back a couple of years ago and now Now this year, and I typically have a quote-unquote style, I'll turn to a text, we'll preach that text. You can leave your Bible open to that text If I leave uh if I use other verses I will quote them or read them depending on my notes and things like that. And I don't have you turn a lot of uh to a lot of different passages in the Word of God. Although Sunday night we kept our Bibles open, we didn't go from Old Testament to New Testament and all of that kind of stuff. Tonight I'm going to ask you to follow along to every single verse, at least for the first part of the message This message is unusual in that it doesn't have an outline really. It's unusual in that I will not give you the title of this message. until almost the end of the message. It's also unusual that although we'll look at uh maybe a hundred verses before we're finished, we won't read to the text until we're about two-thirds of the way through. This message is probably going to make a few of you angry with me. You're going to think, as I'm preaching this message, that everything I said last night when I preached it, I was lying to you. You're going to think that I don't believe what I preached last night. You're going to think that I don't believe the Bible is inspired. We don't believe that the holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. You're going to be Under the impression that I think that there are mistakes and errors and contradictions in the Word of God. First off, God cannot lie. And all scriptures given by inspiration of God. So if God wrote the whole book and God can't lie, there can't be a contradiction, there can't be a mistake, and there can't be an error. One of our problems as Bible believing Christians We pick up our Bibles thinking we have to explain to lost people and uh and to liberal people why the Bible doesn't have any contradictions in it. I don't pick up my Bible trying to explain that to anybody. I pick up my Bible knowing that it's an impossible that my Bible has a contradiction or an error in it. I tell you that because for a good portion of this message, you're going to think that I don't believe that. If you believed like I believe, there are going to be parts of this message where you're ready to get up out of your seat and come up here and run me out of town on a rail. But just hold on till the end It's going to progressively get worse and worse and worse until we actually get to our text, about two-thirds of the way through the message. You get to the book of Hebrews in chapter eleven and you know the chapter so well. The great faith chapter, the definition of faith is given to us There in verse one. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Faith is believing that God can do something before God does it Then the Bible is going to give us some short biographical listings, if you will, of Old Testament saints, Old Testament patriarchs and matriarchs And the Bible's going to sum up, sometimes, a life that took up multiple chapters and multiple decades is going to be summed up in Hebrews chapter 11 in just two or three or four verses. Some of them, the what the Bible tells us in the Old Testament is very short, and so when you sum it up into one verse, like the first two we're going to read, when you sum up Abel and you sum up Uh you sum up Enoch as you read through, you're going to find out that they take up very little room in the Old Testament. So when you boil them down to one verse, it's an easy thing to boil their lives down to one verse Some of the others, though, the Bible is going to tell us in just two or three verses the whole life story, if you will, summed up in Hebrews chapter 11 of some great men of God As we look at this passage of Scripture, I'm going to watch and ask you to mark your Bible in Hebrews chapter 11. We will always be coming back to Hebrews chapter 11. But I'm also going to ask you to mark something in your Bible as we go to the Old Testament. We're going to be progressively moving chronologically through parts of the Old Testament as we move chronologically through parts of the Old Testament in Hebrews chapter 11. Let's look at Hebrews chapter eleven, beginning again in verse one. Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, for by it The elders obtained a good report. Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the Word of God, so that things which are seen are not made of things which do appear. By faith, Abel here's the first biographical sketch for us. By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it he being dead, yet speaketh. The second one, by faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death, and was not found because God had translated him. For before his translation he had this testimony that he pleased God Verse 6, but without faith, it is impossible to please him. For he that cometh unto God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. But then in verse seven, we start to get the biographical sketches of people who take up more than six or eight verses in the Old Testament We're going to read first about this man by the name of Noah. Every single human being on the face of the earth has had their life a life altered by Noah, you're connected to Noah. And so when you get to Noah in chapter eleven, I want you to notice how the Bible sums up his life You'll notice that this is all in chronological order as the Lord gives it to us. Hebrews chapter eleven and verse seven By faith Noah, first being warned of God of things not seen as yet. Second, he moved with fear. Third, he prepared an ark. Fourth, to the saving of his house. Fifth, by the which he condemned the world. And then it says this, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. the inheritor of the righteousness which is by faith. But an amazing story of Noah. Here is Noah warned of God of things not seen as yet. Never been had there been rain and God says it's going to rain. Noah moved with fear. Wouldn't you move with fear if you knew rain was coming and there'd never been rain before and you don't even know what rain is When God's telling you he's going to judge the whole earth, of course Noah moved with fear. But even as he moved with fear, he did what the Lord said, and he prepared an ark. After the ark was finished, what happened? His family got in the ark, and Noah saved his household. After his family was in the ark, the Lord shut the door to the ark And by it the world was condemned. And then after that, the rest of Noah's life is summed up with this phrase and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith. Now mark your Bible there in Hebrews chapter eleven and verse seven and go back with me to the book of Genesis. Go back with me to Genesis chapter nine and I want you to look there as we watch Noah and we see what the Bible says. about Noah after he has been warned of God of things not seen as yet. After he has moved with fear. After he has prepared an ark after he has saved his family, after the world has been condemned. In other words, in the chronology of Hebrews 11 and verse 7, this passage takes place during the time that Noah is the heir, the inheritor of the righteousness. which is by faith. Look at Genesis chapter 9, verses 20 and 21 with me. And watch what the Bible says about Noah. And Noah began to be in husbandman. And he planted a vineyard, and he drank of the wine, and was drunken, and it was uncovered within his tent. Noah has consumed fermented alcohol. Noah has become inebriated. He has become drunk. He is so drunk he does not even realize that he's not fully clothed. Remember, two of his sons walk in backwards and cover up their father's nakedness. How many of you have you ever ever been to New York City? Don't raise your hand. You ever been to New York City? Let's say we all could tonight uh go to New York City and we got to New York City and we waited Outside of a terrible bar that one of these places where people are always fighting and drinking and all that kind of stuff. And as we were walking up to this bar, we saw a man laying on the side of the road. He has had so much to drink that he doesn't know where he is. He has so much to had so much to drink that he doesn't even know that he's only half clothed. How many men would stop over that man and say, Look, honey I found the heir of the righteousness which is by faith. See, I see a difference, don't you? And maybe I'm reading too much into it. I don't know what you're thinking You're reading way too much into that, Brother Harper. You're reading too much into the chronology of Hebrews chapter eleven and verse seven. Maybe you're right, but I I see a difference. Do uh do you not see it? Between the air of the righteousness which is by faith Uh Noah of Hebrews 11 and verse 7, and the drunken naked Noah of Genesis 9, 20 and 21. Okay, probably. Let's go back to Hebrews chapter 11, please. Hebrews chapter 11 And I want you to notice what the Bible says as we get to the uh the next patriarch in the next verse in Hebrews chapter eleven and verse eight, we read about this man by the name of Abraham. Notice what the Bible says about him? By faith, Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance Can everybody help me with the next word? Let me read the whole thing and everybody be ready with that one word. By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, help me now Obeyed. Very good. Obeyed. And he went out, not knowing whither he went. What an amazing story. God tells Abraham to go, to leave the Ur of the Chaldees, he comes to him. His name is still Abram at the time Tells him to get up and go. This is the land that God's going to give him. He shows the same land to him in Genesis chapter 13, after Lot has separated. And God says, Abraham, I want you to get up and go. And Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 8 says this: Abraham owed. It doesn't say he kind of obeyed. It doesn't say he sort of obeyed. It doesn't say he obeyed. That's not what it says. It says when Abraham was called to go, he obeyed Mark your Bible there in Hebrews chapter eleven. Go back with me please to the book of Genesis. This time we're going to be in chapter twelve. Genesis chapter twelve. Let's actually read the exact moment In the Word of God, when Abraham is called to go to a place which he should after receive for an inheritance. Let's read what God says in Genesis chapter 12, beginning in verse 1. Now the Lord had said unto Abram, number one Get thee out of thy country. Number two, and from thy kindred. Number three And from thy father's house. Now, understand that's a that's a term that is different in today's vernacular than it was back then. If I told you that I was going to my father's house. I would be going to 1874 Pansy Drive, Charleston, West Virginia. That's where he lived until he went home to be with the Lord a few years ago. But the term father's house here is not talking about a dwelling place. It's talking about a relationship. God is saying, Abraham, I want you to get out of your country. I want you to get away from all of your kindred, but especially any kindred that you have that you're related to through your father. Now watch what happens. Abraham's been told to do three things get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. That I will make of thee a great nation, that I will bless thee and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing I will bless him that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee. And in me shall all families of the earth be blessed. So Abram departed as the Lord had spoken unto him, and Lot But with him. And Abram was 75 years old when they departed out of Haran. And Abram took Sarah, his wife, and Lot, his brother's son. From his father's house, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls they had gotten in Haran, and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan, and in the land of Canaan They came. So here we find Abraham. He's told to do three things by Almighty God. Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house. And yet it looks to me, as I read Genesis chapter 12, verses 1 through 5, that Abraham didn't leave behind his kindred, and he didn't leave behind his father's house. If I walked in back when several years ago my daughter traveled with us in our trailer, and if I walked into the trailer, she had a little bedroom in the back and I said, Jerry, listen, I want you to pick up all of your dirty clothes And then I want you to make your bed. And after you've picked up your dirty clothes and made your bed, then you can sit down and watch one of your movies on your DVD player. If I walked into her room thirty minutes later, tripping over dirty clothes and saw her sitting on the unmade bed watching a movie on her DVD player, how many of you think I would say, Oh, charity That's just wonderful, honey. Daddy told you to do three things, and you absolutely did one of them. And I'm so proud of you. I'm going to give you a raise in your allowance. One of the proudest things in my life When Charity went off to Bible college, I don't know that she had ever gotten an allowance. I am so proud of that. She would hear this message and go, what's an allowance, Daddy? Anyway No, you know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna plant the Board of Education on the seed of higher learning. I'm gonna explain to my daughter that when Daddy says do three things, that means you do three things. You do what Daddy said in the order that daddy said to do them. So let me ask you some questions. Now, there are no wrong answers here. I want you to feel free to respond out loud. I'm not trying to trick you or anything like that. When Abraham was told to do three things, let's go down by the list. Did Abraham get out of his country? Yes or no? Oh you don't have to be afraid. Yes, of course he got out of his country. He left the ear of the Calvin. He's tried again. Did Abraham get out of his country? Yes or no? Yes. Did Abraham leave behind all of his kindred? Yes or no? Did Abraham leave behind all of his father's house? Yes or no? Did Abraham obey God? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Stop. Abraham, when he was called to go, obeyed. So Brother Harper, wait a minute, that's not what Genesis chapter 12 says. And here's what you say. I know what you're thinking. Well, I just believe the word of God. Which chapter? Believe Hebrews chapter eleven and verse eight that says when Abraham was called to go, he obeyed? Or do you read the account of Genesis chapter twelve, verses one through five, that when Abraham is called to do three things, he does one of them and disobeys the other two? It comes back to haunt him many times. Later. I see a difference. That kind of looks like a contradiction. How could it possibly be a contradiction when all scripture is given by inspiration of God? Be careful when someone tells you that the Bible has got contradictions in it because they just looked at you and told you that God lied. But I see a difference, don't you? Oh it's not a contradiction, it's not an error, it's not a mistake, but I see a difference. There's a difference between the heir of the righteousness which is by faith, Noah, of Hebrews 11 and verse 7, and the drunk naked Noah of Genesis 9, 20 and 21. There's a difference between the obedient Abraham of Hebrews 11 and verse 8 and the disobedient Abraham of Genesis chapter 12, verses 1 through 5. Mark your Bible there in the book of Genesis and go back with me to the book of Hebrews. We're going to go right back to Hebrews chapter eleven. We're going to meet the first matriarch of this passage of scripture. And by the way For those of you that are starting to feel a little bit uncomfortable, it's going to get a whole lot worse before it gets better. Look at Hebrews chapter 11. Now let's look down at verse 11. And you'll remember this story from Sunday school in junior church when you were growing up. Through faith also, Sarah herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful. Who had promised? What a story. You know the story from Genesis chapter chapter 18. The Lord himself shows up Two angels are with him. He shows up to meet Abraham. And he begins to talk to Abraham while the two angels go to warn Lot of the impending doom of Sodom and Gomorrah. And while the Lord is talking to Abraham, Sarah is listening at the tent door. By the way, no fault for Sarah on that. Every one of us would have wanted to listen to the conversation, wouldn't we? Sarah's eavesdropping as the Lord speaks to Abraham. Here they are. Abraham is 90. Sarah is getting close to 80. And it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women And the Lord tells Abraham, Listen, all those promises that I made, they're going to come true because you're going to have a son. You and Sarah are going to have a child by the name of Isaac. And Sarah heard it at the tent door. And she counted him faithful who had promised. Sarah started kicking her feet up, started waving hankies, started saying Praise the Lord and hallelujah, running laps around that tent. Then she ran inside, got online to babies R us and In order the Winnie the Pooh bedroom set, because her son Isaac was going to be born. God said it, and Sarah believed it, so that's the truth of it, isn't it? Now, some commentaries who want to try to twist and turn the Bible and do acrobatics with the Word of God say, well, that must have been there was a time outside of the confines of Scripture when Sarah learned to trust God. All I'm going to just do is believe the Scripture. How about that? I have this Sarah who counted him faithful who had promised. That's not the way I remembered that story. From Sunday school all those years ago. I understand. Mark your Bible there and go back with me to the book of Genesis, chapter eighteen This is the time when the Lord promised. This is the time when the Lord told Abraham that they were going to have a son, and his name was going to be Isaac. This is exactly what's happening here Notice if you will begin in verse 8 of Genesis chapter 18. Everything else I told you is correct. Actually, we're going to be in verse uh uh we'll start with verse nine. The Lord is now speaking to Abraham, and he says this And they said unto him, Where is Sherah, thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent. And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life. And lo, Sarah, thy wife, shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door, which was behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age, and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. Therefore Sarah laughed. I thought she counted him faithful with promised. Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I'm waxed old, shall I have pleasure, my Lord being old also? The Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I have a surety have a bear a child which am old? Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the at the time appointed, I will return unto the accord of the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. Then Sarah denied, saying, I laugh not. For she was afraid. And he said, Nay, but thou didst laugh. There seems to be a difference here, doesn't there? Oh, it kind of looks like it might be an error. If I wanted to try to convince people the Bible had contradictions, I'd probably spend a lot of time in Hebrews chapter 11. But it sure looks to me, even though I know there's no contradiction, there's no error, there's no mistake, it does look to me like there's a difference, isn't there? Drunken naked Noah, the heir of the righteousness by faith. Disobedient Abraham, Abraham obeyed. Laughing at Almighty God, Sarah, is the one that counted him faithful, who had promised. Go back with me, please, to Hebrews chapter 11, and we are coming right back to the book of Genesis. Go back with me to Hebrews chapter 11, and we're going to find the Father Knows Best part of this passage of Scripture. Remember the old show, Father Knows Best? It predated me a little bit, so I don't remember it, but I've seen it in reruns. Some of you watched it when you were very little, some of you watched it when you were already a little bit old. It's how long you've been on the earth. It doesn't matter though. We remember a little bit about it, don't we? Robert Young was the star, if I remember correctly. Every day he'd go off to work, the whole family would fall apart, and at the end of the day Daddy would come home, and Daddy had the answer to every single problem, no matter what it was By the way, in modern day television, Daddy is the bumbling fool that doesn't know how to use his cell phone or program his iPad or doesn't know what an app is because Satan is going to do everything he can to destroy the fabric of the family. But here you find this father knows best moment. We're going to meet a dysfunctional family, but not in Hebrews chapter 11 and verse 20. They're not dysfunctional there. You remember the story, you heard it growing up. Abraham's son Isaac and his wife, they've got two sons, two boys, twins. They've been at each other's throats, or more accurately, at each other's ankles. Since the time of their birth. Remember, Esau was firstborn. The firstborn in Hebrew culture was entitled to the firstborn blessing and the birthright. Two different things in the Hebrew culture After him, here came Jacob, holding on to his brother's ankle when he was born. They began to grow up, and Jacob and his wife were not necessarily the best parents in the world. Oftentimes, parents have favorites. If you have a favorite, just make sure your children don't know which one is the favorite. But Isaac and Rebecca, everybody knew who the favorite was. Isaac's favorite was Esau, Esau's uh Rebecca's favorite was Jacob. Jacob was the fair complexed one. Esau's the big man, the hunter, the man's man, if you will, the outdoorsy type. The two boys never really got along. Remember one time when Esau had been out hunting and he's starving, and he actually thinks he's going to die. He is so hungry. Whether he's exaggerating or not, it's what he says is, I think I'm gonna die if I don't get something to eat. He stumbles on Jacob, and Jacob has made some stew And he says, Little brother, can I have just a little bit of that stew? 'Cause I'm about to die of hunger. And his brother said, What do you give me for it? What a loving family this is He bargains away his birthright for some pottage. Now Isaac is old. And now it's time for Isaac to bless his firstborn son before he dies. Isaac's not only old, but he's blind. Now look how uh Hebrews eleven and verse twenty describes this setting right here. Doesn't it sound so sweet and wonderful and so father knows best? Verse 20, by faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. Can you picture it now? Agent blind Isaac sitting there with his two boys who have never gotten along, each of them sitting at his feet, laying his hand on both of them together and blessing them by faith. Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. What a story. Brother Harper, I I remember that differently. Yes, there's a reason you remember it differently. Turn back to Genesis chapter twenty-seven with me. Genesis chapter twenty-seven, here's what's happened. Here's the background. Isaac, it's now time for Esau. And please understand, Esau is still entitled to the blessing. Isaac brings Esau in and says, Son, go out and kill a deer and make me some deer of meat. And after you make me deer meat, I often think it's jerky, but I think jerky would take longer to make. But anyway, go and kill me a deer and bring me something to eat. And when you kill the deer and make me something to eat, then that's when I'm going to give you the blessing to which you're entitled. Rebecca hears the whole story. She loves Jacob more than she loves Esau. She goes and she kills a goat and makes goat meat for her husband. Puts it on the arms of Jacob, and Jacob is going to walk back in to deceive his father. Did you hear what I just said? He's going to walk back in to deceive his handicapped Blind, aged father, with the help of the wife that has been married to Isaac all these years. This is not a stellar family Notice what happens. Let's read it exactly as it happens. Genesis chapter 27, you're with me there, please. Let's look at verse 19. And uh and Jacob said, let's read let's read verse 18. And he came unto his father and said, My father And he said, Here am I? Who art thou, my son? And Jacob said to his father, I am Esau. Now help me once again with this. Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau. What did Jacob just do? He lied right through his teeth. I am Esau, thy firstborn. I have done according to thou badest me. Arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison that thy soul may bless me. And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the Lord thy God brought it to me. Isn't that blasphemy? Didn't he just give God credit for his deceit? Lord, God brought it to me. And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee. But I may feel thee, my son, whether they may have your son Esau or not, and Jacob went near unto Isaac his father, and he felt him and said, The voice is Jacob's voice The hands are the hands of Esau. And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his brother Esau's hands, so he blessed him. And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said I am. And he said, Bring it near, uh, bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's venison that my soul may bless thee. After a little while, the blessing is over, Jacob leaves. The Bible tells us that Jacob has scarce gone out of his father's sight Let's read what it actually says, please. Verse thirty. And it came to pass as soon as Isaac made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting And he also had made savory meat and brought it unto his father, and said unto his father, Let my father arise and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me. And Isaac his father said unto him Who art thou? Can you imagine? And it's very hard to feel sorry for Esau from the text of Scripture. Can you imagine what that did to Esau's heart? When his dad says, Who art thou? He said, I am thy son, thy firstborn Esau. Isaac trembled very exceedingly and said, Who? Where is he that has taken venison and brought it to me? I have eaten of all before thou camest, and have blessed him. Yea, and he shall be blessed. When Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me, even me also, O my Father. Now watch verse 35. And he said, Thy brother came with subtlety and hath taken away thy blessing. Hmm. By faith, Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come. My brother came with subtlety. And have taken away thy blessing. Did Isaac bless Jacob by faith? Did Isaac even intentionally bless Jacob? Did that have anything to do with it? Jacob out of his own mouth says, no, no. Jacob stole what Isaac out of his own mouth says he stole what was in his. He blasphemed, he stole, he lied, and he suddenly took away what belongs to you Brother Harper, that really looks like it could be a contradiction. No? It absolutely cannot possibly be a contradiction. But there's a difference Isn't there a difference? You can't read it in black and white and not know that there's a difference between the drunk and naked Noah of Hebrews 11:7. In the air of the righteousness, Noah. I mean the drumming negative note of Genesis 9, 20, and 21, and the air of righteousness, Noah, of Hebrews eleven seven. The obedient Abraham of Hebrews eleven eight And the disobedient Abraham that disobeyed more than he obeyed of Genesis 12, 1 through 5. Difference between the one that counted Sarah that counted him faithful who had promised in Hebrews 11 and verse 11, and the laughing at God, Sarah. of Genesis 18, verses 9 through 15. Seems to be a difference between the blessing Jacob by faith, Isaac, of Hebrews 11 and verse 20. And the Isaac who tells us out of his own lips, he was robbed and deceived by a blaspheming, lying son. Back to Hebrews chapter 11 with me, please. We won't come back to the the to the book of Exodus on this one. But I want you to notice verse 23. By faith, Moses, you already know Moses is my favorite Old Testament Bible character. By faith, when he was born, he was hit three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child. They were not afraid of the King's Commandment. What a story. As we travel so often, we'll go to a church, and the next time we're at that church, last time I was here was in September of 2021. And so this is April of twenty twenty-three. It's yeah, almost a year and a half, uh cl closer to two years than a year and a half. And oftentimes when you go back to a church a year and a half or two years or even three years later, you'll see a couple that was just married the last time you were there. And the the husband and the wife will walk up to you, and you can look at the wife, and to use the old olden term, she's in the family way. She walks up and she's seven or eight months pregnant And that husband stands there beside of her, puts his arm around her, and I'll look well look at you guys. Don't you have a wonderful blessing? And the husband says this phrase. There are lots of ways to say this phrase That don't infuriate me. There is one way that this that this statement is going to be made that makes me mad every time I hear it. Sometimes the husband with his arm around his wife will point at her like this and say, Yeah, Brother Harper We're pregnant. No, we are not. I'm sorry. You can say we're going to have a baby. We're expecting, we're looking forward to our firstborn son or our firstborn daughter. You can say all kinds of things, but Can't say we are pregnant. Men, if we had to get pregnant, there'd be about forty people living on planet Earth. That would be it. There'd be nothing left of the of humankind if men had to be pregnant. I'm told that the greatest pain ever is uh is labor pain. But nowadays you have doctors saying that, oh no, no, no, it's kidney stones. I guarantee you it was a male doctor that had never experienced labor pains that said kidney stones are just as bad. He'll say, We're pregnant. No, we're not pregnant. Your body hasn't changed. Your feet aren't swelling. You don't wake up every morning eating a cracker or a piece of toast and drinking water, so you don't start the day with morning sickness You haven't had all those physiological and emotional changes going on in your body. No, sir, we are not But ladies, just in case you're under the impression that you're the only one that went through anything while you were pregnant, let me say something. You will notice that my wife is locked in the room when I say this. So I can be a little bolder than some of you might be able to be. Ladies, maybe your husband has never told you this. Maybe he never sat down and looked at you in the eye and said, with all the love and grace in his heart, that while you were pregnant for those forty weeks of gestational period there You might have become just a little bit moody See, some of you men, you're sitting there and down deep in your soul, you want to say say amen to the top of your lungs. But you're sitting there beside of your wife and you're going, I don't know what he's talking about, honey. You were never moody I know what's going on. You became a little bit moody. And we meant we learned a two-word phrase that we should have used a lot of times before you were pregnant and should use a lot of times after you were pregnant We began to begin every conversation with those two words, I'm sorry. We knew whatever was going on had to be our fault, no matter how what happened in the world. What kind of bad day you had, it happened because of your husband somehow or another. And so we began lots of qu lots of conversations with those two words. I'm sorry. As soon as the baby was born, we stopped saying that. Now that's wrong. We should still say it when we're wrong. We're just never wrong, you know, with just cause we're men. But the truth is Your wife changed a lot, and man, we had to live with that for nine months. Remember that day? It was the the thirty-ninth week of pregnancy. Your wife, when she got dressed for church on Sunday, used to be so stylish and dressed up so nice. But on this day she's sitting there putting on her makeup, getting ready for church and She's not wearing one of her stylish dresses. She's wearing something that looks like it was made by Momar, the tent maker. And all of a sudden you hear her from her makeup mirror call your name. You've got a learned response. You're as far away from her as you possibly can be while she's getting dressed on Sunday morning, but this day she calls your name When she calls your name, you hear that she's calling your name through tears. You walk into your wife's bedroom, in the bedroom there where she's sitting in her makeup mirror, and she turns and looks at you As she turns and looks at you, her face is a bunch of running mascara and foundation and rolling down her face as she is weeping and crying because she's getting dressed on Sunday morning and doesn't like what she sees in the mirror. You walk in the in the door and you say, honey, I'm sorry. You just know that's what's has gonna happen here. But then she looks at you and surprises you because it's not something that you've done wrong. But she looked at you and said, Am I still beautiful to you? And man If you have any backbone whatsoever, you crossed your fingers behind your back. You looked your wife straight in her master mascara run face and you said sweetheart you are more beautiful right now than you were on the day I married you then you walked out of the room got alone with God and begged for his forgiveness But then came that moment. It's time to rush to the hospital. It's time to go. It's time for the labor pains. It's time for the birth. All that is going to happen. Your wife went through hours of labor pains. You want to hear something funny, listen to three or four ladies talking about labor pains because it's like one one tries to top the other one. The first one say, Well With my first one, I was in labor for eighteen consecutive hours. And then some other lady's gonna say, Oh, that's nothing. With my first one, I was in labor for 24 hours. And the third lady's gonna say, ha ha ha ha. I wish mine was only twenty-four hours. I was in labor for seventeen straight weeks, and it's just gonna keep getting bigger and bigger and bigger But finally the baby is born. You're holding your newborn son. First thing he did was count his fingers and his toes. I don't know why we do that. As if we would love him one little bit less if he was missing his pinky toe or something. You looked at your wife as you're holding your baby in your arms for the first time, and you say, Sweetheart, you did great. He's beautiful. He's perfect. We know that's not true, but we still say it. And then the husband says to the wife, he is so pretty, honey, I think we should hide him I think we should hide him for three months. Don't tell anybody he's been born. Let's just keep it a secret. Don't put anything on Facebook. Don't make any announcements or anything like that. Let's just hide him. And after we've hit him for three months, here's what we can do. I can play him Here's what we can do, we take that brand new bassinet we got for him at Babies R Us. We can cover it on the outside with with the batch uh li uh uh uh with uh with uh tar and with pitch and all that kind of stuff and we can make it as waterproof as we possibly can. And then we'll wrap him in his little blanket and we'll lay him in there and then we'll just say goodbye and send Bon Voyage and send him down the Nile River all by himself. I sure hope something good happens. Give her the harbor, wait a minute. Moses' parents hit him because Pharaoh was killing all of the baby more uh b uh male babies that were being born. They did that to protect their son. Oh really? What's the Bible say? When Moses was born, he was hid three months of his parents because they saw he was a proper child. He was a pretty baby. Oh yeah, but they were afraid of it. No, wait a minute, read the rest of it. And they were not afraid of the king's commandment. Huh. Kind of changes the story a little bit, doesn't it? Notice the Bible's then going to talk to us about Moses leaving Egypt. Now we did read some of this last night, so or the uh I'm sorry, Sunday night, but I want you to notice what it says about Moses Verse 24, by faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season. Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures treasures in Egypt, for he had respect of the recompense of the reward. By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible Through faith, he kept the Passover. I just read that so you know the context. You want to do something funny? Read Bible commentaries about these verses. Once I once again I mentioned they do theological acrobatics as they try to explain that this part of this verse takes place early in Moses' life, this part takes place This part takes place after he's left Egypt and came back and all the plagues. And this part takes place at a different time. And this part takes place on Moses' 18th birthday. They make up all kinds of stuff. To try to explain that there's no contradiction here. Because we read the verses last night. I don't think we'll turn back to them because you saw them just last night That after Moses saw an Egyptian smiting in Hebrew, one of his brethren, and looked this way and that way, and he saw there was no man, he killed the Egyptian and hit him in the sand. When out the second day two men of the Hebrews strode together And he said to him that did the wrong, wherefore smitest thou thy fellow? And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? Intendest thou to kill me and thou killest the Egyptian Moses feared and said, Behold, this thing is known. Now, when Pharaoh heard this thing, He sought to slay Moses. Listen carefully. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of God. Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh. Brother Harper, that has to be a contradiction. We better do some twists and some turns. We better do some bending and some pretzel moves so that we can explain this and prove that it's not a contradiction. Because when I read it This can't be when Moses leaves, leaving the children of Israel, not fearing the wrath of the king, because in the next verse, they're keeping the Passover, which took place before they left Egypt. Well the hover, that's got to be a contradiction. No, no. You've been listening to me the whole time. It is not a contradiction. We don't know who the human penman was. You who that was used to pen the words of Hebrews. But it sure looks like the author of Hebrews left out that Moses was a cold-blooded murderer. He just left out that Sarah laughed at God. Didn't mention that Abraham disobeyed more than he obeyed. Didn't mention the drunk naked Noah in his tent. Didn't mention Jacob's lies, blaspheming, and subtlety. Just didn't mention it at all. It's not a contradiction. One more. We won't turn to the Old Testament on this one either. We'll say right here. And in verse 29. By faith. Faith means believing God can do something before he does it. The substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. By faith. Faith, they passed by the Red Sea as by dry land, which the Egyptians are saying to do were drowned. You know how that story was, right? Of Israel, their camps right there in front of the Red Sea, Piah on one side, Belsiphon on the other side, Pharaoh's army behind them, and all the children of Israel said, Moses, Moses, listen If you just had some faith, Moses, you'd know that God can part this Red Sea right now. If you just ask the Lord, God can part the water. Brother Harper, I don't I don't remember it saying that, no. Because what they actually said is this, were there no graves in Egypt that thou brought us forth to die in the wilderness? Consider this saying that we said unto thee, saying, Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians. For it is better for us to serve the Egyptians that we should die in the wilderness. When did the children of Israel believe that God could part in the Red Sea After he did it. Is that faith? By the definition of this passage of Scripture, is that faith? Is that the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen? Absolutely not. It's as if the author of the book of Hebrews didn't even remember that the children of Israel still doubted after seeing ten plagues. Didn't even remember that Moses murdered Jacob lied and blasphemed and deceived. Didn't even remember that Abraham disobeyed two out of the three things he was told to do. Didn't even remember that Sarah laughed at Almighty God. Turn back one truth in your Bible, please. I told you it'd be a while before we got to our text. I want you to see our text in chapter 10, please. I want you to see the 17th verse of chapter 10. When the Lord Himself says this. And their sins and iniquities will I remember no more Do you understand what that means, Christian? Oh yes, it's a contradiction because it doesn't say that Moses murdered and then Noah was drunk. And that Jacob deceived, and that Sarah doubted. It doesn't say that, so that must be a contradiction. No, no, no, no, no. The contradiction would be if in chapter ten Almighty God said, Listen, I'm not going to remember their sins, and I'm not going to remember their iniquities, and turn the side. Around in chapter 11 and detailed their sins and iniquities. There is a difference between what the Old Testament says and what the New Testament says in Hebrews chapter 11. It's called the cross of Jesus Christ. It's called his precious blood. It's called justification. It's called salvation. There is a difference. What you're missing in Hebrews chapter 11 is just the sin. That God had just promised not to remember. Well, it's not the first time he said that. He said it in chapter 8 in verse 12. But I will have mercy in their unrighteousness and their sin and iniquity will I remember no more He said it in Isaiah chapter one in verse eighteen. Come now, let us reason together, though the sins be as frowned, they shall be as white as snow, though red like crimson, they shall be as wool. He said it in Isaiah thirty-eight in verse seventeen. Peace I had great bitterness, but thou hast in love for my soul, delivered it from the pit of corruption, for thou hast cast all my sin Behind thy back. He said it in Isaiah forty-four and verse twenty-two. I even I am he that blotteth out my transgressions for my own name's sake And will not remember thy sin. He said it in Psalm 103 in verse 12. As far as the east is them from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us He says it in Romans chapter 8 and verse 1. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. He says it through the pen of the Apostle Paul, as Paul Continues to ask rhetorical questions in chapter 8. Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifies Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died. Yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of the Father, also making their session for us Won't you read that verse in the book of Matthew that says the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise? From that moment on, in the rest of the New Testament, there are two things glaringly missing that were all over the Old Testament. One, God's people never offer a single animal sacrifice after the Savior has been born. Because the Lamb was here. Number two. There's not one single specific mention of an Old Testament saint's sin, the remainder of the New Testament So Brother Barbara, wait wait, wait a minute. Closest thing you can come to is this one. Rahab is still referred to by her title from the Old Testament. Lot, this wicked man, this wicked man that dies as a caricature of how just how bad someone can turn from the Lord. But the New Testament calls him just Lot, who vexed his righteous soul day by day in Sodom. Early in David David's life, before we even met him, in 1 Samuel chapter 13 and verse 14, the Lord has sought for a man after his own heart. At the end of his life, the Lord sought for a man after his own heart that would fulfill all of his will. And then it says this, except in the area of Uriah the Hittite. When that verse is quoted in the New Testament, do you know what's left off? The area of Uriah the Hittite. God doesn't just promise to forgive. He promises to wipe his omniscient memory of our sin. We would say this. He promises to forget. But God does not forget the way you and I forget. I love the song, the song of the Walsh Revival. One part of it says this, talking about the cross of Christ, heaven's peace and perfect justice, kiss the guilty world in love. He didn't just forgive our sins. He replaced them with his own righteousness He isn't kind of us righteous. Not only did he replace our sins with his own righteousness, then he made sure there was no evidence of the sin in the first place. Remember Colossians chapter two verses thirteen and fourteen, having forgiven you all trespasses, blotting out the handwriting of the ordinances which was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross God doesn't just forgive. He chooses on purpose not to remember. It's an old saying, I believe, when Shakespeare said it. To err is human, to forgive is divine. Well, err certainly is something that humans do. But to forgive. Humans can in fact forgive. Let me illustrate it this way. It was nineteen ninety uh nineteen eighty-five. I know that's a long time ago for some of you. Others of you are saying, well, I was already graduated from high school. school back then. I understand that's where I am. 1985. My wife and I got married on December the 8th, 1984. So we've been married just over a year. My wife's uncle and aunt were missionaries to Japan. And when they would come home on furlough, they would stay with a famous preacher, a famous evangelist of days gone by, named Fred Brown. Did you ever have the privilege of hearing Dr. Brown? They would stay with Fred Brown when they were home on furlough. So my wife came to me. My my brother-in-law and his wife lived in town there, and my wife said, Listen, uh Ronnie and Odessa want us to come Up to their house, up to Dr. Brown's house for a big meal. And uh I think we ought to do it. Kemp and Berbil are gonna be there. Went to all the lists of the people that are gonna be there. So well that's wonderful, sweetheart. We've been married twelve months and a week or two, so everything is still wonderful, right? That's wonderful. That's great. When is that? And she said, Oh, it's on January the first. Now, things have changed since way, way, way back then, I know. Nowadays there are many, many times during the year when you can sit down and watch four football games back to back to back to back. You can watch college football every Saturday for about twelve hours without breaking a sweat. But back then that wasn't the case. Back then there was one day and only one day That you could watch four straight football games. The rose, the cotton, the orange, and the sugar bowl were played back to back to back to back, just like that, one right after the other. Twelve glorious hours of college football Never been a Tennessee fan, but I was living in Chattanooga. Everything around me was orange and had a T on it. And that year Tennessee had won the Southeastern Conference and was going to represent the Southeastern Conference in the Sugar Powl on January the first. Not to mention they were going to play the University of Miami. For those of you in the auditorium that are from West Virginia, you know that if you're from West Virginia, you do not like the University of Miami. We come out of the womb not liking the University of Miami. So I'm going to be rooting for Tennessee. I realize that this meal is going to be taking place at the same time that Tennessee is going to be playing University of Miami in the sugar hole. And I said, Well sweet, I got I'm I'm I'm not gonna go. I said I'm going to stay home and I'm gonna watch the University of Tennessee play the University of Miami in the Sugar Bowl. I'm just not gonna go And my wife, my dear, sweet little four foot eleven wife, she said, Oh yes, you are. And I said, Huh, oh no, I'm not. And she said, oh yes, you are. Now my authority as a husband has been questioned. And I said, Oh, no, I'm not. And her eyes, her brown eyes, turned red. And I don't know where this voice came from. She put her little fists on her hips like this, put her left hand in front of her right foot in front of her right foot and she said something like this oh no you're not I said okay I'll go She said, I said, well sweetheart, well then what I'm gonna do, since I have to go, I don't have any choice about this, I'm in trouble. So I'm gonna go, but as soon as I get to finish eating, I'm gonna go in the other room And I'm going to watch the University of Tennessee play the University of Miami on Dr. Brown's television. My wife said something I hadn't even considered, Pastor Pryne. She said, you know, Dr. Brown might not even have a television. That hadn't even crossed my mind. I didn't even thought about that. How terrible it would be. I mean it's like being in a third world country if you can't watch the twelve glorious hours of college football on January the first I said, well, if that's the case, then I'm just going to get in the car and I'm going to go ho come home and I will watch the University of Tennessee play the University of Miami. And you can get your brother to bring you home after the meal. And she said, Oh no, you're not I said, oh yes I am. She said, oh no, you're not. I'm ready now. I said, oh yes I am. She said, oh no, you're not I felt my felt goosebumps up and down my arm. I lost control of my knees. They started quivering together. And I said, All right, I'll go We made a broccoli casserole for that. That's bad enough as it is, because broccoli is green. But anyway, we made a broccoli casserole. We're going to take it up on Signal Mountain where Dr. Brown lived. Well, we're working together in this apartment kitchen, the rustic village apartments in Chattanooga, Tennessee. You know, if you're working together in a kitchen, everything is fine. You can take things out of the cabinet and put them gently If you want to let your wife know just how mad you are while you're helping make the broccoli casserole, you slam those cans on that counter. You slam the doors of the counter cabinet. You make sure she knows. But she was making sure that I knew that she wasn't happy with me either. I don't understand what her problem was. I was doing exactly what she told me to do We drove up on top of Signal Mountain. We got out of the car, we slammed the door, and just for the record, I slammed my door a lot louder than she slammed her door. We walked up to Dr. Brown's door, we knocked on the door, my wife's aunt opened the door, Odessa, she opened the door, and she said, Hello, and we did exactly what every Christian does on Sunday morning. We said, Hey Been looking forward to this for so long we walked in. As we walked in we hung our coats over on the there's a little coat room over here and I looked to the right as we walked in there's a little a little uh like a living room area, den area, and there was a television set in there. I felt a little bit better. We walked on a little bit further and we had to walk through the kitchen to get to the dining room. And remember this was 1986, January the 1st, 1986. I could see that people were already seated. Dr. Brown was already seated at the table. Big beautiful cherry table. Mrs. Brown was already with the Lord. So Odessa had gotten out all her china and all her crystal and all her silver and made this ornate beautiful table As I got closer, I could see that Dr. Brown's here and there's other chairs all the way up and down. When I finally got to the door, I realized that Dr. Brown is sitting at the head of the table. And at the foot of the table, on top of the table, was a 27-inch colored television set. And the University of Tennessee was kicking off against the University of Miami. And I sat there beside of Dr. Brown and I watched kick off and every single play while I ate that New Year's Day meal. And I'm here to tell you, other than the broccoli casserole, I can't tell you what I ate that day. But it's the best meal I ever had. Afterward, we went in the other room, and he and I And we watched one game after another game after another game until finally about six hours later my wife said, Honey, it's time to go. And I said, Oh no, it's not But here's the truth now, all these 36, 37 years later, I have to say I've matured as a husband and as a man. That I can now say that I have completely forgiven my wife for her lack of subjection when it came to that January, the first meal. But I'm never going to forget The air is human. To forgive. Humans are commanded to do that. To forget. Now that's divine. There's a phrase that we use all the time. I've heard it said from many pulpits at one time. Justified means justified, never sinned. A young uh assistant pastor came to me and said, Brother Harper, I don't think that's right He said, it doesn't mean just if I'd never sinned. It means just if I'd never even been a sinner. The righteousness of God has been attributed to my account. There are two truths here. Get this. One. God, the moment you got saved, chose to forget your sins. Buried them under the blood of Christ, never to be remembered again. Two, what God has chosen to forget, Satan has chosen to remember And he's reminded you time and time and time again. Every time revival starts in your heart, every time you say, Well, I'm going to help in this area of the church, or I'm going to get involved in this. You say, I'm going to help teach a Sunday school class. And as soon as you start thinking that, the old devil climbs on your shoulder and said, Nobody would listen to you teach a Sunday school class. Remember what you used to be And it has defeated you time and time and time again. It has caused you to question what the Lord's called you to do, calls you to question what the Lord has in his life in your life, ready for you. It's called you to do things other than what the Lord has wanted you to do because you look at yourself and you look at your past and say, My past is so terrible. God could never use me. You remember your past Satan will remind you of your past. But he chose to remember no more. What I'm saying is, Christian, it's time for Satan to stop winning that battle. It's time for that victory to be ours instead of his. We let him remind us of things that God has long since forgotten. And he defeats us with the same thing over and over. That's buried in the depths of the sea, moved as far away as the east is from the west, and hidden behind the back of Almighty God. What I'm saying, Christian, is it's time Satan loses that fight. If you're here today and you don't know Christ as your personal savior, Do you know pretty much every religion on the face of the earth holds your sin over your head? Every religion on the face of the earth reminds you how bad you are, so you better just keep working. You better keep doing good deeds to get rid of all those bad deeds that you've done. Wouldn't you love to have a Savior that forgives and forgets? Wouldn't you want to have a God? who buries it under his own son's blood, nailed it to his cross, and hid it behind his back. You can have them tonight. All you have to do is receive him. Bow her heads and close her eyes, no one looking around.