Turn back to Psalms 103. For those that are not aware, Elizabeth is actually getting hitched in October. Getting married to a young man and she met in Bible college and he's serving the Lord down in Texas, called to preach, and we're excited for them. Psalms 103 And uh I just want to look at a couple verses here, verses number eight and verse number seventeen, Psalms 103. There was a Fellow was a truck driver and he was going through Broken Bow, Nebraska, Joe, and he stopped at a all-night truck stop. He got in there, he ordered a hamburger, he ordered or a cheeseburger, he ordered French fries, he ordered a cup of coffee. While he was sitting there, three of the three really tough looking guys come in They were like uh uh Hell's Angels motorcycle gang type of guys and they were all leather and then and they saw this truck driver sitting there looked a little bit like Chuck and Jerry a little bit And uh no not really, I'm kidding. But uh they come walking in, the guy's sitting there, he's all by himself, just minding his own business. He's about to take a bite out of his cheeseburger, he's got the fries, he's got his coffee. These three guys In a bad mood, I guess. They came up to him. One guy comes up and s reaches down, grabs his cheeseburger, and starts eating it right in front of me. He says, What are you gonna do about it? He just sat there. The other guy grabbed his french fries, starts wolfing him down. He says, You gonna do anything about this? The guy just sat there. Another guy, the third one, picked up his coffee cup and started sipping it real loud. What are you gonna do about that, trucker? He just sat there, called the waitress, said, can I get my bill? Got up, went over, paid his bill, walked out into the night The fellow said, well, he's not much of a man. He's a coward. The waitress was watching him go out to his truck and she says, I don't know whether he's much of a man or not, but he's a terrible truck driver. I said, what do you mean? Isn't that the way we are? You do me wrong, I'm doing you wrong back. Here's what we do sometimes before I read our text. I think we do this more often than we're even aware of. We project onto God behavior that we would do. And not really knowing what God is like. And we assume that God will act the way we act. And that God will respond to things the way we respond. And that God thinks the way we think. When we come to our scriptures, we find that that is not the case. Look with me, if you would, at verse number 8 of Psalms 103. The Bible, in fact, let's read this together. I like when we read passages together. Verse number eight. Let's all read it together. Ready? Here we go. The Lord is merciful and gracious. Slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. Would you come down to verse 17? I just want to read the first part of that verse I'll just read this. You follow along. The first part of verse 17. But the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting. I want to speak this morning on this. God is merciful. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for the tremendous privilege we have. to be uh in church this morning. God, we don't take this lightly. We understand that in many parts of the world, people can't do as freely as what we're doing now. And so we're very grateful for the place you've allowed us to live, this land. We're grateful for the freedoms we have. We're grateful for the facilities and the prosperity that you have blessed us with. But Lord, above all this, I'm asking that you can use the next few moments, this morning service, that you would use this to open our spiritual eyes, and we could see you and know you. And better than we did before. And we would understand what you're like. And so that we can develop our relationship with you. Please fill me with your spirit. Lord, I need your strength. I need your filling. I pray that you would speak through my body to our hearts and minds. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Throughout the summer, we've been preaching on God. We try to consider, does God actually exist? Is there really a God or is it just a figment of our imagination? Well, if we look inside our hearts and souls, there's an awareness in every one of us that God actually does exist. He has created us with an awareness of his existence. Every society that has ever existed has worshipped some sort of God. No matter how remote they were, no matter how removed they are from the rest of the world's population, every society has worshiped some sort of God. There is an internal soul awareness of God's existence. And then we look around, we noted in previous messages, we look around in the world of creation, we look at the world we live in, uh the uh uh universe we live in, we look into the microscopic universe we live in And we see design, we see order, we see plan, we see purpose, we see intelligence in the world we live in And the natural conclusion, the logical conclusion is, if there is d if there's design, there has to be a designer. If there's if there's a cause, there has to be an effect. And uh the complexity of the creation we look at. So we look in the world, we see Stars in the world we live in, and we come to a logical conclusion is God does exist. So our heart tells us there is a God. Our world tells us. There is a God. The evidence of his creation is undeniable. And then we look into the scriptures, and the scriptures declare emphatically that God is. In the beginning, gone. No arguments, no defenses, simply an assumed statement that everybody understands that God exists. For someone to deny the existence of God, they are denying the uh they are denying the obvious that's all around us. Am I on, Jamie? I don't think I am Well you thought that you think that was good. Where do I turn it on? Then it'll be really good. Now here's the question. God exists. We can't deny that. Not honestly. Can't deny that. God exists. What is he like? Where is he at? We can pick up a little bit in creation. We come to the conclusion that God that made this is obviously intelligent. Wasn't any dummy put this thing together? So God's intelligence, there's an element of wisdom we notice. Obviously, there's a phenomenal amount of power that could create the sun. And the universe. So this God that exists, just looking in creation, we come to some conclusions about him. One of the conclusions we come to is either far away or he's invisible Because we can't see him anywhere. We can't find him. So either he's a distant God or he's an invisible God We come to the scriptures and we get the answer to some of these questions. We find that God is indeed invisible. He's a spirit. He doesn't have physical form. He doesn't have a body. He is a spirit. And Jesus told the woman at the well, they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth, because he is indeed invisible. He's a spirit. Bible references our invisible God Almighty God. So we can't see him. He has no physical form. We can't touch him. He's a spirit. We are told in scriptures very clearly that there is only one God. He declares himself, he says that I am is a term he uses in declaring who he is. Of course, the name Jehovah. He gives us that is my name, Jehovah, which it uh which has this idea, the self-sufficient one. In other words, this God that exists that we cannot see, but we know he exists He is not dependent upon anybody or anything for anything. He is self-existent We look in scriptures, we find out that this one God that is invisible, that's self-existent, that uh he is made up of a trinity of beings We find in Scripture God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit, yet one God, each distinct, separate entities. completely and fully God in and of themselves, yet they make up one God. And that's difficult to understand. The Bible clear teaches it very, very clearly. We find that this God is eternal. He always was. He always was uh always will be. People ask me on rare occasions, somebody will say something, Well, where did God ever come from? He never came from nowhere, he's always been He always will be. When did God start? He didn't start. He always was. He always will be. Again, that's difficult for us to comprehend. And so we notice we notice in scripture tells us a lot of things about this God that is he that has made us. He's omnipresent We can't get away from him. He is here right now. The God that created all this, the intelligent God that sees he's a person, he is here. We are in his presence. He sees us, he understands us, he knows what we're thinking What is this God like? Well, we looked in the Bible and we find some of these attributes of him. A couple that we've touched on so far in a little bit more depth is number one, God is holy I believe the very first attribute, the very first thing God wants us to understand about Himself is that He is holy. And we talk about what that means, just perfect in every aspect. Perfect in purity Perfect in love. Every other attribute of God is embraced by that term. He is holy, absolute perfection. That's the God that made us. We noted last week that this God that is all powerful, He's eternal, He exists, He watches us, He watches over us, His eye is upon us, the Bible says. He's holy, but we noted he loves us. In fact, God doesn't just love, God is love. It's what he is. And God loves the creation he made, and he loves the man, mankind that he created in his image. He loves Not because we are lovely. We failed miserably. We have broken this holy God's law of acceptance. And we're separated from him. Because of his holiness, we're under his judgment. He doesn't love us because we're so lovely. He doesn't love us because we're so wonderful. In fact, you look at mankind and you get a pretty sour picture killing each other Killing our babies, raping and stealing, and torturing. Look at mankind and it's a pretty ugly picture. Now there's sparks of God's presence there throughout mankind, but We failed, and we failed our Creator miserably. But He loves us because He is love. The God that made us loves us. Now today I want to look at another attribute of God, and I believe this one is an Outgrowth isn't really the word I want, but uh uh a manifestation maybe of the fact that God is love, and that is this, that God is merciful. God is merciful. We come to Psalms 103 in my mind, and there's a lot of passages, we'll look at a few that address God's mercy, but I think Psalm 103 is one of the most beautiful records and uh descriptions of God's mercy that you can find anywhere in literature. Now, as I said, there's a lot of other great statements throughout Scripture, but We look at Psalms 103, and if you notice your Bible, it says under the title there, it has a little title, A Psalm of David. Here's the thing. That's all it tells us. All we know about this psalm, as far as background is concerned, is that it was penned by David. Now we know who the author is. God Himself authored this. Psalm, but he authored it through David. David penned it down. David recorded it. We're not given any background about what the circumstances were when David wrote this down. situation he was dealing with, we don't know what his frame of mind was as he's recording it. And sometimes if we can determine that, it helps us appreciate a little bit more what is said, helps us understand maybe what the Lord is communicating to us. But in this case, we're not given any of that information. Reading the Psalm very carefully, I've kind of come to the conclusion, and others have suggested this, that it was written perhaps late in David's life. May have been an old man. And he sat down and recorded uh his love for the Lord and God's love for him. And if you read through there and kind of picture in your mind this old man that knew God And walked with God and understood the Lord as maybe as few other people have. The Bible says that David was a man after God's own heart. That tells me David perhaps had some insights and understandings of what God was like and how God thought and what God valued maybe more than your average Christian might understand. Perhaps David wrote this later in years. He had experienced a lot of things. We notice as we read this psalm very carefully that David is rejoicing in how good God has been to him. We did not plan this, but the song that Elizabeth sang a moment ago fits beautifully into Psalms 103. David is declaring, Lord has been good to me. And describes a little bit what God is like. I thought of this as I was putting this together. Um I certainly would like That in my old age, now I'm that's a long way off for me, but whenever that date goes up I would like to be known as a man that is rejoicing in the Lord rather than grip about life. My prayer is, and y'all pray for me, I don't want to become a grumpy old man. I want to be somebody that can look back on my life and have the spiritual maturity to see how merciful God has dealt with me, how merciful God has dealt with me, and how good God has been to me. We need to learn. Listen, we we're concerned about changes taking place in our world. We're concerned about the direction Have a lot of people, a lot of things. We're very concerned about that. We're grieved about that. But I want to remind us this morning, like David, God has been awfully good to us. And we've got a lot to rejoice in. And so I appreciate the fact that if this is late in David's life, his tone His attitude, his expression is that of praising the Lord, rejoicing in God's goodness, not griping and complaining and just so focused on the negative. David is rejoicing in God's goodness. Now, there's one thing David knew how to do. He knew how to rejoice in the Lord. David had that down from a young boy as a shepherd boy on the hills there of in Israel and uh all throughout his life. You have record as things that David has said and things he has done, and the overwhelming emphasis of David's light has been rejoicing in the Lord. When things were going good David was rejoicing in the Lord. When things were going bad, David was rejoicing in the Lord. When everybody loved him, he was rejoicing in the Lord. When everybody hated him, was trying to kill him, he was rejoicing in the Lord. Dav Ben knew how to rejoice in God. I'll tell you what would do our country real good, some Christians that would start rejoicing in the Lord. Rejoicing in God's goodness. Listen, I I know what's going on in our country and we're doing our stuff, but God hasn't died yet. God is still alive. Heaven's still real. Nobody is ever gonna evoke God off the throne. And so David, in all circumstances, he knew how to rejoice in the Lord, and that's an indication of the maturity of David's faith. He understood in blessings and in challenges, David knew how to rejoice and praise the Lord. Now this is just trivia. It has nothing to do with the message, but I thought this was interesting. Psalms 103, verse number 1, from Psalms 103, verse 1 back to the beginning of uh the book of Psalms, uh there is uh uh uh what I'm trying to say is, I don't know what I'm trying to say here. What I'm trying to say is this Psalms 101 and Psalms 102 are the middle verses of the Bible. Now if you take the chapters, you go to the middle chapter of the Bible, I think it's Psalms 117, but if you take the verses and break it down, It comes to Psalms 101, 102. There's the same number of verses from Psalms 103, verse 1, to the beginning of the Bible, as there are some from Psalms 103, verse 2, to the end of the Bible. Has I don't know what that means, but it's interesting. So I thought I'd tell you that. So David's rejoicing in the Lord. Perhaps late in life. Perhaps uh he's writing memoirs of some extent. How good God's been to him and his relationship with God and his love for the Lord. And he's describing what God is like. Now when somebody is writing and working under the inspiration of God, and it's somebody that the Bible says they're a man after God's own heart, and they're going to sit down, they're going to tell you, hey, I want to tell you what God is like. It behooves us to pay close attention. Somebody comes and says, How I've been to Brazil. I've been to uh I've been to where the Olympics at? Yeah, I mean what city? Rio de Janeiro. Somebody says, I've been to Rio de Janeiro, I want to tell you what it's like. If I'm fixing to go there or I'm concerned about that or I have some investment there or some interest in that I would listen to what they had to say. They've been there. Somebody else comes say, let me tell you what Drees and Era is like. Have you ever been there? No? Well how do you know? I just tell you what I think it's like. You have nothing to base it on. It's a lot of people out there trying to tell us what God is like and they have no idea. They have no clue. But when David comes and he says, Let me tell you what this God is like, I'm going to pay attention to him. He's a man after God's own heart. He's walked with God for a long time. He has the spiritual maturity and understanding of God. A lot of other people don't. And so he's telling us what God is like. And he uses a term that's very important. We noted it already, and we will several times. Verse number 8 says, the Lord is, what is it? Merciful. And he refers to the God being merciful or the mercy of God a number of times. David is telling us that this God that created us, that is all powerful, always was, always will be, he's invisible, he's one God made up of three distinct beings. He's holy beyond our ability to comprehend. He loves us, but he is merciful. What does that mean? The word merciful, the word mercy has the idea of not giving to somebody something they do deserve. It's in a negative sense, not giving somebody judgment that they do deserve. Um it's withholding condemnation to withhold judgment. Deserve it? Guilty? Yes! But I'm not going to judge them. I'm not going to condemn that. I will withhold that. They deserve it, but I'm not going to give it to them. Let me put a word of caution out here We need to be very, very careful about demanding what we deserve. I deserve this Better be careful, especially when we're interacting with God. We be very, very careful. If God gives us what we deserve, that means mercy is removed. We face the judgment of God. Brother Greg did an excellent job in Sunday school and out at the fair. They were at the county fair. For those that here weren't excuse me, we weren't here during Sunday school. The drawing up here is what His wife Rebecca does at the fair all week. She does these drawings and then they give out gospel tracts, he does a gospel presentation, they invite people to trust Christ. Then they give that drawing away. They'll draw a little number and Whoever has it, they get that drawing. It's a tremendous tool to attract people to hear the gospel of Christ. And he was illustrating in his message how that we deserve God's judgment. We deserve God's wrath. But God withholds it. He placed it on Lord Jesus Christ instead of on us. That is mercy. Not getting the judgment, the condemnation, the wages that I do deserve And so David says that God is merciful. As a holy God that loves you and I so dearly, yet we are sinners. We've broken his law We've sinned against our God. We've taken his name in vain. We've misused the truth. We've blasphemed him with not just our words, but how we live our lives as his creation. But God is merciful. God is merciful. I have two thoughts to my message, two points to my message this morning. Number one, I want us to consider the revelation of God's mercy. How do we know that God is so merciful? Now I found this isn't a big issue today. I think it was in years gone by, but a lot of times people were so scared of God's judgment Fearful of God's judgment. God's going to judge me. God's going to kill me. God's going to destroy me. And there are obviously situations where that is the case. And so sometimes people are very concerned. God can never forgive me. In fact, I've had some people say this to me: God could never forgive me. For what I have done. I have to. I had a fellow tell me one time, I am going to hell. There's no way out. I've sinned, I've done too bad. I am going to hell. Well, the Bible says that God is very merciful. God is very merciful. How do we know that? How do we know that God is merciful? The revelation of God's mercy, first of all, in the clear statements in Scripture. The Bible is the Word of God. The Bible is absolutely true. If God said it, it is so. We had at our booth, and I'm going to be talking about the fair a lot today, no doubt, and throughout the week. It's just a tremendous week. Uh by the way, I think we had forty-two professions of faith throughout the week. You say all those really get saved? Uh all of them that genuinely called on the Lord and trust the Lord Jesus as their Savior got saved. And so we had the booth there, and we have a little display. We have this little cabinet type thing, and it has three doors on it, and real big across the top, it says this: three things God cannot do. I had a little girl yesterday, I was there for a couple hour hours or so yesterday, la yesterday afternoon, and uh she came by and she goes, There ain't nothing God can't do. I said, Oh yeah. Read that. Okay. Her and her mom went over First door open. Three things God can't do. Number one, she swings it open. God cannot lie. Well, I guess he can't lie. That's the truth. God can't lie. If God says it's so, it's so. If God says that He is merciful, we can count on it. God is merciful. Now I know what some of y'all are thinking, what was door number two? God cannot change. Same yesterday, today, and forever. And the third door is this. God cannot let anyone into heaven who has not been born again. Jesus said to Nicodemus, you must be born again. So God says that he is merciful. Then we can take that as truth because God does not lie. His word is true. Listen to Deuteronomy. We noted here in Psalms 103, verse 8, verse 17, the mercy of the Lord is from everlasting to everlasting. Deuteronomy chapter 4, verse 31, For the Lord thy God is a merciful God. He will not forsake thee. Listen to Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse 17. But thou art a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful. Slow to anger and of great kindness. In Psalms 1, uh in Psalms 86, verse 15. But thou, O Lord, art a God Full of compassion, gracious, long-suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth. Psalms 145, verse 8. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. Listen to this. Slow to anger and of great mercy. Now, several times in what we looked at, and I got another verse here I'll note in a moment, but several of the verses we looked at made this statement that God is slow to anger Other place in the Bible it says that God is slow to wrath. Does God get angry? Yes He got angry at Israel. He got angry at various people. Jesus got angry at the weak faith of his disciples. Does God get angry? Yes! But the Bible says that God is very slow to get angry. The word slow there has this idea to take a long time to get to that destination. It is a long time for that to happen. I like what Charles Spurgeon said. He said, when God sends his mercy, it flies rapidly. When God sends his anger, it flies very, very slowly. Very, very slowly. Here's the danger of projecting onto God how we act Mankind, generally speaking, is pretty quick to anger. How many of us don't respond, but how many of us have a tendency to fly off the handle? As we say. We often, and if the circumstances and situation are right, we are very quick to anger. We are very quick to wrath. We're very man we'll snap like that. Somebody says something wrong, somebody does something wrong, somebody eats my cheeseburger, somebody takes my french fries, boom That's not the way God is. We must never project onto God characteristics that are true of us. God is not man. So the Bible says that God is merciful. In fact, all these other terms that he uses here, merciful, gracious. Ready to pardon, great kindness, full of compassion, long suffering. All these statements, I believe, are simply descriptions of what God's mercy is like. Explaining this is how God's mercy manifests itself. It is slow to anger, it is long suffering, it is kind. Psalms 100 and verse 5 says, For the Lord is good, and his mercy is everlasting. God is very, very slow to pour out his judgment I don't know about you, but I would have thought by now America would have been judged by God I thought by now. Do you ever know somebody? Do you ever wonder why in the world is God letting that person live? They're so wicked. They're so evil. Why in the world? I'll tell you why. Because God is not willing that any should perish. He is long suffering and patient, giving opportunity for them to come to Christ. I may be talking to someone this morning, the only reason you're still alive right now is because you're lost And God is being merciful and giving you another opportunity to trust Christ and be saved. So God is very slow to anger. He's good. He's merciful. He's slow to pour his wrath. By the way, God does not become merciful. He is merciful. It's not something God has, it is what God is. He is merciful, merciful. So we have the very clear statements in Scripture of God's mercy. How do we know that this God that created us that exists, how do we know that He's so merciful? The Bible clearly states that And the second thought under that is uh we have the cons his consistent treatment of mankind. We look at God's treatment of man from the moment he fell. God has been very merciful. We touched on this in the message last week on the love of God. The very first thing God did when Adam and Eve sinned against their creator, their God. The very first thing God did was not destroy them and condemn and judge them. The very first thing he did was he came down and did everything to restore that fellowship and that relationship. God is not willing that any should perish. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. God doesn't want to. God did not create hell to put man in it. We're created in his image. He loves us. Hell was created for the devil and his angels, but when we allied ourselves with the devil by rebelling against God and sinning. Then there's no other option other than God's mercy. God's mercy So God's interaction with mankind tells us and shows to us that He is a very merciful God. I was thinking in the Old Testament, God's dealings with Israel He gave them the pattern for the tabernacle and the furniture that was within the tabernacle. And in the Holy of Holies, that place represented the very immediate presence of God, the blindingly holiness of God. Could only be approached once a year under very strict circumstances, under very strict conditions, could only the high priest enter there only with the blood of atonement, only under certain circumstances But you know what that place was called? It was called the mercy seat. The mercy seat. The place of God's holiness was referred to as the mercy seat. God wants us to understand something about Him. That is, he is holy, but his holiness consists of mercy. Mercy. If we had, and this is this is probably flawed, this is our limited, my limited ability to understand God. But in my finite reasoning, if God was holy but was not merciful, we would all be in hell. From the get-go. There would be no chance of salvation. There would be no chance of restoration. But God is merciful. And we looked at his interaction with mankind throughout the years and we notice he has not judged us the way we deserve. He has not dealt with us. According to our iniquities. He has not dealt with us according to our rebellion and our ungodly thinking. He has been patient. He has been kind. He has been merciful. We know that God is merciful. We have revelation of His mercy in the scriptures very, very clearly, and we could go to scores of other passages, maybe hundreds. That declare God is merciful. We look at his treatment of mankind. And we see it in the mercy seat in the Old Testament as Israel was so rebellious against God and so negligent of their relationship with their Creator. If God was merciful, now it was merciful. I said this a moment ago. I want to reiterate it here. You know why some of us are still alive? Because God's mercy. God's mercy. Why would he allow a teenage punk that used his name so filthily And use the body that he created in his image so nasty. Why would he let that kid live? Why would a holy God Let that man act and talk like that and blaspheme him and ridicule him like that and let him live. I'll tell you why. God's merciful. He's merciful. And in his mercy, he gave that kid an opportunity to be saved, change his life. We look at his interaction with us and we see this God is merciful. He's not dealt with us according to our iniquities. He's been very kind. He's been very patient with us. We should be in hell. He's merciful. I look at the cross and I see on the cross the mercy of God. That should be me on that cross. That should be me suffering the wrath and judgment of God. But God in his love gave his only begotten Son, and Jesus Christ took responsibility for my sin. To give me the opportunity to turn to Him and trust Him and find a new life, eternal life. I look at the mercy seat and I see I look at Adam and Eve and God's response, I see the mercy of God. I look at Israel and the mercy seat and I see the mercy of God I look at the cross and I see what Jesus Christ did for mankind. Instead of judging us, he judged his son. I see the mercy of God. I look at God's dealing with my own life. How many times I have violated his holiness and he did not kill me. He spared me, has not dealt with me according to my iniquities. So what is this God like? God, what are you like? Scripture tells us he's holy. He says, I am love. I am loved. He says, I am merciful. I'm not dealing with mankind according that their iniquities demand. God is holy. He's intolerant of any sin or any defilement. Because we're sinners, we are under God's judgment. God is love. He's not willing that any should perish, and his love expresses itself in showing us mercy. So we look at scripture, we look at man's uh we look at God's interaction with man, we come to the conclusion, yes, this God that exists. This thrice holy God, this great three-in-one, eternal, from everlasting to every God definitely is merciful. He's a merciful God. Alright, so then what's our response to God's mercy? What is that? How do I respond to that He created me. I'm his. I'm not my own. This world's not mine. It's his. How do I respond? I sinned. I've broken his law. I've said and thought and done things, doing things that are sinful against him. How do I respond? Well, first of all, I have to receive his mercy. Would you turn with me very quickly to Luke chapter number 18? Luke chapter eighteen. Here we have two men. One received God's mercy, the other did not. Luke chapter 18. This is Jesus speaking, and he's giving a parable. There was some Folks there among his disciples that thought they were more righteous than others, and thought, well, if any God accepts anybody, he'll accept me. If anybody's good enough to make it to heaven, it's me. If anybody's going to be admired by God, it's me. Well, Jesus responds with this parable. Luke 18, verse 10. He said, Two men went up into the temple to pray. One, a Pharisee. I mean, they had it down. They were as religious as you could get. Outwardly, they crossed their I's and dotted their T's crossed their eyes and crossed their T's and dotted their eyes. The one a Pharisee, the other a publican. Publican were the bottom. They were the lowest. They were the nastiest sinners there were. The Pharisees stood and prayed thus with themselves. Look at this. God, I think he said it that way. God I thank thee that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican. I fast twice in the week. I give tithes of all I possess. Verse thirteen, and the publican Standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes to heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful To me a sinner. Which of those two got God's attention? Which of those two did God respond to? The one that appealed To God's mercy. The one that received God's mercy. Look at the next verse. Look what the Lord says. I tell you, this is Jesus speaking This man went down to his house, the publican, justified rather than the other. For everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. God is a merciful God. We've sinned horrendously against this holy God, but he's merciful. And how do I respond to that? I must first of all receive this mercy. How do I do that? I acknowledge the fact that I'm guilty. I acknowledge the fact that I am completely dependent upon God's mercy. And the way I do that is by trusting Jesus Christ, who paid that payment for information. Jesus Christ is the embodiment of God's mercy. And he says, I'll take the judgment. I'll be responsible for Dennis Leatherman's sins. I'll be responsible for every vile, ungodly thing that has ever taken place in his existence. I'll take responsibility Judge me in his place. I humble myself and say, God, be merciful to me. I trust what Jesus Christ has done and receive that as myself, applying to myself. Yes. I'll take that gift of Jesus Christ to be my own. God's mercy is shed abroad in our hearts then. And He cleanses us from all sin. He gives us new life. So, how do I respond to the mercy of God? First, I receive it. Then, once I receive God's mercy, I need to reflect His mercy. Now that's a whole other message, and I didn't develop this thought. We can do that at another time. But over and over and over, particularly through the New Testament, but throughout the old, God says that we are to be merciful to others. He says, Blessed are the merciful, so they shall receive mercy. And throughout Scripture, he says over and over again: I ought to treat others with the mercy God has shown me. And I ought to be as patient with my brothers and sisters in this world as God is patient with me. And I ought to be as kind to my fellow man as God is kind to me. And you and I that have received Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, those of us who claim to be disciples of Jesus Christ, we ought to be merciful. To our fellow man. Slow to anger, of gracious and long-suffering, kind. You say, well, do I have to approve everything everybody else does? No, God doesn't approve of what we do, of sins we do. But he sure is awfully merciful to us. He sure is awfully merciful So one, I need to receive the mercy of God. Number two, I need to reflect that in my actions and treatments of my family and neighbors and co-workers and the rest of mankind. And then last of all, I put this down, I need to report God's mercy. This world needs to know that the God that created this world is a merciful God. This world needs to understand that God loves each and every individual so dearly that he sent his only begotten Son. To take their judgment for them in mercy, offering the opportunity of salvation. So they can find God's mercy and reflect it and report it. So this world needs to hear about Christ. I'm telling you, listen, I've been here, some of y'all lived here your whole life, I've been here 23 years. I'm telling you, there are people in the Oakland area that do not understand the mercy of God. Somebody needs to hear about it. Somebody needs to go and tell about it. Somebody needs to display that mercy to them. Some Christians need to start acting like Christians. Be a testimony of the mercy of God and be a vocal witness of the mercy of God and tell them about the Lord Jesus Christ, the embodiment of God's mercy. And urge them to trust Christ to be their own personal Savior. This world needs to know and understand the mercy of God. Our country desperately needs God's mercy. Our homes, our homes, in America, particularly, no doubt around the world, are in absolute turmoil. Can I use this term to describe some homes? Merciless. The relationship of some husbands and wives is described by the term merciless. The actions of some young people and children and adults included is the only word to use is merciless. Our homes, our community, our nation, our world desperately needs the mercy of God The only way I can be merciful in a genuine, actual way is when I receive the mercy of God myself and the person of Jesus Christ in the name reflected. But we've got to tell people. We've got to report to this world. God is merciful. He loves you. He died for your sins to provide an escape from his judgment and a new life. There was a small rescue stand. And by the way, our churches need a revival of telling people about the mercy of God. We're losing it You read the book of Acts, the church, I mean the whole church was out there. Everyone preaching the gospel, telling people the mercy of God. I mean, they were just gone. The enemies of the gospel said, you guys have turned Jerusalem upside down with your doctrine. What was their doctrine? The gospel, the mercy of God. But now our churches have become museums. Now our churches have become social clubs Now our churches are beautiful uh buildings with fine structures and perfect acoustics. Nobody's learning anything about the mercy of God. There was a little rescue station off the coast of a rugged part of the coast and they didn't have any money. All they had was a little dirty shanty to stay in. They had a couple old dingy boats. And those boats would come by and wreck, those boats would come by and sailors would be drowning. Those guys didn't have much money. They didn't have very good facilities, but they got out in those boats and they risked life in Lynn and they got out there and they started rescuing people. And as time went by, more and more lives were saved. And they found more people learned about this little rescue station there, and folks would come and see. And some of the folks that were rescued would come and see and say, man, this place is terrible. There's no cots to sleep in. You guys here are in in uh just tremendous poverty as far as the station is concerned. These boats barely float I ought to give you some money. We need a nicer boat. We need more secure boats. And lo and behold, money started to come in and they got bigger and nicer boats. And they can get out there quicker and they could be a little more comfortable going out and the whole thing about it was nicer. Then other people noticed the building and they said, this place is a shot. You need a nicer place to stay. You need some comfortable beds and some nice chairs. So they poured money into it and they bought bigger b they built a bigger building and they put heating and air conditioning and they got nice bunks and beds and They got a kitchen and they got a a living uh a living room type area. They got nice sofas and lazy boys and they could relax them and hear a big TV while you're waiting And time went by and more things. Well, we need some paintings, we need nicer carpet. And they had them a nice place with really nice boats. One day a shipwrecked and there was a slew of people from a country far away. Those men were drowning. And they hopped in their boats and they went racing out there. They got out there and they pulled these people in and they were dirty and they were covered in oil, and some of them were black. And some were Asian and yellow, and some were very, very poor, and they smelled They brought him in. Everybody was in an uproar. Good night, don't bring them in here. Get that oil on this carpet Don't put them in those beds. Those are thousand-dollar beds. They're going to destroy it. Listen, this isn't that this isn't the place for them So they had a vote. We're not going to go out and rescue people anymore. It destroys our facilities. It's not what this is. We've invested too much to do that type of thing. Well, half the fellows said, no, that's why we exist. It's why we're here to do this. The vote came down and the vote went with ceasing rescue operations. The fellows that were against it pulled out. They went up the coast a little ways. I built them a little shanty. They didn't have much money. They went out and found an old couple old boats. Brought those boats. Alarm goes out. A ship wrecked. There's people drowning. All the big motor boats and the fancy shed, fancy building was there. Nobody moved These guys got out in their little rowboats. We got to rescue these people. We got to rescue these people. And the whole cycle started again. Went long, people put money into that. Big building, nice boats, rescue operations cease. You know what that story is? That's a story of a lot of American churches. We start out, we care about souls being saved. We don't want anybody to go to hell. And we worked our tails off. to get people saved and get them to understand the mercy of God. And God blesses that effort and people came and they appreciated what we did and they appreciated the soul winners' burden And they gave and the buildings got big and the facilities got fancy and we forgot all about going out and telling people about the mercy of God And all across our land we have big, beautiful, air-conditioned, comfortable entertainment centers called churches. You know what Oakland needs? Oakland needs a little shiny rescue station to bring people to Jesus Christ to understand the mercy of God. Amen? Now God's blessed us. But let's not forget why we're here. Let's not forget what Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is about. It's not about breakfast. It's not about fellowships, it's not about hot dog roasts, it's not about taking trips to places and fishing trips and all that. That's all fine, have this place. But that's not what we're about, folks This world needs to know that there's a God that is merciful. And our responsibility is to report that. Report that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you would help us, dear Lord, to understand how merciful you really are and what that means to us and what that means to this world. I pray for revival in my own heart and our church. A renewed burden, a renewed vision Of your great mercy as expressed in the Lord Jesus Christ, help us to be sure we've received them ourselves and help us to give ourselves to report. To this old world, how merciful you are. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say this morning, preacher, I know I'm saved. I consider myself a disciple of Jesus Christ. I know I've accepted him as my Savior. I'm trying to live for him. But you'd say, preacher, pray for me. That God would stir me for two things. One, to be merciful to my fellow man. To reflect the mercy of God in my actions, my words, my attitudes, and then two, to report the word of the mercy of God. And get involved in one way or another, personal over whatever, but sharing with others the great mercy of our Holy God Is there any like that, preacher? God has spoken to my heart. Being merciful and reporting that mercy. Anything like that uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. That's the Spirit of God speaking to our heart and challenging us and stirring us to go forward in our faith. and exercise this matter of reflecting and reporting God's mercy. I wonder if there's some here this morning say, preacher, I know someone in particular, they're heavy on my heart. I'm not trying to be judgmental, but they're not saved. There's no doubt about it. They do not know Christ. I am very, very burdened for them. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God would save them, that God would perhaps use me To bring them to Christ. Is there any like that? A particular person, I'm very concerned for, their salvation. Uplift the hand. God bless you, hands all around. That's a lot of people represented Prayers, sharing with them the mercy of God. One last question. Is there some any any here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure? I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. I'm not sure that when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. And you'd say, preacher, I need God to help me settle that in my heart. That I know God has forgiven me and cleansed me of my sin. And that when that day comes, I'll go in to be with the Lord and not in hell. Is there any like that, preacher? I'm very concerned about that. I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know I'm saved. Any like that at all? Uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm very concerned about that. Any at all? Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. We want this world to see your mercy reflected in our lives. And Lord, we, a lot of hands were raised. We want to report to this world. Tell them about the mercy of God and the Lord Jesus. I pray you would help us. to humble ourselves before you, submit our will to yours, and let you use us and love this world through us. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together, our heads bowed eyes