Us directly. We could kind of do our thing. It was kind of l far away and really didn't have much, but it's coming home now. And the changes that are taking place, we're starting to feel it. And that's going to increase. And as Christians, would you agree with me? As Christians, we're very, very concerned about our country. Amen. Now, as a Christian, not only are I concerned about what's happening in the world and our country, I'm concerned about what's happening in our churches. There have been, for many years now, serious changes taking place in our churches. Churches that once were Bible-believing, God-fearing, gospel-preaching churches are now changing. And they're pushing the Word of God out. The Bible doesn't have the prominent place of authority that it once held in the church. The godliness and the presence of the Holy Spirit of God in the church is no longer felt, and the worldliness and the compromise And the indifference and the coldness is creeping in where God once was. As a Christian, I'm extremely concerned about the churches around the world and in our communities. But having said all of that, having said all of that, this is what I'm getting to. As concerned as we are about our world, our nation, and our churches, concerned about our homes. As concerned as we are, our main concern must be our personal walk with God. If I I I have some preacher friends, I have some Christian friends, I'm very concerned. If they would be as worried about their personal walk with God as they are about what's going on in Washington, We may see revival in our land. Now, don't misunderstand. We are worried worried about that. We are concerned about that. We do want to be involved. We want to do want to have an influence. But if I lose my personal walk with God, If I fail in my daily submission and faith in God on a personal level Then all of that there will matter very little. Matter very little. I mentioned we see changes taking place. Now I want to say this: change in and of itself is not wrong Uh change in and of itself is necessary if there's going to be any spiritual growth. It's true in the physical world. Uh little uh uh where's Cohen? Is Cohen nursery, I guess? Is he And uh little colour, how many people be concerned if you come back five years he's still exactly the same now, uh then as he is now? How many people would say something's not right there, something's not right there. Yeah, no, we want him to change, we want him to grow, we want him to develop. And so when a person gets saved, God doesn't want a person that got saved. He wanted them to stay the way they are the moment they got saved. Um uh Jesus will accept a person. A person can come to Christ regardless of what kind of condition it is, doesn't matter how wicked How ungodly, how sinful they are. They didn't come to the Lord Jesus Christ. He will not cast them out. A person come to Jesus as they are, but They will never leave Jesus as they are. He changes them. When we accept Jesus Christ our personal Savior, We become a new creature. Old things pass away. Behold, all things become new. And change takes place. Are you with me? You follow what I'm saying? So change in and of itself is not necessarily wrong. I quoted 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Behold, all things are become new, uh, and uh old things pass away. But when we change from Scripture, then we have a problem. As a Baptist church, as an independent fundamental Baptist Church, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, our sole authority is the Word of God. The Bible. If the Bible says it, it's so. We w our authority uh is not in the pastor. Our authority is not in some board. It's not in the deacons. Our authority is not in some denomination. We are not even a part of a denomination. We're independent. And I would have it no other way, by the way. But our authority is found solely in the Word of God. Now, if we as a church begin to change away from the authority of the Word of God and we start putting authority in man Then that change is bad. Are you with me? Everybody follow the same? That is uh that's not the change we want. That's not the direction we want. When we start changing away from Christ-likeness, And we begin to be more characterized by worldliness than we are by holiness and Christlikeness and godliness. That's not the change we want. We want to change in the sense that we are growing stronger in our faith. That we are becoming more Christ like. I like the way the uh the way John the Baptist put it. He must increase, but I must Decrease. You know what my prayer is for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church as pastor for us as a congregation? Is that when folks come to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, they see the Lord Jesus Christ. They don't say, oh, what a great looking congregation. I think we have a great looking congregation for the most part, but um uh I I think you have a great looking pastor. And uh but anyway, um that's another subject. But we want them to see Christ. Amen? We want to be Christ-like. So that's the change, becoming more and more like Christ, getting closer and closer to God, becoming more and more distinct. from the world, distinctively Christian in everything we say and do. And so that needs to be our concern, that we are growing in Christ. That we are uh uh uh being what God wants us to be. And to do that, we must have a personal walk with God. We must be strong in our heart and soul. We see our world, our nation, churches and homes drifting farther and farther from the Word of God. What we need to do is search our hearts. And humbly before God, open up our hearts and become. Listen, we have got to be honest with God about ourselves. We're not fooling God. We talked about in Sunday school, about the uh uh uh Apostle Paul and an inspiration of God was challenging the church at Corinth, and he was saying That there's a day coming when the judgment seat of Christ, when every Christian is going to stand before God, and the facade is going to be pulled aside, and that image we portrayed of who we are is going to be pulled aside, and we're going to be tried by the fire of God's knowledge. And so what we need to do is focus on our spiritual well being, the s the spiritual health of my heart and soul. And my walk with God and my commitment to God, all the world around us is falling apart. All the world around us is drifting from God. We must be very, very careful that we stay close to the Lord and stay strong in our hearts. Let me ask you a question as we get into this. Is your salvation settled? In other words, let me put it this way. When we're out witnessing and soul-winning, I don't ask people, are you saved? The reason I don't do that is because people have a lot of different definitions of what saved is. I've had many times I'd ask the uh years gone by, I would say, are you saved? They says, oh yeah. Say when did you get saved Oh, when I was twelve years old, I was in a car wreck and left for dead and they thought I'd die, and uh doctors came and and uh did some procedures and they saved me from dying. That's not the save we're talking about So I don't ask people if they're saved. I don't ask people, are you a Christian? All kinds of answers and definition of what it means to be a Christian. I don't ask people, have you received Jesus as your Savior? I don't even ask that necessarily. Because people have all definitions of this. This is my question when I say, is your salvation settled? This is what I'm asking. Do you know for sure? From the Bible, that your sins are forgiven, and that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. Do you have that settled in your life? If you're here in this service or you're in the sound of my voice and you do not know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven, I'm telling you, that is the most important issue in your life. That must be settled. That must be settled. Eternity is too long. Hell is too real. Heaven is too wonderful for us to play games. With the salvation of our soul. I was reading this week and it's I remember back when it was big in the news, but I think it was nineteen eighty-two, somewhere back there, uh they had a big to-do, one of the art um uh museums. I think I want to say it was New York probably was, who knows. But uh one of the displays, art displays, was a chair that a person can go Just anybody could go up and sit in that chair. And mounted in front of a chair, just a foot or so away from where their head was was a loaded shotgun. That shotgun was affixed to a timer. And at some point in the next hundred years, nobody knows when, it's a computerized timer, at some point in the next hundred years That shotgun was going to go off. And people could come by and they would pay money and they could sit in that chair for a period of time, 30 seconds or whatever, and play games with their soul. And then get up and go on. And the report, I think it was AB New ABC News, reported that people were lined up to sit in that chair and take the chance Of that gun not going off when they're there. Now I never heard that it ever went off or anything. I don't know what became of it. But I tell you, how many people agree with me? You'd be foolish to sit in a chair like that. How many people agree with me? How foolish Can I say something? If you don't settle your salvation, you're a bigger fool than any person that sits in that chair. The eternal destiny of your soul is at stake. Our church can't save you. If our church could save you, we would do it. We can't. We can't even save ourselves. Only Jesus Christ can save your soul from sin in hell. And so, as concerned as we are about what's going on in our world, my emphasis here is this. Is our salvation settled? Do we know that we've turned to Jesus Christ, accepting Him as our personal Savior, to be forgiven of our sins, cleansed of our sins? Have a new life, have a home in heaven, eternal with the Lord, and escaping hell. Let me ask you this for those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, those of us who have received Him and have that matter of our salvation settled, let me ask you this. Have you dedicated yourself to live fully for the Lord Jesus Christ? Can you honestly say that you are a biblical disciple of Jesus Christ? Jesus Christ saved us from sin in hell so that we can follow him, take up our cross, die to ourselves, and follow him on a daily basis God's call to every saved person is to become a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ, to become a follower of the Lord Jesus Christ, to live for Him. Die to myself and live for him. Have you, as a believer, dedicated yourself to live fully for the Lord Jesus Christ? To live your life by the Word of God? I'm here to tell you, I said it in the beginning, this book is God's word. And it instructs us how we are to live our lives on a daily basis. You and I ought to read our Bibles. Faithfully, every single day, coming to the Word of God. Lord, teach me, show me how I should think. Lord, show me How I should view this world, what sort of worldview I should have. Lord, show me how to deal with the sin that originates in my own heart. Lord, show me how to be a witness to others and point them to the Lord Jesus Christ. Lord, show me from your word how to live in this old sinful world. We must dedicate ourselves to live as believers by the instructions of God's Word. Let me ask you a question: how's your walk with God? You're concerned for our country? So am I. Concerned for Oakland? Concerned for our school system? So am I. But we need to first of all be concerned about our own spiritual well-being That we're saved, and that we're living for God according to the Word of God and giving ourselves to the Lord. Now, let's come to our text here. Galatians chapter 6, this passage that Brother Grant read a little bit ago, God is giving to us A series of brief instructions concerning various issues that we face as a Christian. In verse number one He gives us instructions on how we should deal with a brother in Christ who is bound with a fault. Maybe they're out of fellowship with God. gotten involved with things of the world. Maybe they've allowed sin in their life and it's dominating them and and they're they're drifting far from God. And he tells us there in verse one how we are to relate and interact with that person. Look at verse 1. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. I think it's interesting. He doesn't say destroy such a one. Sometimes we as Christians are pretty bad about somebody messes up and uh we jump all over them. My grandfather had a chicken farm when I was small. My mu my mother's father had a chicken farm, had five thousand laying hens. Imagine that. You say, what was that like? Stinky. And um Uh we when we were real small we'd have to go and help him do different things. He had five thousand uh chickens there and and hens and uh you know what those chickens do? If one of those chickens would get a wound or an open uh uh sore or something, there'd be blood, you know what those chickens would do? They'd be all over that thing. and kill that chicken. I mean literally pull it apart, peck that thing apart. It was brutal. It was violent. You say that's terrible. What in the world? I'll tell you what's just as terrible when Christians turn on a brother or sister who has failed or fallen in the Lord. We are not to destroy that one, we are to restore that one. And so he gives us very clear instructions here, brethren. If man be overtaken or fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. Then he says in the spirit of meekness Considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted, you know what? You might be the next one with that open wound that the chickens turn on And so then he gives us instructions in verse 2 on those who have great burdens. He says that bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. He gives us instructions here concerning those who think too highly of themselves in verse number 3 through 5. For if a man thinketh of himself to be something when he's nothing He deceiveth himself, but egg let every man prove his own work, then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone and not in another. For every man shall bear his own burden. Then he gives instructions on those caring for the preachers of the Word of God. He says, let him that is taught in the Word communicate, or that has the idea of caring for, taking care unto him that is teacheth in all good things. Then he comes to verse number seven. Verse number seven and eight. And he gives here a profound principle. And that is this. God is not mocked. And he makes a very bold, very profound, very serious statement Now, I'll be honest with you, I don't know exactly what may or may not have been going on in Galatian church there that would prompt Paul to write this again under the inspiration of God. But he says very, very strongly, God is not mocked. And then he expands on that, and he says, Whatsoever a man soweth, that's what he will reap. And that's what I want us to consider, not just on a national basis. When I first saw this and I was studying this, I thought, man, our nation, it can't mock God. Whatever we sow as a nation we'll reap. But then our, God began, as I study this, God began to bring it down. We need to apply this not on a national scale, but we need to apply this principle on a personal scale. I cannot mock God. Whatever I sow as an individual, I will reap. I will reap. We see this displayed all through Scripture. From Genesis to Revelation, men and women, young and old, tried to mock God, tried to uh sow without reaping And it never works, never works, never works. Now let me give you two thoughts here. I have a few minutes left. Let me give you two thoughts. Number one, I notice here some self-deception going on. Look with me at verse number seven. Be not deceived. I looked how that word was used throughout the Bible, and the word deceived there means to has this idea. to be dishonestly led in a wrong direction. Every definition I found of that word had the idea of going astray. being led in a wrong direction, being led to a wrong destination, being influenced in such a way that I make decisions That are not based on the Word of God. I make decisions that are not grounded in the wisdom of God. I am influenced to be led in a wrong direction in my decision making, in the life I'm living, in the actions I take. He says, do not be deceived. Be not deceived. Don't be led astray. Don't get don't let This world or anybody gets you thinking that one thing is so when it is really something else In the Christian life, as in all other areas of life, deception is a very real danger. How many people here ever had your debit card or your credit card? scamped in one way or another. Maybe hacked it. Anybody here? We did a number of years ago. And uh it was actually twice in one year. Somebody had gotten into the bank through the computers, gotten our credit card. We're buying stuff down in Tennessee and and different places and and uh uh we got this bill and it's horrendous. Our banks drained and all of this and we called the bank and uh praise the Lord. They stood behind it and uh accredited us all of that and they gave us our five dollars back. But um But deception is a very real part of life, right or wrong We hear the the sheriff every now give an announcement, a public service announcement, be careful there's a scam going around. And a lot of times our senior citizens. They'll target senior citizens and try and get a scam and get their money. Deception is a very real part of life. And what is true in the physical world is also true in the spiritual world Deception is a very real part of the spiritual world. In fact, sin entered the world through deception. Satan approached Eve, and he convinced her that he had her well-being in mind. He convinced her that what he was saying to her was true and what was best for her. And the fact of the matter is Satan is a liar. And he is the father of lies. And we say this to our young people, but it's true for all ages of life. Never, ever give ear to the devil. He is a liar, he is a liar, he is a liar. And he is the God of this world, and he's the prince and the power of the air. And we must be very, very careful. We must not allow ourselves to be deceived. We must not allow ourselves to be deceived by others. But here's the worst part. We must not allow ourselves to be seized by our own sinful hearts. You know who Satan's greatest ally is? My own sinful nature. My own sinful nature. And I've experienced it, and I've seen it so many times all these years, where people will believe their own lies And people will convince themselves that one thing is so when it is so obviously not. People will convince themselves that the color is white when it's actually black. They'll convince themselves it's day when it's really night. And where deception is a terrible, terrible thing. If you would keep your place here in Galatians, I'd like for us to look at a few verses, and I need to hurry. If you would, turn to Matthew chapter number 24. Matthew, first book of the New Testament, Matthew chapter 24, the Lord is addressing the last days. It's particularly addressing Israel, I believe, primarily during the tribulation period. But he makes some statements here that you and I need to take very, very seriously. Matthew chapter 24, and if you would notice with me, I want to begin reading in verse number three. Give everybody a chance to find it. Matthew 24. Look at verse number three. I'll begin reading. You catch up when you get there. And as he sat upon the Mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us When shall these things be? And you've been telling them upcoming events. And what shall be the sign of thy coming and of the end of the world? Good question. And Jesus answered and said unto them, look at the first two words out of the lips off the lips of Jesus after this question was asked. Take heed. That no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying I am the Christ, and shall what? Deceive many He's saying in the last days and the days before the Lord Jesus Christ comes back. Now I don't know. We don't know when Jesus is coming back again. I can't help but think it has to be any day now. And he says one of the characteristics of the days preceding the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ is tremendous deception. Tremendous lies being given in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Many people presenting themselves as representing Jesus Christ. when they really do not represent Jesus Christ. Many people claiming to be speaking for the Lord when they are not speaking for the Lord, he says, you be very, very careful. Take heed. Many shall come in my name and shall deceive you and deceive many. Come down to verse 11. And many false prophets shall rise and shall deceive many. Because the iniquity because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax old. Notice he said, Many false prophets shall rise, shall deceive many. Look at verse number 24. There shall arise false Christs and false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders, insomuch that if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. He says, even saved people could possibly fall for this deception. Be not deceived. Be not deceived. Be very, very careful. If you would turn over to Matthew chapter 7, just a few pages earlier here, same book, Matthew chapter 7. Not only is there deception characterized in the last days, but there is deception concerning the matter of salvation. Matthew chapter 7, look with me if you would at verse 21. Not everyone that saith to me, unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven But he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven. Now to determine the will of the Father, you have to go to John 6, 40 and 2 Peter. The will of the Father here in this context is receiving Jesus as your personal Savior. But notice what he says. Verse 22. Many, not some, not a few, many. Will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works? Lord, I'm doing this, and I'm doing that, and Lord, I'm doing all this. Surely I'm saved. Look at verse number 23. Then will I profess unto them, I, what's that next word? never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Here are people who were convinced they were doing they were good enough to get to heaven. Here are people who were convinced That they were doing enough works that God would accept them with open arms into his presence in heaven. And Jesus says, not only are you not saved, you never were saved. By the way, just a little aside here, that verse confirms to us that a person does not lose their salvation. If a person is lost, it's because they never were saved in the first place. No saved person loses their salvation. He says, I never knew you. There's deception concerning their own salvation. We don't have time, but I'd like for us, if we did, to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse 9. And he says, Be not deceived. Neither fornicators, nor adulterers, nor drunkards. And he goes down this list, the feminine, he goes down this list. He says, They shall not inherit the kingdom of God. He says, Don't fool yourself. Uh you you uh if a person is just living and their life is characterized and dominated by sin and there's no chastisement, there's no correction there, listen that person can be claimed to be saved all they want. But a person whose life is dominated by sin and characterized by sin, again, there's no chastisement. There's no correction. There's no conviction. He says that person's claim to be going to heaven is a phony claim. They're deceiving themselves. Now, can a Christian sin? Yes. Do Christians sin? Yes. But Hebrews chapter 12 is very clear that if a Christian sins, God chastens them. God corrects them. Listen, any daddy in the world that loves his kids, if that kid's doing wrong, daddy corrects them. Amen? God give us some good daddies. Uh any daddy in the world that loves his child, that kid's using filthy language, daddy fixes that. Now we had a w my folks had a way of fixing it when I was I'll tell you the story. Don't if you promise not to tell anybody. I was little, I think it was second grade, and uh some kid in school said a terrible word. I'd never heard it before I don't know. I said and so there all the other kids are acting like that was a bad word. So I didn't know. So I come home or we're eating breakfast the next morning getting ready for school and innocent supposedly. Uh second grader, I said to my mom, Mom is blank, a bad word. She about fainted. Where did you hear that? I said the kids at school. Get over here! Show it my mouth, uh, ivory soap. My Cheerios tasted like ivory soap I don't know what that has to do with the message. But what I'm trying to say is this. If I claim to be a child of God, I claim to be saved And I can just go on and live in sin and and uh blant and sin. He gives a list there in Corinthians, and there's no chastisement, there's no intervention of God, there's no God dealing with me and convicting me. I need to stop and re-examine whether my salvation is legit. We can fool ourselves. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. How many people agree with me? If I walked up behind you and stuck a football down the back of your shirt, you would know it's there. Right? Now how in the world can I accept Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit of God move into my life and there not be a change? There not be some effect. There not be some result of that. And so deception is a very real thing. We can deceive Deception is characteristic of the last days. Deception, uh, there's a lot of deception uh concerning our salvation. Now, guys, I said, God always takes us as we are, but he never leaves us as we are So a lot of deception. So the notice, I notice here in Galatians chapter 6 and verse number 7, he says, Be not deceived. There's some self-deception going on. Now, what is he talking about in this context here? Be not deceived. He's not necessarily talking about their salvation. He's not necessarily talking about the last days. He's talking about a concept of God. A reality. And that leads me to this: a sacred dishonor. There's some self-deception going on, but there is a very sacred dishonor. Now let me explain what I mean. God is not mocked. Don't be fooled. Listen, don't let this world fool you and I into thinking that we can mock God and that there won't be any consequences. That we can somehow don't let the devil, don't let our own sinful heart convince us That we can mock God, our Creator, this all-powerful, all-knowing, holy God, that we can somehow mock Him. And then it's not going to affect us. There's not going to be consequences. He's not going to respond to that. What does it mean to mock God? Well the word itself means, this is the literal definition of the word mock. It means this, to turn your nose up to. It has the idea of sneering at God. It has the idea of just trifling with God. Oh, God. To hold a low esteem of God. To mark God has the idea of I will do what I want God. I do not care what you say, God. I will live my life the way I want to, God. He says, God's not mocked. Whatsoever man sows, he's going to reap that You and I choose to live our lives independent of God, you and I choose to lean on our own understanding, you and I choose to disregard the Word of God, you and I choose to live our life And push God aside or in some little compartment, he says, go right ahead. But God's not mocked That lifestyle you are choosing to live, those decisions you are making outside of the will of God, your decision to live independent of God in rebellion against God, fine. You have that choice. You can make that choice But you cannot choose the consequences of that choice. You live a life without God, then you get the results of living a life without God brings. God's not mocked. Don't turn your nose up at God. Don't disrespect God. Don't trifle with God. I was reading Charles Spurgeon. He made a statement. He says, we must not ever trifle with the authority of God Almighty. We live in a world that has forgotten who God is and what he's like. It shivers my spine when I hear people refer to the man, the old man upstairs. Don't mock God. It grieves my heart. It breaks my heart. Brother Grant and I pray about this and talk about this sometime. We see and hear young people. Who know the things of God, who know what the Bible says, who have been exposed to the truth of Almighty God, and they make a decision to walk away. To do my own thing. Oh, I know more about life than God does. I know what's better for me than God does. Listen, that's a serious, serious decision to make with very serious consequences. My wife and I were talking about the generation gap. We hear about the generation gap we had for generation now. You know I think a big factor of the generation gap is? You have a younger generation who is m making decisions Let me back up. The generation you have an older generation who is reaping the consequences of decisions they made as young people. And now you have the younger people who are making those decisions, who have not yet experienced the consequences of those decisions, and thus you have whole two whole different perspectives on life and how they're living. Generation gap is nothing more than ignorance versus experience. And when folks who have been beat up by sin And folks who have made decisions to live independent of God and years later are suffering and dealing with the consequences of that on a daily basis, and they come to a younger generation and say, you better trust God You better go by the word of God. You better believe what God is saying. And they mock that and they say, You're an old fogey. You don't know the new generation. Yes, they know more about it than you do. They are now reaping the decisions they've made as a child. Am I right or wrong? And those folks that love God and believe the Bible are brokenhearted. When they see a new generation come along and just ignores, just mocks God and goes on. Now I thank God for a generation, many in our generation that do love God. And are trusting him and believing that what he says is so. And thank God for that. But there's a profound principle all through Scripture that is being forgotten, not just in our nation's capital, but in our local churches. God is not mocked. Whatsoever a man sows, he's going to reap. Israel tried mocking God. They paid a horrendous price. I believe it is blasphemous to think that I can ignore God and yet somehow not reap the consequences of ignoring God. To disregard God's word and think that somehow I'm not going to experience the consequences of disregarding God's word. To live a life independent of God, and then think that somehow it's all going to work out alright in the end. You're deceived. You're deceived. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Whatsoever man soweth that shall he also reap. God has given us the freedom to make our own decisions. Yes? I can make my own decisions. Absolutely right God has given to us a free will. We are not robots. We are not pre-programmed. We have a free will to choose whether we'll trust and obey or not to. But I'll tell you one thing, we do not have the choice, and that is to choose the consequences of those decisions. I can sow whatever I want, but I cannot choose what I'm going to reap. I will reap exactly what I sow. I will reap exactly what I sow. Thomas Andrews. Anybody recognize that name? Thomas Andrews. You'll know who he is in a moment. Anyone recognize the name Thomas Andrews? Thomas Andrews was a naval architect. He designed the what? Titanic. He was the architect of the Titanic. He drew that thing out, had it built to his specs. And before that thing took off on its maiden voyage, you know what Thomas Andrews said? Even God cannot sink the Titanic. You know what I say to Thomas Andrews? Be not deceived. God's not mocked. Don't you mock God like that, because what you sow, you will reap. Thomas Andrews was on the Titanic when it hit that iceberg. You think that was coincidence? Oh, it just happened. Oh, God's not mocked. And Thomas Andrews went down in the Atlantic and lost his life on the boat he said God couldn't. sick. And we go through all through history. I've got at home, I've got a list of names of people who blaspheme God, mock God, well-known names, that you would know most of the names I give. That mocked God. And within a brief period of time, their lives were taken. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. I've been in this thing 35 years now, full-time ministry. I've seen plenty of people. Try to live their lives independent of God. I've seen plenty of people make decisions to walk away from the Word of God, decide to lean on their own understanding, do their own thing, and disregard God's promises and God's warnings. And not one time Have I ever seen that person end up happy and rejoicing and praising the Lord? Every time it's heartache. I told this, I don't think it was too long ago, but when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis one night, I I always sat over here and the pastor gave the invitation to Sunday night service. I always helped counsel and was up there and uh one of the older men in the church. I knew him well. He was kind of quiet. He wasn't real involved, but he was there. He's faithful and he was a a white-haired and kind of a dignified man And he was at the altar absolutely sobbing and weeping. I don't remember what the message was, but God broke his heart. And I came down and I knelt beside him. I put my arm around him. I said, Can I pray with you? And he began sobbing Sobbing, he couldn't hardly talk. He said, Pastor Dennis, they called me Pastor Dennis. He said, Pastor Dennis, I disobeyed God as a young man. God showed me clearly what he would have me to do, and I chose not to, and I did what I wanted to do. He said, here I am 50-some years later, and my heart is broken, and my life's been wasted. He said, I'm so sad. I did not trust and obey God. That burned down in my heart and soul. The Bible says, be not deceived, God is not mocked. Whatsoever man sows, that shall he also reap. Now that's the negative aspect, but I want to put there's a positive side to this. If we'll trust God, if we'll obey Him and follow His instructions and take Him at His word and exercise faith in God, God honors faith. And trusting God as opposed to mocking him and obeying him as opposed to disobeying him reaps consequences also. Also, and God rewards the faithful. And God blesses obedience. And I've done many, many funerals I stood beside someone that loved God and lived for him. And what peace, what joy, what blessing. So my message this morning is, I believe I have the mind of Christ today. He's a challenge and a warning to us. Let's not mock God. Let's get our daily walk in line. Let's make sure our hearts are pure. Let's make sure sin has been forsaken. And let's walk with God. Our nation needs at least one church. That trusts and obeys God. Amen. Now we're not the only ones, thank God for that, but let's make sure we are one. Our church needs members who trust and obey God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray, Lord, that my request, Lord, is that I do not come across harsh, but we are very sober as we think of this subject. And Lord, more than anything, in this day and age we need revival. Or we're never going to have revival if we play around. We're never going to have revival mocking and ignoring you and disregarding you. So I pray your Holy Spirit would bring great conviction on my own heart, on our church, that we would be Strong in our faith and humble and yielded to you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many this morning say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I know God saved me. But you would say, preacher, pray with me. God's Holy Spirit has dealt with my heart. And I want to live a life of faith. I want to trust and obey God across the board, every area of my life. I want to be yielded to the Lord. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me, that God would help me. That's my desire. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Good heavens, of course that's our desire. What kind of Christian wouldn't want that? I wonder if there's some now would say, preacher, God has dealt in a very specific way about some area of my life. That I know needs attention, I know needs adjustment, I know needs to be brought in line with the Word of God. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I would have the courage, that I would have the willpower, the determination, the faith. to make the adjustments in my life that need to be made so that I can be a Christian that is yielded to the Lord, devoted to the Lord Jesus Christ. And the one that he intends for me. Is there any like that? Preacher, there's a very specific area that the Spirit of God has dealt with my heart. God bless you. Hands all around. How about it? Any others? How about it? God's dealing with my heart. There's some areas I need to trust and obey God. How about it? Any others? I have no doubt God's dealing with hearts. Now what are we going to do? You're just going to say, oh yeah, it's there, or are we going to trust God and make those adjustments and do what needs to be done? Don't be deceived How many folks here this morning say, Preacher, I know someone. I'm not trying to be judgmental, but they're away from God. I'm concerned about them And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me that I could be a good testimony and I could pray as I should and see that one come to Christ, either for salvation or to get back in fellowship with the Lord. Is there any like that this morning, Preacher? I know someone I'm very concerned for them. God bless you. They need our prayers. They need our love. They need our testimony. One last question. There's someone here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I'm telling you, they don't want to go to hell. I'm telling you. And you'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I need to be sure that I go to heaven, not to hell. I'm concerned about that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm very concerned about that. How about it? Any at all? I want to be sure. I want to be sure. Now, Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our invitation now. Help us, Lord, to humble ourselves, to trust you and obey you. And send revival is my prayer to my heart, to our church. To our community and our nation. In Jesus' name I pray. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. The Lord spoke to your heart. As Jennifer plays the invitation, God spoke to your heart. Let's flip out. Let's