Isaiah chapter 41. I'm going to read verse eight and nine as I said. We get to verse ten. Be prepared. Let's read it all together Ready? Verse 8 says, But thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob, whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham, my friend. Isn't that something? Isn't that sweet? God calls Abraham my friend. God says Abraham, that's my friend. That's an amazing thing. Verse 9 of whom I have taken from the ends of the earth and called thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant. I have chosen thee. and not cast thee away. Verse ten, altogether. Ready? Fear not thou not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. I will strengthen thee. Yea, I will help thee. Yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness. Right, smackdab in the middle of that verse, God makes this statement, I will help thee. Come down to verse number 13 at the end of the verse, I will help thee. Verse 14, middle of the verse, I will help thee. I've entitled the message this morning: God Will Help Us. God will help us. Let's pray together. Father, I ask now your blessing as we look into your word. I pray that you'd speak to our hearts, challenge us, encourage Lord, give us direction, instruction. I pray our faith in you would grow. Our confidence in you would uh would uh increase. Lord, I pray that um our witness in this old confusing world, that we could have a good, strong witness of the power of the God in the power of the gospel and what it means to have peace in the midst of storm. So please fill me with your spirit. Lord I yield my will to you. I present my body anew With all my heart I pray, Lord, you speak through me, and that you be the preacher for the next few moments. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I like the book of Isaiah. I try to read through the Bible every year uh from Genesis or Revelation. I'm pretty much on track for this year so far. And um I encourage folks to do that. But whenever I get to the book of Isaiah, I get excited. I like the book of Isaiah. I enjoy reading it, particularly the second half There's some interesting things I wanted to share with you, maybe trivia you might call it, about the book of Isaiah. It's a fascinating book. Some folks have referred to the book of Isaiah as the Bible in miniature. And one of the reasons for that is, if you look at the book very carefully, you'll notice it has 66 chapters in the book of Isaiah. Now, how many people know how many books are in the Bible? 66 books in the Bible. So it has the same number of chapters as there are books in the Bible. The book of Isaiah, the old Jewish scholars divided it into two parts Uh they had uh had the first part and the second part. Of course our Bible is divided into two parts. You have the what? Old Testament and the New Testament. And so it has a division there. Here's where it gets really interesting. The first part of the book of Isaiah, where they have it divided, has 39 chapters The second part has 27 chapters. Anybody know how many books are in the Old Testament? 39 books in the Old Testament. How many New Testament? 27. And so it lines up, just uh the breakdown of the book lines up with the breakdown of the Bible There is more said about the Lord Jesus Christ in the book of Isaiah than any other Old Testament book. More prophecies, more statements about the Lord Jesus Christ Another interesting thing, the first 39 chapters of the book of Isaiah, the emphasis or the theme through those 39 chapters is the holiness and righteousness of God. God is a holy God. God is a righteous God. You think of Isaiah chapter six, where Isaiah, in the year that King Uzziah died, Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up in his Smoke of his train filled the temple. And the angels, the sheriff, cried out, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord God Almighty. Do you know what the message of the Old Testament is primarily? The holiness of God, the righteousness of God. And then you get to the second part, the last twenty seven chapters of the book, and it emphasizes God's grace and God's atonement You get to Isaiah chapter 53, one of the clearest plans of salvation in all the Old Testament, Isaiah 53, where it describes in detail The crucifixion of the Lord Jesus Christ. Of course, all prophetic statements, all prophesying what Christ would do. And uh so, along with the New Testament The emphasis of the New Testament is the Lord Jesus Christ and the atonement of our Savior. So the Book of Isaiah is a fascinating book Of course, it's given to us by inspiration of God, written by that great prophet Isaiah, pen by the great prophet Isaiah. Now, our text here this morning is at least in my mind, a profound passage of scripture. All of Scripture is profitable, but there are just some passages in Scripture that are what I would refer to as mountaintop passages. Anybody here have some passage of scripture that just is significant to you? Maybe it kind of stands out above us. Anybody here like that? Anybody at all have some passage or read that? And man, that just is something. I believe these verses here, the eight and actually down through 15 and really the whole chapter here. are just really, really profound. Now, I'm going to try and preach on this this morning, but uh I was I was telling the previous uh service at nine o'clock, I was telling them that uh a preacher was at home and I I'm not sure I'm on here. Working. Okay. Um preacher was uh uh his wife was out and he was kind of rooting around the house here just piddling around and he came across a secret stash that his wife had. And he thought, what in the world? He got looking, he opened the box, looked down in there, and here he found a uh a a case of eggs, not a case, what are they um little carton with a dozen eggs. There was nine eggs in that carton And it was $10,000 in cash stuffed in there. He thought, what in the world is this gal up to? And so he waited. She got home. He says, uh, I found something of yours. She said, okay. I found nine eggs and a carton, a dozen carton, nine eggs and ten thousand dollars in cash. What's that about? She goes, Oh, that's simple. She says, every time you preach a terrible message, lay an egg, I put an egg in the cart in there. He goes, Well, there's nine eggs. He thought, well, that's not bad. Twenty-seven years preaching, nine eggs, that's not Not too bad. He says, What's with all the cash? She said, every time I get a dozen I sell them and um keep the money So what I'm getting at is this. If I lay an egg this morning, if the message is terrible, if you will just take this passage. Just disregard anything I say and just come to this passage and claim the promises that are given to us here and apply the principles to your life that are given here. Uh you it will be it will it will transform your life. Just the statements made here. I am convinced if we'll just take them at face value and just take them for ourselves, regardless of what anybody says about it, claim its promises, apply its principles, I believe it will fill your soul with confidence. It will give you purpose in life. It'll give peace in your heart. This is a tremendous passage. There is nothing I can say. That comes even close to the significance and profoundness of these passages here. Anything? This is the way I put it. What this text says is far greater and much more profound than anything that I have to say about this text. You follow what I'm trying to say? Hebrews chapter 4, verse 12 says this: the word of God is quick and powerful and sharper than any two-edged sword. Uh piercing even to the design the div uh divide asunder uh the joints and marin, the thoughts and intents of the heart. God's word is powerful If we will just take what God says at face value, apply it to our lives, it will change our lives. So there's nothing I can say about this passage that's more significant or more profound than the passage says about itself right there. And so I want to challenge you. May you walk out of here, boy preacher laid an egg today. Kathy's getting more money. I can see that You may walk out and say that, but I'll tell you, if you'll just take this verse, apply it to your life, you'll walk out of here a stronger Christian. You'll walk out of here stronger in your faith, I guarantee you. This is a significant passage of scripture. And so God's uh the context here, a little bit behind what's being said God had just warned Israel very sternly that because of their sin and because of their rebellion against God as a nation, the Israel as a nation God had warned them. They had sinned against him, they had rebelled against him, they had pushed God out of their society and replaced God with idolatry and with wickedness and sinful pleasures And they had pushed God out, they had pushed God's word out, and God warned them sternly that he was going to chasten his nation of Israel very, very severely, and they were going to go into 70 years captivity. If you'll come back to chapter uh back to Isaiah chapter 39, just a chapter or two back there And that ends the first part of the book of Isaiah, verse chapter 40 begins the second portion. And notice in verse number five, God is speaking to Hezekiah, and he says this. And Hezekiah was a good king for the most part. He was pretty good. Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah, hear the word of the Lord of hosts. Behold, the day's coming The days come that all that is in thine house and that which thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day shall be carried to Babylon. Nothing shall be left And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which shall uh which thou shalt beget, shall they take away? They shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon. God is warning Israel through the king that God is going to turn their world upside down. They had rebelled against him, they had denied him, they had rejected him, they had replaced him with idolatry and things of this world and push God out of their society and God says, I am going to deal with that. And he's going to send Babylon. And these God's gonna and Babylon's gonna come and they are absolutely gonna turn their world upside down. They are at everything is gonna change. Their cities will be destroyed, their land will be left desolate, people will die, because God is bringing judgment on Israel for their rebellion, their sin. Ah, very serious warning. Very serious warning. Their nation is about to go through a major upheaval. And God is telling them here: you must get your focus on the Lord. We must take heed to God's instructions. We must place our hope in the promises of God, not in the promises of man. How many people here have ever heard folks make promises? Anybody here? Oh, they get on TV, oh well promise this, promise that, promise everything in the world. How many people have ever been promised something, never happened Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah. In fact, a lot of times promises, an exact opposite happens. I wonder how many of us have made promises, failed to keep it. What I'm trying to say is this: our hope must not be in the promises of man. Our hope must be in the promises of God. Man fails. We fail all the time. But I'm telling you, Jesus never fails. God never fails And God is writing here in the midst of uh just following this severe warning he gives to them. He tells them, he says, I'm telling you, it's coming. And you're going to go through some stuff you've never been through before, but he's trying to leave them a little bit of encouragement. Now let me just stop here, pause for a moment, make this statement. If there was ever a time In the history of our nations, that you and I as Christians need to recommit ourselves to the Lord, need to start obeying this book And need to st uh uh place our ho uh and take God's instructions seriously. If there ever was a time, it's now We have got to get serious about our walk with God. We have got to get serious about what God tells us in his book there. If there was ever a time. When you and I as Christians need to be get right with God and be serious about the things of God, it's now. It's now. You and I need it, our homes need it, our nation needs it And that's what God is saying to Israel. Listen, he says, you're going to go through it. And you need to listen to me and you need to trust me And then in the midst of all of that sternness God is giving them, chapter 41, he says, now let me encourage you a little bit. Now let me remind you of some things. And that's what I want us to look at this morning. First of all, I want us to notice the recipients of these promises that God gives in the passage we just read. Look at verse number 8 with me, if you would. But thou, who's he writing to? Thou who? Israel. Now look what he says about Israel. But thou, Israel, art my what? Servant? Jacob, whom I have what? Chosen. He makes two statements about who is being addressed here. God is speaking through Isaiah Through inspiration, through Isaiah. He's speaking to the nation of Israel. He's speaking to his people. And he makes some tremendous promises that I highlighted a little bit as we were reading through these. He says, I'll help you, I'll strengthen you, I'll be with you, I'll uphold you with the right hand of my righteousness, the hand of my righteousness He makes these tremendous promises, but he is very careful to distinguish who he is giving those promises to. It is to the people of God Now let me ask you a question. Does God promise to all of humanity, just all mankind in general, cross the board Does God promise all of mankind? Oh, I'll strengthen you, I'll help you, I'll uphold you with my right hand. Does he promise all of mankind that? No. No. In fact, if a person is outside the family of God, I may be talking to somebody, maybe here in the auditorium or online somewhere in the radio. And you've never been saved, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I'm here to tell you, you cannot claim these promises that God is giving here to His people. In fact, the Bible says for those that don't know Christ, those that are unsaved, those that are still in their sins, unforgiven, he says, you need to flee the wrath to come. He says, you need to repent, or you Jesus said, repent, or that shall likewise perish. He says, you need to turn to the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, you need to call on the Lord. And trust the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. Because if a person has never been saved, never been born again, they are outside the family of God, Ephesians tells us That an unsaved person is without God and without hope in the world. Isaiah a little later on says that their sins have separated us from God So an unsaved person can't come and say, oh, God will strengthen me, God will help me. No. Unsaved persons under the wrath of God. John chapter 3, verse 18 He that believeth not is condemned already. They're under the condemnation of God. I don't mean to be unkind. I don't mean to be rude in any way or hurt anybody's feelings. But if you're not saved My Bible says you are already under God's condemnation because of our sin. John chapter 3, verse 36. The wrath of God abideth on him that believeth not. And so these promises are not to mankind in general. It is very specific for the people of God. Now, does God help a lost person come to Christ? Sure. God works. I remember before I got saved, man, God was working in my heart. God was convicting me. He was drawing me to him. And uh sure God helps an unsaved person come to Christ. God wants unsaved people to be saved. God wants those in their sins to be forgiven. He wants everybody to be born again. But these promises cannot be claimed by an unsaved person. They cannot be. Now God will never save a person against their will. But I tell you what God is very good at is getting a person to be willing to be saved. I'm telling you, He can back us into a corner, He can knock our feet out from underneath us where we have nowhere to look but up And God's very good at that. But these promises are for the believers. How many folks here are saying you know it? Say amen. That's for us. For us that know the Lord. It's for the people of God. And so the recipients of these promises are the people of God. Here in context to Israel, by application, for you and I that know the Lord as Savior. The second thing I want us to notice very quickly is that they have some rivals. By that I mean this. They have some adversaries. Look with me if you would at verse number 11. He says, Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded They shall be as nothing, and they that strive with thee shall perish. Thou shalt seek them, shall not find them Even them that contend with thee, they that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a thing of naught He's saying, listen, there are some enemies to the people of God. In verse number eleven, he says, incensed against thee Man, that's an interesting use of words. What does it mean if somebody is incensed against something? What does that mean? Somebody, talk to me now. Help me out. What does it mean if somebody is incensed? What comes to your mind? What? Extremely angry. Vehemently opposed Outraged. Any others? These are all good. Man, I was incensed against thee. The word itself literally means this: to possess a bitter hatred towards something. Whoever these people were that were opposed to Israel, they hated them bitterly. They were incensed against them, outraged, furious. So Israel, God's people, here in this context, had some enemies. Down in verse number 12. He says, They that contend with thee. The word contend means to oppose. To to stand in the way. Uh and then he says, They that war against thee, it means exactly what you'd think it would mean, to war and fight To push back, to conquer, to destroy. Israel had some very bitter enemies. In fact, throughout their whole history, Israel has had bitter enemies. In fact, to this day, Israel has had bitter enemies. Now, one thing I am grateful, at least to this point in our history, America for the most part has stood by Israel. I think that's a smart thing I think that's a smart thing. Jesus said, I'll bless them that bless thee, curse them that curse thee. I don't know how long that'll go on, but up to this point I thank God for it. But Israel had some bitter enemies, very, very bitter enemies Let me say this. The people of God, whether it's Israel in the Old Testament or the church in the New Testament, have always had enemies. There's always been those opposed to the things of God and the people of God. In fact, the Bible says that you and I as Christians, us as a church, and you and I as Christians, we have some bitter, bitter enemies. incensed against us, striving with us and warring with us. Now Charlie and I were talking between services afternoon. I think it was Charlie Uh we're talking between services. Uh Christians have had it pretty good the last number of decades. I mean we could worship in peace for the most part and we'd get together, oh, we'd have people make fun of us a little bit, cuss this out Now and then we try and witness. But for the most part we've had it pretty good. I want to say to you, that's been the exception, not the rule, throughout history. Christian, the Bible says very specifically we have three very bitter enemies against the people of God and our walk with God. One of them, we're told, is the world. The world. The world, this world is not our friend. This world is not a friend of grace. We sing this world is not my home. Now what do you mean what do we mean by world? What does the Bible mean by the world hating us when Jesus said that in John? The world hated me, they'll hate you too. What does he mean by the world? He's talking about the world's society, this world's values, this world's priorities, this world's principles it lives by are diametrically opposed to the things of God and the people of God The old song, I forget the name of the song, but it has a little phrase in it. This world is not a friend of grace. It is not a friend of the people of God. This world's priorities and values are diametrically opposed to what you and I value. And so the world has always been an enemy of God. The world has always been in opposed to the uh the growth and advancement of the church and our faith in God The Bible says that we should not love the world. In fact, James, I think it is John. 1 John, I think he says that friendship with the world is enmity with God. He says he calls it adultery, spiritual adultery, when Christians are friendly and and take up the values and principles priorities and sinful pleasures of this world, when Christians take that up, he says, that's spiritual adultery. This world's not our friend. Let me say this: there are churches making serious, serious mistakes by bringing in worldly practices, worldly principles, worldly music, worldly entertainment, bringing it into the church. That's spiritual adultery. This world's not our friend. Just as those nations were opposed to Israel, this world's opposed to us. So one of the enemies of the believer is is uh the people of God is the world. Uh there's another enemy, the Bible says. The world. Anybody want to take a guess? The flesh. Well, we'll get to that one. The world, the flesh. Say what do you mean by flesh? You mean your muscles and bones here and and uh these big these big guns right there and uh is that what you're talking about? That physique of flesh? No, not the physical flesh When the Bible talks about the flesh, in this context, it's talking about our old sinful nature. Let me ask you again, how many folks saved you know it? Say amen. How many folks found out that old sinful nature is still hanging around? Yeah, it didn't take me long. Man, I got saved. God changed my life. I went to live for the Lord. He delivered me from all that garbage. But I found out that the old Denny The old daddy was still alive and well in the in the heart and soul of this person right here. Those old sinful natures, that old sinful tendencies, those old sinful desires, they'd raise their head up every now and then And you know what I found out? After forty, let's see, nineteen seventy-nine, after forty-one years, you'd think that that old flesh would have been pushed aside and locked but locked up and done away with. You know what I found out? That old flesh is still alive and well. There is part of me and a part of you as a believer that still wants to live in sin and do those old things, wants to act according to sinful pleasures. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Yeah. An old sinful nature. That is not our friend. There is a part of my be there is a part of me, my very old sinful nature, that is opposed And me growing and being strong in the Lord. That is incensed against me, uh wanting to live for God and trust God and rejoice in the Lord and serve the Lord. And it fights it, and it'll find every reason, every excuse, every justification to disobey God. It'll find Anybody here ever do something you know it wasn't right? You did it and afterwards you think, what in the world? How did I even anybody here know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? That's that old simple nature Fighting us, fighting us. And we say, man, I can't believe I was so stupid. I can't believe I what in the world? Old simple nature. It's not our friend. It's our enemy. And then we have a third one. The world, the flesh, and I think Andy said it. Who? The devil. Satan That old devil is a sly old fox. If I could catch him, I'd put him in a box. I'd lock the door and throw away the key for all those tricks he's played on me. You ever sing that song as a kid? The devil's real. I'm telling you right now, Satan is as real and as alive as God Almighty is Oh, I believe in God. I trust God, but I don't believe in that no devil. Oh yeah, you better believe it. He's very, very real. In fact, the more he convinced us he isn't, the more he has the upper hand on us. We cannot be ignorant of Satan's devices. We've got to be aware. I was saying in an earlier service There have been times and services I've been in, we've had a number of them here, where it was like God was here. God's presence was unusually manifest. in a service. Anybody ever been somewhere like that? You could just sense the presence of God there. Man, God's speaking to hearts and and there's a there's a holy reverence, God's presence He's in that place. I've been in services and like I said, we've had them here where you could sense the presence of God. I think I shared the other week a soul-winning experience I had here in town when we first came. And I was sharing the gospel. I'm telling you the presence of the Holy Spirit of God was there in an unusual way. Now God's always everywhere. He's omnipresent But there are some times and some circumstances, some situations where God will manifest his presence in an unusual way. Just like God does that, I'm telling you, Satan has a presence also. And I've been in some situations and I've been in some circumstances Where I'm telling you, and this sounds heebie-jeeby, and I'm not trying to be sensational or off the wall and anything, but I've been in some situations and some circumstances where I could sense the presence of evil Anybody ever know what I'm talking about? You could just sense the presence of evil there. When I worked uh when I was in Bible college, I took full classes and then I worked full-time and then I did a full-time ministry. It was on the weekends And uh I mean just busy as could be. And for a while I worked third shift for a carpet mill. And uh we'd just do stuff there. And um I started at eleven at night and I worked till I think it was six in the morning, something like that. And uh we worked all night and then we'd always take our uh lunch with us, which I don't think it's technically lunch at two o'clock in the morning Whatever that would be, uh, and I forgot mine this one day. I was starving to death. And so, I mean, on the verge of dying. I was so hungry And um so I asked the foreman, I said, Man, I forgot my lunch. Is there anywhere at two in the morning I can go and get something to eat? I I I gotta eat something, I'm gonna faint And he goes, yeah, there's a little place just across the road about a block down. He says, they're open all night long. You can go in there and get something. I said, oh, praise the Lord. I went running out there. It was dark, of course, it's two in the morning. And uh I didn't really pay attention. I only had half hour and So I went flying in there, and there was two doors. There was a double door, and you go in, and there was like a foyer, I guess you could call it, and then there was another set of doors. When I went through that first set of doors I'm telling you, it was like I ran up against the wall. I could sense the presence of evil. And I know I'm sounding a little spooky-booky here, but I could s I I thought something ain't right And man, the spirit in me was grief, and I pushed that second door up and here was a nasty nightclub bar and smoke and sin and liquor. And I turned around and went right out. I had no idea that was on the other side of the door, but I'll tell you what, there was a presence of evil there. There is a presence, a demonic presence in that place. In fact, I want to suggest to you, wherever liquor is, there's a presence of evil And I come out of there and I thought, man alive. That taught me a lesson. The devil's real. The devil's real. Uh, we lived in Colorado for three years and I don't know if uh and again this I don't know, uh this is just Kathy and I, but um uh And we lived in Boulder, Colorado. Now if you know anything about Boulder, it is the New Age capital of the world. I mean this was thirty years ago almost, twenty-seven years ago And it was just a wicked, wicked town. Pretty wealthy, college, big WV or big not WVU, um, Colorado University there, and big campus, and I mean wickedness, wickedness, uh Satanism, uh witchcraft, on every hand, we'd say it all the time. And uh we were driving, one of the first not we weren't there long, we'd been in Denver for something And we're driving up Route 36 from Denver up to Colorado, and you come over this knoll, and you look down the valley, Boulder Valley, and here's the whole city there And then you have the the foothills, the flat irons here, and then it goes up into the rocky the big mountains. Beautiful. And we come over that, and right we came over that knoll down into the city. I looked at my wife and she looked at me And I said, do you sense it? She goes, I do. We just sensed a presence of evil. I don't know how to describe it other than that. And it sounds spooky-booky But what I'm saying is there was a presence of evil there that you could sense. Chuck Harding, our missionary down on Capitol Hill, he said there's a number of times he was telling me, he goes, I can just sense the presence of evil. In this place. What I'm trying to say is this. There is a very real devil, and he is out to destroy you. And he is out to destroy me. He wants to ruin our lives. You say, oh, that's crazy. I tell you, you want to know what the devil will do to somebody if he has whatever he can do, whatever he wants, he has free reign on somebody? Read the book of Job. God says, I'm going to remove all my hedges. Satan, you can do whatever you want to Job, you just cannot kill him. And I tell you, the devil didn't bless Job. And he didn't give him the desires of his heart. And he didn't put joy and happiness in the life of Job. He destroyed him He destroyed his property. He killed his children. He turned his wife against him. He turned his friends against him. He destroyed his health. The thief, the devil, cometh not but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. And what I'm trying to say is this, you and I as believers We need to be very, very much aware, just as Israel was aware, the fact that we've got enemies. We've got a world out there that's not share our faith. Or our values. We've got a sinful flesh within us that fights against doing right and what God says, and we've got a very real devil that is opposed to everything you and I stand for and believe And so God's writing to the nation of Israel. He's writing to his people, the recipients, the people of God, servants of him, chosen of him. He's writing to them. And he says, listen, you've got some rivals here. I want to quickly notice the restrictions that God gives to the nation of Israel. Look here in verse number 10. There are some things God says that we are not to do. We are prohibited from doing. Look at verse 10. Notice the first one. What's he say? Very first three words. What's it say? Fear thou not. Israel, judgment's coming. Israel, you got enemies, my people. But listen, don't you be afraid. Fear thou not. You say, are you crazy, preacher? You just scared the daylights out of me. God says, don't you be afraid. What's the next thing? Fear thou not, neither uh fear thou not, for I am with thee. What's the next one? Be not what? I started looking up that word dismayed. It's an interesting word. This is the definition I found. To be overwhelmed. Now listen to this very carefully. Do I have your attention? Listen to this very carefully. To be overwhelmed with fear by the things I observe happening around me Be not dismayed. Don't be overwhelmed with fear by the things you see happening around you. Wait a minute. Does that sound like it might apply to our day and age Good, night. Fear not, neither be thou dismayed. Now I got looking at these two statements. I don't know about you, but In hearing these statements, that sounds like a God of compassion speaking to me. Fear not. Be not dismayed. That sounds like a God that's very much concerned about me. God doesn't want us to be afraid. God doesn't want us to be overwhelmed. God doesn't want us to live in a spirit of doom and gloom and fear. and dread and overwhelm. God says, don't you do that. Don't you allow that type of thinking to be a part of your being Refuse it. Push that fear out. Don't let yourself become dismayed. I care about you. I have compassion on you. By the way, that sounds to me like a God that's in control. God that's in control says, don't be afraid, don't be dismayed. This is what I take out of it. God's saying, listen, I got this. I got this. You ever uh, this might not be a good illustration, you ever have problems in your car, and you think, oh my word, this is terrible, it's going to be thousands of dollars. You take it to the car dealer, he looks at it, da-da-da. He goes, Oh, don't worry about it, I got this Whoa what's it gonna be? Oh it's fine, don't worry. And and I've got this. And you say, oh good, it's not as bad as I thought it was gonna be I think that's what God's saying. We look at this old world, we see our streets, we see our cities on fire, we see all this horrible stuff we hear in the news, all these scary things going on, and God says, Listen Don't you be afraid. Don't you let this mess you up? Be dismayed. I've got this. I care about you. I'm in control here. I was thinking when our boys were small, not a whole lot our boys, but they would sometimes in the middle of the night get scared of something. Anybody have that? Last night I walked into the bedroom. Kathy was already in bed. I came in a little later. And we've got a mouse under our bedroom somewhere in the crawl space under there. It sounds like a little mouse can make a lot of noise at 11 o'clock at night. Anybody ever notice that? It sounds like Godzilla under there, you know? And uh something's under the bed. I said, I got this Don't you be afraid, be dismayed. I was thinking about preaching on this this morning. I said, don't be afraid or dismayed. The Lord your husband art with thee. Well, I didn't say it exactly that way. But the boys would get scared of something, we'd come in and say, don't you be afraid. It's okay. And God's looking down you and I. And you look around, it can be scary, it can be overwhelming. God says, listen, you're my people. You're my people. Don't you be afraid. Don't let this mess up your thinking. Don't you let this mess up your thinking. Our God is in control. Don't ever forget that. God is in control. There's nothing this world There's nothing this old sinful flesh, and there's nothing the devil can do to wrest control out of the hands of our God. He is Lord of Lords, He is King of Kings. Even the seas, even the winds and the seas obey his voice. We have nothing to fear. We have nothing to be dismayed about. Our God will uphold us with the right hand of His righteousness. He is with us. He will help us. Isn't that good? That good? So we got the recipients here, it's people of God. We've got the uh the ri the re the rivals, the uh the opposed, the the uh adversaries of the people of God. Now God gives us some restrictions here. Don't be afraid. Don't be dismayed. And then I notice a requirement. Now the requirement is not specifically stated. It's implied. And that is this. If I'm not going to fear. All this stuff going on. I'm not going to be dismayed. All this stuff going on. God says, don't you do that. The implication is, see if you agree with me on this, the implication is I need to trust him I need to have faith in him. When I tell my children, don't you be afraid, don't you worry, there's no monster under your bed. They need to trust me. They need to have faith in my assessment and my assurance of them that everything's okay. And what I'm trying to say is this: you and I need to learn to have faith in God. We have got to learn to trust God. Oh, but what about this? Trust God. Yeah, but they're doing that. Have faith in God. Yeah, but he's saying that Have faith in God. Preacher, you don't, I know, but have faith in God. I've said this before, I'll say it again. Jesus never fails. God is all powerful. God is all wise. He is good. He loves us. And we can trust him. In any circumstance, any situation, we can trust in God. And that's the whole implication through this whole thing, is God speaking to Israel. Don't you be afraid. Don't you be dismayed. I've got my right hand. I'll hold you by the right hand of my righteousness. I'll be with you. I will help you. I will strengthen you. And it all comes down to having faith in God. Listen, that statement, have faith in God, has to move from just being a motto or a cliche, we say, to something we really practice in our hearts and lives. Trusting in God we have on our dollar bills. Uh um what's it? In God we trust Listen. Oh, that's cute. That's nice. My dad would always get a highlighter. If you ever find a uh uh paper uh paper money in that floating around here and in God We Trust is highlighted with a green highlighter, my dad did that He's done that for years. He would highlight, in God we trust, in God we trust, in God we trust. You know what he was trying to do? He was trying to get people moved from just being a little statement on paper to something we really actually do. And what I'm saying is, it's time for the Church of God, it's time for God's people to quit just saying that and singing about it and start trusting God. Put our faith in God. I'm not going to be afraid. I'm not going to be dismayed. I'm not going to let this mess me up. I'm going to have faith in God. I'm going to trust God. He will help me. He is with me. He will uphold me by the right hand of his righteousness. And so the implication in this is to have faith in God. The implied requirement is to have faith in God. Have faith in God. Then last of all, I notice the reassurance, and this is really what the message is. Look what he says there. Verse 10. Fear now not, for I am with thee. Be not dismayed, I am thy God. I will strengthen thee, yea. And I'll tell you, that next statement is what stood out in my mind when I read this. Yea, I will what? Help thee. I will help thee. Yea, I'll hold thee. Come down to verse 11. Look at the end of the verse. Saying unto thee, fear not. I will help thee. Look at verse 14. Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and you men of Israel. What's it say? I will help thee. Will you repeat this after me? God will help me. Will you say that with me? Ready? God will help me. Say it again. God will help me. When we walk out that back door in a few minutes, if we don't get anything else, if you know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, if we don't get anything else, we walk out that back door, I hope you'll be convinced of this one thing. God will help me. Whatever you're dealing with, whatever you're facing, your own personal life, whatever it is, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you're a child of God, God promises: I will help you, I will help you, I will help you. Say, preacher, I'm really struggling in my Christian life. God will help you. Preacher, I'm trying to, I got a sin. I just defeated it. It just kind of defeats me. Listen, if you're a child of God, God will help you Trying to overcome this temptation. God will help you. Say, preacher, I know I should read my Bible every day, and boy, I just struggle with that. Hey, God will help you. Just go down the list. You want to live for God? You want to serve God? You're finding it tough and struggling? God will help you. Will you say it with me? God will help me. And that's the promise of God. He'll help us. He'll help us. Don't be afraid. Don't be dismayed. Don't get messed up. Yes, there's enemies. They're powerful. The world's old flesh, the devil. Yes. But God will help us. We don't need to be afraid. We don't need to be dismayed. A preacher many, many years ago, was had quite a study, quite a library, and he had his study at home. He's down on the ground floor of his house. And he decided for whatever reason he was going to move his study up to the second floor of the house. And um an old, big old house. And uh he had a huge library and and desks and different things. And so uh he started moving his study up to the second floor. He had a box of things and he had a small child, a small boy, this little boy, and the boy was watching and he said, Daddy, can I help you move your study up there? And it would have been a little more convenient and easier for him just to say, no, son, you just stay out of the way, I can do this. But he didn't do that. He wanted to involve his son, wanted to teach his boy to work and And uh so I thought this was a good opportunity. So of course he was the boy was very limited what he could do. So the father had a big box of books, very heavy, and he says, All right, son You grab one of those books off the shelf over there and you follow me and help me carry it upstairs. Oh, the boy was so happy and so proud. And he went over there and he pulled the biggest volume of commentaries that Daddy had Pulled that off that shell and he's holding it. He could barely carry it. And so he's walking behind Daddy. And Daddy's got his box and he looks back. And the little boy is just struggling to carry this thing. And finally gets to the stairs. And daddy starts going up the stairs and he looked back and the little boy is gets on that first step and gets in. He got about three or four steps up and finally his little leg started to give out and he sat down on the stair And he just began crying and crying. And Daddy said, Son, what in the world's the matter? He said, Daddy, I w I this is so heavy, I I can't hardly carry it, and I just don't think I can do it Dad said, hold on. He set his box of books down. He came down and he didn't take the book out of the hands of the boy. He picked the boy and the book up. He said, I'll be all right, I'll help you. And he carried the boy with that book up to where it needs to go and set him down and said, son, put that book on the shelf right there. And the boy did I read that, I thought of what God said here. I'll help you. Sometimes we get overwhelmed. Sometimes we get mad and bitter and we we don't know what to do, and we get frustrated and we lash out. God says, don't do that. Don't you be afraid. Don't you be dismayed. I'll help you. You trust me. And you know what God does sometimes? He doesn't take the burden off our shoulders. He doesn't take the situation and make it go away. What he'll do is pick us up by the right hand of his righteousness. By the strength of his hand, he'll carry us through that. If we'll just trust him. When it's all said and done, he gets the glory. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord, to trust you. Help us, Lord, to have faith in you. You have promised us, God, that you would help us. Promise, Lord, that you would strengthen us and be with us. You've told us not to be afraid. You've told us not to be dismayed. Holy Spirit of God, please help us to trust you. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I've got a personal situation going on. Maybe nobody in the world knows about it. Maybe everybody in the world knows about it. But you say, preacher, I really need God to help me. I'm struggling. I catch myself getting angry and bitter. Say, preacher, pray with me that I'll trust God and let Him help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me in my Christian life. My walk with Him. Any others? God bless you. How about it? Any others? God says, don't you be afraid. Don't you let this mess you up. Be dismayed. I'll help you. You just trust me. Now it's to God's people. If you're here this morning or you're watching online or on the radio, listening in on the radio, you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. The Bible says you're still in your sins. Under the wrath and judgment of God, if we die in our sins, separated from God for all eternity, God says, You come to me, I'll help you, you come, trust me. You'll be my child, I'll take care of you, I'll meet your needs. I don't hear anybody here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved. I'm not sure my sins are forgiven. I'm in the family of God. Say, preacher, I need to be saved. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Any at all? Any at all? Let me ask this question. Do you know somebody? They're struggling. They're scared. They're discouraged. They're having a hard time. You'd say, preacher, I want to pray for them that I'll be a good witness. I can speak a word of encouragement. I can somehow help them to trust and let God help them. them. Is there any like that? I know somebody really having a tough time. I want to be that good witness. I want to be a good brother or sister in Christ. And encourage and try and help them to trust the Lord. God bless you. Now, let's pray. Father in heaven, bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand again.