I'm just glad we let everyone know who's the boss here behind us on this track month business. But so Genesis chapter eight. I'm just gonna read the I really wanted to jump into uh chapter nine. and get into the actual covenant that God makes with Noah. But um verse twenty-one and twenty-two, there's really some truths here that I thought maybe We ought to just back up a little bit and zero in and and give a little bit of attention to it here. Uh I'm going to begin reading in verse twenty. We preached on this last week. It says, And Noah building an altar unto the Lord and took of every clean beast and of every clean fowl and offered burnt offerings on the altar. We noted last week the first thing Noah did when he got off the ark after being on there for over a year Uh the very first thing he did was he didn't go out and build a house. He didn't go out and try and make provisions for his family. The very first thing he did was he worshiped God. And I think he was following the principle of Matthew 6. 33, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Now there's one little word that I overlooked last week that was brought to my attention I won't say who, but uh Dave Eddington didn't remember his name a little while ago. And uh he brought something to my attention. If you notice in verse 20, it says, Noah built an altar unto the Lord and took of every clean beast. So he didn't kill all the clean beasts. He just took some beasts from each of the categories of clean beast. and offered them as a sacrifice. So they still had food of the clean beasts and and provisions there. So and then verse verse 21, read on. Now God responds to Noah's worship. Notice it says here, and the Lord smelled a sweet savor. And the Lord said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake. For the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth, neither will I again smite any more every living thing, as I have done. While the earth remaineth, seed time and harvest, cold and heat, summer and winter, day and night shall not cease God responds to Noah's act of worship as he comes out of that ark, builds an altar, takes up every claim beast, offers them up to the Lord. God responds to that. So let's have a word of prayer. Let me share a few things, thoughts here with you. Father, bless now our study in this portion. God, this has been a fascinating event in history. Lord, you've preserved this for us now that we can apply these principles to our lives and live our lives in a way that's pleasing to you. God, that our witness would be effective. And so open our hearts and minds. Holy Spirit of God. Take this truth and help us to understand them. Help us to incorporate them into our daily life, our faith in you. I present my body, Lord, I yield my will to you. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. I believe with all my heart it's God's intention. Now it doesn't always play out this way, but I believe it's God's intention that every believer As immediately after their salvation, that they recognize and submit to God's authority over their lives. And that they live a life of faith and obedience to the Lord. That's God's will for every believer. How many folks are familiar with the term Lordship Salvation? Anybody familiar with that term? The idea behind Lordship Salvation is this. You must submit completely to the Lord in every area of life, make him absolutely Lord of your life in order to be saved. Now that is an unscriptural teaching. That's work salvation, to be very frank. So we don't believe in lordship salvation in some recognizing God's authority and submitting to His authority in order to be saved. But I do believe that the purpose, one of the primary purposes of salvation, is so that we make Christ Lord of our lives. As a result of salvation, as a consequence of us trusting Christ. In fact, the act of baptism Which Peter tells us Noah and the Ark was a type of, a picture of. The act of baptism is a picture of submission. We don't see this and maybe we don't present this in baptism as clearly as we should, but there's a whole lot more to that act of baptism according to the Bible. than simply me identifying myself as a follower of Jesus Christ. Let me give you some scripture. Come with me if you would, real quickly. We're not going to spend a lot of time on this, but to Romans chapter number 6 Romans chapter 6. Romans chapter 6 is a powerful chapter on the believer's relationship to sin. And as a believer now, sin not having dominion over my life, but rather me living in victory. And beginning in verse number one of Romans chapter 6, notice what the Bible says. Therefore, being justified by faith. We have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Now let me carry it back to the context of our message. Oops, I'm sorry, I'm reading chapter 5. Come to chapter 6. I hate it when people correct me. I hate even more when they're right and I'm wrong. Chapter 6, look at verse 1. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And the obvious answer to that question is what? No We're saved by grace not to continue in sin, but so we can be delivered from sin. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid! How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? And the answer to that question is what? We shouldn't. Look at verse 3. Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death? Now look at this. Therefore we are buried with him by baptism and the death That like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in what? Newness of life. For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his deaths, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection. Now this is suggesting to us that one of the one of the s the some of the significance of baptism, it is In a very real sense, and ideally, it's a decision on the part of the believer that now that I've trusted Christ, I'm dead to my old life. I'm no longer going to live in that old life, and I'm going to live in a new life in submission to Christ and living for His glory and recognizing His authority over my life. Do you see that? That's the idea. One of the significant things behind baptism is not only is my faith in Christ, that he died for me, was buried, and rose again, that I was crucified with him and all that, but I'm living a new life now. And I come back to Genesis chapter 8, and I see that with Noah. He's come out of this ark, he's been saved by grace through faith. And the very first thing he does, he recognizes God's authority over him, he builds that order, he submits to God's authority by offering that sacrifice. And that's what God wants for all of us. Now that as I said, it doesn't play out ideally. Some people get saved and they immediately grasp the significance of their salvation, what Christ done for them, they almost immediately grasp what God intends for them, and boy, they just get a hold of it and they take off right from the start. Brother Mike Stubler is with the Lord now, but I saw that in Mike Stubler. He was one of the few that really grasped what Christianity was all about right from the get-go. And understood. He's a new man. And uh he had a tremendous testimony for that. Now for some other folks, it doesn't happen instantly Maybe they'll go through a period of time and they'll struggle and whatnot, and God begins working and chastening, and they get to the point where they recognize, you know, I'm a child of God now. God has authority over me. He's the Lord. And I need to submit to that And uh sometimes it takes place at a l at a later time. I'm thinking of a fella uh that's um there out west, they moved on but years ago uh came got saved. Dave Stork. Many of you remember Dave. He got saved. I believe he was genuinely born again, baptized, but he just struggled. He just never got out of that old rut until about a year And then a crisis came, God got a hold of him, and boy, then he understood it and took off and went for the Lord. So uh God's intention is for us. So this I believe is what Noah did. He offered this sacrifice. He was worshiping God, recognizing God's authority over his life. He was submitting himself in this new world to trust and obey God. Now God responds to that. Said all that to say this. God responds to it. Look if you if you would back at Genesis and uh chapter 8. Look at verse 21. And the Lord smelled a sweet savor. Now I put it down this way, point number one, there was a sweet emanation. Now there's a $50 word. I had to look that one up. If something is emanating from somewhere, what's that mean? Who knows? What? It's kind of drifting out, you know, um uh this morning Uh we had uh we had uh uh the commodes had a little got backed up this morning. And uh just like they did last week and the week before and the week before, somebody said Uh, Mark, hire someone to fix that. My husband will pay for it, doesn't matter how much it costs. And uh so all the men went, I hope it wasn't my wife But I went downstairs this afternoon and there was a odor emanating from the back room. So this sweet emanation, this sweet savor is the term the Bible used. The word sweet there simply means very pleasant. Something very soothing, very pleasant. You smell the sweet smell. I love this time of year. This is my favorite time of year spring. And I love the honeysuckles Anybody know what I'm talking about? Man, we were in Frostbury yesterday. There's a whole hillside just covered with honeysuckles. And man, they just smell sweet savor. And I just want to eat them all. You know? And that's the idea behind this word sweet. And the word savor simply means fragrance And so this sweet odor is emanating up to the Lord from this altar of sacrifice. Now you say, what in the world? Have you ever smelled flesh being burnt? That is not a pleasant smell. Would you agree with me? It's pretty nasty. This verse is not saying that God enjoyed the smell of burnt flesh. It's not what it's saying. It's referencing the faith and the motive behind Noah offering this sacrifice. The act of submission to God is pleasing to God. God saw the heart of Noah. God saw that here is a man that has been spared the judgment of God. And the first thing he does coming out of that ark is to submit himself to God, recognize God's authority, offer this sacrifice of thanksgiving and praise and submission to the Lord, and that is a blessing to God God is pleased when we are grateful for what He has done for us. That pleases God God, it's a can I put it this way? It is a blessing to God. When we come out of it, we look at our salvation and we say, God, thank you for saving me from sin in hell. My life is yours. I offer myself on the altar of sacrifice. I am yours, Lord, to live for you and serve you and submit to you however you see fit. I am yours, Lord. And that is a sweet fragrance to the Lord. The act of sacrifice in and of itself Can be either pleasing or repulsive to the Lord, just the act itself. Um for sake of time, I'm not going to turn it. I really wanted to, but Amos chapter 5 Verse twenty-one through twenty-three, the Israelites were offering sacrifices, no different than what uh Noah did, maybe in fact a little bit more correct as far as the letter goes And God says their sacrifice was displeasing to them. It's repulsive to them. You know why? Because they weren't doing it out of a heart of gratitude and out of faith and love for the Lord. It was simply a ritual they were going through It was simply an obligation they did. And Malachi references the same thing. And they said, Man, you just bring your your worst of your flock and you just you're just going through this just to make yourself look good And God says it stinks. There's nothing in this ritual you're going through that is pleasing to me. Your heart's not in it. It means nothing to you. But Noah's situation, it brought great pleasure to the Lord. A sincere submission to God is pleasing to God. It's a sweet savor. It's a blessing to the Lord. On the other hand, empty ritualistic submission, just going through it, you know, um us Baptists can be guilty of that. We get all over the Catholics, don't we? They come in and cross their hearts and hope to die, stick a needle in my eye, they do all that stuff. They come and take their mass and they go through all these rituals and then they go out and do their thing. Right? It's all it means nothing. In fact, they advertise in the newspaper: fulfill your obligations I was out knocking on doors, this was years ago, over on the other side of town, over towards Sang Run Road, and back in there somewhere, knocked on the door, a guy came I said, uh, I'm from Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm Pastor Dennis Leatherman, and uh I'd like to leave an invitation with you and your family to come visit our church. He goes, I go to church at the only place in Garrett County Now this was years ago. The only place in Garrett County you can drink liquor on a Sunday. I said, I think I know where that is. He said, I go to the Catholic Church downtown. Garrett County was a dry county. I mean the whole county was. Remember? Remember that? Now it's divided all up. But you could drink wine and whatnot, you get it at the Catholic Church. I walked away, you know what I thought? That stinks. I believe that stinks to God. Going through the motions and then making a mockery of it. But wait a minute. Us Baptists can be guilty. We might not be that blanton about it, but we can come through and go through the motions and sing the songs Brother Hummel touched a little bit this morning. We can go through all of that and then walk out and have absolutely no intention in our heart of doing what God wants us to do We can sing these songs, we can do all we can buy boxes, send them to Kenya, and all that and walk out and say, Nope, I'm doing things my way, God. I just went through the motions, I did my sacrifice, I went through the obligations And God says, you know, that really stinks. Moses' sacrifice was a sweet savor to the Lord. It was a sweet emanation coming up to heaven. He was a man saved by the grace of God that humbly, lovingly submitted himself to the Lord and offered up this sacrifice. So Do I and what is what I'm doing for the Lord to make me look good? Is it self? Or is it out of love for the Lord? I heard this little ditty years ago. Only two choices on the shelf: pleasing God or pleasing self. Isn't that our biggest struggle? Even in our service to the Lord, even in our track month. Even our giving of our tithes and offerings, a sacrificial giving. And I understand some folks, many folks, who gave 50 bucks to send one of these boxes, that was a sacrifice. Now, why are we doing that? What's our motive behind it? That is what determines whether it pleases God or not. He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and he's a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. Without faith, it is impossible to please him. If I'm coming self-centered, self-righteous, doing it for me, make me look good, soothe my conscience. And then I walk out those doors and I do my own thing and I take the principles and clear teaching of Scripture and just throw it out the window. God says that stinks So it was a sweet savor to the Lord. So the first thing I notice here in verse 21, the first part, and the Lord smelled a sweet savor. And the Lord said in his heart, this brings me to the second thing, there is a sinful imagination mentioned. Look what the Lord says: I will not again curse the ground anymore for man's sake. Why not? For the imagination of man's heart is what? Evil from his youth When God initially created the world, he went through one day of creation. At the end of the day, he finished up He summarized that day's work of creation with a simple little statement. Anybody know which one I'm referring to? It was good. God saw all that he created and it was good. And the next day he did his thing and created the next category. And God saw that it was good. The next day he created the next category of uh of audience, and God saw that it was good. Now you have a new world Noah survived the flood. God spared him. This planet is completely different than what it was before. And notice what God does not say. Doesn't say it's good. It's been stained with sin, Romans tells us. It's under the curse of sin. And man comes out of this, and God says, uh, I'm not gonna. I'll not curse the ground again anymore for man's sake, for the imagination of his heart is evil. Now, what's he mean when he says I will not curse the ground anymore for man's sake? I think he's simply saying this Now, you had to be in with some of the previous messages to maybe fully appreciate what I'm saying here. But what took place that one year that the earth was flooded? So change this world like nothing else ever was before, ever will be again until the earth's burned up. I mean continents were rearranged There's a very real possibility that before the flood there was only one continent on the earth. There's uh as we understand scripture The mountains that were on the the mountain ranges that were on this planet before the flood were no longer there after the flood New mountain ranges were developed. The Bible talks about in Psalms about the mountains crashing down and the deep opening up. uneducated, unscientific uh conclusion is just reading and studying what others have said, is that during the flood, the continent shifted and tore apart. This is an entirely different world. The axis that we believe before the flood were Perpendicular, right? During the flood, because of the cataclysmic events took place, they literally shifted, and now we have an earth that is off its axis. At an angle, which produces seasons, polar ice caps, which were not there before Uh to me it beautifully explains why there's why there's tropical plants frozen in the polar ice caps. You get in the Arctic circles, northern and Antarctic circles, and you find You find uh fossils and whatnot of tropics. So Noah comes out. And it's March, it's April twenty-seventh, and it snows He never saw snow before. It's never been cold before. And he could come to this conclusion: God is cursing the earth some more. He cursed it after the fall. Now the flood would come out. It's never been like this before. Uh dinosaurs are dying off because of the cold and the changed environment, and they can't survive They're very possible the oxygen level in the air has been altered. And their lungs are not designed to breathe the thinner oxygen. They're dying off. And Noah thinks, man, God is cursing the earth some more And I think what God says here when he says, I will no not again curse the earth ground uh curse the ground anymore for me, I think he's saying, Noah, listen. This isn't more of a curse on you. It's simply the consequences of an altered world. I think that's what he's telling them. An altered environment. Now it's cold. Species are dying off. In a few verses, we're going to find out they start eating meat. You know, before the flood, they didn't eat meat. Everything was vegetables. That's one area. I'm glad I'm on this side of the flood. I like meat. You know, vegetarian is an old Indian word for poor hunter. God points out that the changes in the world around man did nothing to change the heart of man. Look what it says: For the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth. The reason, man, the reason the world was in such a mess before wasn't because there was just one continent The reason the world was in such a mess before wasn't because there was a water canopy around and the environment was so beautiful and tropical, the whole earth. It wasn't because there wasn't any season and just a continual sowing and harvest twelve months out of the year. That's not why man was so sinful. That's not why the world was in a mess. The world was in a mess because man's heart is sinful. It wasn't the environment that caused man to be so wicked. It was the condition of his heart. The problem of sin is not in our environment. You say, well, if if uh kids could grow up in a better environment, if they weren't in the projects and the ghetto down in the hood and they could be in a uh a nicer and have a little better environment Then they wouldn't be like they are. You know the problem with that is? You've got wealthy kids walking into schools like Columbine in Colorado, mowing down their fellow students just as bad as you have in the ghettos. It's not the environment. It's not whether they live in government houses or mansions. It's what's in their heart is the problem. It's the sinful nature of man. You've got millionaires who are embezzling money just as blantly as you have gangsters going into liquor stores robbing the liquor stores. The problem is not our environment. The problem is not our society. Well, it's society's fault the way we are. No, it's our sinful hearts. It's not our upbringing. Listen, I understand that the the actions of parents have a profound impact on the children. That's obvious. That's scriptural. But regardless of how I was raised, regardless of the flaws and failures of my parents. Regardless of what my family may have done or not done, that is no excuse for my own sin. I'm not sinning because my parents did this or didn't do that. I'm sinning because my heart is sinful. I'm so tired of hearing people blame their sin and their rebellion and their wickedness on what their parents did or did not do. Read the book of Proverbs. We are responsible for our own actions. And I can choose whether I'm going to trust God or or disobey God or not, whether I'm going to obey Him or disobey Him. The problem isn't in my environment, it isn't with my upbringing, it isn't with the society I live in. The problem is in my own heart. And God says that, Noah, the imagination, the thoughts of his heart and mind are on evil continually Say, well, it's a new world. There won't be any sin in this new world. Read a chapter later, and what do you find Noah doing? Laying drunk on his back, maybe his boy doing some perverse things in this new world He had a new home, but he still had a sinful heart. So God says right at the get-go, listen, your submission to me, your sacrifice, your recognition, your worship, it is sweet to me. But don't forget your heart is still sinful. Don't forget you still have an old sinful nature that will drag you down. One truth that must be understood, and that is this: man is inherently sinful. If we don't understand this, we will not understand man's behavior. That's where the psychologists mess up. A lot of psychologists have this idea that we are born with a clean slate. We're born intrinsically good. And somehow society, our upbringing, our environment corrupts us and makes us bad. No, no, no. We're born with a sinful nature And until we understand that, we're not going to have the right solutions. We'll never understand God's dealings with man. Somebody says, I don't see why God would be so severe in his judgment. Oh man, why would a loving God send someone to an eternal lake of fire? Has nothing to do with whether God loves man or not. It has everything to do with how sinful man is. How grievously we've A holy God. And until we understand that, the cross, the judgment of God, the chastisement of God, none of that's going to make sense. Until we understand how thoroughly sinful we really are. You want to know God's attitude towards sin? Look at the cross. It is such an offense to God, he crucified his own son. Jesus Christ took our sin on himself, and sin is such an affront to God. God crucified his own son. Until we understand the sinfulness of sin, none of it makes sense. That's why Jesus told Nicodemus, Nicodemus, he said he's a ruler, he's uh in the Pharisees, he's very wealthy. Jesus cuts right to the chase, Nicodemus, you need to be born again. You've got a sinful heart. You need a new nature. Nothing we can do to salvage the old heart. You need to be born again. So, first of all, we have this sweet emanation, sweet savor. Then we have the sinful imagination of man, the Lord points out. Then we have, and I end with this, a very sobering implication. Look at verse 22. While the earth remaineth, seed time and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease. Now, before the flood, everybody doing alright? Everybody okay? Alright, we're about done here. Before the flood There was no seasons. There was no summer, such summer, winter, there was no fall, there was no spring. It was all just perpetual, perfect summer. It was like living in a greenhouse with just the perfect humidity and perfect everything. Now that water canopy's gone. You've got UV rays hitting you. Um you've got uh going through the summer, and there's humidity And uh now you're going through, and uh you've got uh all of a sudden the leaves are turning colors and falling off. Now put yourself in Noah's shoes. All of a sudden these trees are dying. Oh no. He doesn't know there's going to be a winter. He doesn't know there's a spring coming. You with me? He thinks it's over, everything's dead. Then it starts snowing, starts smalling, and dinosaurs are dying off. And he's thinking, good night, this is this is it, it's the end of the world. And uh you thought first I survived the flood, now I it's the end of the world. And the Lord says, Oh, no, no, listen, it's just cycles. Seed time and harvest, those cold and summer Uh it's it's gonna come around. Uh first time we moved here to Garrett County. This is the truth. If I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out to you. This is the truth. I thought, 1993-94, I thought it was never gonna be spring again. It snowed in November, snowed December, January, February, March. We're at the end of March. It's still snowing. I told Kathy, I said, something's happened to the world. It's never going to be spring again. It's just winter for the rest of our lives And uh lo and behold, it did warm up for a week, and the sun came out, and then it started snowing again But that was no doubt Noah's mentality. He says, man, what's going on? And God's assuring him. Look what he says. Seed time and seed time and harvest, cold and heat, summer, it's not going to cease. You're going to be all right. You're going to come out of it. So that's the idea there. But he makes a statement that is a little sobering. Notice the first part of verse 22. While the earth remaineth. What does that imply? There's coming a day when the earth is not going to be. That's a little sobering. Everybody this year was all worked up because the Mayan calendar has 2012, the end of the world. I think they're nuts. I think the Mayans, when they did the calendar, just ran out of paper, and so they just ended there. Five thousand years later, everybody's all messed up, and they just ran out of The fact of the matter is the earth is not going to continue forever. The Bible makes that very clear. There's a day coming and Jesus Christ is going to come back. There's going to be a process of events take place, the tribulation, the millennial reign. And at the end of that point, the Bible is very clear. God is going to burn this heaven and this earth up With a fire, the very elements are going to melt, and he's going to create a new heaven and a new earth. God's judgment on man is severe. Because man's sin is so great. And he says, Noah, while this earth is still intact, you're going to have seasons, it's going to come around. But the implication there, if I was Noah, and I wouldn't wonder if I wouldn't have heard while it remaineth. Hmm. The world says everything is just continuing on the way it always did. We're here by a series of natural events, nothing supernatural, just all came from nothing, just a series of events. And that's the way it's always going to keep on going. Fact the matter is God supernaturally created everything there is And it's not just going to continue on the way it is. There's coming a day when God's going to intervene and this whole place is going to be burned up. It will not remain Now, how foolish it is for us to live for this world, to invest our time and money and effort into something that's not going to remain. Let's live for the Lord. Something eternal, a home in heaven. Father in heaven, bless us, help us. I hope this little study here Was helpful, Lord. I pray that we would uh grow and and uh in our faith and we just live and please you with our lives. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher. I want my life to be pleasing to the Lord. I want to be sincere. I don't want to just go through the motions. And it's easy to do. We get caught up and we just go through the motions. And maybe tonight you say, preacher I want my service to the Lord, my walk with God, my devotion time to be pleasing to the Lord, a real, genuine submission of my heart to the Lord. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that that would be true in my life. Would you slip your hand up? Anybody like that? Sure, all around us. Of course we would want that. Goodness I wonder if some of us need to come and say, Lord, I just need to take this seriously. God, I really am grateful. I haven't been acting like it. I haven't been talking like it. Maybe some of us have just been doing what we're supposed to do here and then walk out and go do our thing and just completely disregard the teaching of Scripture. That's not pleasing to the Lord at all. Maybe some of us need to deal with some sinful stuff in our hearts, confess it and forsake it. But whatever it is, let's let the Lord have his way. Father, bless our invitation, I pray now. Help us. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bound, eyes are closed. Cathy just