Let's take your Bible. You join me in second Kings chapter number eight. Second Kings chapter eight And I'm just going to read the first six verses. This is a very, just a little blurp really of an event here in the life of Elijah as we're working our way through his uh life and uh the experiences he had in his service to the Lord. And but it's full of great truth. Second Kings chapter 8, if you have your Schofield Bible, it's page 430, if that helps you, 430. And as I said, I'm going to read the first six verses you follow along. Then spake Elisha unto the woman, whose son he had restored to life, saying, Arise and go thou in thine household, and sojourn wheresoever thou canst sojourn. For the Lord hath called for a famine, and it shall also come upon the land seven years. And the woman arose. and did after the saying of the man of God. And she went with her household and sojourned into the land of the Philistines seven years. And it came to pass at the end of seven at seven at the seven years' end that the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines, and she went forth to cry unto the king for her house and for her land. And the king talked with Gehazi, the servant of the man of God. He's back. Saying, Tell me, I pray thee, all the great things that Elisha hath done. And it came to pass as he was telling the king how he had restored a dead body to life, that behold, the woman whose son he had restored to life cried to the king for her house and for her land. And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is that woman, and this is her son, whom Elijah restored to life. And when the king asked the woman, she told him. So the king appointed unto her a certain officer, saying, Restore all that was hers. And all the fruits of the field since the day that she left the land, even until now. I've entitled the message this: God honors faith. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we're grateful for the service, Lord. The singing of fellowship testimony has been a blessing. Now, Lord, as we look in your word, I ask God that you would help us. to glean from this passage truths for our lives, that we can be better Christians, that we can be more fruitful in our service, more effective in our witness. The joy of the Lord would abound in our hearts as we yield our wills to yours. God, I present my body anew. Fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit and speak through me. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. There are points, what I call crises points, in our lives where we are called upon to make life-changing decisions Where we can go one way and the rest of our life will be affected by that, or we can go another way, and our life will be affected, the rest of our lives will be affected by that. But nevertheless, we have to make a decision For instance, for me, one of those was when I felt God was calling me to go off to Bible college. I knew in my heart, there was no doubt from scriptures and studying scriptures and praying and my devotion time, there was no doubt that God wanted me to go off to Bible college. I knew that as sure as I knew anything. Now, not everybody else knew that. I had some family members, not immediate, but some family members that were concerned about and approached me. And one spoke very, uh I want to use the word sharply to me, telling me I was basically a fool for going off to Bible college. I'd never make anything out of my life, I'd never be able to take care of a family. and basically uh told me the way they saw it. Now I knew God had wanted me to do this. I knew it. One of the young men that helped disciple me when I was saved. And this was just shortly after I got saved. One of those young men that discipled me came over to my house. My dad and I were living together at that point. And um We had just moved to another town, and uh he came over to the house. My dad was out in the road, he was at my house till one o'clock in the morning telling me I was making a tragic mistake by going off to Bible college I listened to what he had to say. I tried to explain to him my reasoning, and it finally boiled down to I knew that what that was what God wanted me to do. I had scripture for it, I knew it. Now I had a decision to make. Was I going to do what I knew God wanted me to do? Or was I going to do what others suggested that I should do? Whatever decision I made, the rest of my life would be affected by it. And God brings us to, and I don't think there's very many in our lives, but He brings us to these points sometimes where we're at a crossroad. And am I going to trust and obey God and do what he says, or am I going to keep things in my hands? We spoke about it this morning somewhat Another time for me was when this church called myself and my family to come be pastor. September of 1993, we came. Now, that was different in the sense I didn't have anybody trying to talk me out of it. But leading up to that point, we had candidated in a number of churches and several over in West Virginia. And a number of those churches had asked us to come and be the pastor, but I knew in my heart from studying scripture, this is before I ever heard of Mount Lake, I knew in my heart it wasn't God's will I knew it. I'd go there, I'd preach, I'd leave there. This is not where it's supposed to be. I studied scriptures. God gave me no peace about it. One church in particular down in Charleston They pressed me and pressed me and pressed me. They wanted me to come. The one guy's brother was the president of a pretty large Bible college, independent fundamental Bible college. He called me up the following week and wanted to know why I wouldn't take the church I said, I'm sorry, I just don't have any peace about it. I don't believe it's the Lord's will. I can't find anything from Scripture. I can't get any direction. And then of course through a series of events, we ended up here, candidate, the church gave the call. I knew when I left this property that Sunday that next Monday morning, Dr. Williams took me to Cumberland Flat, I knew this is where God wanted me. I knew that. Crisis points where we make a decision, and that decision literally affects the rest of our lives. We come to those occasionally Now here in this passage of Scripture, lo and behold, look who shows up? The Shunammite woman. Remember her? We met her a few chapters earlier when she built the little prophets chamber for Elisha when he's going back and forth. You remember her And um he offered her uh to speak on her behalf before the king and for her kindness to him. She goes, no, no, I'm satisfied. I got the family. Yeah picks up the fact she doesn't have children, so Elisha prays for her and she conceives and she has a miraculous child Well, time goes by, that child gets sick and dies. Elisha comes, restores the child back to life. Now here she is again. I believe the Shunammite woman, at least in my mind, and I have a feeling in many people, she is one of the most admired women in the Bible. This woman is something else A woman of faith. And I want us to notice, first of all, and I'm going to try and knock these down pretty quickly, but I want us to notice the extreme trials that this Shunammite woman faced. Now remember, Jehoram is the king of Israel. He's the king. He's only been, he only reigns for twelve years. And as far as kings goes, that's not a long time. Seven of those twelve years are famine. Then he has, we don't even know how many years of war going on. We pick up a little bit here with the Syrian and Ben Hadad and all that nonsense and the siege of the city for a year. I mean his twelve-year reign as king was twelve years of havoc Of need, of desperation, of famine, warfare, and chaos. And it was all because Jehoram's disobedience to God Seemed like Israel had problems with these kings. And the people of the country paid dearly for it. Homes suffered. An entire nation was in shambles. If we could go back in time, I was trying to do this as I was preparing, go back in time and just picture what the landscape looked like when Jehoram's reign of Israel ended. I see fields that are absolutely barren. There are, if there's any trees at all, they're very few and far between. They have devastated, warfare has devastated. Famine has devastated. What didn't die by the famine was cut down and used for fuel. I see thousands and thousands of tombstones that were not there when he began to reign This country is devastated because of the ungodliness of their king. And he brought God's wrath on it. Buildings are destroyed. There is poverty. There is disease. Now it's interesting, and I guess we would say it said, God's people are not exempt from the trials of life. We need to understand that I think it's important for us as Sunday school teachers and Christians as we disciple people and try and help new believers grow in their faith. is do not get any illusion to our new uh to new believers that now that you're safe, everything's going to be fine, all your bills will be paid, you'll never get sick, everything's going to be wonderful. It is not that way. When a person gets saved, they still live in a sinful fallen world. We still live in a sinful fallen body. We still have to deal with the issues of life. And I hate to say it, we have to deal with the consequences. of ungodly people's decisions. If a town decides they're going to bring a new s bar into a town or going to uh loosen up the liquor laws, the Christians pay for it. Huh? We've got to suffer the consequences just like everybody else does. We've got to deal with drunk drivers. We've got to deal with broken homes. We've got to deal with families that are devastated by liquor. And by the way, liquor devastates families. I like one of the preachers. I don't know, it's Billy Sunday or I think it might have been R. G. Lee was preaching a message. It was about something real nice and sweet. In the middle of the message, he started railing on liquor. And just gone off about how liquors of the devil and just gone on and on and on about it. And afterward, one of the pastors of the church said, What in the world? Why did you go off on liquor in the middle message? He said there was a young man down front, licked his lips, looked like he might think liquor's okay. I want to make sure he knew where we're at on that thing God's people are not exempt from the trials of life and often have to deal with the consequences of the world's disobedience to God. And so that's what this Shunammite woman is facing She's living in a nation that has been devastated because of an ungodly leader. The land is devastated, the economy is devastated. Thousands, perhaps hundreds of thousands, have died Because of this ungodly, disobedient man. Now, all people face trials Godly people face trials and ungodly people face trials. The difference between being a godly Christian and being a worldling If I can use that term, is not that one faces trials and one doesn't. We all face the same trials many times. The difference is in how we deal with the trials. A heartache comes, a setback comes, a loss comes, sickness comes. The ungodly respond in a fleshly manner. They get angry, they get bitter, they lash out. They don't trust God. They take things into their own hands. Whereas the godly, there's a greater peace in their heart. And in the midst of the trial and the heartache and the disappointment and the hurt, in the midst of the injustice being done, the godly Christian, the one that has faith in God, there's a peace there. And there's a settled trust in God that everything's going to be okay. God is in control. And so the difference between the godly and the ungodly, the difference between those who trust God and those who don't trust is not in whether they face trials or not, but in how they deal with those trials. And I think there's a second difference also, not just in how the trial is dealt with, but also in what the trial produces in that life. You have one person that has a tendency to not trust God. Maybe they're a Christian. They have a tendency to not trust God. They have a tendency to take things into their own hands. They have a tendency to react fleshly. When it's all said and done, many times that one will come out of the trial very bitter. They're holding on to that. That hurt, that disappointment, that failure, however you want to describe it, takes root in the heart And many times bitterness will spring up out of that, a hardness, an inability to function with others because I have become so self-focused because of what this trial has produced in my life. Whereas you have the godly man or the godly one, one that trusts God through that, that has faith in God, that follows the biblical principles for dealing with it. And when the trial is said and done, James tells us that person comes through much more mature in their faith, much more stronger in their confidence in God's power Much more mature in their understanding of how God deals with people, and they come out a better Christian for the trial, whereas the other comes out a bitter person for the trial. So the Shunamite woman's here. And I use the title, this first point, I have made it to be the extreme trials this woman faced. Now think about it. Here is a famine again. This Shunammite, though she was never mentioned. Went through the horrible siege that the Syrian army had put on Samaria. She had to deal with that just like everybody else. Remember the calves and the ox head and all that. She had to deal with that just like everybody else, though she was godly, though she was a woman to be admired, a woman of faith They come out of that experience at the end of 2 Kings chapter 7. You enter 2 Kings 8, and lo and behold, famine's right back again. It is one thing on top of another. Now she had proven herself faithful. She had proven herself faithful in the past, and God is assuring her here that He would not forsake her in the future. Now look with me if you would here at our Bibles. Then spake, look at verse 1. Everybody okay? Everybody still hanging in there? Alright, amen. I don't want anybody to fall asleep Then spake Elisha unto the woman, whose son he had restored to life. Look at this. Arise and go thou in thine household, and sojourn whithersoever thou canst sojourn, for the Lord hath called a famine. Question, look at that carefully. Now we've not given all the details, but just from what we're told, who all is Elisha telling about this coming famine? Who's he telling? This woman. This, as far as I can figure out here, as far as I can see, this is not a public announcement. He's not going to the king and saying this. He's not getting up to the watchman's tower and announcing to the city and to the nation, hey, a famine's coming! No, he's coming down to an individual. As far as we know, he's not told anyone else about this. They just come out of a horrendous famine that was produced by the siege of Syria. So he comes to the Shunamite woman and James kind of reminds me of a Tsunamite woman a little bit. And um not really. And so he tells her, hey, there's a famine coming. Get your son. Get out of the country. It's going to be bad. Seven years. Now why would he do that? You know what I believe? As I said, this woman, not this woman Had proven herself faithful to the Lord. And God was going to honor her faith by giving her a heads up and make sure she was okay. Listen, I'm telling you tonight, I am absolutely convinced of this from scripture and from my own experience, God honors faith. If you will trust God, listen. If you will trust God, do what God says. You just trust Him. You say, yeah, but I don't see. Hold it. You just trust him. Yeah, but if I do that, then I'm going to miss out on this and I won't have that and hold it. If you will trust God, God will honor that faith. You say, preacher, if I do what God says, if I do what the Bible says in every area that the Bible deals with, then you know the kids this and marriage that and job this and all, hold it That's not faith. That's leaning on your own understanding. Trust God, and though the famines will come. God will honor that faith. That's taught through Scripture. And so God sends Elisha to this woman who we haven't heard from for a couple chapters. But nevertheless, was a woman of great faith. And God says to her, There's a famine coming. Now I got thinking about this Shunammite woman. She'd been through it. Now, if you've been in on the series, a message on Elisha, you'll remember that earlier when we were first introduced to her, she was an adult woman, perhaps middle-aged, we may want to suggest. I'll be honest with you, I have no idea what middle age is. It keeps getting older as I get older. So whatever it was, she had been an adult for a period of time, and she had been barren. No children. Now, in that society, that was a stigma in many ways. How many folks remember the story of Hannah? Remember Hannah? Now Elk was it was it Elkanah? Is that was her husband? Um is that Elkanah, is that correct? I don't study my Bible, I just ask church members what stuff is. Um if that's what it was, Mr. Hannah. Um remember he made a stupid mistake and he married two women. Isn't that dumb? And Hannah was barren, and I can't remember his other wife's name. She was not. And what did the unbarren woman do to Hannah? She mocked her, she tormented her. You know why? To be barren in that day and age was a stigma Now this Shunammite woman was an adult woman when we're introduced to her. There's no children. In fact, it's such a stigma that Gehazi picks it up and says, you know, she's grown. She's at a point where she should have had a number of children by now. She don't have any kids. Nevertheless, in spite of the fact that God had allowed her to be barren for apparently a number of years, she never was bitter at God. She was completely satisfied. And when in fact when Elisha said, you know, listen, I can do something for you, she goes, no, I'm happy with my family. I tell you, it takes great faith to be content. It takes great faith to be content when I'm really in need. So she lived these years barren. Then God finally gives her a miraculous child, even though she didn't ask for it. God gives her a child miraculously, and she loves that child like any mother would love her child, and then God lets the child die. And if you remember, she struggled with that. And she saved, came to Elisha. She says, I didn't ask for this. I didn't ask to have a child at this point in my life, and you prayed, and I had one, and now it's taken. I'll tell you what, if anybody who Would have had humanly speaking an opportunity to become bitter. They're piling up for her. Then we read on a little bit, and lo and behold, she shows up in chapter 8 here again, and guess And did you notice who is not mentioned? She is mentioned, her son is mentioned, who God restored to life, but somebody else is not mentioned. Who is that? Her husband. Previously, he was part of the story. Now he's mysteriously gone. Elisha does not come to her husband and say, hey, trouble's coming, you need to pack up. He comes to her. You know what the implication here is? He's dead. He's off the scene. If this woman is going to survive this famine, she's going to have to do it. There's no husband there to provide for her. There's no husband there to protect her. There's no husband there to help her raise her child and make sure that boy has his needs met in the midst of the famine. She is alone Baron, stigmatized, child is given, unexpectedly taken Then her husband dies, and I'll tell you, for a woman to be a widow in that day and age was a scary thing. There was no social network to help her. There was no aid. There was no government welfare or anything like that. I mean, a woman, when her husband died, she was scared to death. In fact, the law of God gave special commanded that God's people would be specially gracious to widows and fatherless. Nevertheless, there's not one hint of bitterness. She has been through it. Now Widowed, raising a child, perhaps later in life with a young child, no husband. Now Elisha comes, God through Elisha says you've got to leave your house, abandon your possessions. Go live not only in a strange land, but the land of your enemies. And somehow adapt, find a place to live, somehow find a means of income, somehow learn to live in a strange land with people who hate your people. Man alive, you talk about trials. You talk about you think you've got it bad. So man, we don't have air conditioning. Good night. This woman didn't even have a place to live. By the way, can I get something off my chest? This is completely unrelated to anything Now I'm grateful for air conditioning, but how in the world did we survive 25 years ago before everything had air conditioning? How did we live? Somebody said, my air conditioner doesn't work. I said, what? You can't roll your windows down? That that's what I thought that was funnier than that, but anyway, that was let's get stick to the notes, preacher. This woman's been through it God intends for our trials to be just that: trials. God intends for our faith to be tried God will test our faith in Him. God wants to crush any and every love or attraction That will interfere with my love for God. There is not one person in the Bible or I believe in history that has been a person of great faith, whether it was a man, a woman, a teenager, adult. There has not been one person, you cannot find one person in the Bible, and I don't believe you can find one person in history who has been used of God and blessed of God in great ways that has not had their trial test, their faith tried in great ways. So listen, you want to see great blessings, you better be prepared for great trials. And if you want to live your life without any heartache or without any hurt, without any disappointment without any injustices, and you want to somehow shelter yourself from the realities and the harshness of life, then you better plan on having a very weak, shallow, anemic faith Because it is through trials that our faith grows. It is through trials that our faith in God is tested. Remember Abraham and Isaac. How many people would agree with me? Abraham was a great man. Amen. He's called the father of the faithful. God used him to establish the nation of Israel and set a pattern of faith in God. But you know, before he could ever do that, God had to test Abraham's faith to its limit. I want you to sacrifice your son whom you love. If God's going to do something great to Abraham, God's got to test him to the limit. Nothing can stand between Abraham and God, not even his own son. So the Shunammite woman is an amazing woman. She's a woman to be admired. She's a woman to be emulated. But she's a woman that went through extreme trials. Now, second of all, and quickly I notice not only extreme trials, but I notice her extraordinary faith. Look at verse 2. And the woman arose and did after the saying of the man of God. And she went with her household and sir sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years. I see no hesitation. I see no argument. She doesn't say, yeah, but wait a minute, I'm a widow. Where am I going to go? What am I going to do with my property? I got a son. Elisha says, this is what you need to do. She goes, okay, I'll do it. No questions asked, no arguments offered. Pack up and go. That, my friend, is faith. It is impossible to have faith in God without obeying God. Don't tell me how much you're trusting God if you're not obeying what God says. Huh? Somebody talk to me now. She packed up and left all on simply the word of God through Elisha. Now stop and think about it. Is everybody still with me? Everybody doing okay? I can't tell where you're at here tonight. Think about this with me Elisha shows up at her door, unannounced, uninvited. Hey, Shinamite woman, or whatever her name was. Yeah, hi Elisha. How you been? Okay, listen. God said there's a famine coming. God's bringing a famine. It's going to last seven years. Your only hope is to get out of the country. Pack up. Get out of here. Go to the Philistines. Stay there for seven years. Huh? Yeah, that's it. Okay. Now wait a minute. She looked out her door. Now, what had just happened previously? The end of chapter seven. Come on, I'm going to get you guys awake here. What happened? Chapter 7. Yeah, they found food. Remember the Syrian army heard a sound, yikes, the enemy's coming shhh. And they left everything there? I mean there's prosperity. She goes down to Walmart and the st and everything's rolled back. You know, I mean it's this is the best deals they've ever had And people have got more food now than they've had since uh uh uh Jehoram has been king. And he comes and says, There's going to be a famine? Look around. Walmart's packed! Food lands packed! I mean food land has prices are cheap as Walmart are cheaper. I mean look at this. I better watch out. Um anyway By all outward appearances, there was no famine coming. But God said there was a famine coming, and she believed God. Let me give you a little insight on faith. Faith, we do not live, we do not, faith does not walk by sight It walks by the word of God. Faith, a Christian who has faith in God, does not operate by the way things appear, but operates by the way God says are so. And if God says there's a famine coming, the stores' shelves can be as packed as full as they want to be, there's famine coming. And she She responded to the word of God not to way things appeared. There was no physical evidence at this point. And she had to choose: am I going to trust God or not? Whatever choice she was going to make. She was gonna have to make it herself. Now look at verse one again. And I'm winding down here. Trust me He says to her, Arise, go thou and thine household and sojourn wheresoever thou canst. Now I underlined that next phrase in my Bible. Look what it says: For the Lord hath called for a famine. Ah, this one's different. This famine isn't necessarily the result of bad military decisions. God's bringing this one for his own reasons. We can speculate on that. But this is what I'm trying to say. This was all under God's control. She, I like this statement. If you like to write quotes down, I like this one. Her conviction that God is good And only does that which is best enabled her to trust God. Now think about that. No visible evidence, no physical evidence of any famine. But God come and says there's a famine coming. You need to get out of this country to a strange land, abandon your house and your possessions, go to a strange land and live there because the famine's coming. Her reasoning was this, I suggest to you. Listen, God is good. I don't see it. But God is good, and God wants what's best for me, so I'm going to do what God says. And I will obey God and go to that country. You know why we choose not to obey God? Because we're not convinced that what God says is best. Am I right or wrong? Y'all just looking at me like sheep at a new gate or wha what's that thing called? Like a we're not convinced If God says, I don't want you to do that, and I say, well, I'm going to do it anyway, you know what my conviction is? God doesn't know what's best for me, I do. God didn't care about me. Why would He not let me do what I wanted? The fact of the matter is, God does know what's best. And she had that conviction and she was able to trust God. Last of all, and I am with this, in verse 3 through 6, we combine together, I see God, and I put it this way, God's exclusive intervention. Now, Bible scholars tell us that the leadership in Israel had become so corrupt that when someone would go to court And had a judgment made. The judgment was not based on law, but the judgment was based on what that judge felt would be the best outcome for himself. And so somebody would come with a problem. For instance, this Shunammite woman shows up, she gets back from the country seven years later, and she abandoned her house. There's no provisions made or anything. She abandons her house And lo and behold, somebody had moved into her house. Total strangers had taken over her land and had been farming her land and living in her house. Now she comes to the government to find justice. And the government's as corrupt as it can be. And again, as I said, the Bible scholars said that the decisions in court, the legal decisions, weren't made based on law. But by the what the judge figured, well what would be what would be most profitable for me? How will I determine and that and then they'll make judgment in that light of that, not by what the law said And so for her to appeal to the government for justice was pretty hopeless, especially somebody like Jehoram, who's a crook to begin with. And so she does the only thing, and the only reasonable thing to do is she appeals to the government. Someone had moved into her home. In fact, the one commentary I was reading, they suggested it may have been some of Jehoram's people that had moved into her home. What's she going to do? It's interesting. Some strange things began to happen. Now, I'm not suggesting that Jehoram got religion. Well, maybe I am. He got religion, but he didn't get right with God. And look with me, if you will, at verse number four. And the king talked with Gehazi, the servant of the man of God. Now, what do we know about Gehazi? What's the last thing where Gehazi was mentioned? What was the last thing we read that happened to him? He had received the leprosy that Naaman had because he lied, tried to steal some stuff from him, and so he was a leper. Remember in the siege we suggested that the four lepers may have been Gehazi and his three sons? How many people remember that? So Gehazi is a leper. And the king gets religion in its shallowest form. And he's not interested in Jehovah. He's not interested in the true God. He wants to know about Elisha. And he's very curious about this man of God. And so he begins asking around. Ah, I want to know. Somebody tell me about Elisha, I keep hearing about him. He's doing all these incredible things. I want to know what's up with this guy. So somebody says, well, hey, you know, outside the city is Gehazi. He was his servant for years He's a leper, but he knows more about Elisha than anybody else. He says, bring him in. And so it doesn't tell us this, but I would imagine That Gehazi's over there and the king's over here. That's the way I'd do it if he was a leper, right? And so Hazi shows up, he says, listen, tell me about your kid, about your man of God that you served. He says, yeah, it's credible. And he starts telling them all the great things that Elisha has done. Now, question: Was Elisha doing them or was God doing that through Elisha? They still don't see God. All he sees is a man. Nevertheless, God is in control. I love this story. He says, tell me pray thee all the great things. And it came to pass as he was telling the king. He got to the point in Elisha's ministry. Think about this. And you know, there was this woman that built us a nice place, and she didn't have kids, and Elisha offered her, and I told Elisha, I can hear Gehazi building up his part and everything, can't you? Oh, and I told I saw she didn't have any kids. It reminds me of Barney Fife, you know. And uh I uh I saw she'd have any kids, so I said to Elisha, you need to do something. And Elisha gives her a kid, and he's telling the story. And the king is caught up in it. And the baby dies. She comes running back to us. And I was going to take the rod down. In fact, I did, but it didn't help a whole lot. But Elisha comes back, he lays on the baby, and the child comes back to life. And right as he is saying that, the king is caught up in this. I mean, he is just enthralled. You're kidding. He laid on it. The child sneezed seven times. That's incredible And Gehazi looks up with his leprous eyes, and there in the court, lo and behold, is that woman and her kid. Now it's years later, the child's grown. No doubt she's aged. She's been through it. But he recognizes her. I can't believe this. There in the court is the woman. She's the one. That's the kid. You gotta be kidding me. Now the world would call that a coincidence, right? Boy, what a coincidence that she'd show up right at that time. We understand it as providence. You say, what in the world is providence? Providence is this. It is an act of God by which he preserves his people and is active in their lives. In other words, if this woman would have showed up two hours earlier, Gehazi would not have been there. The king would not have heard this story. She'd just be another woman, and no doubt he would have sought to take advantage of her some way to his gain. If she would have showed up two hours later Gehazi, no doubt, would have been done his stories, gone, and the king would have no reason to suspect that this was the woman who Gehazi was talking about. But God in his providence Brings that woman to the right place at the very right time so he can accomplish his will. We have got to stop thinking the way the world thinks and see things as coincidences and start seeing God's hand in our lives It's not a coincidence you're in church tonight with this message. Somebody says, this is the most boring message I've ever heard in my life. You know what? It's not a coincidence that you're hearing it right now. Amen? How many folks ever listen to our radio station? Now I'm trying to illustrate to you in a very real-life way how God works. Now I'm just curious on this, and I don't know what the response is going to be. This may blow up in my face. But how many of ever happened to just turn that thing on and something being said in a message or a song or whatever was dealing with something that's going on in your life at that very moment? Is there anybody here to give testimony to that? Look at that Say, boy, what a coincidence. No, I say, what a God. This woman had honored the Lord with obedience and faith. Everything God told her to do, she did. She went over and above in her curing concern for the man of God, and God was going to honor that woman's faith, even if it was simply an uh a quote unquote coincidental moment when she walked in on that. God was in control. God honored her faith. And look at the last part of verse 6. When the king asked the woman, she told him. The king says, Is that right? Yeah, that's right. What he said is true. I just heard him tell you. So the king appointed under a certain officer. Now look what he tells the officer to do. Now I guarantee you that he wouldn't have done this under any other circumstances Restored all that was her. Get her house back. Her barn. Or property. You run those people off. You get her property back. But he doesn't stop there. And all the fruits of the field since the day she left the land, even until now. How many years was that? Seven years worth of crops restored under her How many people would like to hear the government tell your boss to give you seven years income at one shot? I want you to give him seven years. For some y'all it would be fifty, sixty bucks almost. God not only provided her property back, but God put her in good shape for years to come. I'm telling you, God takes care of us. Now, someday we're going to stand before the King of Kings. We're going to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ. And even though Jehoram had no clue what God was doing for this woman At that point, our King will honor our faith. And the Bible says he has crowns that he'll give to those who trusted him and obeyed him Now here we are in this life. We can make the decision. We can choose to obey what God says or disobey. If we choose to disobey, our life will produce one thing, and we'll stand before the king, and it will be judged. Or we can obey God and our life will go this way, and we'll stand before the king, and he honors that. faith. God honors faith. Years ago, Napoleon was working across Australia. Austria. I don't think Napoleon ever made it to Australia. He was working across Austria. And he came across a little town of Feldkrieg, Austria. That's just a little city in the valley in the valley there between the mountains. And they got word that Napoleon was just outside the city, on the mountains around them, surrounded. He's ready to come in and destroy them. So they brought the city leaders together, just a little city. They brought the city leaders together and said, what are we going to do? Shall we surrender? Should we take up arms and try and fight him? I mean, good night. This is Napoleon. He has thousands of soldiers. We're just a little city untrained. What do we do? The pastor stood up. He said, tomorrow is Sunday. Happened to be Easter. He says, we know that we are not strong enough to defend ourselves against Napoleon. But we also know that God is well able to defend us against Napoleon. He says, let's just put ourselves in God's hand. Tomorrow morning we will get up and we will go to church like we do on Sundays. We will ring the bells, we will sing the hymns, and we will preach the word. The town thought that's as good a plan as any. So the next morning, as Napoleon in the mountains was about to attack that little city, suddenly the Sunday morning Easter bells began to ring. And they rang so loud, and he saw the people moving in the city, going to their churches, and Napoleon was convinced. That the ringing of the bells meant there was another army coming in to help them. And he packed his bags and left and said, It's not worth in losing men. A little town like that is not worth losing any men over I just let him go and move on. Say, boy, what a coincidence. They rang those bells the very morning he was going to come. I'm telling you, it's not a coincidence. God is working in our lives, whether we see it or not. God is working in our lives. He's trying to accomplish his will. And if we'll trust him and obey him, he'll honor that. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you'd somehow use this message to help us trust you, dear God Help us have faith in you, and as we go through the week, see your hand moving and working and understand that you have a good will you you're good and you love us, you want what's best for us, if we'll just trust you, even when it doesn't make sense We'll trust you. With our heads bow and eyes close, I wonder how many folks say preacher up