The floor cemented on Friday is what they're talking about. So uh we probably won't be able to use it for our Fourth of July. I was kind of hoping we'd be able to, but um We'll definitely be able to use it for Bible time. We're putting all the teens out there in the building as far away from the church as possible. No, I'm just teasing. But um Yeah, you everybody can come Friday and put your handprints in it. But um so we'll get the cement poured Friday, hopefully get the stairs and everything, the final touches done next week. And uh and then then that part's done. And uh praise the Lord for it. As I said, we'll be able to use it for Bible Time Week, and then uh Brother Ed and a bunch of men are going to put electricity in And that will be done probably by the year 2020. And um uh so no, I'm sure they'll get right to it and it'll Be done immediately. Alright, Zechariah chapter 10, verse number 9. Notice what the Bible says. I will show them among the people, and they shall remember me in far countries, and they shall live with their children and turn again. I will bring them again also out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria, and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon, and place shall not be found for them. And he shall pass through the sea with affliction, and shall smite the waves in the sea, and all the deeps of the river shall dry up. And the pride of Assyria shall be brought down, and the scepter of Egypt shall depart away. And I will strengthen them in the Lord. And they shall walk up and down in his name, saith the Lord. I want to use for the title of the message tonight that first phrase, I will sow them among the people, God sowing his people Unusual term, but uh I think you'll see what the Bible teaches here. Let's pray together. Quit throwing stuff, Carolyn. And uh That was big. Let's pray. Father in heaven, uh bless our time in your word now and uh I pray you'd use this somewhat obscure book of the Bible in an obscure portion of this book, but nevertheless it's your inspired words. So we ask God that you would use these passages to deal with our hearts. Help us to grow. Lord, maybe uh in some of our hearts where where is it uh tendency to wander and so I pray that tonight you'd bring us back close to you. Lord, perhaps some of us have some challenges. I ask you'd give us victory And Lord, maybe some of us are closer to you than we've ever been before. I pray that tonight we'd be able to take some steps forward in our Christian life. I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body anew. Fill me. I plead with you. Now if you've been studying the Bible any length of time or you've been reading the Bible, you will notice that God will often use God will often illustrate different aspects of the Christian life and He will use areas of farming. to illustrate different areas, aspects of the Christian life. For instance, if you'll look with me at verse number eight, now he's dealing with The children of Israel here, a future time for the children of Israel. And if you've been in on these studies, you know where we're at with that. And but he's using an illustration from the life of a shepherd, believe it or not, in verse number eight. Now this isn't part of our text, but I want to illustrate what I'm saying here. Look at verse 8. I will fiss for them and gather them. Now, for you and I in 2010, Garrett County, Maryland, that phrase doesn't have a whole lot of significance. What do you think of when you hear somebody hissing for something? What do you think of? Eating of a snake, right? I think the monitors are a little strong, Dave. I'm getting feedback in my ear. Um it may just be the continual ringing that's always there. When you hear the word hiss, you think of a snake. Now, when a snake is hissing, what is it trying to do to you? You're walking down a path, all of a sudden you see a snake, and it starts hissing. It's trying to get you to what? Yeah, it's trying to get you to go away. That is the exact opposite of what God is saying here. When he says, I will hiss for them, he's not saying I want to run Israel away, my people away. That word hiss there in this day and age, as what it was written, was something a shepherd would do. And he would have, at first I described it as a flute, but not really a flute, more like a whistle. And he would use that flute-type whistle. He would blow on that, and it would make what they called a hissing sound, or we might call it a whistling sound. And the sheep were accustomed to hearing that, and when they heard that sound, that meant, hey y'all, we need to get together. We need to go to where the shepherd was. I was reading one commentator and he says he wanted to illustrate what was being spoken about here, and this was back in the 1800s. He said he was with another uh Christian man and they were camping in Lebanon And uh they had, while they were there and uh this shepherd came by and they began talking about different things, and while they spoke the sheep scattered out everywhere, and by the time they were done speaking, he said there was no sheep in sight. And so he got out his little flute type whistle, whatever they called it, and he blew them there and made this whistling, hissing type sound. And lo and behold, sheep out of nowhere started coming around. They all gathered around, and once he was sure they were all there, then he went off down the meadow or whatever, and all the sheep were with him And so God is making reference to an actual farming situation when he says, I will hiss for them and gather them. Just like a shepherd blows that Whistle, I guess you could call it a hissle, and um draws all the sheep in God is going to do that with Israel. They're scattered, and the day's going to come when God's going to gather all the children of Israel back together again. Now we understand that's a millennial This whole passage is talking about Israel's ultimate future during a millennial reign. Now, why does God do this? Look at verse 8. For I will hiss for them and gather them. Why? For I have redeemed them. Now, I was really tempted to just prepare the whole message on verse 8, but I really don't want to, but I do want to touch on this. The reason God, in the end days, brings all of the nation of Israel back together again is because he has redeemed them. Now, what do you think of when you think of the term redemption? We think of what? Purchase back, or we think of, in a more general term, just our salvation. Right? Redeemed, how I love to reclaim it, talking about our salvation. So it tells us several things here. Israel's security is ultimately in the hands of God. The fact that Israel is going to exist as a nation. Even though for thousands of years they were not did not exist as a nation. Now since 1948 they've come back, and uh God is in a process, I think, of bringing things towards the the the final head there at Battle of Armageddon. But the reason God ha is the reason Israel's existence is guaranteed their eternal a continual existence guaranteed is because God has redeemed them. Their security is in the hands of God. Now the church is not spiritual Israel. We're a completely separate entity, but nevertheless, like Israel Our security, our salvation, once we're saved, is no longer in our hands. It's in God's hands And we are secure. And just as Israel as a nation will one day ultimately inherit the promised land or millennial reign We can be just as confident and sure that one day we will be with the Lord in heaven because He has redeemed us. Our spiritual security, our spiritual future, our destiny is in God's hands once we trust Christ as Savior. Which leads me to a second statement. All of God's dealings with his people, whether it be the Old Testament people of Israel or the New Testament local church. All of his dealings with his people are based upon and begin with their redemption. Their salvation. Now, this is what I'm trying to say. A person can talk about God, but unless they're saved, they do not have God. Right? A person can sing about God. But unless they've been born again through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, unless they've genuinely been born again. They are without God. Hey, let me take it another step farther. A person can pray to God. But if they don't have salvation, they are without God. Ephesians chapter 2 says they are without God and without hope in the world. People who are unsaved. So all of God's dealings with Israel is based upon that one statement where he says, I have redeemed them. Salvation. And so we have God in verse number eight making a very clear illustration of a spiritual truth. uh through making reference to a shepherd calling his sheep in. Now, that's not the message. Let me get to verse 9 through 10, 9 through 12, and finish out this chapter. Number one, notice And this ties in with our title. Notice that God planted Israel. Look with me at verse 9. And I will sow them among the people. Now, when the Bible uses the term sewing something, there's two aspects to it. One is the term we would use, and it's actually a radio term Uh uh uh the one idea is to broadcast seed. Now what does it mean to broadcast something? Yeah, just to sling it out there around. You're casting it broadly. Alright? You're starting out. Just like a radio is broadcasting and it's just going out everywhere. And that's one idea of sowing in this farm analogy is taking the seed and getting out there in a field and just slinging it all around. Just throwing it everywhere, broadcasting it, sowing the seed. And we find that God did that with the nation of Israel Now they had one captivity. Zechariah is dealing with the, they've returned from captivity. And they're in the land for a period of time. But something happened, and God scattered Israel. Very thoroughly for a long, long time, in fact, until 1948, they were broadcast Throughout the whole world, in all the nations of the world, the Jews were scattered. What happened that brought about that scattering of the Jews? I want to see if you know your Jewish history. One event took place. Jesus came into his own, but his own what? Received him not. The Jews rejected their Messiah. They crucified him, buried him. Of course, he rose again the third day. Ten days later he ascended. But in A. D. seventy, God scattered Israel with a scattering that was not recovered until nearly 2,000 years later. It was when Rome entered Jerusalem And absolutely slaughtered the Jews and pushed them out. And from that point until 1948, Israel has been scattered throughout the whole world, just like you would scatter seed. AD 70 is a very significant date in the history of Israel. When Rome ran in there, they rejected their Messiah. In fact It is so significant that some old-time commentators will say that the book of Revelation was fulfilled. In AD in AD 70 when Rome came in, and they'll say the devastation, the apocalypse of of uh ro of uh revelation, it was so devastating Israel, wiped them out so much, scattered them so bad that that was a fulfillment of Revelation chapter 7. Well, there's a lot of problems with that, and that's another message. But nevertheless, God scattered Israel. So one of the aspects, when he says, I will sow them among the people I think it's making a reference to that event when God's just sowing them out. But there is a second aspect to the idea of sowing seed. One is just broadcasting it, sling it out everywhere. Some of it lands on hard ground, some of it on stony ground, some of it on weeds, thorny ground, some of it on good ground. But there's another aspect That is what you do when you plant, say, corn or your garden. You don't go out in your garden and just take tomato seeds and just sling them everywhere, right? You don't go out and get corn and just sling it everywhere. You go out and you very deliberately push it into the ground. And you place it in certain places, but the primary thing sewing it, in fact. And I want to be discreet here, but the word so there is also translated in other literature. The word that we have from our word so comes from also translated other places to impregnate To place into something. And so the idea here is when God says, I will show my people, he is saying, I am placing them in certain places unseen Not visible, but very much alive. All right When you Jesus said in John, and I want to say chapter 12, I think it's 1224, Jesus said, except a corn of wheat fall, what? Into the ground and die, it abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much. As far as the world was concerned, in A. D. 70, Israel died They were gone. They were scattered. They were out. There was nothing left of them. But as far as God was concerned, they weren't dead at all. God had put them underground. God had planted them. And they were underground just waiting for the proper time. when the when the times of the Gentiles, when the fullness of time comes, and I'm trying to think of the term Romans uses, where it was the right time, and then Israel will spring forth again as a nation. And so I believe when he says here, I will, and I will show them among the people, he's not just talking about scattering them, but he's saying, I'm going to put them under, they're not being dead, they're not dying, they're not ceasing to exist, they are being planted. And when the time is right, they are going to bring forth, we're going to bring them back, and they're going to bear fruit. In fact, let me ask you a question: when you put that little seed in the ground, does it just lay there? What what happens to it while it's underground? Alright, it's beginning to germinate, is that the thing? It's beginning to germinate. There's little roots going out, there's a little bud coming up out of there There's a whole lot going on that isn't seen to the naked eye. Whether you've got one or two or three of them, you don't see it happening. That was a weak attempt at humor there. But um You don't see it happening. And I tell you, these thousands of years while the Jews have been underground, so to speak They weren't just dead doing nothing. God's been working. In fact, God has used the Jews in many ways to bring tremendous inventions and discoveries to humanity. And so this whole time, these Jews have been there. God knew where they were, and He planted them. To me, in my mind, that is a fascinating way to view the Jewish dispersion. When they've just been scattered around the world, but they've been planted. They're very much alive. In fact, look what it says here. I will sow them among the people Now picture them being stuck underground throughout the whole world. They're not visibly active in things. And they shall remember me in far countries I got looking at that word remember and it has this idea. I like this. When it says that the children of Israel remembered the Lord while they're planted in these far countries The word remember means to be active in the mind. To be active in the mind. They didn't forget their God. Now, they Jews are, Romans tells us that they are they're veiled. They have a veil, or is it Corinthians? They are they're veiled. They don't see the truth of Christ. Nevertheless, they still have a pretty accurate concept of God the Father, of Jehovah. And they've remembered their God. God has stayed active In their minds, even though they've been out of the scene, they haven't had a temple, and they've not been on the world stage until 1948 As uh I think we're living in dramatic uh prophetic days, as Israel's being called back, and they're beginning to blossom, and the tribulation is set up in phenomenal ways Nevertheless, they have not forgotten God. Now I thought what's the application here? I think this is it for you and I. If a person is genuinely a child of God, Just like Israel is genuinely the people of God, as far as the Old Testament dispensation, if a person is genuinely a child of God, there is going to be chastisement if they are not living for God. Amen. Why was Israel scattered? Because they rejected the Messiah. They were God's people, but they disobeyed God. He sent the Messiah. They did not receive Him. They did not submit to Him. And God brought chastisement. He did not annihilate Israel. He put them underground. He is chastening them, preparing them for when the Lord comes back, when they will receive the Lord. You follow what I'm saying? Speaking about them as a nation. Now, those of us who have been born again, those of us who are genuinely saved, if we live in sin, If we choose to disobey God, not submit to His Lordship, just as the Jews fail to submit to the Lord Jesus Christ, if we fail as children of God, generally say fail to submit to the Lord, God will chasten us. Read Hebrews chapter twelve. If I'm a child of God, I claim to be a child of God, and there is no chastisement. If I can do my own thing. And go my own way and disregard the principles of Scripture. If I can disregard God's will for my life and just do my own thing, if I'm saved, God will chasten me One way or another. And if there is no chastisement, if I can just go on, and God is not in my mind, I'm not remembering the Lord, He's not dealing with me Then there's a good indicator that I've never been born again. There's a good indicator I am not a child of God. In fact We make references periodically. Hebrews chapter 12 uses an extremely strong word and says a person who claims to be saved But can do wrong, disregard God's will for their life, and have no chastisement. That person, God says, is a bastard. Their claim to be a child of God is illegitimate It's not genuine. And so God says, I've chastened Israel because they were my people. I've scattered them, I've planted them because they're my people, but in all of my chastisement, they never forgot me. I was dealing with their heart and mind. I was active in their minds. I put this down by way of activation. There will be chastisement, but on the part of the believer, there will be an awareness that God is chastening me. How many folks here when you were young you ever got a whooping by your parents? Anybody here? How many people didn't get one but you should have? Yeah. Let me ask you a question. Do you ever get um disciplined by your parents and you didn't know they were disciplining you with my mom? I was never and she'd always she'd always put us over the the kitchen chair. You know, you'd have to bend over the kitchen chair. She ha had a yardstick or a wooden paddle. It was always something out of the kitchen, butcher knife, something. And um you know I never was bent over that thing thinking, well I wonder if I did something wrong. I knew I did. And by the way, if a person is saved, when God's chasing them, they know it. Now listen, this is Wednesday night confession time. I've experienced the chastening hand of God. Now you all are looking at me real pious. You have too if you're saved. You know what, whenever God was chasing me, I never had to wonder, boy, I wonder if God's correcting me. I knew it like that I knew immediately God's dealing with me. I'm not right. Now a person, something's happening and they're saying, boy, I don't know, I wonder if God's corrected me or not. I would say that's a good indicator that person needs to be born again. God doesn't punish his children. God doesn't chasten his children without them knowing why he's doing it. A good parent doesn't slap their kid around, the kid doesn't know why they're getting hit around. In fact, a good parent doesn't slap their kid around Good parent doesn't discipline their child without the child not knowing what they did wrong. They've got to know or the discipline is meaningless And the same thing here, it is real. God made it very clear to them. And we will be aware when God is chastening us. We will know that that is what God is doing. Now, whether we Submit to that chastisement or not, it's up to us, our own free will. But I'm telling you, if we're saved, we'll know what it is. Um God and His Word will be active in a child of God's mind. It's going to be there. It doesn't go away. We are sealed with the Spirit until the day of redemption. And so once we're saved, we can be living in sin. We can be resisting God. But His Word is dealing in our heart. His Word is going there He's dealing with us. His memory is active in our minds. That's why you get a Christian out of the will of God a lot of times. Uh boy, they're just under all kinds of stress and nervous and all of this. You know why? Because God doesn't let them go. And by the way, that's a good thing. I'm glad God doesn't let us go. And so God planted them. Israel was sown They had rejected God, they had uh rejected the Messiah, and AD 70 God plant them through the whole world Europe, Russia, Far East, uh uh Jews ended up down in Africa, uh over in New York. I think I think I'm correct on this, there's more Jews living in New York than there are in Jerusalem Maybe in the whole nation of Israel. And they have been scattered and planted. Sometimes You look at you until 1948, now that changed a lot of this, 1948, until then, it looked like there was no future for Israel. Until then, it looked like they were done, God was finished with them. Just far as man looking at the nation of Israel was concerned But God wasn't done. Did you ever drive by a field, the whole thing's plowed, and uh the guy planted seed maybe a week or two before, or a few days before, and you see the little rose? But there's not a green little bud sticking up anywhere, and you look at that and say, good night, there's nothing in that field. But you'd be wrong, wouldn't you? You come back at a proper time, man, there's corn coming up all over that field. And the world looked at Israel and said, God's done with them. They're nothing. But God wasn't done with them. In 1948, their head popped up And it's beginning to grow and sprout and setting up for the tribulation period. You know, sometimes it looks like there's no hope for the future. Somebody looks at their future and they say, all I see is a barren field. But you know what? God has some seeds planted. And you might not see them. There might be some people that God is using in your life that, as far as you know, they're out of sight But God is using them, and God may just be about to start something new in your life. That's what I like. You know, the neat thing, I read something the other day, a couple weeks ago, and it just stirred my heart Every morning you get up, you don't know what God might do that day. You don't know what God has been working behind the scenes It looked like just a barren field, but God had some seeds planted, and maybe today just might be the day when what God has been working may suddenly blossom and produce itself, and today might be the day You never know. So I like this idea that God planted Israel. Not just scattered them, but boy, he put them in the ground. And they're germinating And things are coming together. And I think in the context of this, 1948, boy, that little bud broke through the ground, and we saw a nation of Israel returned. And they've been there for years, and great things are in the future. Let me give you a second thought real quick. Verse 10 and 11, I notice that God preserves Israel. Now this is kind of what this whole thing here is about. Verse 10 he makes reference to Egypt and Assyria. Do you know who Egypt and Assyria were? That was Israel's two most powerful and fierce enemies They had more problems with Egypt and Israel than any other nations. No, not Egypt and Israel, Egypt and Assyria than any other nation. Then he comes down to verse 11 and he talks, look what he says in verse 11. And they shall pass through the sea with affliction and shall smite the ways of the sea. I believe he's making reference here to the trials and afflictions that Israel goes through. Now they're going to overcome them. God's going to preserve them. Look what he says. I like this. He'll smite the waves in the sea. You may ever smack a wave and it goes away. I smack a wave, it smacks me back. But the idea here is God is going to preserve them through the two things that God's people cannot escape. I hope you'll get this. Two things that God's people can never escape in this life. Number one, enemies. You say, I don't want to have any enemies. Guess what? I don't either But if you're a child of God, you've got at least three enemies. You've got the world is your enemy, your flesh is your enemy, and the devil is your enemy. Now, whether we like it or not, we have enemies. We have forces that are opposed to our spiritual growth. There are forces that do not want God's perfect will to be accomplished in my life, in your life. And we have to deal with enemies. You can't run from them. You can't ignore them. If you do that, you've lost. The world, the flesh, and the devil. Keep your place here, if you would. Turn with me very quickly. And again, I'm wanting to rush through this and shut this down here. But turn with me, if you would, to 2 Timothy chapter 3. I'm looking at several verses right in this general area. 2 Timothy chapter 3. God says, I'm going to preserve you against Egypt and Assyria. You're going to smack the waves of affliction and trials. You've got to deal with them. These are areas of life. You cannot escape. You're going to have enemies. You're going to have your Egypts. You're going to have your Assyrians. 2 Timothy 3, look with me at verse 12. Notice what the Bible says, yea, and all that live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer what? Persecution. Listen, you and I cannot be right with God and not go against the grain. I cannot be godly and not have to fuss with this flesh. Because there is no good thing dwelling within this flesh. And if I'm going to please God, I've got to be at war with my flesh. If I uh listen, if I'm going to live godly, the devil is going to fight that tooth and nail. And I cannot live a godly life without dealing with spiritual forces. Now I'm not talking about this nonsense hobgoblin stuff you hear Reed talk about TV. I'm talking about everyday spiritual warfare that opposes me living a life that is pleasing to God. I've got to deal with the world. Now here's where it's killing us. Can I be real frank with you as Pastor? The world is killing us. The problem is Christians no longer view the world as an enemy, but as an ally And we can team up with the world and we can enjoy the pleasures of the world and we can have the praise and acclaim of the world and at the same time please God. That is impossible I cannot be conformed to this world and at the same time have a life that's godly and holy and a sacrifice that's acceptable and pleasing to God. Can't happen. So we have three enemies we cannot escape. If you're here tonight and you're saved, and I trust you are, you're genuinely born again, you've got three enemies trying to take you down spiritually, trying to keep God's will from being accomplished in your life. trying to get you to ruin your testimony, trying to get you to ruin your future, and have little or no influence for Christ. Now we can't escape that. Look with me if you would real quickly at 1 John, just a few pages back here after Hebrews. 1 John and chapter 2. Now if you've read your Bible much, 1 John, what do you think of subject-wise? 1 John, you think of what? Anybody? I think of love. Greater love is no man than us. Well Jesus said that in the Gospel of John. But he says It's not that we love God, but that he loved us. And it talks about love. Love, love, love, love, love. But look with me, if you would, at chapter 2 and verse 15. Here's love. Love is not only positive, love is negative. Love not the what? World. Neither the things that are in the world. Now look, God is being very dogmatic here. Now, if you disagree with this, then you disagree with God. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh The lust of the eyes, the pride of life, that is all just self, self, self, self, self, is not of the Father, but is of the world, and the world passeth away, and the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God. abideth forever. You can't be any clearer than that. Look with me if you would at chapter 3 and verse 13 Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. We've got Christians today, they're marvel, they don't want the world to hate them. I want the world to love me I want to be like the world. I want to be accepted by the world. I want what the world has to offer. Look with me, if you would, at James chapter 4. Now you think John's strong on this? Come over to James a few pages earlier, chapter 4 and verse 4. Man If your average preacher in the United States of America would preach the way the Bible is written, people would be hot in some places. Look at verse 4. Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship of the world is what? Enmity with God. Whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. I think God's trying to tell us something I think God's telling us this world, its value systems, its pleasures, its principles, it goes by, its philosophies. This world is diametrically opposed to a godly Christian life, a life that is pleasing to the Lord, a life that accomplishes the will of God. Can't escape it. So Israel had two major enemies, Egypt and Assyria. They were their enemies. We've got major enemies But God says, I'll preserve you through them. You can have victory. Listen, I don't want to hear how we live in the last days and you can't live for God anymore. I don't want to hear that. I don't want to hear that young people can't live for God anymore. I don't believe that for one minute. God is able to preserve us from the world, the flesh, and the devil, just like he could preserve Israel from Egypt and Assyria. Because I'll preserve you from them. Then there's another aspect of life we can escape. That's trials and afflictions. That's where he's smacking the sea and all of that. Yet through it all, God keeps his people. And he actually uses his enemies in trials to grow our faith. Um, don't buy this nonsense on TV where if you have enough faith, you're going to be healthy, wealthy, happy, and everything you want, you're going to get. That's a lie of the devil. Now I don't know if I'm just not paying any attention to it as much, but it seems like that message is kind of fading out. That doesn't, I don't know, I may be wrong, but it I mean that only flies for so long Last of all, I'll end with this back in Zechariah verse eleven. Listen to what God says. I will strengthen them in the Lord And they shall walk up and down in his name, saith the Lord. Not only does God plan his people, not only does he preserve his people, but he empowers his people. He says, I will strengthen them And when Israel, at the end of the tribulation period, when they're re-established, their relationship with the Lord is renewed, it's what it ought to be. They're pleasing to God, and they become strong. Which leads me to this conclusion. Oh, by the way, the word strengthen there means to empower to the point of being able to prevail. Now it leads me to this conclusion. When Israel as a nation gets right with God, they will be stronger than they've ever been. This is the conclusion. How does that happen? Look here. I will strengthen them. Look at the last three words of that first phrase. What's it say? I will strengthen them. In the Lord. Paul said in Philippians, I can do all things But he doesn't stop there, does he? If Paul would say, I can do all things, that'd be pretty arrogant, wouldn't it? I didn't say that. I can do all things what? Through Christ, which strengtheneth me. Our spiritual strength is found in our relationship with our Lord. Now, this is what I'm trying to say, and I believe this is what's being taught here by application. I cannot be strong spiritually. If I do not establish and maintain a close walk with the Lord, he says, I will strengthen them. But in the Lord. In their relationship with the Lord, as they walk with me, as they submit to me, then they're going to be strong. If they are not in the Lord, if they're not in fellowship with God, then they're not going to be made strong. We must maintain our fellowship with God. It is only our fellowship with God that empowers us to live victorious. That's what scares me to death when people get this idea that somehow I can leave my life, I can keep my life straight and I can keep my nose clean. I'm not going to attend church like I should. I'm not going to read my Bible like I should. I'm not going to spend time with God. But I'm going to keep my nose clean. Listen You are only strong as you are in the Lord. As you are in fellowship with the Lord. You break fellowship with the Lord and you lose your strength. And you're a sitting duck to the world, and you're a sitting duck to the flesh, and you're a sitting duck to the devil, unless I'm close to the Lord, walking with the Lord. I will strengthen them, but in the Lord. Our daily walk with God is vitally important to successful Christian living. When we are strong in the Lord, then look what it says, the last part. And they shall walk up and down in his name, saith the Lord. You know what's going to happen? When a person is close to God, they're walking with God, their heart's right with the Lord, their surrender, Lord, God's will is being done in their life. You know what I found is true? That person is not ashamed to take the name of Jesus. But you get a person out of fellowship with God, you get a person living for themselves and doing their thing and resisting the Spirit of God and disobeying the principle of scriptures, suddenly they're ashamed to name the name of Christ. Wow, I'm not one of them. Can you think of a classic illustration in the New Testament? Peter. He got out of fellowship with God. He went and warmed his hands by the fire of the world. And his fellowship with his Savior was broken. And suddenly he was ashamed to name the name of Christ. He was ashamed to stand up for the Lord. What this is teaching us is that our daily walk, our daily submission to the Lord, getting under the teaching and preaching of the Word of God Getting our hearts in tune and keeping them in tune and surrender, Lord Jesus Christ, is vitally important. Or you know what we'll end up being? Another statistic. That somebody fell by the wayside. You say, oh, Brother Leatherman, I would never abandon the Lord or the church. You know what? That's the exact same thing Peter said You're telling me you're a better Christian than Peter. I've seen it so long. People you would think would never abandon the Lord. People, young people that grew up and adults that got saved, and I think, man, they've got it, they're strong. But they didn't stay in the Lord. They didn't stay in fellowship with the Lord. And man, fall along the rayside. Let's not let that happen to us. I want, I'm sharing my heart with you now. I want God's perfect will to be done in my life. That's what I want. I want to know that I am and I'm doing and I'm where exactly what God wants for me That when I get to the end of the line, I don't have to look back and be ashamed and regret, and I can just look in the eyes of God and say, God, I pleased you. I want that to be true. Don't you? We've got to stay close to God. We've got to heed his spirit when he deals with us. We need to pray and let him speak to us through his word and get under the word of God. I will strengthen them in the Lord. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us. Help us stay close to you, dear Lord. Help us to keep short accounts. I pray, Father. That when you deal with our hearts, we not resist you. God, we not get hard like Israel did and have to be scattered. Help us to submit. We know, Lord, when you're dealing with us. We know when you're chastening. And God, we just need to agree with you. Help us, I pray. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, you know there's some areas in my Christian life I really need to give attention to? I don't know if it's Bible reading. I don't know if it's just a little area that God's been trying to deal with you about and you've been resisting or whatever it may be, your prayer life, witnessing, I don't know. But God's Holy Spirit has spoken to your heart tonight and you say, you know, preacher, I'd appreciate if you pray with me. There's some areas in my Christian life where I need to keep in tune with the Lord. I need to get closer. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher pray to me. The Spirit of God has dealt with my heart tonight. God bless you, hands all around