The leading people in the community were there and it was very formal and and um but she was a new member and uh so they were going to have a cake sale, a bake sale And she thought this is a great opportunity. I'd get to know some of the people and uh become more of a part of the church. So she volunteered to uh make a cake. The problem was she forgot all about it until just a little bit before the bake sale was supposed to start, and she padded She ran through the kitchen, all through the cupboard. She finally found an angel food cake mix. Threw it together while she was getting dressed and getting ready. And um when she took the cake out of the oven, and I'm not I don't bake or anything, but apparently something had gone wrong and the whole center of the cake had collapsed. Do the ladies know what that's about? And she panicked. She goes, Oh no. She goes, Here's my chance. These people are such Leaders in society, they're gonna think I'm an uh idiot and she didn't know what to do, and she's racing around, racing around. So let me read to you what she did. So Being inventive, she looked around the house for something to build up the center of the cake, and she found it in the bathroom. A roll of toilet paper. She plunked it down in the center, covered it with icing. Not only did the finished product look beautiful, it looked perfect. And before she left the house to drop the cake by the church and head to work, she asked her daughter, gave her daughter some money and instructions to go to the uh bakery. When it opens at 9 30, and buy a real cake and bring it home. And then she would switch it out before anybody found out about it. Well, the daughter got to the bakery and found that the cake they were supposed to get was already gone. So she called her mom on the cell phone. Alice was horrified. Everyone is going to find out that she had put toilet paper in the center of her angel food cake and covered it up. She would be ostracized, talked about, ridiculed. Uh all day Alice was worried sick about people pointing fingers at her and talking about her behind the back. Actually the big tale was the next day. Next day Alice Uh promise herself she would try not to think about the cake, would attend the fancy uh thing and um try to have a good time She did not really want to go because the hostess was a snob and more than once had looked down the nose at her, and uh she was a single parent, was from a poor part of town, uh, but she couldn't get out of it. So here's the thing The meal was elegant. The company was definitely upper crust, Old South, and to Alice's horror, the cake was presented for dessert. Her cake with the toilet paper in it. She felt the blood drain from her body when she saw the cake. She started out of her chair to tell the hostess all about it, but before she could get to her feet, the mayor's wife said, What a beautiful cake Alice was stunned, sat back in her chair when she heard the hostess, who was a prominent church member, say, thank you. I baked it myself. Alice whispered to herself, God is so good. Uh Betty sent that to me. That was I don't know if it was a testimony or what, but um Baptist Lies is what it was called Genesis chapter 4, look at verse number 1 with me. And the Lord said unto Noah, Come down all thy house into the ark. Now look at this last phrase, and this is what caught my attention. For thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. I've simply entitled the message this morning: God sees Noah Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, we're grateful for the fellowship we can have and the joy of the Lord. Lord, what good singing this morning. Bless my heart. Congregation especial And I pray now that our hearts are prepared for what you have for us this hour. I thank you for every person that's here. I don't believe it's an accident. That those of us are here today at this hour. I believe you have a plan. You have something for us. And so, Lord, with that in mind, I want to take myself out of the way of what you want to accomplish, Lord. And so I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew, Lord. I ask you'd fill me with your spirit. You'd speak through me again in this hour. God, please be our teacher, our preacher. God, help us to be receptive and to trust you and obey what you have for us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The book of Genesis is in many ways the foundational book of the Bible. If we do not understand the significance of the book of Genesis Or let me put it this way, if we do not appreciate the reliability of the book of Genesis We're going to have serious problems with the reliability of other books in the Bible given later on. You follow what I'm saying? If we're going to question whether Genesis is reliable or not, Then we're going to have to, of necessity, question the reliability of later books. Because nearly every book of the Bible makes reference back to the book of Genesis. And refers to it as an actual, literal, reliable account of the events given there. Are you with me? So we've got to either take Genesis As it is given, as reliable and accurate, literal, or we've got to reject basically the entire Bible as being reliable, is what I'm trying to say. And plus, if we don't, if we if we fail to see the importance, the significance of Genesis, then we're going to have some serious doctrinal problems later on. Believe it or not, if we question the reliability of the accounts given in the book of Genesis, if we question them, if we say they are not reliable, then we have problems with the deity of the Lord Jesus Christ. You say, how can that be? Jesus referred to the flood, creation, as literal actual events as given to us in the book of Genesis. Now, if they are not literal actual events, and Jesus referred to them as literal actual events, there's two things, one of two things has to be true about Jesus. Now bear with me. Either he believed something that was not correct, or he knew it wasn't correct, but yet presented it as if it was. If either of those is true, then Jesus is not the Son of God. You follow with me? Everybody with me so far? And so either it's true or it isn't. And if Genesis is not true, then we have serious problems with the rest of the Bible. And so we understand the significance of the book of Genesis. It is a foundational book of the Bible. And we understand the reliability of it. Now, we come to chapter six and seven, eight. And we have the record of the worldwide flood. And to be honest with you We could do a series on this, and I'm I'm working on the idea of uh doing a series on the life of Noah, maybe of a Sunday evening later this year in the future. But there's so many things In this record of this worldwide flood that we could glean and learn from and apply our lives. For instance, and this is just by way of introduction, In the record of the flood, we find the horrific consequences of sin. The horrific consequences of sin. Now stop and think with me a moment. I made reference to this before. The story of the flood, this event, is really a tragedy. There is horrific death and destruction on a worldwide scale. We sometimes view the story of the flood as a cute little story with a man in a boat with a bunch of animals. And we paint it on the sides of our nurseries and all that. But if we actually painted it and portrayed it accurately These kids would have nightmares for the rest of their lives. It is horrific. How many people have paid any attention at all to the earthquake in Haiti? Anybody paying attention to that at all? How awful that is. Now imagine something like that on a worldwide scale where no one survives We fail to really comprehend the devastation that sin produces Why would God destroy the entire world? Kill every living thing except those on the ark? In a horrible way to die. Listen, drowning is a horrible way to die. Why would God do that to his creation? Why would God wreak such devastation and such a horrific way to die upon his people he made in his own image? One reason They were sinners. Sin has horrific consequences. We think we have a clear estimation of our sin. We see our sin as, well, you know, it's not right, but it's not that bad. We see our sin as, well, you know, it's it's a I'm sorry, that's not the way it is. We are blinded. We are blinded to the heartache and devastation that our sin produces in the future. There are three events. I was talking with my wife yesterday. I believe there are three events recorded in Scripture that demonstrate to us how horrific sin is. How uh that demonstrate to us God's uh intolerance of sin That I think stand out above all others. One of them, one of the events recorded in Scripture that show how how awful sin is, is I think the flood here. Where God destroyed the entire world because of sin. Man's thoughts were evil. Wickedness covered the face of the earth. And God spared no one but Noah and his family. Think about that. I think a second event recorded in scripture has not yet happened. But illustrates, demonstrates God's intolerance of sin, and that would be the seven-year tribulation period When nearly the entire population of the earth is wiped out in horrible, I keep using the word horrific, but in uh in horrific ways of death Plant life, sea life, animal life, bird life, nearly all of it destroyed because of man's sin and rebellion against God. Now we think we can play with sin and get away with it. We think we can toy with it, and it's not that big a deal, and because we don't see immediate Consequences of our lies or our disobedience and our rebellion, we think it's not that big a deal when in reality it is devastating. It simply takes time till it all plays out The flood, the tribulation period, and I think there's one other event recorded in Scripture, probably above all else, that shows God's Unimaginable judgment upon our sin. And that is what took place on Calvary. When God killed his own son. Because our sin was placed on him. God, when Jesus took our sin upon himself, God could not and would not spare even his own son. But condemn sin in the flesh and destroy Jesus. So we study these passages of scripture, the biblical record of the worldwide flood, and one thing that stands out, at least in my mind is the horrific devastation that sin brings upon mankind. There's another thing we could look at, again, by way of introduction. I see in this story and I was tempted to preach on is the free gift of salvation from God's judgment on sin. Now let me ask you a question. How many folks glad you came to church today so far? Say amen. Amen. So far. Um let me ask you a question. I want you to think a little bit. I know it's Sunday morning, there's two and a half feet of snow out there, but try and engage the mind here a little bit. How many people do you think were on or were alive living on planet Earth when this event took place? How many people were there? I would say from studying the genealogies and whatnot leading up to this, we could say safely there were millions of people on planet Earth The United States of America has approximately 300 million people, citizens, various ages. That's a lot of people Was there 300 million people living on the earth at that time? Now we could get into a lot of things. I believe that the continents at this point in time were not separated. I think it was all just one big continent on the earth. The flood, earth broke up, the depths broke up, Psalms tells us, and eventually the continents separated. That's my own unscientific theory. But I think I'm right. I always do. But um so if that's true, three hundred million people were all, you know, in general part of the world. Some preachers and the pastor that passes a church, what I consider my home church, when I got saved, he believed, and he taught, and he had reasons, that there was billions. of people on the earth, and that they were very advanced in their technology in many ways. Be that as it may, whether it's billions or millions or hundreds of thousands. The fact of the matter is, any one of them could have gotten on that ark and escaped the judgment of God. Any one of them could have. Noah did not sell tickets to get on the ark. It was free. Nothing they had to do other than to simply believe the message that God had given them and get in that ark, trust God, that that ark was going to spare their life Simply believe the warnings that Noah was giving from God to the world that judgment was coming, that if they did not get in the ark, judgment was coming, they would be destroyed. All they had to do was believe that. Whether they had money or not, whether they had education or not, whether they had any standing in society or not All they had to do was get into the ark and their lives would have been spared. The freeness of salvation. Now, just as being saved from the judgment of the flood in Noah's day was free, all they had to get in salvation from the judgment of God on our sin in this day is free. And all we need to do is trust Christ. Believe what God says about the j reality of hell. Believe what God says about coming judgment Believe what God says about the Lord Jesus Christ and trust him, depend on him to forgive us and save us and be in Christ. And we can be saved. We don't sell tickets for salvation. You didn't sell tickets to get on the ark. Now, if you would notice a little bit later on in this chapter, chapter seven, come over to verse sixteen. Chapter seven, verse sixteen. Now this is speaking of Noah and his family. Now notice carefully how it's worded here. And they that went in When in male and female, both flesh, as God had commanded them. Now look at this last phrase. And the Lord shut him in. Now here's the point I want to make here. All they had to do was get in. Once they were in, they were safe. Amen? Once they were in, God shut the door. Hey, if God's the one that shut the door, then God's the one that needs to open it, right? Noah didn't shut the door. His voice didn't shut the door. And this tells me that once they were in, they couldn't get out even if they wanted to. Amen. Now I can't imagine why you would want to once you see dead bodies floating and hear the people screaming and drowning and holding their children up, trying to keep their children alive as long as possible I can't imagine why you would want to get out, but the fact of the matter is, once they were in, they were safe. They were secure. Hey, once we come to Christ and trust Christ, once we're in Christ, we are secure. It is God that saves me. All I do is trust him. And it's God that saves me, and it is God that keeps me saved. And so, there's a lot of lessons we can learn from this event. We could preach a free year on this easily. But I want us to zero in for a few moments on verse number one. And as I pointed out when I Began the message where it says, God says, for thee, speaking to Noah, thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. A few things I want to point out about this. Number one God saw Noah's godly character. God saw Noah's godly character. Now there's a lot of great things we could say about Noah. A lot of characteristics of Noah we can talk about. But God points out one. God says, I see one outstanding characteristic of Noah. And that is, he is righteous. He was righteous. Now I think, again, this is my opinion, I think Noah was a friendly guy. How many people would say, oh yeah, I could see Noah being a friendly guy. Anybody? Raise your hand if you can see Noah being a friendly guy. Very good. Just trying to keep you active, the blood moving this morning. I think Noah's a friendly guy. Um I think Noah was uh hard worker. How many people would say Noah's hard worker? Raise your hand. How many people? Alright. Keep the blood moving. Keep the blood moving. But God says, God doesn't say, He have I seen friendly. How we ought to be friendly, but that's not what stood out. Ah thee have I seen to be a hard worker Now we ought to be hard workers, but that's not what stood out. He says, thee have I seen righteous. Now, I feel it's necessary at this point to discuss what the Bible means by righteousness. There are two aspects of righteousness presented in the Bible. The first is what I'm going to call practical righteousness. Alright? It's called what? Man, you guys are on top of it. Practical righteousness. Practical righteousness has to do with my behavior. Practical righteousness. It has to do with the righteousness that people see. It's outward. It has to do with my deeds, the actions I do, my outward appearance. So one aspect of righteousness is the practical aspect of righteousness, and that is living a righteous life. Being a righteous employee Being a righteous church member, family member, the outward thing, that which man sees. But God looks beyond our outward appearance. God sees beyond the practical righteousness. He looks beyond that which is presented out there, the external. God sees beyond our outward behavior, and he sees our inward character. Alright? What did God say to Samuel when they were going to anoint a king for Israel? And Samuel had a guy picked out, says he's the one. And God says. God told Samuel that he does not look on the outward appearance, but God looks on the what? Heart. You know what he's saying? God was saying, I don't look so much at the practical righteousness, I don't look so much at the outward appearance. The show that's put on, the reputation a person may or may not have, I look beyond that. And I see, I evaluate their heart Their character, what they really are. That's what God's looking for. Which introduces our second aspect of righteousness, and that is What I'm going to use and you is usually used is called positional righteousness. Now that has to do not so much as to my standing with man But that deals with my standing with God. My position in the eyes of God is that of being righteous. Hey, it's one thing for a co-worker to say, hey, you're a good guy. It's another thing for God. To say he is a good man. Right? That coworker sees the outward. God sees the heart. Now get this. Are you with everybody still with me? It is possible, and this is important, it is possible to have practical righteousness Without having positional righteousness, it is possible for me to behave. Righteously, but not be righteous before God Jesus rebuked the Pharisees. They had practical righteousness, but they didn't have positional righteousness. He described them as white walls. Weighted sepulchres. He said, outwardly you appear very righteous, but inward are dead man's bones. Your character is corrupt Your heart is not what your appearance is. Your standing before God is not righteous, even though your behavior may be. Practical, a person that has practical righteousness, boy, they're the community thinks highly of them Uh they're on the employee the employer thinks highly of them. Yeah, they're just a great guy. They pay their bills, they uh help out when they need to, they do this, they do that, boy what a great guy. They have all this practical righteousness. But they don't have positional righteousness with God. That righteousness, Isaiah 64, 6, tells us, in God's sight is filthy rags. All this outward show, this outward righteousness, which is fine and good. We ought to have that. But as far as God's concerned, that is not what makes me righteous with God. Is everybody with me? All right? You say, Brother Letterman, I'm a member, respectable member of a church. I give my tithes and offerings. I work hard at work. I'm honest. I pay my bills on time. Many times I pay them ahead of time. I am involved in the community. I give the help with Haiti. Uh I'm doing this, I'm doing that, I don't drink, I don't I don't uh uh I'm faithful, I'm all these things. I tell you what, you take all that practical righteousness and you present that to God to somehow give you positional righteousness, and God says, I never knew you. That's just filthy rags as far as I'm concerned. So we can have practical righteousness without having the positional righteousness before God. And God says to Noah. When God says, thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation, God is saying, yet he saw a man Whose standing before God was not simply an external show, outward only But he had a genuine standing before God as righteous. Now the question is, how do I attain that? How do at least say, Brother Letterman, if my baptism and my uh giving and my membership and my honesty and my integrity and my generosity and my kindness If that doesn't make me righteous before God, how in the world can anybody be made righteous before God? I'm glad you asked. The Book of Romans tells us that we are made righteous before God through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not the things we do that make us acceptable to God. It is what Christ has done that makes us acceptable to God. His righteousness was given to us. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, regardless of what my external righteousness is or is not. When I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, his righteousness, which is flawless, Which is perfect, which is complete in every way, is put to my account. And I stand before God in the position Of being righteous before God. You say, Brother Leslie, I know you ain't that righteous. My practical righteousness as a believer never lives up to my positional righteousness as a believer. I will never be, and you won't, nobody will ever be outwardly We will never be practically, not in this life, as a believer as we are positionally before God. Everybody with me? It's a little theological this morning, but this is the heart of salvation. This is the basis of salvation. Being righteous before God, being acceptable to God. It's not our outward form, but it's where we're at positionally, and we receive that through the Lord Jesus Christ. How many folks here you're saved? You know it from Scripture. Say amen. Listen, that being true, if that's true, then your position before God is that as of holy and as righteous and as good and as pure and perfect as Jesus Christ. He said, You don't know me, preacher. A little bit. And no, none of us live up to that. But that is what's that is the goal in the Christian life, is to get my practical righteousness as close to my positional righteousness as is humanly possible. That's where church comes in, Bible reading, that's where comes separating from the world. That's where comes yielding myself to Christ, trusting him, obeying him. That gives that His expression, my practical righteousness, then becomes an expression of my positional righteousness. So God says, I've seen Noah. And he is righteous before me. Not talking about what people think. It's not because he built the ark. It's not because he raised his three kids, uh three boys, uh uh godly and they turned out alright. It's not because of anything he has done. But it's his position, what he is, because of his faith in God, that God's all righteous. So, my first thought is this. I notice here That God saw Noah's godly or righteous character. Now let me ask you a question: What is your heart like? What is your standing before God? When God looks beyond your Practical righteousness, outward things you're doing, and God sees your heart. Does He see the righteousness of Christ? Can you say, yes, I'm accepted in the I'm accepted by God in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the only way that happens is when I trust it. I accept him as my personal Savior. Second thing I notice in this passage of Scripture, not only did God see Noah's godly character, but God saw Noah's established character. Character. I'm going to shift gears here a little bit. Noah had a testimony of a long-term man of faith. When God looked down and saw Noah, and he says, look where he said, he says, thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation. He doesn't say, I've seen you righteous in front of this group of people. But he's saying your righteousness, your character, you have a testimony not just before God of being righteous positionally. But you have a testimony of a long term to mankind of being someone that has faith in God, a man of faith. I have seen thy righteous. Bible says it took Noah 120 years to build the ark. 120 years. He had a testimony of a man of faith. I tell you what, nowadays, if you can get someone to have a decent testimony for 120 days, you're doing good. Huh? Just get somebody to be faithful for a year, for a couple months. Hundred and twenty years. He walked with God day after day, week after week, month after month, year after year, decade after decade. Noah had a testimony of faith in God. And that's just once he started building the ark. What was his testimony leading up to the ark? Who knows how many years that was. And so he had a long-term, an established righteousness. Now here's something interesting as I got studying this. For thee have I seen righteous. I got studying that, uh looking at this, looking up words, and it has this idea. God is saying something like this. How many folks are still with me? Everybody's still with me? Okay. How many people want to know what that implies? Raise your hand. Come back next week and we'll do it. No, I'm kidding. It has this idea. Thee have I seen righteous has this idea. You have been found righteous before my face. That's what the idea scene has to be. I believe this is what God is saying to Noah. Your righteousness hath withstood my scrutiny. Noah, for a long time I've been paying attention. For a long time, you've been before my face. I've been watching you. I've been scrutinizing you. And your righteousness hath withstood that scrutiny. Your testimony has withstood the judgment I want to give you a little bit of encouragement here. I do not believe, I know this, I'm positive. There is not a righteous man on earth that God is not aware of. There is not a righteous person on earth that God does not see. You may say, I've been trying to live for God. I trusted Christ. Trying to live for God. Trying to do right, trying to have a testimony. And no nobody appreciates it. Nobody sees it. Ah, God sees it. You may be obscure, you may be out of the limelight, you may be in the uh the back row, so to speak, in many ways, but I'm here to tell you. If you know Jesus Christ as Savior, if you're seeking to live for God, God is very much aware of that. You have God's attention I like to when I get occasion to preach to uh preachers, a lot of times it's uh men in small churches and out-of-the-way places and back little hollows here and there. I I like to preach the I like to preach the preachers in those positions And I always try to encourage them, listen, you may be trying to serve God in some out-of-the-way place that doesn't get any attention, and doesn't get any national or even local attention, your name's never in the paper, your name is never not. I'm here to tell you if you're living for God, God sees what you're doing. And like I said in Sunday school, you may have a little ministry, you may say, ah, it's just the bus ministry, it's just this, it's just that, it's not much of anything. I'm here to tell you, if you're living for God, if you're seeking to please God, trusting him and obeying him, you have God's attention. Let me ask you a question. Of those perhaps billion people on planet Earth at the time of Noah, how many of them do you think were given Noah awards and citations And medals and honors because he was living for God. I'd venture to say none of them. The consensus is they all thought he was nuts. But God did. God saw them. And there is not a deed done in the name of Christ. Even if it's just giving somebody a glass of water done in the name of Christ, Christ sees it. Now, we Baptist preachers are notorious for this, and I think it's not a bad thing. Man, we like to rip on sin. I mean, it's not that we like to, we feel obligated to, right? Preach against sin. And we say, brother, sister, you can't hide your sin from God. You can put it in the darkest vault. You can try and cover it all you want. Your sin is a glaring scandal in heaven. God sees your sin. And whenever I hear that, I want to say, Amen. That's true, right? Are you all with me? Listen, I'm trying to uh small crowd, I'm giving you all I got. Alright? I'm preaching like the place is packed. Right or wrong. Amen like the place is back. Help me out here, folks I forget what I was saying. God sees you, and and we all say, I like that kind of preaching, don't you? Oh Christians are weird. Right? We go to church and the guy rips us up. We're a bunch of sorry, no good, lying, wicked, cheating sinners, and we walk out, that was great. But equally true Because you know, when we do something right, jazily, we get it right, we actually do something for the glory of God. Out of love and appreciation for him, I want to be quick to remind you, God sees that also. Amen? God sees that also. Say, well nobody saw that. Man, I gave out five tracks last week and I never got recognized for it. Well you're blowing your reward by thinking that way, number one. But too, God saw it. God saw it. God takes note. The Noah Have I seen righteous before this generation? What you've done for me, how you've trusted me, your love for me, your faith in me, your obedience to me, did not go unnoticed. Noah's righteousness withstood the most thorough scrutiny in existence. The eyes of God. And it stood up. What a great man. How often, now I'm I hate to admit this, I'm preaching myself as much as anybody. But how often the slightest little difficulty, the slightest little disappointment, the slightest little offense. Comes and we buckle. And we don't trust God, we disobey God. And we allow our flesh to flare up And rather than simply trusting God, the flesh gets in it. And boy, there's bitterness. Language goes south. Well, if that's the way it is, I'll just. Noah's righteousness withstood all of that. God scrutinized him. You think there weren't disappointments? You think there weren't offenses? For 120 years he preached, and no one gets saved. The last thing I notice in this Is God saw his human character? God saw his godly character, his established character. Come over to chapter 9 with me, if you would, real quickly. I'm going to end with this. Genesis chapter 9, and look with me at verse 21. And I'm telling you, you don't know how badly I wish this verse was not in the Bible. If I could cut a verse out of the Bible, I think this is one of them. Now I'm not suggesting that. But I'm simply saying this. I wish it wasn't there. Look at verse 21. Look at verse 20. This is after the flood, they're out, re-established, repopulating the earth. And Noah began to be a husbandman. That's like a farmer. And he planted a vineyard. And he drank of the wine and was what? Drunken. And he was uncovered within his tent. Man. Why did that have to happen? Noah is drunk. Noah failed completely There's no other explanation. Now I've read a number of authors and Bible scholars, and they've suggested various things. Some of them tried to defend Noah and excuse it. Whatever the case was, it was total failure. Amen? He failed completely. He hurt his children. He hurt his grandchildren. But here's the thing God knew Noah's future when God called him to build the ark. Isn't that something? This didn't catch God by surprise. God is not like, oh man, this guy called the building art now. He does this? What? God knew that ahead of time. So people say to me sometimes, preacher, why would God use this man in this ministry and then have him mess up so badly? Why would God use him there? Well, it it didn't catch God by surprise. The fact of the matter is that if the fact that God uses any of us is a miracle of the grace of God. God saw Noah's humanity, and he understood that I like what Psalms, I want to say 103, but I'm not sure that's correct. The Bible says that God remembers that we are but flesh. Aren't you glad for that? Fact of the matter is, none of us are qualified to do anything for God. Now I'm not discounting qualifications the Lord gives, but I'm saying this. I put it this way in my notes. Let me see if I can find it here. Though we must, this is a good quote, though we must rise above our humanity, we can never escape our humanity. You follow what I'm saying? Let's not just live like sinful human beings. Let's rise above that. Let's trust God Let's be filled with the Spirit of God and live a supernatural testimony for the glory of God. But regardless how how much effort we put into that, we can never escape the fact that we are humans That we have a sinful nature. And it is something we must always deal with. Well He trusted Christ as Savior. He says he's saved. He lived for God. But man, look how badly he blew it. It must have all been phony. Uh what that tells me? He's still a human being. Huh Doesn't mean God didn't use him. Doesn't mean his salvation isn't genuine. It just simply means he's still human. Now that does not excuse Noah's failure. Amen? But we understand his failure when we remember Noah was simply man. It was God. That used Noah. It was God that gets all the glory for Noah's boys turning out for God. God gets all the glory for that. Man at his best is at best still a man. Amen? Character. God looks beyond our facade. God looks beyond our outward righteousness. He looks beyond our outward failures. And he sees our heart He sees what we are more than what we do. And Noah was righteous. He had outward righteousness, he had outward unrighteousness. But what he was, through faith in God, he was righteous in his position. His standing. Does that make sense? Little girl and her daddy went to a fair, carnival. There's a thing that happens occasionally around here, it's called summertime. It's just for a brief period of time, very rarely. And some places during summertime they have fairs and carnivals. It's kind of hard to imagine right now. This little girl went to the f carnival with her daddy. They got there, and sure enough, right in the middle is the booth, cotton candy. And she had a couple bucks that daddy had given her. She races over to the cotton candy, gets the biggest cotton candy thing they have. She comes walking back. Her daddy looks at her, his eyes bug out. He says, sweetheart. Are you sure you can eat all of that? And she made this statement. She says, Daddy, I'm bigger on the inside than I am on the outside. Fact of the matter is, all of us need to be bigger on the inside than we are on the outside. Our character. Child of God, trusting Him, obeying Him, living for Him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. Help us to be real, I guess, is what we're saying here. Help us, Lord, that what we are is what you intend for us to be. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder if there's some here this morning.