Chapter number three. And uh I appreciate that, and that hymn is a profound hymn. That is tremendous biblical truth in there, and for a young man to write that is uh tremendous. Appreciate Brother Bryan's Hymn Histories. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, and I just want to read two verses. Verse 16 and 17. We're preaching our way through this. If I could go back in time and start this, go back to the beginning of our series in Ecclesiastes, I would give the series a name. I would change the name of the series. I would call it Horizontal Living. And uh thought of that while we were uh while I was preparing this message, horizontal living, life under the sun Now notice verse 16 and 17 of Ecclesiastes chapter 3. Again, this is Solomon writing under inspiration. And um I think my Microphone is on. He's writing under the inspiration of God. And he writes this. He says, Moreover, I saw under the sun. Now look at what he says here carefully. I saw under the sun the place of judgment in the let me start over. Moreover, I saw under the sun the place of judgment that wickedness was there And the place of righteousness, that iniquity was there. I said in my heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked For there is a time there for every purpose and for every work. Now, the subject tonight is God is the judge. So let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, Lord, it's been fun this evening and good time fellowship and singing these songs. Lord, this young man that wrote this young Palmer fellow that wrote this hymn, Lord, our faith does look up to thee. And we're looking to you tonight, Lord, to speak to our hearts and teach us. God, remind us of some things that we know are true. I pray as we live this week and give out tracts, try and be a testimony, be a witness. I pray you'd prepare our hearts tonight for the week ahead. Help us to make good decisions. Help us to be wise. Help us have faith. Please fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord, and speak through me as my prayer. In Jesus' name, amen. Solomon, of course, as we understand, we've been studying this, is he's giving his observations about what life under the sun is like, or I I like that term, don't you? Horizontal living. In other words, he's trying to live his life as if there's nothing to life beyond what's under the sun Life consists of only that which is under the sun. There's nothing above that. There's nothing beyond that. There's no greater being. There's no God. Now he doesn't deny God's existence. We see that. But he's trying to live independently of God. I don't need him. And of course he keeps coming to the same conclusion over and over again that life horizontal living, life under the sun, is empty. It's vain. It's frustrating. And I think as I was studying this passage here, these two verses, I sensed Solomon's frustration in these two verses. Let's read them again. Read it again with me. It says, Moreover, I saw under the sun the place of judgment, and that wickedness was there. And the place of righteousness that iniquity was there. Now I sense a real aggravation on his part At this place of judgment, why would there be wickedness there? This place of righteousness, why would there be iniquity there? And then he says in his heart that God is a judge. So I want to give three thoughts very quickly now. First thing I notice here in this, that the world under the sun is in moral disorder. Would you agree with me? Our world is in moral disorder. We've talked about this last summer. I've referenced it a fair bit in the last several months. But there's no denying we see very clearly all around us evidence that the Bible is true. We believe the Bible. But we look out into our world and we see evidence that what the Bible says is true. It verifies the fact that yes, the Bible is true. We see clear evidence that God does exist. To deny that is, in my mind, ignorance at the greatest level I think I had the mind of Christ on that when God said, the fool has said in his heart, there is no God. And so we see very clearly that God does exist. We see very clearly that God is powerful. We talked a lot about that, the power of God. See it in creation. We see that God is wise and how His world was put together. We see tremendous wisdom. Complexity, order, design. We know that God is our creator. But there's something else, this is what I'm trying to get to. There's something else that is very obvious in our world. Something's not right. We see it in the world. Things are not functioning the way they're obviously designed to function. We live in a world of moral disorder. We live in a world that something is very, very wrong. Things do not operate right. For instance, People do not take their proper turn at four-way stop signs. Am I right or wrong? The car to the right has the right-of-way. You come up as you approach, that's your turn. People don't do that. They pull them and they'll just cut over. Something ain't right. Uh people cut in line to buy tickets. Right? We went to uh Pirates game last year and we're waiting in line to get tickets, and people were cutting in line. Man, I cussed and gut man. No. No, I didn't. No, I didn't I I gave him a try. But um But people cut in line. Uh people take more than ten items in the ten item aisle at Walmart. Now we're getting home. Now I'm being silly on those things, but the fact is we live in a world where so many times it seems like wrong succeeds and right fails. Uh falsehood, uh what is it? Truth is ever on the gallows while falsehood sits on the throne. We live in a world like that. That which is right is presented as being so wrong. And that which is wrong, this world presents as if it's so right. That which is evil the world presents as if it's so good. And that which is good and pure and right the world presents as if it's so wrong and so bad. We live in a world of moral disorder. Things are out of whack. And he touches on two areas here, and I took a little liberty in outlining these two areas of moral disorder that he mentions But the first one I noticed in the first part of verse 16 is this. Injustice in the courthouse. He says, I saw under the sun, the place of judgment. Now I'm just throwing this out there. Let's think of that as the courthouse. And it says, in the place of judgment, wickedness was there. The word wickedness has the idea of crime. The word as it's used here is the idea of crime in the courthouse. Injustice in the courthouse. So many times the guilty go free. They have enough money, they have enough influence, and they can hire the slickest lawyer The guilty go free. Is there any doubt in anybody's mind, honestly, that O. J. Simpson was innocent? I mean, any doubt that he was guilty? It's pretty obvious. I mean, I don't know. And so many times we see this where the guilty go free, and so many times the innocent are condemned. There is crime and injustice in the courthouse. We're our our justice system is probably the best that the world can produce As far as that goes. But regardless of how good the justice system is, it's only as good as those who oversee it. And you know, we found out the people that oversee the human justice system are very, very sinful people Jeremiah 17. 9 says that their heart, along with ours, is deceitful and desperately wicked. And the best of men are desperately wicked. And so Solomon sees here, he's looking out, he's He's living this horizontal life under the sun and he's tried everything, he's trying to find fulfillment, he's trying to find purpose, he's pushed God out of his life, and he looks at the world system and he looks at the courthouse, so to speak And he says there's wickedness there, there's injustice in the courthouse. Of all places where there ought to be justice, it ought to be in the courthouse. But there's wickedness there, there's crime there. And then he says The place of judgment of wickedness was there, and the place of righteousness that iniquity was there. Now I'm just taking liberty here a little bit, but when he says the place of righteousness I would say uh he's can he sees iniquity in the church house. There's injustice in the courthouse And he says, I see iniquity in the church house, the place of righteousness, the place that the righteousness of God is declared. The place where biblical righteousness is preached and held to and exalted and cherished. He says, I look, and lo and behold, there's iniquity there in the church house. We're still shocked. After all these years, we still are shocked when we hear of a godly pastor getting involved in sin. Aren't we? How many people have ever heard of a pastor that fell, or one way or another, we say it used the term fall, gotten sin. Anybody how many people every time you hear that it bothers you? Bothers you. Hey, that's that's my that's my peers It still bothers us. It bothers us deeply when a godly church member Maybe a Sunday school teacher, somebody serving God, and we find out that there's some terrible sin there. Man, it hurts us And it bothers us. You would think of all places, of all places on planet Earth, the church house would be a place free of iniquity. The church house would be a place you would not find sin and unrighteousness. And Solomon is looking at this and he says, there's something wrong. There is moral disorder here. The place where you would, of all places where there should be justice, I find wickedness. Cry. Of all places where you would find righteousness, then I see iniquity. And uh moral disorder. And I think what's bothering, the most troubling aspect to Solomon here in these statements, isn't so much that there's injustice. And it's not so much that there's injustice in the world and there's iniquity in the world. Those, you know, those are obvious. But I think what is really bothering him is not just that they exist, but where he's finding them. The place that they're at, why in the world? How in the world can that be? And I sense this vexation of spirit. That he's been referring to, I sense that when he looks out into the world. Now this is the world under the sun. He's excluded God, and he's looking at this, and he's coming to A very frustrating thing. So the first thing I notice that he references here is that the world under s under the sun is in moral disorder. We think of that. I was talking to my son this afternoon and we were talking about different Bible characters and um King David came up. King David, good guy or bad guy? Great guy. He's a man after God's own heart. There are so many characteristics of David I would love to have true in my life. So many personal characteristics of him, his zeal for God, his love for the Lord, his passion for worshiping God and living for God, his boldness and courage and faith. And facing giants. So it ca it comes as a shock when word gets out that he and Bathsheba It comes as a shock when it comes out that he got proud and numbered the people of Israel. And thousands die as a result of it. Comes as a shock, we find out he murdered Fathsheba's wife, Bathsheba's husband I mean we we can see someone like Ahab committing adultery. We can see someone like these ungodly kings maybe getting proud and 70,000 people dying a result of their pride. We think of Ahab as somebody that would murder the wife, the husband of his lover. But David. How can that be? I think what Solomon's pointing out here is there's something seriously wrong with mankind. There is a serious flaw, even in the best of men, even in the places you would assume there would be justice. I find wickedness, crime. In the places where you'd find you there would surely be righteousness, I'm finding iniquity And so he notices this that we live in a very a world of moral disorder. Then it leads me to chapter verse 17, in the first part of verse 17 And I see here Solomon's mental disturbance or distress. Notice what he says in verse 17. He says, I said in my heart I said in my heart. What's he doing? If you're saying something in your heart, what are you doing? You're talking to yourself. Right? Not out outwardly, but he's he's saying this to himself. I said in my heart, he's thinking this over. That tells me something about Solomon here. This really, really bothers him. And he's saying this over and over in his heart. And It really distresses him. It really disturbs him. This sin and corruption, particularly where he's finding it, under the sun, God's excluded, but he's fighting it here. And it really, really bothers him And that leads me to believe that God has placed in all of our hearts, all mankind, in our hearts and souls, He has placed an awareness of right and wrong. Every society, no matter how isolated they may be, they have some standards of right and wrong. Now it may be very skewed. But they do understand that some things are right and some things are wrong. God has placed within our consciousness an awareness of justice. That there is such a thing as justice and a longing and a desire for justice. I don't see that in the animal world. I don't see animals concerned about justice. We had at one time we had two dogs in the house. We had w a cat one time for a little while. And that but now there's justice. But I noticed that the one dog would steal the other dog's bone and it didn't bother him one bit. They weren't concerned about justice. They didn't come and sue each other. He'd bite 'em to get it back. But God has placed I don't know if that's a good example or not, but God has placed In mankind, a sense of justice, a sense of right and wrong. And Solomon looks out and he sees that right is not being treated correctly Wrong is being succeeding. Injustice is succeeding. It's in the courthouse. And justice is being pushed aside and is apparently failing. Righteousness is brushed aside and unrighteousness is in its place in the church house. And it bothers him. It goes against what he knows in his heart and soul. Now here's the thing. This world is in such darkness, they don't know the solution to injustice. We come up with all these methods and we come up with all these systems and like I said the one we got now in America is probably the best we got but it is deeply flawed. Many times guilty guilty the guilty are go free and the innocent are condemned. Not always, but it happens. And Solomon is bothered by this, I said in my heart, and this is eating Adam. And then he notices, now this is a kind of a goofy point here, but I tried to alliterate it. But he notices there's the magistrate's decision. He sees this moral disorder. There's sin and wickedness and place it ought not to be. It really bothers him. He's mentally distressed by this. He's talking to himself. He's talking about this. Then he comes to this conclusion. And this is what I mean by the magistrate's decision. God's going to judge all this. Look what he says there in verse 17. I said in my heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked. For there is a time there for every purpose and for every word. I think what he's saying is this. There's coming a day when God is going to make that which is wrong right. And God is going to bring justice. And when God judges, it's going to be just And God is going to deal with it. We see out in the world today we see injustice in places you would think justice ought to be We see wickedness and iniquity in places where righteousness ought to be. But he says, I understand and I see above and beyond this, I know that down in my heart and soul there's coming a day When God is going to judge man, God is going to judge everybody, and He's going to make it right, and He's going to uh uh make the unjust just, and the iniquity is gonna be righteous I put this down. Sin has a temporary lifespan. Injustice has a temporary lifespan. We can get away with sin for a while. We can hide our iniquity. We can hide it for a while The world can get away with injustice, and it seems like it's able to do it for a long, long time. But I'm telling you, there is coming a day when God will make things right. The Bible tells us that. And as we look out into a wicked world in a world full of moral disorder and our It bothers us and our and it distresses us and we say, how can this be? We need to remember what Solomon points out here. It will not always be this way. There is coming a day when God will deal with all of it and make things right. We've got to believe that. Let me get let me leave you with two verses. I want to tell you a story about a gal. But turn with me if you would to Numbers chapter 32. Numbers chapter 32. Here you have Israel is coming, uh is going to uh eventually go into the promised land. There's a couple tribes that like it. On the other side of the Jordan River, and they say there's nice mo there's nice um um pasture here. It's good for our sheep, it's good for our families. Moses, we'd like to stay here and the rest of y'all uh all y'all go on over and we'll just stay here. And Moses said, listen, you know, this is the promised land. I think they made a mistake. Personally, I think they made a mistake by saying that the promised land was far better than anything that had to offer. But nevertheless, God allowed it and Moses worked with them. But he made they made an agreement. And said, Alright, you can stay here, but when we cross the Jordan and go to battle and take the land that God has promised us, you need to send your men and your armies and help Israel conquer that. Then once we have the land, once it's been conquered, then you can come back and live here and do your thing. But notice in verse, I think it's 23. He makes a statement that ties in to what Solomon is saying. Verse 23 of Numbers 32. But if ye will not do so, this agreement they had made, behold, ye have sinned against the Lord. You've done iniquity. It's not right. It's unjust that your brothers and sisters, other Israeli, your uh your fellow uh Israelites, they go to war, and you said, Here, that's not just So if you don't go, you have sinned against the Lord, and look at this next statement, and be sure your sin will find you out. What's he saying? He's saying you understand sin has a very short life. Sin, I'm not necessarily say short, sin has a temporary lifespan. And sooner or later, sooner or later, that sin, God will deal with it. God will deal with it. David complained about this in many of the Psalms. He says, Lord, I see the ungodly, the unrighteous, and they're prospering. And they've got great fields, and their sheep are fat. And um uh they've got all kinds of dogs, no cats. I mean, just everything's wonderful for them. And um he goes on and on, and they don't fear God, and they die old age And he's and he's complaining to God about this. He said, I see the righteous, the godly, and you know, they don't have all this stuff and different things. But then he says, he says, Then I went into the sanctuary. He went to church. He said I was all bothered by this, this injustice, this sin going on. There doesn't seem to be any problem. And boy, it just really worried me. And then I went to church. What did he hear in church? You know what I think you heard? God's going to make it right. Someday God's going to deal with it. God's going to deal with injustice. He's going to deal with iniquity. Someday God's going to make everything right. God's the judge. God's the judge. Turn with me one more passage. Way back in the New Testament, 2 Peter. I'm sorry, Galatians, where we were the book we were in this morning, Galatians. And chapter number six, I think Solomon is coming to these conclusions that are addressed in these two other places in the Bible. Galatians chapter 6, and really various places throughout the Bible. Numbers, be sure your sin will find you out. Oh, I I looked in the place of Judgment and behold, injustice was there. Wickedness, crime was there. I went to the place of righteousness and iniquity was there. Man, that bothered me. But God, and I remember, God, he's the judge. The day's coming he's going to make this right. Look at Galatians chapter 6 and come down to verse number 7. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. For he that soweth to his flesh shall the flesh reap corruption. And he that soweth to the spirit shall the spirit reap life everlasting. What's he saying? He's saying sin, injustice, iniquity has a temporary lifespan. And the day's gonna come when it'll all fall apart, and God's gonna deal with it, and God's gonna make it right. You follow what I think that's what he's teaching us here. Think Solomon, he's living under the sun, he sees all this and he gets a glimmer of life above the sun, realities from above the sun. God. He goes, I know in my heart, I know. God's going to judge. God's going to deal with this in his time, in his way. I read about, this is a fascinating woman. And I did a little research on the internet, and there's quite a bit of information about her on the internet. Her name was Sun Oke Li. She's a n she was a North Korean. She worked. Anybody ever hear of this gal somehow? She worked for the North Korean government. She was a manager in one of their branch offices for some department in the North Korea. North Korean government. There is such corruption, there is such brutality, for reasons she to this day does not know. She was arrested in her office, taken off. She saw her son briefly, her husband briefly. He was taken to a prisoner camp, a political prisoner camp, and he died there. She never saw him again Her son was taken off for a while. He was later released. And she was taken to a prison camp from 1987 to 1992. She's not a Christian. She's a prisoner. And I won't go into the horrific details, but you can find her information, her story on the internet, and it gives quite a detailed and it's pretty horrific. Of what she went through and the things she saw as a prisoner in North Korea. She Said that while she was there, there were things she saw in prison. That impacted her. So what happened was she uh she was there for five years and for inexplicable reasons To this day she doesn't know why. They suddenly took her and let her loose and said, You can go. Her husband, of course, had died in prison a long time before that. Her son was there. They got together later through a series of events. She was able to go through a mountain pass late at night, her and her son. They escaped over into China miraculously, ended up coming around down this to South Korea And South Korea took her in, they kind of debriefed her, got what information they could about North Korea, and they gave her protection. And uh she's alive today, she speaks various places. But when she got to South Korea, she got saved Somebody gave her one of the men there that was working with her helping to assimilate back to life. I mean it's it's culture shock. It's two different worlds. And he gave her, he says, here's something that will help you adjust to your new life. And he gave her a Bible. And she said, in the little room there they're at, he sang Amazing Grace to her. And that was what led her to trust Christ as Savior. But she said this. She was overwhelmed by memories of what she had seen and heard in prison. Simple things like Christians in the North Korean prison. Who sang as they were being put to death. At the time she didn't understand, she thought they were crazy. She was not allowed to talk to them, so she never had an opportunity to speak with the Christians about why they would sing while they're being killed. She does remember them hearing, talking among themselves and hearing the word, Amen, Amen, among the Christians in this North Korean prison. She said while she was there those five years, she never saw one time a Christian deny their faith. Not one time. If the Christians were silent, the guards would beat them mercilessly. She didn't understand why they risked their lives when all they would have had to do was say, I don't believe. The Christians were referred to by the North Korean guards as the superstitious ones. If they looked upward, they were Christians, they believed in heaven, if they would so much as looked upward, they would be beaten mercilessly. She said that there was one time when three of the Christians who were in a prisoner in a cell near her, uh somewhere near her, um they were given the job of cleaning the commodes they would have to haul the excrement out to a big in ground tank. One of the girls and it was pouring rain, she said they were hauling it all the all this nasty out. She was dumping in and she fell into the tank. She had slipped and fell into the tank. The other Christian girl, no one else would do anything. The other Christian girl came running over and um Tried to help her. That lady slipped and was pulled in also. If you can imagine this in your mind. Third Christian came over and was trying to help them out. She ended up falling in there with them. The guards saw what was coming over. They said, Are you Christians? They said, Yes. They closed the lid and sealed it, and they never heard saw them again. She observed these things. And she said, I never understood. All they would have had to do is say, I do not believe that anymore. That's what the guards wanted. They could have went away. She did not see one Christian come out of that prison alive. But she said it was their singing. That stuck in her heart. And later when she got to South Korea, she said, it was the singing of those precious saints that planted a seed in my spirit. And eventually led me to Christ. Now my question is this: how in the world can a Christian In a North Korean prison in and if you would read this, it's uh it's unspeakable horrors How could they sing when treated that way? How could they talk of the Lord in positive ways and say amen? When such injustice and such wickedness, I want to suggest to you it was because they knew that God is the judge. God will deal with that. And though they now not find justice in this life, God is ultimately the judge. And God will deal with that injustice. Now I'm not even remotely suggesting that you and I in our lifetime are going to face anything like that in our country. I can't fathom that. But I am suggesting that you and I may face some abuse. We're going to face opposition. I had a phone call yesterday told me horrible things. This guy never met me, but it's amazing he knows how horrible I am. I just said, well, thanks for calling, man, you know. God bless you. God takes care of that stuff. I don't have to retaliate. I don't have to be bothered by it. It doesn't have to worry me. God is the judge. And God will deal with that. I think that's what Solomon's telling us. So we need to keep that in mind. God's the judge. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, pray you'd help us. We go through this week. Help us to rejoice in you. Rejoice in your goodness to us. Help us not to let the condition of this world to discourage us or defeat us. Help us keep our eyes on Christ. Help us to look at things above and live vertically in tune with you. Knowing that all these things that may be wrong, that someday, God, you're going to make that right. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. Wonder how many would say tonight, Pastor. I want to keep my eyes on Christ. Maybe there's situation at work. Maybe there's family giving you a hard time. I don't know what it may be. Disappointment in some way in somebody. But tonight you say, preacher, I'm just going to keep my eyes on Christ. I'm going to rejoice in the Lord. God's in control. He's going to make everything right. It's going to be okay in the end. How many like that say, preacher, that's not what I want to do. I want to keep that mindset. I want to keep that frame of mind. God bless you, hands all around. Now maybe we just need to give ourselves, Lord. Maybe we've been griping, mad, trying to get back. Trying to retaliate, find vengeance. No, no, no. Let the Lord take care of that. And may we just need the Lord to fill us with His Spirit and lead us and direct us this week. Turning here tonight and say, preacher, I'm not saved. I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I tell you, you don't want God to be your judge as a lost person. Certainly don't want that. Is there any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm safe. I need to get that settled. Father, bless our invitation tonight, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.