First Corinthians chapter number one, verse nine. Anybody recognize that verse? It's our memory verse for November. And so we're going to look at this, particularly the first few words of 1 Corinthians chapter 9. What I want us to do is read this verse together in unison. And you say, good Greek preacher, we already quoted the beginning of the service. Pastor Matt read it 40 seconds ago. And you're gonna have us read again. Yeah, let's read it together. Ready? First number nine. First Corinthians chapter one. All together. Ready? God is faithful by whom he were called unto the fellowship of his son, Jesus Christ our Lord. I've entitled the message this morning, God is Faithful. That's our message. We could give an invitation now. Go out. That truth could change our lives. God is faithful. Let's pray. By the way, we're not going to give an invitation right now. We are going to preach the message. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. I pray that this one truth, this simple little truth here, that you would just grip our hearts and minds with this. And help us live our lives. I pray that our decisions we make in our lives, the actions we take, our behavior, our attitudes Would all be governed by this truth of your faithfulness. So I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit this hour. I yield my will to you I present my body anew as a tool in your hands to build your church. I pray you would speak through me and open our hearts and minds. That we would be willing to make the decisions that you uh touch our hearts about. Make the adjustments that you reveal in our lives need to be adjusted. And so that your will would be done in our lives and our will would be pushed aside. Again, I yield myself to you. Till me, please, Lord, with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Uh the church at Corinth that Paul is writing to, the book of 1 Corinthians actually is a letter that Paul wrote to this church at Corinth that he was instrumental in starting. The Lord's the founder of the church, but God used Paul to establish this church. And he's writing to them. If you notice, if you go in your Bible to the next book, it's 2 Corinthians. And that is a second letter that he wrote to the church, kind of a follow-up to the first one. Now, for you and I, the book of Corinthians is a book of the Bible. We look at it, it's a book of the Bible, it's Romans, Matthew, all these books in the Bible, there's another book in the Bible. But for the church at Corinth This was a personal letter written to that local body of believers from the founding pastor, so to speak From the man that God used to bring them to Christ and to establish this body of Christ there in the city of Corinth. And so I can imagine, you know, back then they didn't have at this point in church history, there really wasn't buildings, church buildings, so to speak. They were meeting in homes or sometimes, no doubt, just out under the sky. and different places like that. Some met in synagogues and a room in the synagogue or whatever. So I'm not sure exactly what the structure was they were meeting in, but I can imagine when this letter shows up It's delivered by a fellow and the letter shows up to the church there and they gather together and the leadership of the church says, hey, we got a We got a letter from uh Brother Paul, and oh I can imagine everybody's excited and anticipation And so for you and I, it's a book of the Bible. But for those believers then, this was a personal letter that meant a lot to them, I have no doubt about it Now a little bit about this church at Corinth, just to give some background here. The church at Corinth was a very gifted church. Now, who knows, anybody here know what I mean by gifted? It's a gifted church. In other words. God had gifted them with many talents. Later on in the book, Paul will address the gifts of the Holy Spirit. In other words, the abilities or the talents or the skills That God, through the person of the Holy Spirit, had supernaturally enabled them. Gifts of the Holy Spirit. Paul talks about it in the book of Romans also, the gifts of the Spirit. And notice with me, if you would, in verse number seven, he makes a statement about the church here in his opening statements in this letter. He says, verse seven, he says, so that ye come behind in no gift Now, think with me a little bit. What do you think he means when he says, writing to the church here, Corinth, you come behind in no gift? What's he saying? Somebody help me. What's he saying to him? Anybody take a shot? He's saying you have all the gifts you're not lacking in any of the gifts that the Holy Spirit makes available. You're you're you're you don't come behind in any of this. You're you've got the full You've got the full account of gifts that the Holy Spirit has to offer to a church. You understand that's a compliment, right? He's complimenting them This is a a very, very gifted church. And um, you know, like I said, he discusses what the gifts are a little bit later on. They were a very gifted church. Now here's the rub They were a very gifted church, but they were a very immature church. And though they had the gifts, now Follow me. Though they had the gifts, they were very gifted. They were very talented. There was no ministry of the church. There was no aspect of church life that they were not able to carry out. They were gifted. They come behind and none of them. But they were very immature. They're very immature. You know a person can be very talented But yet very immature. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Person can know all kinds of Bible verses. Person can be a tremendous teacher, can be a tremendous preacher. Can be a great soul winner, have gifts. Soul winning isn't a gift, but he can be very gifted, but yet be very immature. And that's the tragedy of this church at Corinth. And he's writing to them, and one of the reasons he writes to them is to address their immaturity. I put in the margin of my Bible, beside that statement, you come behind and no gift. In the margin of my Bible, I wrote this They had the gifts of the Spirit, but they did not have the fruit of the Holy Spirit. They didn't have those godly characteristics that the Holy Spirit produces in a yielded life, a dedicated life. They had the gifts, the abilities, but not in maturity, not the fruit. And so it's a gifted church. It's a Very immature church, spiritually immature. He says I couldn't write to you as adults. I had to write to you like babies Uh how many people would um uh how many people would be it surprised me if I got up and said, all right, I can't preach to you all like you're grown-ups, I gotta preach to you like we're in the nursery. How many people would say, boy, that's a blessing. I'm glad to hear That's basically what he's saying to them a couple chapters on. He said, I couldn't teach to you as a spiritual. I'd have to talk to you like you're babes in Christ. Spiritual babes And uh so uh the church was very gifted, but it was very immature. Another thing about this church that he's writing to Is it was a very divided church. Look with me if you would in verse number 10 of chapter 1. Now we didn't read down in our scripture reading. We cut off before we got here, but look what he says in verse 10. Now I beseech you, brethren. Now they're saved, they're Christians, brethren. Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Look at this. that ye all speak the same thing. Look at this next statement. That there be no what? Divisions among you But that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind, in the same judgment. Look at verse 11. For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, you got word back This is the founding pastor, so to speak. He got word back, it's been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe. He names who told him That there are contentions among you. There's fussing and division and fighting going on in this church. How many people would agree with me? That's never healthy for a church to be that way. It's never healthy And so it was a divided church. He goes on and says, verse 12, now this I say that every one of you saith. Now he's telling them what their situation is. He's pointing out, well, every one of you saith, I'm of Paul. And I am Apollos, and I Eas. And some said, Oh, I'm of Christ Do you catch what he's catch what's going on in this church here? They were dividing over personalities. Oh, I'm a follower of Paul, not Peter and uh not Cephas and not Apollos Oh yeah, well I'm a follower of Christ. And they got so proud in their little followings and their little clicks that they had in the church. that it produced contentions, it produced division. Anytime you have pride, you're going to have contention Let me reverse that. Anytime you have contention, pride is involved. Without uh only by pride cometh contention. So this church was very divided, very proud, self-centered. Oh, I'm following this guy. I'm following. I heard a preacher, I heard a church member not here years ago. thirty-five years ago I was in a church and uh the one fellow said, I wouldn't walk across the street to hear that preacher. That's good, fundamental, Bible preaching preacher. Uh that is the attitude this church had. Oh, I'm not a follower. I can't stand Peter. Oh, I oh, I hate Apollos. I'm a follower of Paul. Have to be very, very careful about that. Right? Are you with me? So that was the that was the atmosphere. of this church when they assembled together. Very immature, very gifted. Oh man, they could do it. They had great teachers. They had great, just all the gifts, very But they are very immature, very babyish, very proud, divided. It's another thing he says about the church. Look at chapter 3 and verse number 1. Here's where he refers to them as babes. And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as spiritual, but as unto carnal. They're very fleshly. Their base desires of their flesh controlled them. Even as unto what? Babes in Christ, I fed you with milk and uh Uh not uh I fed you with milk and not with meat, for hitherto you were not able to bear it. Neither are you now able, for you are yet carnal For whereas there is among you, now he's writing to this church, this is what he's saying to him, uh envying and strife And divisions. Are ye not carnal and walk as men? And he goes on and he deals with very specific sins. The church at Corinth was a sinful church. In fact, some of the issues going on in the church that he addresses in the following chapters are almost embarrassing to have to deal with from a pulpit. Or to teach them. They were so wicked, so sinful. And so Paul is writing to this church, I often said this, if you went on vacation somewhere And you went and visited a church on vacation. And by the way, I think when you're on vacation you still ought to go to church, I think. And so you go visit a church and you would visit the First Baptist Church of Corinth. You visited this church. If you were like me, you'd walk away saying, that church is a terrible church. I'm never going to go to that church again. They were a mess. But Paul's writing to them. This is uh uh the church that God used him to establish The purpose of him writing, and I'm going somewhere with this, so bear with me, but the purpose of his writing this letter to the church, first of all, was to confront their immaturity. He says in so many words, he says, listen, it's time to grow up spiritually. It's time to get to move on. And develop some maturity about you. He wants to confront them about their sins. And there's several things here where he says, basically, and I'm putting this in the LV, the Leatherman version Um he says this, stop it. Stop doing. Do you ever sit anybody here with kids your kids raise up and you told them, stop it. Anybody ever do that to your kids? Or maybe you put it this way. Knock it off. Anybody ever that way? Uh maybe you said it this way. I'm gonna jack your rear end up between your shoulder blades if you don't quit. Anybody? Something like that. Yeah That's basic well maybe not that last one wasn't exactly what he was saying. But I mean to tell you he comes down hard on him. By the way, listen, no church will ever be perfectly sinless. No church ever going to be, but no church ought to ever get to the point where they tolerate it. Amen? Just overlook it and say, well, whatever. It ought to be confronted. The Lord wants a pure church. Unspotted is how the Bible refers to it. And so that's what Paul's doing. He's confronting them, he's writing them, and he deals them right up front. He just deals with it, confronts their immaturity And their sins, he rights to correct their mistaken practices? Man alive. Their practice of the Lord's Supper was an absolute mess. And I don't want to get too far off track here a little bit, but basically when the church got together to have a Lord's Supper, it was a drunken, gluttonous Thing where everybody brought their food in and they wouldn't share food with each other and they're drinking wine to the point they're getting drunk How many people have a problem with that? Yeah. And Paul says, knock it off. And he corrects their mistaken practices. And he answers a list of questions. We pick up here a little later on in the book. They had written to Paul a number of questions about marriage and different things, and he answers those questions. And so the church was a mess, the church was very immature They had really gotten off track on so many things. They were distorting what spiritual gifts were, particularly tongues later on. They had that so distorted. comes back and tries to correct all that. But nevertheless, it was a bona fide body of Christ. And it refers to them over and over as brethren. Brethren And he refers to them in very dear terms. He's very strong. He's right up front. He rebukes them strongly. But he always does it in love. And he expresses his compassion. In fact, he uses this term throughout the book, my beloved brethren. My dearly beloved, would you agree with me? That's a term of endearment. That's a term of compassion. Paul loved these believers. As immature and as messed up as they were, he loved them. And we pick that up as we get these first chapters of the book, particularly the first verses of chapter one, he starts off with a very positive, very complimentary To the church. He doesn't start off verse 1, chapter 1, you bunch of baby immature, sinful brats. He doesn't start off that way. He starts off very positive, very gracious. He doesn't start off ridiculing them and mocking them and calling them names. I'm not so sure. That's the best way to go about it. But he starts out very gracious. He's going to deal very strongly with them, with some serious issues here in a little bit, as I've been saying But he begins kindly. He begins very positively. He makes some tremendous statements about him. He thanks, he expresses his gratitude to him. Notice there in Verse number 4, chapter 1. He says, I thank my God always on your behalf for the grace of God which is given to you by Jesus Christ. And so he begins this way, and look at verse 6. Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you, he says, listen, uh God saved you. There's a testimony of Christ confirmed you. Now you've you're you're a mess You're immature, you're really being dumb. I'm gonna help you with that. But he but he compliments them and And I think that's a good thing. The way I look at it is this, and not insincerely, so don't misunderstand what I'm saying, but he's putting a little sugar with the turpentine Anybody here when you were little, your mom gave you turpentine if you were weren't feeling well or something? Put a little anybody here know what I'm talking about? A few. We did when I was real small, get a little spit uh thing of turpentine. I forget what was wrong with us Uh I think I was worse afterward than I was before. But they have a little spoon of turpentine and put some sugar on there. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Or um uh what was it? Cod liver oil and uh stuff like that. You put a little, just kind of take the edge off of it. And I think Paul's doing that a little bit He's putting a little sugar on here. And uh he wants to know that he's going to deal very strongly with them. They're going to be rebuked. They're going to be corrected. He's just going to be straight up with them. But he wants to know off the bat, listen, I love you. And you're precious and you're important. And God loves you. And He wants them to understand that right from the get. Now, in verse number 9, this is what I want to get to Paul makes a statement. Now, knowing all what this book is going to lead, knowing the whole situation, I think he's making a foundational statement here for the church that they need to understand. And that is this. Look at verse 9, the first three words. Would you say it with me? God is faithful. If they can get a hold of that, if they can grasp that, that God is faithful. Then maybe they'll be able to straighten the other things out. By the way, let me just jump ahead. You get to 2 Corinthians, and you know what you find out? They listened to Paul and they got things right. Isn't that good? Isn't it always a blessing when people come around and uh they get it right? And Paul writes back to them, says, hey You did what I said. Corinthians is really a revival instruction book on a backslidden church. This is how you get right with God. And he writes to them in the second book, second letter, Corinthians, and he and we see they responded positively, and they made the adjustments, and they made the corrections. And Paul praises them for that. So he makes this statement: God is faithful. Now, I don't know about you, but in my Bible, I've got that underline, and I actually circled those three words in my Bible. That statement really should be underscored in every Bible. In fact, let me take it a little further. I think every Christian ought to memorize those three little words. God is faithful. How many folks here say, preacher, that's too hard? I could never memorize that little statement. Anybody at all? We can Even a small child could memorize that. Amen. Even an old geezer could memorize that. Amen. God is faithful. Not underscore it in your Bible. Highlight it somehow. God is faithful. Commit that. Try through the whole verse. We're going to memorize it this month, but try and at least get that phrase in your head. God is faithful. God is faithful. Maybe you want to write it somewhere where it's kept before you. Maybe get a little 3x5 card or something bigger, 4x6, get a marker. God is Faithful and put it somewhere where you go to a lot, somewhere where you look at often, maybe throughout the day, numerous times throughout the day, somewhere, like a refrigerator door. And places you go to often, and just keep it there. Maybe a mirror, put it on the dashboard of your car, maybe in the office somewhere on your desk, your computer. God is faithful. God is faithful. Paul makes this statement to a church that was struggling, that was just so far off track. And he says God is faithful. Here's my first thought this morning. Number one, I want to give a definition of the word faithful. You say, Well, preacher, how dumb do you think we are? We know what faithful is. Sometimes We hear a word, and it's such a simple thing, we really miss the significance of what it means. God is faithful. Now, what do we mean by that? Um faithfulness Is one of the greatest qualities that a person can have as an individual. To be faithful. Later on in the book of Corinthians, here he makes this statement to him: it is required in stewards. That a man be found what? Faithful. God says that it's a tremendous characteristic in the part of any person, saved or unsaved, but a especially a child of God, especially a saint of God, to be faithful In Proverbs chapter 20 and verse number six, God asked this question: A faithful man who can find Now, what is God asking that question? What is the implication of that question? A faithful man who can find? It's what? Faithful man is hard to find. Who can find a faithful man? Who can find a faithful woman? Who can find a faithful young person? Who can find somebody that is faithful? It's a tremendous characteristic. It's highly praised all through Scripture. Now the question is, what does it mean to be faithful? When the Bible says that God is faithful, what does it mean by that? Well, to be honest with you, it means pretty much what you think it would mean. It means to be reliable. We have folks in our church that have businesses and you hire employees. And I tell you, I would venture to say, I know this as pastor of a church. One thing you look for in a good employee is that they be what? Faithful. They be reliable. They're going to show up when it's time to show up. Amen? They're going to follow the instructions that the employer gives. We need this done, we need that done, we need this mood, we need these papers filed, or whatever. You can count on them. They're reliable. It means to be trustworthy. Be trustworthy means this person is worthy of our trust. Sometimes we'll, you know, in the ministry or working with people, sometimes you know you have to assess people for different positions and different responsibilities. And sometimes somebody will say this Oh yeah, so and so, you can trust her. They're worthy of their trust. They conducted themselves in such a way They behave themselves in such a way, they have such a reputation and such a track record that they are worthy to put my trust in them. Faithful. Reliable, worthy, trustworthy, dependable, true. Another definition of the word faithful is to be loyal to another person or to a cause. Sometimes you'll hear and we have many in our church, I thank God for it, but sometimes you'll say, Oh yeah. In fact it was just somebody recently came up, and I don't remember the situation or even who it was, but they said so-and-so, and I said, Oh yeah, they're a faithful member of our church. In other words, they're loyal. They're in their place. They're there. They support it. To be loyal to a cause or to a person, a faithful spouse. A faithful parent, loyal to a responsibility. You say, all right, preacher, you beat the obvious. You know, we know what faithfulness is. I'm here to tell you God is faithful. He is reliable. God will do what he says he's going to do. He's reliable. God is trustworthy. I'm here to tell you, I'm here to speak on behalf of God, to give a character witness on God, and I'm here to tell you, He is worthy of your trust. You can trust him. I've been knowing him for 41 years now. 42 years now. Some of y'all longer. I've been knowing God for 42 years now, and I'm here to tell you: you can trust him. He's worthy of our trust. God is dependable. He's reliable. He is true. I'm here to tell you this: God is loyal. Now we always talk about our loyalty to God, our faithfulness to God. I'm here to tell you, God's loyal to his people. He'll stand with us. He'll stand, he'll support us. He's not going to forsake us. In fact, I love Hebrews 13, verse 5. He has said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. You know what that is? That's loyalty. That's faithfulness. I'm glad I have a Father in heaven that's a faithful father. And he's loyal to his people. He's loyal to his church. I like what Jesus says. Upon this rock I will build my church. And the gates of hell shall not be able to stand against it. You know what that? God's loyal to his church. He's going to keep us. He'll protect us. He'll provide for us. How many people are glad for that? Say amen. God is faithful. What do you mean by that? I mean he's reliable. He's trustworthy. He's loyal We can depend on him. So, number one, my first thought is the definition of faithfulness. Number two, the declaration of God's faithfulness. I got studying this, that phrase caught my attention when we when I chose this verse as our memory verse for November I got looking at it, and it was that phrase that caught my attention. God is faithful. And so I got looking it up. You know what I found out? I found out the Bible is relentless In declaring the faithfulness of God. Over and over and over. We're going to take a anybody here remember Uh back oh twenties plus years ago, they used to cruise down at Foodland down here on Friday nights and Saturday nights. Anybody remember that? And they would just cruise and they'd drive through the parking lot and come up around and loop around. And um I tried to get and cruise with them, but I didn't fit in at all. And um but uh they would cru we're gonna take a cruise Through the Bible real quick. You got your Bibles there. How many people are glad a church uses the Bible in preaching? Amen. We're going to use our Bible now. Want you to look at this. Got it? Get ready here. Here we go Chapter 1 verse 9. You say that's where we're at. Right. That's our starting point. God is what? Alright, come over to chapter 10. Keep your place here in nine in chapter 1, 9. Come over to 1 Corinthians 10. Turn those pages. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. Look with me at verse 13. Some of us are very familiar with verse 13. It's a great verse to memorize. Look what it says. 1013. There had no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But, what's it say? God is faithful. God is faithful. Come over, if you would, to 2 Corinthians chapter number 1. And verse number 18. 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, chapter 1 And verse 18. Notice what the Bible says here. But as God is what? True. I got looking up that word true. You know what I found out? Comes from the exact same word, the word faithfulness comes from. You know he's telling them in the second letter, hey, God's true. God's faithful. You can trust him. Come with me, if you would, to 1 Thessalonians. Now you're in 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Colossians Philippians is in there. Keep going if you get to Philippians, keep going, Colossians, keep going. After Colossians is 1 Thessalonians And look with me, if you would, at chapter 5, all the way to the end of the book, and verse number 24. Speaking of the Lord here, listen to this statement. Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it. Who's he talking about? It's all about God. It says faithful. God's called you. He's going to do it. Hey, if God's called you to be a Sunday school bus worker, God will enable you to do it. He's faithful. God's called you to be a Sunday school teacher. God will enable you. God's called you to a particular ministry. Say, oh, I don't think I'm competent. I don't know if I can do this. Listen If God's called you, He's faithful. You can trust Him. Answer the call. Follow His leadership. Let Him lead you. He will enable you. He's faithful I remember when God called me to preach, I thought, man alive, I I wanted to teach elementary school kids. I couldn't man, that was my level. That was my IQ right there. That's who I And uh God started leading, stirring my heart about pastor. I thought, good heavens, I could never do that. And uh, you know what I found out? Thirty-five years later, you know what I found out? God's faithful He enables us. Come over here. We're not done cruising yet. Go to 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. And verse number 3, 2 Thessalonians 3:3. Are you there? Look at this. But the Lord is what? Who shall establish you and keep you from evil. You can trust him. God will help us. Come over, if you would, to 2 Timothy. Very next book is 1 Timothy. Keep going to get to 2 Timothy. And uh 2 Timothy comes right after 1 Timothy. And look with me, if you would, at chapter 2 and verse 13. If we believe not, yet he abideth what? Anyone here ever struggle with your faith? Anybody here ever struggle to say, man, I don't know if I've uh man I know what God promised here. I know God promised that, but I don't know. I really struggle trusting Him in that. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? I had a lady years ago, I was chaplain with hospice And um uh sweet lady, uh and uh what my responsibility was, if they didn't have a church or a pastor, no spiritual input and they desired it, the hospice would refer me to them and I would offer, you know, to be their pastor, help them in any spiritual things. And I tell you, I thoroughly enjoyed it. I did it for four years and worked with hundreds of people. I loved it. And there was a lady not far from the church here that I was given her name. She had cancer. She only had a few weeks, a couple months maybe to live, and she had no pastor, no spiritual input. And she goes, yes, I would like for someone to come and talk to me. And one of the first things I would tell folks when I visited with them, and you know, of course they're fearful, they're about you know they have a death sentence. And one of the things I would tell them, one of the wonderful things about this, is God has given you an opportunity to prepare. for that inevitable. Prepare for death and to face God. And so many people responded so positively, and this dear lady did. And I went by and visited her and introduced myself. We talked a little bit and of course she was very fearful and concerned. And um I said, well God has given you opportunity to prepare to meet the Lord. I said, let me show you some verses. And she very gracious and she just lived not far from here. And I was able to take a Bible. One of the first times I visited with her and take a Bible And showed her from the Bible how that we're all sinners and Christ died for our sins, was buried, rose again. If we'll turn to him, trust him, receive him as our Savior, He'll forgive our sin, give us eternal life, we can know we have a home in heaven. And she bowed her head with me and she trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And I mean she was all in. She was so happy that God had forgiven her sins And saved her from hell and give her a new life and had accepted her through Christ. And we began working with her, and one of the things came up about getting baptized. And uh and so uh she she goes, well I can't I can do it. She was still healthy enough she couldn't. So she came in, and I think if I remember right we had some folks help a little bit, and she followed the Lord in baptism Or her health deteriorated and it was coming up on time. It was just about time. She called me up one day, she said, Pastor Lemon, can you come over? And she was crying. I came over and uh I said, What's going on? And she goes, she made this statement. She said, I'm afraid that my faith isn't strong enough. She goes, I know I'm trusting Christ. I've called on him, I've trusted them. But she says, I'm afraid my faith isn't strong enough. You know what I told her? I said, and I said her name, and I said, it is not the strength of your faith that saves, it's the object of your faith that saves. And even a little bit of faith in the right person will save your soul. The strongest faith in the world, in the wrong thing, you'll be lost. But a the weak faith in the right thing will save your soul. You know what that's what this verse is saying. God is faithful. Though we struggle sometimes and we doubt and say, Lord, I don't know. Remember the fellow that came to Jesus about his son, he said, Lord, I believe. But what did he say? Help thou mine unbelief. He's saying, I'm struggling, I'm doubting. And Paul, God, through the Apostle Paul, Paul, and the inspiration of the Lord, is writing that church at Thessalonica, and he says, though we doubt, he's faithful. He's faithful. Say, preacher, I don't know how strong my faith is. I don't know how strong your faith is either, but I know this. God is faithful. And anybody that will trust him He'll come through every single time. He'll come through every single time. We're not done cruising yet. Come over here with me. 1 John chapter 1 and verse 9. Keep going there. Actually, let's stop off in Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 3. Look with me if you would at verse 2. Speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ here, question, is Jesus God? Yes. So speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ here, he says in Hebrews 3, verse 2, who was faithful unto him that appointed him. I'm glad Jesus was faithful. I'm glad God the Son, Jesus was faithful to God the Father. Now he could not be anything other than that But he fulfilled God's plan, God's purpose for Jesus coming down here. None of us would be saved today if Jesus Christ wasn't faithful. Now, uh 1 John chapter 1. Keep going Hebrews, then you hit James, and then 1 Peter, and then 2 Peter is after 1 Peter, and then you get to James, and then you get to John. And there's three Johns, first, second, and third John. 1 John chapter 1, verse 9. How many people are familiar with this verse? Look what it says here. If we confess our sins He is one, faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us, what's that second last word? From all unrighteousness. God is fatal. Say, uh I don't know about you. Uh uh sometimes we come and we'll mess up, we'll say or do something we know it's wrong. It's like, oh man. And we come and say, God, I messed up, I did wrong, I confess it, Lord, it was wrong. I'm sorry. I don't want to turn from, I want it out. We come. And do you ever do that? And then afterward you just say, boy, I hope God forgave me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Oh, I hope God forgave me for that. And we still have some guilt there, and we still are embarrassed or ashamed. Oh, I hope he forgave me. God goes overboard here to assure us that he is Faithful, dependable, reliable, trustworthy to forgive us our sin and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Let me ask you a question. If God forgave every sin but one sin. Would he be faithful to forgive us? No. No. He is faithful to forgive us from all sin I've had people say to me, Preacher, I don't think God could ever forgive me for this sin. Oh, wait a minute, God's faithful. We confess our sins. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sin and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. How many people are glad God's faithful? God's faithful. He confessed our sins. He's faithful. Just a couple more here, real quick. Revelation chapter 3, last book of the Bible. Revelation chapter 3. He's addressing verse 14, Revelation 3, and verse number 14, he's addressing the church at Laodicea. They weren't hot or cold. This church made him sick. Verse number uh ten, but uh verse sixteen. But look at verse fourteen. And the angel of the church of Laodiceans write unto the angel. Do you notice he says to the angel of the church? When he says the angel of the church, he's referring to the pastor of the church, the messenger of the church. And what I am uh what I find interesting here is the pastor is an angel Yeah. The angel so so oh our chur our pastor's an angel. Um so anyway, never mind that And to the angel of the church at Laodicea write, these things saith, look at he describes himself, the amen, the faithful and true witness. The beginning of the creation of God. God is faithful. The Bible is relentless. Over and over and over. God is faithful. God is faithful. God is faithful. I get the impression, studying this, God wants us to very clearly understand He is faithful. He's reliable. I can trust Him. I can depend on God to come through I can trust him. When God if you don't get anything else, I hope we just walk out of here saying, what was the message about? If you walk out of here at lunch or eating, somebody says, What did your preacher preach about today? What would it be God is faithful. I want us to get that. If God says something is so, mark it down. It's so If God prophesies, now get this, if God prophesies that something's going to happen, you mark it down, it's going to happen. God's faithful. Jesus is coming again. Oh yeah, mockers, scoffers, oh yeah, everything just continues the way it was. You've been saying that for all these years. He's coming again You mark it down. God's faithful. He says he's coming again. He's coming again. God says he's going to judge the world in righteousness. You mark it down. Every person's going to be judged God is faithful. When God promises to do something, he'll do it. I love, for years in Bible college, I clung to Matthew 6. 33. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. What's the rest of it say? And all these things will be added unto you. And I say, God, you promised. Lord, I'm doing my best. I've committed myself to seek you and advance your righteousness and get the gospel to this world. I've come short of that. I've not been far from perfect. But God, that's been the purpose of everything I've done. Lord, you've promised everything I need would be met. I didn't always get everything I want. But God's been faithful and has met all my needs. We could have people all over the old tour and testify that same thing God's been faithful. God's been faithful. Now He doesn't always give us everything we need, everything we want. Yesterday we were coming back and a bunch of our folks stopped off at Cabela's. There was stuff in there they didn't even know existed before they pulled in. They come out saying, Man, I need that. Not everything we think we need, we need. Not everything we, wait a minute, how do I say this? Not everything we want is necessarily a need. But what legitimate needs are, you mark it down. If you'll trust God, put him first, he'll meet that need. He's faithful. He's faithful. So the Bible's relentless. And over and over and over, God is faithful, God is faithful, God is faithful. Let me quickly give you my third thought, the display of God's faithfulness. Paul's writing to the church here at Corinth now, he's going to address some serious issues. They were a mess. And uh but he begins by saying, God is faithful. Now that was written by inspiration. In other words, God inspired, God moved on Paul's heart to record this letter. to uh the church at Corinth. He led in the words. We believe in plenary inspiration. The very words were given by God, what he is writing down So Paul is writing to the church here. God is faithful, and God is moving on his heart and mind for him to record that down. If God says something is so, it's so. Amen? Are we on the same page? And we ought to believe it for no other reason than God says it. Amen? But I tell you, there's another level of faith. There's another level of understanding, and that is when I believe a promise of God simply because God promised it. But then when I believe a promise of God, not only because he promised it, but because I've experienced it. Follow what I'm saying? I believe when the Bible says whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, I believe that's true simply because God said it. Amen? Can I get a witness? But you know what? I doubly believe it because on May 7, 1979, I called on the Lord, and God did exactly what he said he would. He saved my soul, and that's a whole nother level of confidence in that verse. Follow what I'm saying? You want to believe it whether you experience it or not. If God said it, that settles it. But when we believe it and then God comes through, then we can stand up and testify. I'm here to tell you God will save you if you'll turn to Him and trust Him as your Savior. That's the display of God's faithfulness. Saul, Paul experienced that. He's writing to them saying God is faithful, not simply because the Holy Spirit of God impressed him to write that down, but he's writing it because he knew it firsthand. Oh, we don't have time, but we go to Acts chapter 9, Paul's salvation on the Damascus Road, and Christ appeared to him. And uh and he put his faith and trust in Christ, and God saved him and changed his life and gave him a whole new direction. And later on he says, I know who am I believing, and I'm persuaded And he's able to keep that which I've committed unto him. Paul knew firsthand God's faithfulness in salvation. I'm here to tell you, you're here this morning, you're listening online, you're listening to a recording of this And you don't have assurance that your sins are forgiven and that you're on your way to heaven and you're in sin and you know it I'm here to tell you God is faithful if you turn to him, believe that he died on that cross for you, buried and rose again, and you'll personally trust him as your own personal Savior. I'm here to tell you God is faithful. He'll forgive your sin and give you a new life and give you a home in heaven. Paul said, I know that firsthand. I've experienced it. I've trusted Christ and He changed my life and He gave me a new life. And all across this auditorium and all around the world, in every nation of the world, there are people who can stand up and testify. I know firsthand that God forgives sins and saves souls and changes lives When we put our faith and trust in Jesus Christ. He's faithful. He displays that. Paul knew that. He saw it in his salvation. Paul saw it in his preaching. In Romans chapter 1 and verse 16, he says, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. Paul said, God's faithful. You preach his gospel, he'll use it, people will get saved. I'm convinced there's people all over our community here. If we'd go to their house and preach the gospel to them, they'd trust Christ and get saved. I'm convinced there's people in Kazakhstan, there's people in countries all around the world. If somebody would just go there and preach the gospel to them, people would get saved. It's the power of God unto salvation. You say, preacher, I've been witnessing to somebody, I've been giving them tracks, I've been preaching at them for years, and they're still not saved. Don't you quit. You keep preaching, you keep tracking, you keep witnessing The power of God unto salvation. So Paul said, I know God's faithful in saving souls and the power of the gospel in persecution. In uh 2 Timothy 4, 6, uh chapter 4, verse 16 and 7, he's talking about persecution. People have abandoned me. He said, No man Stood with me. But listen to what he said. He said, No man stood with me in his persecution. But then he said this: No man stood with me, notwithstanding the Lord stood with me. I know we have people in our church that you work with folks, you try to witness, and they give you a hard time. We have people in our church, and I we've had over the years people in our church got saved and started living for God and the family kicked them out. Thinking of one fellow, his wife kicked him out. I didn't marry no fundamentalists. Booted him out of the house. He says, no man stood with me. I'm here to tell you, I can tell you firsthand God stood with those people every single time. God's faithful. He's not going to abandon us. You stand for Christ, you take opposition, you get cussed out, you get stuff thrown at you, whatever it may be. I'm here to tell you might feel like the most lonely person in the world, but I'm here to tell you as a believer you are never alone Christ stood with us. Christ stood with us. Reading a book, I mentioned it numerous times this year. Each day I try to read an account of someone who was persecuted for Christ. In communist countries, in Muslim countries, in years going by, history, people that stood, many of them killed for Christ, every one of them, their testimony was, the Lord is with me. The Lord is with me. The Lord is with me. We got it pretty good in America, amen or not. We got it real good. But I'm telling you, that can change like that. I'm not trying to scare anything, I'm simply saying it can change like that And we need to know God's faithful. We'll stand for him, he'll stand with us. And we stand on this book, God will stand for us. He knew he was faithful. God displayed his faithfulness in Paul's persecution. In his pain, he says, When I'm weak, you're strong. Paul had a thorn in the flesh, very painful, physical something. And he besought the Lord three times. Lord, please take this away. God, he's begging God. Over a period of time, he's pleading with God, please take it away. Finally, God says, I'm not going to take it away. He says, because when you are weak, that's when I can be strong in your life. Paul said, Therefore I will most gladly glory in my infirmities. That the power of God can be displayed in my life. You know what he was saying? When God chooses, I believe God can heal. Amen. I know he can. I don't believe in babies faith healer crackpots, but I do know that God can heal. But God doesn't always choose to heal us You say, oh God failed me. I asked him to make me well. When he did, then God failed me. And I prayed that my loved one wouldn't die. And they died, and God failed. I'm here to tell you, God didn't fail you. He is faithful even when he allows us to suffer sickness and pain. Because then he gets glory. He gets glory. So the display of God's faithfulness. Oh, I got another thought. The dependence upon God's faithfulness. And I'll end with this. Lamentations 3:23. Great is thy faithfulness. Jeremiah persecuted like very few prophets in the Old Testament persecuted. And he looked up to heaven and he said, God, great is your faithfulness. You've been faithful to me. I'm here to tell you there's never been an exception to God's faithfulness. Billions of people throughout history, and yet not one person can stand up and say, God has not been faithful to me. God's faithfulness is proven. God is faithful to us when we're discouraged. Lamentations 3. God is faithful to us when we doubt. John 10, 28. God's faithful to us when we're tempted. 1 Corinthians 10:13. God's faithful to us when we've been defeated. I might be taught, I don't know. I might be taught to someone you say, Preacher, I messed up bad this week. I sinned. I just flat out sinned I'm here to tell you, if you haven't dealt with it, if you haven't brought that sin to Christ and confessed it yet, you can come today, and I'm telling you, God's faithful. He will forgive you. He will forgive you He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. Trust him when your world is crumbling. Trust him when your health is failing. Trust them when your life is fading. Trust them when your marriage is struggling. Trust them when your friends fail you. Trust them when your enemies hurt you. God will never let us down. Not one time. No man in this world is 100% faithful. But we have a God in heaven that will never, never, never fail. He's faithful. Will you say it with me? God is faithful. Let's pray. Father in heaven. Nothing else, help us to walk out of here knowing we can trust you with our problems, our needs, and our prayers, and our pain, our persecution. We can trust you. The old devil, this old world, this old flesh is doing everything they can to get us to keep from trusting you. Try and convince us you're not faithful, but Lord, we know you are. Help us to trust you. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many this morning say, preacher, I'm in a situation. I need God to help me. I'm in a condition that I need God. You say, preacher, I'm just going to trust his faithfulness. I'm going to depend on him, I'm going to rely on him. What he instructs me to do, I'm going to trust him and do it. What he tells me not to do, I'm going to trust him and not do it. I'm going to trust them. Is there any like that, preacher? I'm in a situation. I'm in a circumstance. I'm in a condition. I need the Lord to help me. God bless you, hands all around. I need the Lord to help me. I'm telling you, God is faithful Now old fashioned authors just come say, Lord, I'm going to trust you. And this you show me, you lead me, you help me I'm going to trust you. There's some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I'm here to tell you you can trust Christ as your personal Savior, believing He died for you, was buried, and rose again. And God is faithful. He'll forgive and save. Whosoever shall fall on him. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I don't know for sure my sins forgiven on my way to heaven. I don't want to go to hell You say, preacher, pray for me. I want to trust the Lord. Get that settled. Any at all like that? Any online? Wherever? Let us know. Let us know. We'll pray with you. We can help you. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James