Well, good evening again. Great to see you again. June and I have been looking forward to coming and being with you at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I came through Maryland today, left that DC area, and I came through Maryland, and it was very warm. And sunny, and I thought it cannot be like this in Oakland Then I got into Virginia, and it was warm and sunny, and I thought again, it cannot be like this in Oakland, Maryland Then I came into West Virginia, and it was warm and sunny, and I said, there's no way it's gonna be like this in Oakland. And I got here And it's like this. Have you ever had something so good happen that you could not enjoy it because you thought Something bad is right around the corner. Huh? That's the way it is when you get this kind of weather in Oakland, Maryland, the first of May. You want to enjoy it, but you can't get real happy because you know there might be a foot of snow this weekend. But uh you finally learned what kind of weather to order for a missions conference. I'll have to commend you. Great to be here. Looking forward to a good time together. Turn with me in your Bibles. To Second Kings Chapter four. Second Kings Chapter Four Now, once you get to 2 Kings chapter 4, hold your place there And turn back to 2 Corinthians chapter 8. And I know you're familiar with what 2 Corinthians chapter 8. As for us, of course, this is where faith promised giving Grace giving by faith is presented to us in detail. But I want to look at just one place and one thought. That is given to us by example in 2 Kings chapter 4. So look with me And verses 10, 11, and 12 of chapter 8. Verse 10, the Bible says, and herein I give my advice. For this is expedient for you who have begun before not only to do, but also to be forward a year ago. Paul talking to the church at Corinth. about the faith promise commitment they had made a year ago. And now he's instructing them as to The fact that they need to keep that commitment and they need to do what they promised. And of course, in this portion of Scripture, he tells them how to do it. But in verse 11 he says, Now, therefore, perform the doing of it. That as there was a readiness to will. So there may be a performance also out of that which you have. For if there be first a willing mind, It is accepted according to that a man hath, and not according to that he hath not. Now we've looked at this many times before, and I know you're very familiar with it. But Paul tells them in verse 11 and verse 12, you need to give what you committed out of what you have. And he says it twice, verse eleven, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. He says it again in verse twelve. It is a qu uh it is accepted according to that a man hath And not according to that he hath not. There are those that recognize they have And those that give an excuse about not having. And what Paul is saying here is you need to give out of what you have. Because God gave you what you have, and in what God has given you, He has given you something to give. To this commitment that you've made. And you and I have been commanded to take the gospel to the world. And we have been shown throughout the scripture, Philippians chapter four, other places, how we are to do that. And God has commanded us because He has equipped us to do What he has planned for us to do. Every member of Mountain Lake has Something for missions. God would not command us to be involved in missions if He did not equip us to be involved And so Paul tells the church at Corinth, you need to keep your promise, and you need to give out of what you have. Now, let's go back to 2 Kings chapter 4. And here we have a story that shows us the example of what Paul is saying there. And what we need to get a hold of in this responsibility we have to trust God. And to do what needs to be done in order for God to be activated, in order for God to be able to do what He would like to do. in our life. Now, God does not bless disobedience. And if you and I are obedient to do what he instructs us to do, then he becomes active the way he wants to. Now he'll be active, but there's a way he wants to be active in your life and mine. There are some things he has planned for us to do. And he has equipped us to do it and instructed us as to how we're to do it. It is up to us to simply Simply agree with God. That's what faith is. Faith is seeing it and agreeing with God about it. And when you and I agree with God about what He's doing in our lives, And what he has instructed us to do, he just gets involved. And that's what we see in 2nd Corinthians chapter or uh 2 Kings chapter 4. So let's read the verses and then we'll come back and and take a look at them. uh specifically. In verse one the Bible says, Now there cried a certain woman Of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying, Thy servant, my husband, is dead. And thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord And the creditor has come to take unto him my two sons to be bondmen. And Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee? Tell me, what hast thou in thy house? And she said, Thine handmaid hath not anything in the house save a pot of oil. Then he said, Go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels, borrow not a few And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons, and shalt pour out into all those vessels. And thou shalt set aside that which is full. So she went from him And shut the door upon her and upon her sons, who brought the vessels to her, and she poured out And it came to pass when the vessels were full, that she said unto her son, Bring me yet a vessel. And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more, and the oil stayed. Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, Go sell the oil, and pay thy debt, and live thou and thy children on the rest. Father, I pray that you would take this portion of Scripture tonight and do something special in our hearts and minds. I pray tonight as we begin the missions conference here at Mountain Lake that you would just cause some things to leap out of your word. And get a hold of our thinking and our our responsibility Our hearts and draw us to a willingness, a willing mind, that we might make the right decisions. God, you've used this church in such a great way. These people are giving people But no doubt there are some with questions about the coming year, some with situations. Some with maybe uh a little doubt of what's happening or going to happen. And God they each of us need a touch from you We need you to reach in with an assurance of your presence and a fulfillment of your promises. We need a touch of your protection, a touch of your just your willingness. Now bless tonight. Speak to our hearts. And use this time. To give us something. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Now let me give you some thoughts about this that uh from here that That sort of uh answer the question about uh what Paul said there in 2 Corinthians. So first of all, first thing we see here is the difficulty that this that this woman was facing The difficulty she was facing, her husband is dead. And uh the bondman and of course on that day uh the husband died and money was owed to a creditor then the credit could creditor could take the children and use them to do the work uh to earn the money that was owed until it was paid off. And so she's lost her husband. And now she's about ready to lose her two sons. And she has In her mind, absolutely nothing but a small pot of oil. That's all she has. Now I'm saying that to say this this woman has real problems. And they are real problems. Real to her. It's not just a story. She is a real person that has gone through a real traumatic experience. And she is now facing a real, very difficult situation. But here's the thing I want you to see. With all that she's going through, what does she do? She goes to the man of God. Now you say, well, that's what you should do. In that day God spoke to the man to speak to the people. Today you and I have the Bible. And God still speaks through men, but it's what the Bible says. So she's going to hear from God through God's man. And we say, well, that's what she ought to do. What's so strange about that? The strange thing is how many people fail to do that? When they get in a time of difficulty. How many people go through situations like this woman is going through and they end up angry at God? And they end up shaking their fist at God, and in essence they say with their life, if they don't say it with their words, they in essence say I hate you. I don't understand what you're doing in my life. I will not serve you. I will not listen to you. She didn't do that. As difficult as the situation is, she goes to God. Now That's exactly what we ought to do this week. Huh? I'm sure there are people sitting here tonight and there's people Maybe not here tonight and are members of Mountain Lake. And uh, you know, this church knows uh what's getting ready to happen when you have missions conference, right? Weeks ago, the pastor stood and said, now we're getting ready to have our missions conference, and here are the dates, and you need to be praying, and buddy, boom, boom, boom, everybody started, you know exactly what's happening. Commitment cards coming. Uh need to make a commitment to give the missions, that's coming. And then You start seeing things and question things. And it's easy for us to begin to put the thing together logically If I do this, this happens. Well, this is going to happen, so I can do this. When all the time what God is saying If you're getting ready to have an emphasis on getting the gospel to the world, and I have equipped you to be a part of that personally, and what I want you to do. What I want you to do is talk to me about it. I want to tell you What I want you to do. Right? You know that, and pastors told you that, I'm sure. And so we uh we can't look at things logically as Christians. We have to look at things biblically. Huh? We can't look at the whole situation and say, well uh you know this must be the part that God wants me to to be involved in because I'm this, this, that. No. We we start to asking God, God, what do you want me to do? What have you given me? And God has blessed this congregation. Huh? God has blessed this congregation. And you folks tonight that have been here for years, and even been here for a few years. You have to sit here tonight and say, God has been good to us. And God is good to us. And how in the world, when we've experienced the goodness of God the way we have, how in the world can we start ignoring Him and looking at logic? I'll tell you how. We still have that old nature. We still have that flesh, right? That wants to work it out ourselves. As difficult a time as it was She went to the man of God. The second thing I want us to see here is we need to listen at the instructions that are given. We can't ignore God. We've got to go to God. God, what do you want me to do? How do you want to use me? Exactly how do you want me to commit? How do you want me to look at things this year? We need to go to God. But as we pray, we need to listen. We need to listen at what God has to say to us. God wants to talk to you and to me personally. This is not only a congregation thing. This is an individual thing. And God is personally involved in each and every one of our lives. Personal. So notice what happens here when we start looking at at uh At the instructions are given. First of all, we need to see what we have. Look at what he said in verse 2. And Elijah said unto her, What shall I do? That's what Preachers might not say that, but that's what most preachers think when uh when somebody comes and says, boy, I've got this problem. What do you want me to do? You know, I can't solve this thing, but God can. And look what he said Tell me what hast thou in thy house? Now let me ask you tonight. Have you taken a look at what you have? Huh? Have you taken a good close look at how God has blessed you? And how He is working in your life? Because you see, God is going to speak to us when He is able to get us to look at what we have in relation to what he wants to do. Do you remember Moses when uh Moses had spent uh 40 years out there uh in the wilderness taking care of those sheep, and God was ready to deal with him. What'd he use? That burning bush. Moses is going to his daily routine, and all of a sudden here's this bush, and it's burning, but it's not consumed. Now, it was useless spontaneous combustion would do that in a desert, but here's one that's not consumed. And Moses stops And pays attention. God does not speak to us The way he wants to speak to us when we just give him our attention. He really speaks to us when we give him our undivided attention. When we seriously ask him and watch him respond, what did he say to Moses finally? Moses, what's your hand? And he used that. Right? He wants you and he wants me to look at what we have. He doesn't the problem you and I have so often is our attention is so focused on we on what we don't have. That we want that we're blinded to what we have. God does not want us to get all involved in what we don't have. He just wants what we have. He wants us just to take a look at what we have. And if we will seriously approach God with what we have, He will take what we have and use it in a way that we never thought it could be used. But we need to look at what we have. Secondly, here, we need to listen for the instructions. Look at verse 3 and 4. Then he said, well, let me finish verse two. He says, What what hast thou in thine hand? And she said, Thine handmaid hath not, look at this, hath not anything. Uh he said, what do you have in your house? And she said, Thine handmaid hath not anything in the house. So she doesn't see this as much at all. I don't have anything there. Oh yeah. I got that little pot of oil. That's all that happened. That's all he needed her to see. Get your mind, lady, get your mind off of what you don't have at your house. And focus on that little pot of oil. Because that's what we're going to use. We're not going to use what you don't have. We're not going to get all involved in what you need that you don't have. We're just going to focus on what you do have. That's all God needs, just what you have. Doesn't have to be a big pot, just a little pot. And then he said to her, look at verse 3. Then he said, Go. Borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels. Borrow not a few And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons And shalt pour out into all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full. Now, can you believe this? Now think about what he's telling her. She's in trouble. I mean, deep trouble. She's been through a terrible time. And all she has is a little pot of oil, and she's getting ready to lose her two sons. And the preacher says, hey, gather up a bunch of vessels and get in the house and shut the door, you and your sons, and take that little pot. of oil that you have, and fill up all of those empty vessels that you gather. Don't you think maybe she looked at the preacher and said, Preacher? You have lost it. That is the dumbest thing that anybody's ever told me. Huh? Now think about that. But you see, isn't that the way you and I act sometimes? Huh? Isn't that the way we act when God reaches down and says, listen, I just want to use you to do this. God, that's dumb. You know I could never do that. Guilty? Huh? Now shake your head. I'm not the only one here that's guilty. We don't want to say right out to God that we think he's dumb, but that's the way we act. God, I can never do that. God, I can never give that. God, I can never go there. And all the time, God is saying, hey. Just look at what you have. Just let me have what you have. That's all I want. I'm not asking you to do anything you can't do. I'm not asking you to give anything you can't give. All I want you to do is take a look at what you have. And take what you have and do this with it. And sometimes it literally scares us to death. Right? But you see what he's trying to do. He's trying to get her in the place that he can do something That she has to stand back and know only God. Only God And you and I often will not let God get to that place. That He can do it, and we have to stand back and know Only God did that. Look at verse 5. We need to be obedient to what God has given us. Look at verse 5. And she went. Now you ought to circle that. You ought to highlight that. You ought to go back to that often. You ought to go back and just read those words. She went. Now he just he just gave her an impossible scenario And there's no place where she even questioned him. Huh? No place she even questioned him She went from him and shut the door upon her and upon her sons, who brought the vessels to her, and she Poured out. She got, she got, she she left the preacher, the boys got the vessel, she went in the house, shut the door, and she took that pot of oil. Because that's what the preacher told her to do. And she started pouring like she was going to be able to fill all those vessels. From that one pot of oil. She just went and did it You know the problem you and I have? We want to know how it's going to be worked out before we do it. Huh? See? God, if you'll just pull the curtain and just just show me a little bit of how this thing's going to work out, show me how you're going to do this and I'll agree with you about it. I said, no. I just want you to do what I want you to do. You're not going, you are not going to see how it's worked out. Until you get where I want you to be. Until you do what I want you to do. You see, spiritual understanding Comes by obedience. God does not give spiritual understanding to disobedient people. Disobedient people are all wrapped up in logic and self. I can do this and I will do this my way. But they never have spiritual wisdom. But you let a person, you let a person be obedient to God, and God gives them wisdom beyond their ability. To the place that they'll come one day and look back and say, only God did that. I have no I have no idea how he did it. I don't know how it worked out, but I know God did that All of us want that. But we're not going to see that until we just do it. Just go and do it. And then let me give you a third thing real quick. Number three, I want us to see the supply that she enjoyed. The supply she enjoyed. Look at verse six. And it came to pass when the vessels were full. Can you can you just imagine? Imagine the look on their faces As she kept pouring oil out of that one pot into all those vessels. Her and those two boys. And she fills up one pot that had about the same as the pot she poured out of, but the pot she poured the pot she poured out of is still full. And she just kept filling pots out of this one pot. Think about, think about what was going through their minds and hearts. Huh? Have you ever been there? Have you ever been there where God was doing something and you just you you were enjoying being a part of it? And uh you were amazed? And thrilled, and you just looked at it like, goodness gracious, I am blessed. Well It came to pass when the vessels were full that she said to her sons, Bring me yet a vessel. And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more, and the oil stayed. That means the pot she was pouring out of, it stayed full. In other words, she filled all those pots, and she still had what she started with. You you explained that to me. Huh? You can't explain that. See, that's what God does. That's what God wants. God wants us to see that, knowing we're not going to figure it out And then verse seven, then she came and told the man of God, and he said, Go sell the oil. And pay my pay thy debt, pay all that yeah, and then live thou and thy children on the rest. I'm not only gonna, you're not only gonna be given enough to pay your debt, you're gonna have enough to live Afterwards. Have you ever had God just do something? And you you just had to look at it like that? June and I, well, we went to Bible school And I know I've told you these these stories over the years, but I enjoy telling them, so act like you enjoy hearing We went to Bible school, we took four children, and uh in debt. I mean, we were in debt. And uh struggled, I mean, to pay everything while we were in Bible school. struggled to pay our school bill, struggled to to eat and clothe and all of that, and just spent all of our time in Bible school struggling And when we left Bible school to go back to our home, we were totally out of debt. And we have no idea how it happened. We've often talked about it over the years. And we cannot point to one way that all of that debt was paid while we struggled to even pay our bills Except God. God can do it. I probably told you about when I went to Clinton, when we went to Clinton, Maryland, we we went in uh May And uh they uh they didn't pay us much much at all. And uh our children of course were older and And uh we knew they needed to be in a Christian school until we got to Clinton and uh they had a school across town And so I went over to the pastor at the school across town. I told him, introduced myself, told him our situation. I said, now we have four kids. And here are the grades and I said, we want to put them in school. And he said, Okay, I'll keep four places for them. Said, uh now Uh the the registration fee will be $135. That's all it was back then. And uh all summer I've tried to get that $135 together. I could not get it together. I mean, I tried every way I could. And finally school was ready to start in August and I went over to him and I said now We want our kids to school. If you hold those places, we're going to put them in. He said, if it's financial, he said, let me help you. And I said, no I don't want you to help me. I didn't come over here for you to help me financially. I said, we'll put them in. I left his building, walked out of his building. into the parking lot to get in my car and I still don't know what the fellow was doing but a man from our church pulled into his parking lot for some reason in his pickup truck and he said hey pastor He said, are you putting your kids in school? And I said, no, I was just in seeing the preacher, and he said, oh, by the way, he said, I've been carrying this with me a couple of weeks, and he pulled a check out Said, my wife and I have been praying about helping you with your kids to Christian school. Give me a check for $200. I just turned around, walked back in, and said, okay, let's register. I think I I believe God just enjoys doing that. Huh? He enjoys doing it when we have no way To do it on our own. And he just says, hey, all I want you to do is just give me what you had You're where I want you to be. You made the right decision, and I'm going to take care of it. The next summer, a year later Our treasurer came to me one uh one morning. He said, Pastor, I need to ask you how to do how to work this thing out. He said, I said, What's that? He said Someone put a check in the uh offering this morning to pay for your kids' school tuition for the complete coming year. I said, I think I can work that out God just wants what we have. If He can get us, to give Him what we have. He'll take it and make something out of it that we can never be without him. Amen? Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight would say, preacher, if I know by heart, that's where I want to be this week. That's what I want. I want to see God do something that I have to stand back and know it's God. Would you pray for me and pray with me that God would help me to Listen to him, to experience him, that this would be a week that I see God work. in just a way beyond my apprehension, my imagination. If that's you, would you slip your hand up? Pray for me. Pray with me. That's what I want. God bless you Why don't you slip out of your place tonight? Get along with God. Make you an altar up here and say, God, that's what I want this week. That's what I want. Would you help me to be that? Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless the invitation now. I pray for these that have raised their hands, others that desire to do so. God, make this a great beginning of the conference because we just yield to you. Just agree with you. Move in this place now as we do business with you. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Why don't you slip out of your place comments? The penis plays, why don't you get along with God? Say, God, that's what I want. I want to experience you. Help me to ponder. This portion of scripture helped me to ponder this woman's situation, her decisions. Help me to get a hold of what you did in her life. Would you come tonight? Slip out of your place. Get along with God