David's idea, I'm sure the Lord directed him, but god David could not build the temple. God told him because of the violence that's in his testimony and all of that So Solomon is now the one building the temple, and in 2 Chronicles chapter 2, he is going to a fellow by the name of Haram. And he's seeking supplies to build a temple, he's seeking the workmen, builders to uh help him assemble the materials And so that's the context here. Beginning in verse number three, he says this, and Solomon sent to Hura, the king of Tyre, saying As thou didst deal with David my father, and didst send him cedars to build him a house to dwell therein, even so deal with me. Behold, I build a house to the name of the Lord my God. He's referring to the temple. To dedicate it to him and to burn before him sweet incense. for the continual showbread and for the burnt offerings morning and evening on the Sabbath and on the new moons and on the solemn feasts of the Lord our God This is an ordinance forever to Israel. So we say we want to build this temple. We want to carry out our the instructions God gave us concerning sacrifice and all of that. He's explaining. Now look what he says in verse number 5. Solomon saying to Hurim, And the house which I build is great, for great is our God above all gods. Now he makes this statement But who is able to build him a house? Look at this. Seeing the heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain him. You could write in the margin of your Bible the immensity of our God, the heaven and the heaven of heavens. cannot contain him. If you would, go over to chapter 6 of 2 Chronicles, just a few pages over. And the context here, the temple's built. It's finished. And Solomon is dedicating the temple to the Lord. Included in the dedication is this tremendous prayer he praised before all the nation. And in verse number 16, we pick up in this prayers, uh 2 Chronicles chapter 6, verse 16. Well, I'm going to begin reading in verse 14, just because it's a great verse. But notice he says, and said, O Lord God of Israel. Now remember, he's before the temple. The nation of Israel is out before him. He's praying to God. O Lord God of Israel, there is no God like Thee in the heaven nor in the earth, which keepeth covenant and showeth mercy unto thy servants that walk before thee with all their hearts. Thou which hast kept with thy servant David, my father, that which thou hast promised him, and spakest with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with thine hand, as it is this day Of course he's referring to the temple. God promised, and here it is, it's done. Verse 16. Now therefore, O Lord God of Israel. Keep with thy servant David, my father, that which thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not fail thee a man in my sight to sit upon the throne of Israel. Yet so that my children take heed to their way to walk in my law as thou hast walked before me. Now then, O Lord God of Israel, let thy word be verified, which thou hast spoken unto thy servant David. But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth? Good question. Behold, look at this: heaven and the heaven of heavens. cannot contain thee. How much less this house which I have built. Solomon in his prayer to God acknowledges to God something he understands about God That heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain God I think we could say this, and I'll refer to this here a little bit in the message. I think what Solomon is referring to here, that all of known creation Cannot contain God. God is above and beyond even everything He has created We've been kind of reiterating this over and over and over. But the fact of God's existence is obvious. We get hammered on a daily basis in the world that there is no God that we've evolved from amoebas, that we're all natural uh process. God is out of the picture. God does not exist. But the fact is an atheist is denying the obvious that God does exist. Our own conscience tells us this. We've been reiterating this over and over. Our conscience tells us down in our heart of hearts, we know God exists. God created us With an inherent awareness of his existence. Every society, regardless of how removed from the rest of the world they may be, every society has worshiped some form of deity. Why? Because in their very conscience there is an awareness that God is, that God does exist. Now, a lot of these societies have a distorted view of God and they'll get false gods. But in their conscience, they know there is a God. We look in creation and we see all around us, in design, and laws, and purpose, there's obviously a designer behind this. There is obviously a lawmaker behind the laws, what the world calls laws of nature. They're really the laws of God. Behind all that, there is a God. It's undeniable. So obvious. And scriptures tell us that there is a God. Now here's what we've been trying to do this summer. This has been our We're aware of the fact that God exists. But our question is this: what is God like? God exists. What is he like? I like to picture it this way. Here is, I think I have it on, Jamie. Uh try again. It's on. It's off. Aha. Off means it's not on I thought the O N was no. So we know God exists. How's that? We know God exists. See his handiwork everywhere. It's obvious. Down in our hearts we know that he exists. Our question is this, God, this is the way I like to look at it. God, what are you like? Well, we know we can't see him. He's invisible. The Bible tells us that there is just one God. I think today's subject will explain why there's only one God, although that's a tough question to answer. But there's one God. We know from Scripture that He is this one God is made up of three personalities: God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. We refer to it as the Trinity. Each part of the Trinity, God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, each part of the Trinity, full and completely God in and of themselves, yet nevertheless one God. You say, preacher, that doesn't make sense. I know it, but it is true. I understand it. Jehovah's Witnesses come by the house sometimes, and inevitably that subject comes up, the deity of Christ, the Trinity. And often I've had them say to me over the years, they say something like that, well there's no that doesn't even make sense. How can you possibly understand it? You know, there's a lot of things in life we don't understand, nevertheless they're still true So God, what are you like? One God made up of a Trinity Some of the other aspects of God that we looked at in scriptures over the last several weeks is, God, what do you like? God would respond, I am holy. I believe that's the first and foremost attribute of God he wants us to understand. He is first and foremost a holy God. There is nothing unrighteous or impure There is no sin in our God of any way, shape, or form. He is completely, 100% blindingly holy. God, what are you like? It's holy. God says, I am love. God is love We see that in the opening pages of our Bible when Adam and Eve sin. The very first thing God does when Adam and Eve sin, the very first thing he does is come down to seek to restore that relationship. Why? Because he loves us. He loves us. God, what do you like? I am merciful. He is a merciful God. How many people here are very grateful that our God is a merciful God? We'd be in trouble if He wasn't. God, what are you like? Today we want to look that God is ever-present. God is, here's the term, omniscient. Solomon understood the omniscience of God. When he said, how in the world can a temple, a building contain God when the heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain him? The omniscience of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask now that you would, through your word, reveal yourself to us. I pray that when this service is said and done, we would walk out of here with a greater understanding of you, dear Lord. A greater Awe of what you are and who you are and what you're like. God, I am inadequate to teach and speak on your omniscience So I pray with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and you would speak your word through us and open our minds to grasp at least as much as we can what it means. Of your omniscience. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I said, Solomon certainly understood in his prayer and his statements to Heram that God was omniscient. In Psalms 139, if you would come back there with me now, and we find in this chapter a tremendous description of God. In fact, David uh who penned this uh chapter and by the way we don't know what the context was of this Uh Psalm 139 being written, we do know it was penned by David. Of course, God is the author of all scripture. David penned it. Most likely, looking at this chapter carefully, at least I come to the conclusion that it was most likely written later in David's life. It doesn't sound like the writings of a young man. My impression is, in studying Psalm 139, is that it's most likely written in David's life, after years of walking with God. Written by a man who knew firsthand by experience what God was like, who would experience God's working in his life and in his fellowship with the Lord. And in Psalm 139, David is recording here things that he has learned about God. Of course, again, this is all under the inspiration of God, so we're confident it's correct. But what I want to point out before we look at a particular passage here is I thought it was interesting how the chapter begins. Look at verse number one. He says, O Lord, Thou hast searched me and known me. The word searched has the idea of thoroughly testing. I mean he has put him through the tests. Uh we were talking several folks and uh by the way it's good to see Brother Jerry out. He had had a heart attack this past week and here he's in church today. Praise the Lord. But Jerry went through a battery of tests when they brought him in. They go through and what they're doing is searching out and finding out what his true condition is. Many of you and I have been through the same thing, been through various tests. That's the idea. When David says, Thou hast searched me and known me. And what David is doing here, right at the beginning of this chapter, he's asking God He's stating the fact that God has done an assessment of David. This is what I'm trying to get at. David does not make a self-assessment. He has God assessed his condition. You follow what I'm saying? Us fellas are kind of notorious for this. We'll have a little pain. And with all these guys with heart trouble, I'm kind of like, ugh, I feel this little thing. It's like, what's that? You know, I've got a s itch here on my shoulder. Oh, I must that's a heart attack, I think. You know. But us guys have a tendency to make self-assessments They say, hey, you are you okay? Yeah, I'm fine. I don't need no doctor. I'm fine. And uh we self-assess ourselves. What we need to do is go to the doctor, let the doctor find out what's going on. You follow what I'm saying And what we do there physically, a lot of times all of us do spiritually. And what we do is think, oh, I'm fine spiritually. Oh, I'm good. I'm okay. Oh, I'm fine. What we need to do is let God decide whether we're good, fine, or not. I had a friend I grew up with in my uh high school years, Denny was his name. We were two Denny's and we were best buddies all through high school. I got saved at the age of 19. Denny did not I went off to Bible college. He stayed back in the uh Philadelphia area where we grew up and uh he was uh managing a rock and roll band all up and down the coast of uh uh New Jersey and the different bars along the shore there and he had this big band and they he managed them and living that whole lifestyle. I got burden for my high school buddy and I would write him letters and put the plan of salvation in from when I was in Bible college, I'd write him letters and I Came home one break, I think it was an Easter break, and I looked him up and I wanted to go talk to him and witness to him, and I had the plan. I had a little Bible in my pocket And it all's planned out what I was going to say. I was going to lead my friend Denny to trust Christ as his savior. I found this place. He had a beautiful apartment uh a condominium and had all kinds of money and he showed me all around all paid for and I knew where the money was coming from. And finally before I left, I said, Denny, listen, I want to ask you a question. Do you know for sure that when you die, you're going to heaven and not to hell? Now Denny had a serious heart condition. He was born with it. I said, do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven, not to hell, not to hell? And you could feel the tension just explode. And he looked me in the eye and he said, and of course he referred to me as Denny. He said, Denny, I'm fine. Everything is good. It's cool. I said, I'd like to take a Bible and show I'd like to take a Bible and I'd like to show you from the Bible how you can be sure you're going to heaven, not to hell. And again, the tension just got even heavier. And he said, I said I'm fine It's cool. I'm good. And he got up, put his hand out, he said, it's good to see you again. I'll see you later. I'm not the smartest guy in the world, but I figured out he was wanting me to leave. My heart was broke. And I said, here, can I leave this little Bible with you? He goes, okay, it's good. See you later. I mean he did not want to talk about it. He did not want me around His assessment of himself is that everything's cool. Everything's good. The fact is, not everything was cool. Not everything was good. If he'd allowed God to show him what the true condition was, he would have seen that he was a sinner in need of a savior, just like all of us. One long after that, my dad sent a letter down to me. It had a newspaper clipping, an obituary, Dennis Wilson Swartley Twenty-some years old, passed away this past week, had heart condition caught up As far as I know, my best buddy in high school died without Christ. It's lost now as I stand here. David begins the chapter with not assessing his condition himself, but saying, Lord, I want you to search me. I want you to tell me what my condition is. Try me, test me. I tell you, we're we're exercising wisdom When we let the Lord determine what our spiritual condition is, rather than assuming that we know what our condition is. Everywhere of man is right in his own eyes. But the Lord tests the hearts. So when we come before God and we're studying the subject of God and we're considering, do God who God is and what he's like. A good thing for us to do is what David did is say, Lord, God, I want you to search me. As I learn of you and what you are like, show me, reveal yourself to me, and in so doing, show me what I am and what my needs are. There's so many people today trying to live independent of God. I don't need God in my life. And even a Christian would never express this verbally, but the testimony of their life is I don't need God in my life. I don't need the Lord to lead me. I don't need God to direct me. I'm fine. I can handle this myself. I can make my own decisions. And that's so foolish. The way which seemeth right unto man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. And so I thought it was interesting that David begins this chapter with God's assessment of him, letting God test him. Then he goes on here and he touches on two characteristics of God that are tremendously profound. First he touches on, now this is a theological term and we'll explain it. I may preach on this before we finish this, but he touches on the omniscience of God. Now that term, don't let that scare you. It simply means that God knows everything. And we see that here in verses 2 down through verse number 4. Thou knowest my down sitting, my uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off. Thou compassest my path in my line, thou art acquainted with all my ways. There is not a word in my tongue, but thou but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. And he's he's referring to the fact that God is all-knowing. There's nothing God does not know. Then he brings up what I'm wanting to touch on this morning, and that is the omnipresence of God. And again, that's a big theological term, but it's very simple in what it's saying. Omnipresence. The word omni means all-encompassing Presence, of course, is the presence of God. In other words, God is everywhere present at all times. We think of the term infinite. We use that term sometimes. The word infinite simply means this: to be without limits. There are no perimeters. How many people know what I mean when I refer to perimeters? When the police come in in a crime scene, they'll set up a perimeter. An age, people can't come in and all everything in there needs to be undisturbed. Uh our military, when they're in the battlefield, they will try to set up a perimeter The Bible says that God's presence has no perimeters. There's no boundaries to it. God's presence is infinite. Another word for the term infinite has the idea of immeasurable, endless. Now that's a concept, to be honest, is difficult for our minds to grasp. Something that is infinite, endless, boundless. Our minds work in the term, our our minds function in the uh uh with w within perimeters. We think of things having a beginning and an end. We think in terms of first and last Start and finish. God is omnipresent His presence has no perimeters. There is no starting place of God's presence, and God is present from here over to here. His presence is infinite. God is omnipresent Now, here's my first point. This means that God is unlimited in his presence. Now we're getting a little redundant here. But what do we mean by the presence of God? Everybody is here present and accounted for. In other words, we're in this place. We're in our area. It means we're nearby. Somebody is present with me. They're right here with us. When the Bible says that God is omnipresent, that it means that God is with us wherever we are at. Wherever I can possibly be, God is there also. I was thinking, and this is Very very minuscule and I'll try and expand a little bit, but we were over in Kazakhstan a few years ago. Both Jerry and Pat and Dave Heath and I went over there for a survey trip and meet with some one of our missionaries there And the last day we had a little free time. We went up on the mountain. And it was very much like the Rocky Mountains. I mean they were snow-capped, absolutely beautiful. We're way up there on this old uh Russian military satellite telescope thing and uh is all collapsed in and we're up there looking around and just kind of enjoy it. We had a uh a fellow that was showing us around, a Cosmic fellow we had met and he was showing us around and lo and behold while we're there a couple of other group came up that we met earlier in the week just by chance they were up there and they were One fella had fled Kurzakstan, I think it was, uh fled because of religious freedom. He's actually in Sweden now. Anyway, we all met up there, hey, look at this. And we didn't speak English, and it's kind of like uh I guess Chris Phillips was there helping us and anyway. We're up on top of this mountain in Kazakhstan. And we began to sing together, O Lord my God. When I in awesome wonder, consider all the world's thy hands have made And they're singing in Russian, and some in Kazakh. We're singing in English, and it all fit together beautifully. And you know what I realized? God was there. We're in the presence of God. And wherever you and I can be, wherever it is possible for man to be, God is there also. His presence has no limits. Not only is God with us wherever we may go, but all of God is with us. Wherever we go. It's not like God is all s it's not like God is like peanut butter just spread out everywhere and a little bit of them over here and a little bit of them here and a little bit over there and a little bit here. No, it's all of him everywhere. All of God everywhere. John Wesley put it this way: there is no point of space Now you've got to think about this. This is a concept that is beyond our brain's ability, really. But he said this: there is no point of space. Now listen, within or without the bounds of creation where God is not. In other words, let's see if I can express this, we have what the universe that God has created. It is a physical universe. That tells us it is limited. And God fills that universe with His presence. And the more we learn about this universe, the more mind-boggling it is as to the immensity of God. Billions and billions and billions and billions of light years, the distance light travels in a year. And God is present in all of that, but the heaven of heavens cannot contain him. In other words, John Wesley is saying God's presence is even outside. The bounds of this universe that God has created. What is beyond the universe? God. The omnipresence of God. There is no place that God is not. And people agree with me. That's a little mind-boggling. John Wesley tried to describe it. He has a great message on the omnipresence of God. He tried to describe it this way, and I meant to bring up here a little grain of sand, but I could say I have one and you wouldn't know whether I did or not. So let's be down. I got a little grain of sand on the tip of my finger here. Take that grain of sand and put it in relation to this universe I just tried to describe the immensity of it. Just mind-boggling immensity of the universe, and that grain of sand in relation. John Wesley said that grain of sand's space compared to the space taken up by the universe is a little bit like what this universe is. To the presence of God. Can you follow that in your mind? In other words, the size and presence of this universe. Compared to God is like that little grain of sand compared to the universe. God, the immensity of God, there is no place in existence That God is not. That God is not. That's beyond our ability to comprehend. We don't think in those terms. This is all we can say. This great, eternal, almighty, holy, loving God is unlimited in his presence. Unlimited in his presence. God is not some old man upstairs. That is blasphemy That is a statement that would come out of the depths of hell. That God is simply some old man upstairs. No, God is ever-present. Too many times we get this concept, and I think even within our Christian circles we have this concept that God is just kind of removed. Oh yeah, there's a God, yeah, but He's somewhere else He's not here. He's not present. He's not involved. He's not a part of what's going on. God is far removed. Sometimes you'll hear someone refer to someone as a deist. A deist will believe that there is a God, that he does exist, but we can't know him. He's far away, he's removed himself from our existence, he's just somewhere else. That is not the God of the Bible The God of the Bible is very present. He's very and ever present. He's not some distant God. He's not removed from our existence. Look at Psalms 139 again. Look at verse 7. Whither shall I go from thy spirit? Or whither shall I flee from thy presence? The obvious answer to that is: I can't. If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there. If I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there He's talking about up and down. As far I can go as far up as I possibly can, and God's still there. I can go far down as I possibly can, and God is still there. Then he goes horizontally If I take the winds of the morning and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, the most farthest islands, the most farthest place you can get away, God's still there. God's still there. If I dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea, even there shall thy hand lead me, thy right hand shall hold me. We can ignore God, but we cannot escape God. We can run from God, but we can never elude God. I like this statement. It's not original with me, but it's tremendous in its truth. I may be lonely, but I am never alone. Because wherever I am, God is there. God is there. I don't know. I may be talking to somebody in this message. Whether on the internet or recorded and listen later, or I may be talking, God may be speaking to someone right now who is trying to run from God. And I don't want God in my life. And I don't want God to deal with, listen, you can run all you want. You will never escape God. They'll never get away from God. Because there is no place I can possibly be where God is not. Where God is not. I believe the most serious thought I can have is this. What we know to be true about God, the most serious thought about is this. I am at all times in the presence of God. No place I go, no deed I do, no action I take is ever taken away from the presence of God. How many people here would agree with me? Now let's just be honest, all right? Let's just be honest. How many people generally you behave a little bit better when somebody is around than when you're by yourself Generally speaking. Now some of y'all don't, but right? Uh now I'm not gonna ask you I'm not gonna ask you to admit this, but I know it's true. I've been doing this a long time. I know this is true Most folks behave better in church they do at home. Now you all deny it, no, I'm just as godly at home and I just sing hymns at home all the time and praise. I know, listen, I know how this works You get up at Sunday morning, you're all mad at everybody. Hurry up, do this! Screaming and hollering, fighting. All the way to church, fighting and hollering, screaming. You get out of the truck, Pastor's standing back there, you get out of the you get out of the car. Oh, praise the Lord. How y'all doing? Oh, we're just rejoicing in God's goodness. Liar, liar, pants on liar. I tell you what would help us a lot in our Christian life if we would just continually keep in mind that I am always in the presence of God. I'm not always in the presence of the preacher. Praise the Lord for that. I'm not always in the presence of my Spouse, kids are not always in the presence of their parents, and things happen sometimes when kids are not in the presence of their parents And husbands do things sometimes that they wouldn't do in the presence of their wife, and vice versa, ladies. And sometimes people do, Christian church members do things they wouldn't do if the preacher was there, and sometimes the preacher does things he wouldn't do if the church folks were there. I'm being honest But if we would keep in mind that I can never, ever, ever do something when God isn't there. That would change a lot of things about us. The omnipresence of God. That means that God is unlimited in His presence. Number two, I put this down. That means that God is unlike his creation. Creation is not omnipresent. For instance, man is not omnipresent. I kind of touched on this, I got a little ahead of myself here, but I can escape the presence of my parents A couple weeks, Dad's gonna go back to Philly and I can start partying again Parents are not omnipresent. Now it seemed like when I was a kid, like mom was omnipresent. She saw everything I did, no matter what I did. Mom shows up, ah! There I tell you about the time I started a fire in the basement. I'll tell you that one some other time. It's like, man, where'd she come from? Fact is, our parents are not omnipresent, our spouse is not omnipresent, the preacher's not omnipresent, other Christians are not omnipresent, the police aren't omnipresent, you can go down the list Man is not omnipresence. We can get away from the presence of certain people. And often when we do, our behavior changes. But God is unlike man. God is unlike humanity. God is always present. He's always there. In the office, out in the woods, and the home, and behind the closed door, in the vehicle. God's there. All of God is there as much as He is anywhere else. We're in the presence of God. And I'm going to throw this out, and I'm not going to elaborate on this, but the fact is Satan is not omnipresent either. I think sometimes we think that Satan is everywhere all the time. No, he isn't. He's a created being. He can only be at one place at one time. I've thought over the years, I've thought, have I ever had, I wonder, have I ever had the direct attention of Satan? Have I ever done something for God or at such a level to such a degree that it actually got Satan's attention? He's not omnipresent. He is somewhere in existence, somewhere he is located, and of course a spirit being, but he is focused on something, someone no doubt, somewhere. But he can only be at one spot. He's not omnipresent. Now, he has millions and millions of fallen angels, devils, that do his bidding. And they're uh they're all over the place. Uh I I'm convinced in the study of scripture, this world's crawling with them. Now I'm not the kind that sees a little devil behind every bush and every little thing, oh that's the that's the devils, there's devils, there's devils. I'm not that way, but I am aware of the fact that they are very active and very involved Doing the Satan's bidding, but Satan is not omnipresent. Mankind is not omnipresent. God is unlike his creation and the fact that God is everywhere all the time. And my last thought is this very quickly. It means that God is unhindered in his availability. He's unlimited in his presence, he's everywhere. He's unlike his creation, we're not everywhere. But because God is omnipresent, he's everywhere, his availability is unhindered. In other words, whatever circumstance I find myself in, God is there also. Often when I visit folks in the hospital, if they're going through a difficult time, not always, but often I will like to read from Psalms 46, verse 1. It says this God is our refuge and strength. Listen to this. A very present help in trouble. I may be talking to somebody this morning and you have troubles in your life right now. You say I'm going through this difficult time, I'm going through these troubles, it seems like I'm all alone, it seems like nobody's on board with me, nobody understands. I am alone. I'm here to tell you you're not alone. God is a very present help in trouble. The disciples learned that when they were on a storm scared to death. Now these are seasoned sailors. And the storm hits with such ver ferociousness that these seasoned sailors are certain they're cooked, they're going to die, they're going to drown. But Jesus was there, and they're just beginning to realize Jesus is God. And in the midst of the storm, they had God there with them. I'm here to tell you The omnipresence of God tells me that when I'm going through trouble, God is with me. I'm not alone. I'm not alone. All through history, believers have found this to be true. In times of distress and trouble, God was with us We have well there's folks here. I'm looking out over the auditorium, I'm looking out over the congregation, all across here. Folks that could stand up and testify, preacher, I went through the most difficult trouble of my life, and through it all, God was with me God was there with me. I tell you, the omnipresence of God is a tremendous truth to understand that regardless of what trouble I'm going through, God is with me. In Genesis chapter twenty-two, particularly verses eleven through thirteen, God was with Abraham, God instructed Abraham to take his son, his only son Isaac, whom he loved. And take them up on the mount and offer Isaac up as a sacrifice to God. Make no sense. Flew in the face of understanding everything we understand about God to kill my own son But Abraham, being great in faith, trusted God. In fact, we find out later, Abraham believed that even if he did kill Isaac, God would raise him back up again. And there on top of that mount with his son tied to the altar, Bible doesn't say this, but no doubt tears streaming down Abraham's face. He's about to plunge the knife into his son's chest And God, the angel of the Lord steps in. He says, don't touch him. In that time of testing, God was on that mountain with him. God was right there with Abraham. I don't know what testing you may or may not be going through, but I'm here to tell you, in the midst of your testing, God's with you. Remember last week, God's sovereignty, God's in control? In the midst of my trials, in the midst of the tests that God allows me to go through, God is still present, God is still in control, God still has a plan I can still trust him. The Omnipresence of God. In uh God never leaves us alone when he tests our faith. Would you take your Bible real quickly and turn with me to the book of Jonah? Back towards the end of the new of the Old Testament, Jonah, Micah, Daniel, Hosea, Joel, Amos, Obadiah, Jonah Trying to help you find it. Jonah chapter one. Jonah is a unique character. He's a prophet of God. He gets backslidden. And notice in Jonah chapter 1, and come down with me if you would to verse number 3. But Jonah rose up, look at this, to flee unto Tarsus. Look at this, from the what? Presence of the Lord. And went down to Joppa. Jonas, God told Jonah, I want you to go to Nineveh. Jonah says, I don't want to go to Nineveh. And he gives his reasoning. And instead of going to Nidim, he goes the opposite direction. And he is trying to flee from what? The presence of the Lord. Jonah, you're a knucklehead. You cannot flee from the presence of the Lord. You can try and try and try and try. But you can have there is no place you can go, Jonah. There is no place in this created universe that you can get away from God. And the omnipresence of God tells me that I can never, ever, ever flee from God. I can run and run and run and run. And I can hide. And I can do what this world says. Just ramble on. And I think a lot of the restlessness and the roaming around and the moving around on the part of this world is a vain attempt to escape the presence of God. And Jonah learned the hard way. You cannot flee the presence of God. And he ends up in the belly of a whale. And guess who's there? God. Finally, Jonah humbles himself and he acknowledges his foolishness and he cries out to God and God in mercy has the whale uh Regurgitate him back up on the shore. He sought to free God's presence. It's impossible. In Daniel chapter 3, we have Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in a fire. Nebuchadnezzar looks in the fire. He said, We threw three men in the fire, but I see four. And the fourth is like unto the Son of God. You and I go through the fires. I believe as we look around this world we see persecution of Christians and Christianity increasing. We see the fires of persecution are getting hotter and higher. This world is throwing the fuel on that fire, and we see the fires of persecution rising up in our own country And I'm here to tell you, in the midst of persecution, God is still with us. God is still with us. The presence of God. In Psalm chapter 23 and verse 4. Yea, do I walk to the valley, the shadow of death? What's the next statement? Thou art with me. Oh, fear no evil, for thou art with me. When you and I come to the end of our life, and we don't know when that is, For all we know, before the end of this week, I may be doing a funeral for a young child. We have no idea. It's appointed unto man once to die. And God does not give us the date and time of that appointment. But whenever that day shows up, whenever that time comes for me to die, I can be sure of one thing. God is with me. God is with me. Oh, I mentioned in the message last Sunday how the week before I was able to visit with the dear lady in the hospital, Ruth. She was hooked up, ventilator, very ill, but God in his sovereignty, God in his control, was able to keep her alert, and she very clearly heard the gospel and trusted Christ as Savior. No doubt in my mind she was sincere. My mind she trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. This past week, Ruth went home to be with the Lord. I believe it was, I want to say Thursday, that God, in his appointed time Brought her to the point of death. And there in that hospital in Ruby, Ruby Memorial Hospital on the fifth floor, all the way in the back. Laying on that bed, she did not pass into the presence of God alone. She did not cross, now we use this term, the river alone God was with her. Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear thee, for thou art with me. I thought of Paul, Charlotte. As we sat around Paul and the family, I was able to for a little bit. God was there. The presence of God. If you're here this morning and you're not saved, God is present in your life. And all it requires on your part is a humble acknowledgement of your sinful condition. A turning from that sin to Christ, saying, I'll accept Jesus Christ as Savior. And God doesn't have to come down and meet you. He is there. Ready to save. We've seen people trust Christ in their garage, in their car, in their living rooms, in their kitchens, on their back porch. We've seen them trust Christ at the altar. We've seen them trust Christ in the barn. We've had people trust Christ in buses. Some of y'all could come and show me the place downstairs in Sunday school rooms where you trusted Jesus Christ. Wherever you may be as an unsaved person, you can turn to Christ and accept Him as your Savior because God is omnipresent. You don't I had a lady tell me I'd get saved, but uh you got to get saved in church So you don't got to get saved in church. You got to get saved right here and now. God is here. He will save you. He will hear you. You read in the Bible, people getting saved in prisons, on boats, beside shores, in marketplaces, in a house where the roof is torn up. If you're here thou and you're not saved, I'm telling you God is here. He's working in your life. He wants to save you if you will just say yes and trust him as your Savior. If you're here this morning as a Christian you're backslidden. Hey, be honest. See, I'm not right with God. I'm not living for the Lord like I should. I know I'm saved, and I'm not the Christian I ought to be. I'm here to tell you you were in the very presence of God. And just the decision of your heart and mind to say, yes, I'll yield myself to him and make things right. God is present and he'll take you and change you and make you what you ought to be. There's some here this morning you're fearful. Circumstances in the whole physical conditions facing, and you're fearful, and you say, I don't know. God is here present to help you and encourage you. in your life, wherever you may be, God is present. God is present. One of my favorite verses in the Bible, among many others, Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 5. I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee. God, what are you like? Where are you, God? I'm everywhere. I'm everywhere. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. To somehow grasp this truth of your omnipresence. God, like a fish in the sea, we are in your presence at all times. And I pray that you would help us grasp that. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, maybe there's someone here this morning. Say, preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. But I've been trying to live my life independent, and I know there's areas of my life that are not right. And I want things to be right. I had a person this past week just tell me, preacher, I just want to be right with God. And maybe that's you this morning. Say, preacher, pray for me. I want to be right with God. As a Christian, I want to be right with God. And you say, I'm going to trust him to help me make the decisions I need to make. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher as a Christian? I want to be right with God and there's decisions even. How about it? Any hands raised? God bless you. Bunch of hands around. I wonder if there's some this morning say, praise your I'm going through a difficult time. I'm facing some challenges. I'm fearful. But I want to rest on this God who is present. I want to remember that God is right here with me. He's all-powerful. He loves me. I'm going to rejoice in his presence. The Bible says, in the presence of the Lord there are joy forevermore. And you say, preacher, I'm going to trust God to help me through this difficult. Testing that God's allowed me to go through, resting in his presence. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I know I got some tests going through. God bless you. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. You certainly don't want to go to hell. And you say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me settle this. My salvation. I can have this matter settled. That when I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die when I know I'm going to heaven. Pray for me that God will help me. Any at all? Any at all? Now Father in heaven, you know our hearts. We need you to stir us and help us revive us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses