First Peter chapter five. First Peter chapter five, brother uh Pat read there uh the first couple verses and we're gonna touch on this in the message, but First couple verses reference uh humbling ourselves before the Lord, and uh that's an important part of our the verse number seven that we're going to look at. But um There was a preacher, and I'm just gonna call him Preacher Jones for lack of a more creative name, and uh he was on vacation, he was out at the Grand Canyon And uh they were out there touring, he'd never been there before, and they came down this one canyon, and uh it's it c it was called Echo Canyon. And a little sign there, this little platform, a sign said that whatever you yell loudly out into the canyon will echo back perfectly back to you. And uh he was real skeptical. He didn't think I think he was independent Baptist, he didn't believe that, and uh he was very skeptical of it. And so he got down there and he stood on the edge and he yelled out, Bologne And sure enough, baloney came back. Baloney Bologna He's I s he said I just don't believe it. Something's up. They're messing with baloney baloney Finny thought He yelled out, Pastor Jones is the greatest preacher in the world. Came back, baloney So sometimes pride gets us. Would you look there at verse number seven with me? 1 Peter 5, verse 7. I want us to read this verse together, okay? And uh just short little verse here, uh this would be great to memorize. And so if you would, verse number seven, first Peter five, read it with me. Ready? Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Let's read that again. Would you read it with me? Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. One more time. Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. That would be a great verse to memorize, wouldn't it? Casting all our care upon him, for he careth for you. Let's pray and ask the Lord to use this passage to help us. Father, I do ask you to bless our study of this short little verse here And I pray that you would give us biblical peace in our hearts and minds. And Lord, the cares of this old sinful world and the issues of life. That we would be able to deal with in a strong, biblical, faithful way, and uh be a testimony of your goodness and power Lord, I yield my body to you and present it anew to you, and I ask that you would fill me with your spirit. I pray it won't be me up here speaking, Lord. I pray it would be the Holy Spirit of God speak into our hearts and help all of us to trust you and obey you in Jesus' name. Amen. Whenever you're studying Scripture, and I mention this often, maybe on Wednesday nights, when we get a little more in-depth in our studies of the passages But whenever you're studying scripture, I think there's three steps that are very important to take if I'm going to understand what a passage is teaching. Now don't misunderstand the vast majority of scripture you can just read it and you know what it's saying, right? Most of scripture. People say, well, I don't understand. Listen, there's enough There's enough passages in the Bible we do understand. We don't have to let the parts we don't understand hang us up. I like what Mark Twain said. He said it's not the parts of the Bible that I don't understand that I have a tough time with. He said it's the ones I do understand and I don't do That's where the issue is. But nevertheless, we come to passages of Scripture, and it is important that we would take several steps, maybe three steps, that I suggest to help us really grasp what is God saying here. Here they are. Number one, it's important that we understand what the words mean. We come to Scripture, we read down through there. It's important that we understand what those what the meaning is behind those words. Again Most of the words, it's not difficult. I think somebody did a study one time, they said the King James Bible, which I believe is the Word of God That the King James Bible is written on a sixth grade level of school. So if you have a sixth grade education, at least, you can grasp the Word of God very simply. But nevertheless, we do come across words occasionally that are a bit of a challenge. I heard about the preacher didn't know a country preacher didn't know what a concubine was. He thought it was farm equipment. He said, What in the world is Solomon doing with seven uh three hundred combines? You know? And so would you agree with me? It's important we understand what words mean, right? Second thing that's important, number one, understand what the words mean. Number two, get the context of the passage. Most cults Their doctrine is based on passages of scripture that are taken out of context and they give it their own meanings. You'll take a passage of scripture, keep it in the context of what's being addressed And that'll protect you from false doctrine and getting these untrue beliefs in your heart and mind. So number one, what do the words mean? Number two, take the passage in the context. And number three, this one is always check with cross-references. The Bible addresses various subjects from different angles. And so I can go and get other passages of scriptures that address that same subject. And I see what they have to say about it, and then I can come up with a complete picture of what God is saying to me. Now that has to do with Bible study. Digging in there and really grasping what God says. Um, so let's do that here this morning. Let's do a little Bible study, take these three steps by way of introduction, and look at verse number seven But uh I'll read it again. Casting all your care upon him. Obviously the him means the Lord God. Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Well, as I took these three steps as I was preparing this message, I noticed the word care is used twice. Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. I got my strong concordance out. I actually have it on my computer, and there's a dictionary with that, and I thought I'm going to look these words up. You know what I found out? I found out that these words have two different meanings completely. Casting all your care on him, I found out that that word care, as it's used other places in Scripture, always has a negative connotation. It has the idea of anxiety, of being anxious about things, or uh it's a stronger form of the idea of worrying Has anybody here ever worried about anything? Yeah. You know what ha you know what I got I've got to do and if I don't worry about something, I'm worried that I'm not worried about it. And uh uh that's kind of the idea here, but it's much stronger than that. It's it's to be so concerned about something that it disrupts me. Disrupts my life. Something that hurts me spiritually. Now I'm not going to ask you to respond to this, but I would venture to say most. Are you awake there, Raymond? Are you with me? Most, if not all Good. Um most, if not all of us, are uh have some point in our life, or maybe even now have something that is very Bothersome to us. An issue we're facing, a circumstance we're in, situation we're in, and uh boy, it's really upsetting to us. That that happens often. That's the idea of the word here Casting all your anxious care. Casting all the uh the concerns you have that are having a negative influence on your life The word is used in Matthew 13, 22, Mark chapter 4 and verse 19, Luke chapter 8 and verse 14, again in chapter 21 of Luke. And verse 34, and every one of those instances where that word care, as it's used here, every one of those passages where it's used It has a destructive influence on a person's spiritual growth. Now we're going to notice one of those a little bit later. So when he says, casting all your care on him, he's talking about that concern, that anxiety That frame of mind that upsets my faith, derails my faith in God, and hinders my Christian life Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Different word. That word there has a completely different definition. And it simply means this: to have tender concern for another person. Every time that word is used in our Bible. It has to do with somebody being compassionate towards another person. The first word, care, is a self-centered type thing Oh, I'm in bad shape. Oh, this is terrible. Oh my word, what are we gonna do? I'm destroyed. Oh, I'm oh I think I got an ulcer. Oh That's self-centered. That's all worried about me and my situation and all of that and how it affects me and all that. The second word, careth, has to do with my concern for another. My compassion, what I want to help them. Remember the story of the Good Samaritan? And the Good Samaritan saw the um the Jew that was along the road all beat up. Or no. Um The guy along the road all beat up, and the Samaritan who was despised by the Jews. Had compassion on him. He cared for him. He was concerned for his well-being and wanted to help him. And he did. That's the idea of the second word care. Do you see where understanding the meanings of those two words helped you see what's being talked about here? Casting all my anxious anxiety, my anxious care, all these concerns that are dragging me down and hurting me, giving ulcers and high blood pressure, and oh Casting them all on the Lord who has a tender compassion for me. Here's an interesting thing. I got looking up that word, and I would have never dreamed of this in a thousand years. The word careth for you from God's end. also involves in some cases is used to describe a person's respect for another. It's almost the idea that God cast all your care in him because God has respect for you. Now we don't think of God having respect for man. That seems foreign in my thinking. But if you think that through a little bit. God has respect for mankind. We are created in his image. He is entrusted with us the Word of God, the message possible. I often think of the event in the Old Testament where God began an argument with Satan over Job Whether Job was going to be faithful to God or not. And God had tremendous faith in and respect for the man Job. And God said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? And boy, God spoke very highly of him. Job was important to God. And that's the idea here. Casting all your anxious care, your worries, that which keeps you up at night, it's derailing your faith, it's hurting your walk with God. Casting all that on the Lord, for he has respect for me, can thinks highly of me, once, is concerned about me, wants what's best for me. And so we look up the words and we find that helps us grasp what God's telling us here. Then we look at the context, and this gets interesting. I had Pat read verses 5 down through 7. Look at the middle of verse number 5 with me, if you would. And be clothed with humility. Now look at this next statement. And I underlined this in red ink in my Bible. For God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble Humble yourselves, therefore, because God resists the proud and gives grace to the humble, therefore, humble yourselves. Under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. Pride and anxiety go hand in hand. When I get my eyes focused on myself When it becomes me and mine, anxiety is not far behind. Anxious care is not far behind. God says that he resists the proud, those that think too highly of themselves, those who are all wrapped up in themselves, and I'm really something. God resists that. When a person humbles himself before God and says, God, I need you God, I need to trust you in your leadership and your instructions. And God, I can't I can't take things into my own hands. I need to trust you. And God says He gives grace. And so the whole idea is getting this care, this anxious care. uh casting it on the Lord, uh humbling myself, and putting it on the Lord, not being so proud, not being so self-righteous. You know what I found out? When I get proud, God is very effective at knocking my feet out from under me. Can I get a witness? Just about the time I think I'm really something, I hear this echo come back, baloney. Huh? So the context of this whole idea of getting rid of this anxious care, this This stuff this frame of mind that's hurting me spiritually and dragging me down and affecting my witness and the peace of God in my life. Well I've got I've got to humble myself You know, there's a lot of people die and go to hell because they think they're good enough to get to heaven. Humility. If we're ever going to be saved, we've got to humble ourselves and acknowledge to God, God, I'm a sinner. There's nothing good in me. I cannot save myself. I need you. Come in my life and forgive me and save me. And what's true for salvation, initial uh event of salvation, God saving my soul, humbling myself before him, is true for my Christian life. We don't get saved, and all of a sudden we can handle it from here out. No, no, no. I'm just as guilty a sinner today as I was 34 years ago the day I trusted Christ as Savior. I need to stay humble before. Not that I lose my salvation if I don't, but if I want the peace and blessings and grace of God in my life, to be able to deal with the issues of life, I've got to humble myself. We are so proud. I used to think that pride was a unique to Americans. Then I traveled around the world a little bit. You know what? I found that pride is a universal affliction. Rich people are proud, poor people are proud. White people proud, black people proud. Educated people proud, uneducated people proud. Pride is a affliction of all of men and women. And it brings with it anxiety. It brings with us, brings with it burdens and difficulties. If I want genuine peace in my heart and life, if I want inner strength, strength to be able to deal with the issues I'm facing that the world can't give. By the way, the bottle isn't going to help you deal with issues. These stinking commercials on radio and not our radio station, amen. But stinking commercials for liquor and beer and Budweiser and all that, and oh it's the high life, oh this is gonna be great, oh it's gonna be wonderful. That is a lie of the devil. Amen. I've never known anybody whose life was better because they drank liquor. I never found anybody that was more peaceful and happy in life because of liquor. But I can take you to hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of people that said, thank God God took that away from me. Finally I have peace and purpose and direction in my life. So if I want peace in my heart and life that this world and all its lies cannot give me, I've got to humble myself before the Lord, and God will give me grace. And I can get these cares and anxiety and pour it on the Lord because He cares for me. He respects me. Um Humility. Humility. Then we do a cross-reference. Alright, what do we say? The three things we should do. Number one, get the meaning of the word. Casting all your care, anxious, negative, bad. On him, for he careth good, compassionate, concern, respect. Alright, we got the definition, context, we've got to humble ourselves. This is all in the context of a person humbling themselves before the Lord, acknowledging their need of him. And then the cross-reference, and we'll just summarize this to say all through Scripture: God takes special care of those who humble themselves and trust him and obey him. I'm telling you, the Bible teaches us that if we will humbly trust the Lord, obey what he tells us to do, God will take care of us. I've been pastor here for coming on 20 years. Before that, I've been in the ministry of full-time extent since 1985. A lot of people have come and gone past me, and I've had a lot of this in my own self. You know what I found out? I found out that those Christians who have the most joy in peace in their life, they're happy, are those that humbly trust and obey God. And those that get proud and say, I'm going to do it my way and it's going to be me, what I want, when I want it, the way I want it. You know I found out? Boy, those folks struggle. Attitude, miserable. Oh, and put on a show and put on a funny face on Sunday. But it's a facade. There's no real peace there, pride. And all through scripture, and we could go from Genesis to Revelation, and we could find illustration after illustration. Find precept after precept, clear statements in Scripture that God takes care of those who will trust Him Do what he says. Humbly. God takes care of us. Now, let me give you a little outline of this passage here. We've got a grasp here of what's being said. Now let's let's uh put it together. Number one. I want us to consider the character of our care. The character of our care. What is this care that we're supposed to cast on what is it like? It is a care that wears out the one who has it. It wears out the one who has it. Turn with me if you would. Now keep your place here. I think this is the only other passage we're going to look at this morning, but go to Matthew chapter 13 with me. Now, as I said, it's used in Matthew, Mark, and twice in Luke, in the same context as what we're going to look here in Matthew Matthew chapter thirteen. Now turn there with me. We got you y did you bring your Bible? If you brought your Bible, we might as well use it, huh? Just setting there. Matthew chapter 13, look with me at verse 22. Now while you're finding that, the context of this is Jesus had told a parable. And a sower went forth to sow, and he threw his seed out there as they did in the olden days, and some of it fell on the hard pathway, and some of it fell on rocky ground, and some of it fell among thorns, some of it fell on good ground And later the disciples say, What's that all about? And we don't even know what you're talking about. He says, Well, the seed is the word of God. The soil is the hearts of people in the world. And the sower goes out and he sows the word of God. We could say the gospel. And uh the principles and teachings of Scripture. Some of it fell falls on the hard ground where the people walk in the pathway, birds come and take it away, it doesn't grow, and uh it doesn't do any good He said some of it falls around rocks, uh stony ground, and boy, the people receive it, and boy, they're all excited, and uh maybe they profess faith in Christ, and man, they come to church, and they're all excited for a little while. And then the sun, just like the sun comes up, there's no root there because it's stony ground, and these people don't ever get grounded in the Word of God and don't establish themselves, get strong in their faith, and after a while they fade out and fall away. Now here is where we come to where this word care is used. Look at verse 22. He also that receiveth the word among the thorns is he that heareth the word. Look at this. And the what? Care of this world. All the things that worry me, all the financial situations and physical situations and interpersonal relationships and All the cares of this world, along with the deceitfulness of riches, they choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful. Do you notice what he says that this anxious care that we're supposed to care to the Lord, did you notice what he says it does to the one who has it. The the one that professes faith, well probably a saved man, uh, but it it would it does what to them? It chokes them It chokes the word that's supposed to be strengthening them and helping them grow, understanding what God wants of them. It chokes it. Now, what happens when you choke someone? They die, I know, but I mean what is it doing that causes them to die? If I was gonna choke Bill, and I wouldn't do it because he could easily knock me over and choke me. Alright, what am I doing? I'm suffocating, I am keeping them, get this, I am re I am keeping them from getting that which they need. How many people have found out in life you need air? I found that to be true. And so if I am choking Bill, he cannot get the air that he needs. Do you see what this verse is saying? What do the cares? I get oh, I'm so worried about this, and oh, this is terrible, and oh I gotta figure out a way to handle this. And I'm doing that, what is it? It's choking the word. What's it doing? It's keeping me from getting from the Lord that which I need. I need God to speak to my heart. I need God to lead me and direct me in my life. Well, preacher, I don't need no God. You're a fool. Excuse me. I see people all the time. I see professing Christians trying to live their life as if there's no God that just completely disregarding living their life completely independent of God. And man, they're struggling. They're miserable. And God says, Listen, that care You got all this stuff you're all worried about. Why don't you just cast that Lord? Because it's choking you out. Humble yourself. Quit trying to live your life independent of God. Submit to God. Give him that care. And then you can get the word of God and you have some peace. Um notice It keeps God's word. It says it chokes out the word, and he becometh unfruitful. Anxiety has never helped a Christian. Being anxious and worried and trying to deal with things on my own, and oh that has never uh improved the situation I have to admit this, I've worried about stuff at points in my life. Shocking. Uh you know I found out? It doesn't change the situation at all. Oh no, we got a picnic next Sunday. Oh, what if it rains? Oh heavens, oh oh no, it's gonna rain. Oh no Doesn't phase the weather one bit. It's never improved the situation. Anxious care. Anxious care has never strengthened the faith of a believer. Worry and anxiety and getting upset has never made me a stronger person in my faith in the Lord So when I get rid of that and say I'm going to trust God, I'm going to have faith in God. I'm going to follow His leadership, His direction, rather than trying to deal with it myself, you know what I found out? God comes through. I don't always do what I wanted, but He works it out. Come out and say, wow, you know, God is something. Aren't we strange Christians? How many people here believe God answers prayer? Say amen. How many of us are surprised when He answers our prayer? Amen. Come out and lo and behold, God did what he said. Wow, God is something. And my faith is stronger. I stand over here and say, no, I can't, I'm gonna do that, and I won't humble myself. I'll learn a thing about God. I'll come out a better person. My faith isn't stronger. My witness isn't any better. My testimony isn't any better. Some care and anxiety, some things we worry about and get all worked up about, some of them are selfish and sinful. There's some things we worry and get anxious about we shouldn't be worried and anxious about. I mean it's just wrong to even be anxious about it. You follow what I'm saying? You know who I can't stand? Ahab. Anybody ever read about Ahab in the Bible? Man, I just read him in my devotions this week and I was mis I was I was anxious all week. Yeah. I read about Ahab most one of the actually he wasn't even the most wicked king, but he kind of set the bar. I read about that guy and I thought, oh, I just want to choke him. Like and uh I'm reading about Ahab and there's an event in Ahab's life that really gets my crawl. What? Yeah. Yes. Ahab's looking out, his Prince Aaron Jezreel, his pr his palace in Jezreel, he looks out, and Naboth, his neighbor, has this nice vineyard Now Naboth is a good guy. He fears God. He's working hard. He's inherited this. His daddy inherited. His daddy's daddy inherited it. His daddy's Daddy's daddy inherited. It's been in the family since they entered the land. And Naboth comes down and Ahab comes down to Naboth and says, Oh, will you sell me your vineyard? I really like it. Man, it's beautiful, and I'll pay you whatever you want. And Naboth says, so many words, I don't think he's being disrespectful. He says, uh man, I can't sell this to you. It's been in my family for generations. I already got plans. I'm going to pass it on to my children. I'm not going to sell it to you. You know what Ahab did? The Bible says he runs up in his room, lays in his bed, faces the wall, and starts pouting and whining. Sucking his thumb. It's in the Hebrew. He sucked his thumb. And here he's all upset and he's all anxious and all that And it's something he should not even have been anxious about. Whenever we decide to sin against God, whenever we decide to disobey God, it brings with it anxious care. Whenever we get selfish and want our way, I've used this illustration before, but it's classic here. There was a man, I was probably here maybe five, eight years I was pastor here. Probably around the year 2000 in that range. There was a fella I had been out knocking on doors and I'd come across him and I if I remember he made a profession of faith to me. I don't remember exactly. But anyway, I I had ended up getting to know the guy and he we had interacted a little bit. He never came to church. And I knew him and he called me Pastor Leatherman and I felt like I had a little in ministry there and influence with him a little bit He showed up in my office one day, a weekday. He called me up. He said, Man, I gotta talk to you, Pastor Lemon. I said, All right, come on. He sat down, I said, What's the deal? And he started telling me that he was in love with another man's wife. He was married, had two kids, and he was in love with this another other man's wife. And he had to have her. And he said, What do I do? I said, You repent of that sin. That's adultery. That's sinful. You stop it immediately. He goes, but I we're in love with each other, and I don't love my wife, and I love her. And I said that is sin. And you repent of it now. And he pressed it and pressed it. And finally I said to him, I said, listen, if you are wanting an approval from me for you to do that, you are never, ever, ever going to get it. Now, I am sure, I told him, I am sure there are some other preachers, quote unquote, in our county that you could go to and they would say, sure, fine, whatever, but you're not going to get it from this preacher. And he was sobbing. And when he looked up, I'm telling you, there were puddles on my desk of teardrops that had fallen out of his eyes over another man's wife. He was all upset, all anxious, all tore up. Over something he should not have been involved in in the first place. And by the way, the sin of adultery is just as condemned by God as the sin of sodomy is. Come on now. I tell you what works me up. This this sodomite thing in the in the in the uh Supreme Court, the decision I made, I tell you what, we can as Christians get it worked up all we want. We preach against it, you know that. But what I'm saying is, until we clean up the sexual sins in our churches, we're not going to do much good about stopping sodomy out in the world. I told the guy, I said, this is ridiculous. He left. Left his wife. She got a divorce. He got a divorce. They got together. You know what he does when he sees well now this is years ago, I haven't seen him for years, but you know what he did when he would see me around town? He'd hide. He could get away from me. You know what that tells me? He was unhappy. He was miserable. He knew it was wrong. Some anxiety, some of the things that just tear up our lives, are things that ought not to even be in our lives to begin with. And when God says, cast all your care on me, he's not saying, Hey, listen, come to me with your sinful lusts, come for me with your selfish desires, and oh, I'll take care of it for you. No! There's other passages of scriptures that tell us To repent from that sin. So some anxiety and anxious care is selfish and carnival carnal and sinful. Some anxious care I found is imaginary. Do you ever worry about something and never even was anything? After it was all said and done, it didn't even exist? Anyone know what I'm talking about? I've said this before and I've had several folks in the church come up and testify to this, give me a witness. But sometimes it hadn't happened lately, praise the Lord, but uh sometimes I would wake up two o'clock in the morning And some little thing that is really nothing would be on my mind, and I get dwelling on that, and I'd get all worked up, and then I can't go to sleep. It's four or five o'clock in the morning. And I'm convinced it's the end of the world because my backyard didn't get mowed before my dad showed up on Wednesday. And I wake up the next morning, I thought that's ridiculous. Why was I all worried about that? Now you all are looking at me like you don't know what I'm talking about. But you know what I'm talking about. So sometimes we get all worked up and worried about stuff that doesn't is imaginary. It's not even there. Some, hey, but some of our care, our anxiety, is legit. Humanly speaking. The situation is disturbing. Humanly speaking, it can bring anxiety to my heart and life. Um and we could give a whole list of things. The the place you're working, maybe you buy a house, you and you just get a new house, and then your job closes down, then what are you going to do? Things that are beyond your control and my control. And boy, that that can produce anxious care. The doctor says we found a spot in your lung. We don't know what it is. Well that can produce anxious care. A child that tried to teach and train, they go off. Boy, you're so worried. Say, well, I wish they lived for God. I wish that brings anxious care. That humanly speaking, those are legitimate Issues that can concern us and and uh and hurt us, am I right? Listen, there are legitimate things, and God forbid that I or any other pastor would make someone feel guilty on top of the struggles they're already having with a legitimate situation. Some are sinful and need to just repent and get out. Some are imaginary, but some are legitimate. And they're for real. How many people recognize the names Shagrach, Meshach, and Abednego? Remember that in the Old Testament? They were taken captive over to Babylon and They're in this foreign land, they're godly young men, they love the Lord, they're trying to do right, they're living by the Bible, they're honest, true, and pure. And the authorities, the government says, builds this big statue and says, all right, you've got to bow down when we play the rock music. You've got to bow down yourselves and worship this idol. This is God from here on out. And the whole society agrees and goes along with it. And it isn't just an individual king saying this. This is everybody. Their neighbors, their co-workers. Everybody is, yeah, everybody's on board with this. This is good. This is right, this is what we'll do. Now put yourself in Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego shoes. They're the only three guys. Look at that. They're sitting right down here. How about that? Shadrach, Mishach, and one bad Negro. Now I heard a black preacher say that Tony Evans said that years ago, so we'll erase that off the tape. But um anyway Put yourself in these guys' shoes. They're the only ones. I can hear them say to each other, good night. Everybody's going along with this. The whole world is doing this. This isn't right. Then they get word, if you don't You're going to be thrown in a fiery furnace. I mean burn you alive till you're dead. Would you agree with me? Humanly speaking, that would be a legitimate thing to be concerned about. Yeah. And I could see, humanly speaking, the night before, all right, this all starts tomorrow, nine o'clock in the morning, the music's gonna play. All y'all come on out and we're gonna bow down and worship this idol. And everybody's yeah, and all the news, this is great, and the newspaper's wonderful. Hey neighbors, what do you think about that? Yeah, we're gonna be there. This is fantastic. I say good night I could see humanly speaking, they'd be up all night long. Oh man. But the Bible doesn't record any of that There is not a hint in Scripture that they worried about it one iota. The next day the music plays, the whole nation bows down These guys stand. So we're not going to do that. And the authorities come rushing in. You're an enemy of the state. You're in violation of our society. You're harmful to our nation. They haul him off before the king. The king says, Alright, I'll be merciful and I'm putting this in my I'll be merciful. I'll give you guys one more chance. Strike up the band and if you guys don't bow, there's the furnace, you're burning ali you're going to be thrown in alive until you're dead. These guys We're not going to do it. And they say, listen, we're not going to bow down. God can keep us. Even in that fire, we're not bowing down. Even if you throw us in a fire, God can keep us. And even if God doesn't save us from burning alive, we're still not bowing down. It ain't right. Not one hint of anxious care. Not one hint of worry. Because they had taken that anxious care and they had cast it on the Lord They had taken that whole situation, they put it in God's hands. God, whatever you do, God, we're not going to do wrong, we're going to do right. And even if it kills us, we're going to do right. This is out of our hands. It's in God's hands. Casting all their care upon the Lord. For the Lord careth for them. God had respect for them. God loved those boys. And they trusted him and put it in his hands. God said, Alright, I'll take care of you. Life and the world can throw some horrendous things at us Man. Sometimes I hear what people go through, what they're facing, and I think, man, how difficult can this world be? How horrendous can this world be? But I'm here to tell you there's a God in heaven that is wiser and more powerful and so compassionate That He can overcome and see us through the most horrendous trials and difficulties, and we don't have to have anxious care. We can trust Him, cast it on Him, and let Him deal with it, and we just do right. So the character of our care, some of it's sinful. Crowd this size, I venture to say, and I don't know this for a fact, I'm just showing it, throwing it out there. Crowd this size, I venture to say, there's some folks in here You're struggling and dealing with something that ought not to even be in your life. Something sinful that you need to repent and get it out of. It's causing you problems, it's causing you heartache and trials and difficulties, and it's just shit. Some I would venture to say here you're all worried and worked up about something doesn't even exist. Some of us, some, are dealing with legitimate issues that are very difficult and are very troubling, humanly speaking. But God says, take that and cast it on him. So the character of our care, the cure, and I don't have time for the rest of this, the cure for our care. is casting. It doesn't say hand it to the Lord. It doesn't say lay it at the Lord's feet. It says cast it. The whole idea behind the word cast has the idea of throwing it rapidly. We were little, we used to play hot potato. Remember that game? Don't hold it long. Throw that thing. That's the idea of this word here. It's an aggressive word. It has the idea of once for all. Listen, when that situation blows up and it is about to dis you're about to lose your mind over it, you don't know what to do. Bible says don't hold on to it for a while. Don't just uh hear God just man throw it on the Lord All your care, the whole amount, entire bit, each and every one. Now I'll be the first to admit that's not a simple thing to do. When something comes up and it is troubling and it's upsetting and it looks like it's gonna ruin my life. It takes a lot of strong faith to say, God, I'm not going to worry about this. I'm not going to let this choke me spiritually. I'm going to put it in your hands. I'm just going to plow forward. You think it was easy for these three boys to stand up against the whole country? Took a lot of faith. Took a lot of inner fortitude. I'm not saying it's easy, but I am saying it's true and it's right, and it can be done. I talked to a person this week that's gone through some horrendous difficulties. And I said, listen, it's not easy, but you just got to trust God and go forward. You just gotta do what God says is right and go forward. And that's not easy. Some cares are so heavy. It takes all our strength spiritually to cast it on the Lord. It says, cast all your care upon the Lord. You know what we do? We can talk to others about our problems, but only the Lord can we cast them upon Him. Listen, every one of us are individual Christians. There's not one person in this room that I can take my cares and you take them from me and bear them for me. Not one person here can do that. Only the Lord can do that. I can talk to you about it. If you're interested, I'll give you a dollar and take an hour and tell you all my problems. Any takers? Good. But only the Lord can take the problem. Can take the care from me. Anybody ever anybody here ever come to you and tell you problems and you said this? Listen, don't worry about it. Anybody ever helps. So the character of our care and then the cure for our care is putting it on the Lord. Off then with this. George Mueller told the story. Great man of faith over in London years ago. Great man of faith. Back in the late 1800s. He told the story of a little boy that had this like thing that backpacks then, but it was like a sack he had on his back. He's walking down the street, apparently a true story. He's walking down the street with his head, I mean it was heavy, this little boy is carrying it, oh And this guy comes by with a horse and buggy and he says, Son, where are you going? He says, I'm going to the wherever he was going. And the guy said, Well, hop in. Good night, you're lugging that thing. Get in the wagon in the back So the boy hopped the wagon, they're going down the road, and the guy happened to look back to see how the boy's doing, you know what he's doing? He still had that thing on his back, standing in the back of the wagon holding that thing. Now he didn't put it this way, but I would have. Idiot, drop the bag. And that's what the Lord's saying. Man alive, if you've been saved, you're in Christ. Take that anxiety, that care, and get it off. Put it on the Lord. Let Him carry it. And then the compulsion, our compulsion to cast our Lord on it, our motive is why would we do this? Because He careth for us. He careth for us. Every challenge you and I face that bothers us so much is really an opportunity for us to experience the power and love of God in our lives. He said, the whole world is falling apart, preacher. What a great opportunity for you to experience God doing something for you that no one else in this world can do for you. What an opportunity to experience the power and presence of God in your life. You say, but you don't understand, this thing is so much bigger than me. Yeah, but it ain't bigger than God. And here's your chance. See God do something. Talked to a person years ago that had messed up We all do to certain degrees at various times, but they had messed up. And I said, God has given you they said, what do I do? I said, God has given you a tremendous opportunity. To establish a testimony of God's goodness and grace in the life of a person that made a terrible mistake. And I said, God can use you to help others. I'd have experienced what you're experienced. If you'll cast it on him. God loves you. God cares for you. He says, listen, cast that on me. Give it to me. Let me deal with it. And then God, I can use you to help others do the same thing. I read a Bush Pilot in Ecuador. True story. He flew a Cessna 206. I have no idea, it's some kind of plane. And uh he would he picked up an American in some jungle airstrip that was back there for some reason. the American was. And flying these little jungle airstrips, they grow up so quickly, they clear it out. And uh it all grows right back. Um we had a missionary down in Peru who supported for a while, and uh he said this idea of uh deforesting the jungles, he said that's baloney. He says you cut it down, it grows back in a few days, it's all right back again. And so they would cleave that so the strip air strips were very short and took very great skill to be able to get that plane up above that tree line in the brief Room that they had. Well this one airline pilot, this one Bush pilot had this American. Of course he had tons of stuff And they loaded that little plane down and it was really overloaded, but the pilot was confident they could get up out of on off in the air in time and everything would be fine. The passenger was very anxious. Oh, I don't think we need to look how short that runway is. There's no way. He said, just get in. Read the engine up, and uh uh they had uh they fired the thing up, and as they were going down the jungle strip, I'll just read it, he says, as they The passenger, an American, and no who had been visiting the Indians, had never taken off from a jungle airstrip. Looking up, all he could see were the coming trees, uh rushing trees, filling the windshield And he got thinking, why doesn't the pilot pull back on the controls, get that thing up in the air? He thought in terror, fearful that they were going to crash into the trees. Finally, in a panic, he tried to help. The passenger grabbed the wheel and pulled it back, which was the worst thing he could have done A plane needs to build up airspeed before you point the nose skyward, otherwise it will stall When that passenger pulled the th uh the stick back, the airplane stalled, it pitched up skyward. And it pitched up, lost critical airspeed, and began to settle toward the trap uh jungle below. The pilot wrestled the controls back from the passenger, desperately tried to get the nose down, but it was too late. As the airplane reached stalling speed, the heavy engine pulled the nose over sharply, and the airplane spun to the earth. By God's grace, no one was killed, but all were injured because of a passenger's lack of trust in the pilot. That is exactly what we do. We get in a situation, it's fearful to us. And rather than trusting God, we try and take everything into our own hands and do it the way we think it should, or the way the world tells us to, and it's disaster. What we need to do is take our hands off and say, God, I need you. I trust you to get me through this. Amen? Father in heaven, help us to trust you. God, you've given us promises in your word. You've given us clear instructions what to do and what not to do in life. And God, we just ignore it. And we reject it, we take things in our own hands, and then we wonder why we're so upset, so worried. I pray this morning there'd be decisions made that we're just going to trust you, take our hands off, let you deal it. We're going to follow what you tell us to do. We're going to do it the way you tell us to do it. And Lord, we're confident you'll work everything out. It'll be okay.