Be the prayer of every Christian, I believe. Hear my Lord, send me. Charles Spurgeon said that every Christian we ought to consider ourselves sent by God as a missionary until God tells us to stay And so I appreciate that song very much. It was a blessing. If you would take your Bibles and turn back to Malachi chapter number three. Brother Grant read from here a few moments ago, Malachi chapter 3, the last book of the Old Testament. When you find that, mark that, and we're actually going to read from there first, but I'd also like for you to find the book of Hebrews And I'm going to begin our message with a text from Hebrews chapter 1, and then also Hebrews chapter 13. So three passages for our text this morning. Malachi, we'll read first. And then we're going to go to Hebrews chapter 1 and Hebrews chapter 13. Three bonds got stranded on uh Island in the South Pacific, not far from New Zealand. And uh they were stuck there, They had no hope, nobody's ever gonna find them, it's just a little island. But they could see the mainland was not real far away. Finally one day they decided we can swim, we can make it from this little Island we're stranded on to the mainland. I think we can make it. So the first blonde dove in, she's swimming across this great expanse over the mainland, and as she gets halfway there And there's rip currents and undercurrents and all this, and she gets drawn underneath, and the poor lady drowns. So the next one says, all right, I know I can do this. She dives in She gets about halfway there and a big shark comes up, eats her, swims off. This is a terrible story. The third one says, all right, I this is my only hope. She dives in, she gets halfway there, and she thinks, I can't make it, she gets halfway there, so she turns around and goes back. And so she never makes it either That was a joke from New Zealand. So it's not my fault. That was Elizabeth's fault. Hebrews chapter 3, verse number 6. I'd like for us to read this together in unison, if you would. That was really a morbid joke. That was terrible. Verse 6, I'd like for us to read that together in unison, if you would. Malachi chapter 3 and verse number 6. You got it there? Here we go. Ready all together. For I am the Lord, I change not. Therefore, ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. I want you to note the first part of that verse, I am the Lord, I change not. Now, if you want to come back to Hebrews, And I'm going to read from chapter one and verses ten through twelve Hebrews chapter 1, give everybody a chance to find it there, and I'll begin reading in verse number 10. And thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the works of thy hands. What a powerful God we have. I created all of this, laid the foundation of the earth, and the heavens are the work of thy hands. They, verse 11, they shall perish, but thou what remainest. They shall wax old as of the garment, and as a vesture thou shalt fold them up, and they shall be changed. This old created world is temporal. Now look at this next statement. But thou art the same. If something is the same, it means it hasn't what? Changed. You're the same God. You laid the foundation of this world. The heavens are the works of your hands. They're all going to be folded up. The day's coming. You're going to deal with all that. But God You are the same. Now come over to chapter 13 of Hebrews. And we can go to any number of passages of Scripture throughout the Bible that address this same subject and give the same similar statements about God. Hebrews chapter 13 and verse number eight. Jesus Christ You agree with us? We already determined this. Jesus is God. Right? Jesus is God. Manifest in the flesh, the Son of God. Jesus Christ, the same, yesterday, today, and what? Forever. This summer we've been looking and trying to study God. And we want to know, is there a God? And if so, what is he like? Who is he and what's he like? We've come to the conclusion that, yes, there is a God. It's undeniable. Our conscience tells us That there is a God. We know instinctively that God exists. We look around us at creation, and it's evident that there is a creator. There is someone that has designed and created this world. It is, and I'm not a mathematician, Brother Pat could verify this, I'm sure. It's mathematically impossible That this would just happen by chance. There is a God. We see it all around. It has to be. It's obvious. To deny the existence of God is to deny the obvious. And the Bible tells us there is a God. God, what are you like? We know you exist. We know in our hearts. We see all around what you've made. The Bible tells us: what are you like, God? He tells us in his Bible, I'm invisible. Okay. I'm all powerful. Yes, we see that. I am holy. We understand God is holy. And love. God is love. God loves us. We're his creation. He loves us. God, what do you like? What else? The Bible tells us something else about God. That He does not change The term, and you see it in your bulletins, use it for the title of my message, is God is immutable. He does not change. And that's what I want us to consider this morning. So let's pray together. Father, we bow before you, God, our invisible, holy, all-powerful, eternal, personal God. And we want to know you, Lord. We want to understand you. We want to love you and serve you and trust you. So I ask, dear Lord, that your presence would be very obvious here this morning. I pray you'd make your presence known. I pray that our hearts and minds would be tender and open. To what you want us to understand and how you want us to respond to your word. Lord, I, like Paul said, Lord, I'm just a minister. And I ask, dear God, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me. Now we go out of here in the coming hours, days, weeks, and months. We'd be able to walk with you and we would live our lives for your glory. We would know you and love you like you created us to know you and love you. So bless now this hour I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. From a child, as long as I can remember. I was taught to taught that the Bible is God's Word. And I think I've always believed that. Even before I was saved, at the age of 19, 1979, even before I trusted Christ as my personal Savior, I believed the Bible was God's word. I knew it was true. I didn't have an issue with that. I believed and understood that God existed. That wasn't a question when I was even at my most messed-up state of mind. If you'd have asked me, is there a God, I would have responded, yes, obviously, and there's no doubt there's a God. My problem was I just didn't care. My problem was it was like, who cares? So what? I'm doing my thing. And I really didn't give it any thought I believed and understood from as long as I can remember that Jesus Christ is the Savior, that He's God's Son. I wasn't ignorant of that fact, and I didn't deny that fact. I believed that was true. I think there are two people that had a tremendous spiritual influence on my life and even before I was saved that instilled in my mind that and I I knew just from my own own conscience that God existed, but two people in particular that reinforced that and had a tremendous spiritual influence on me and one of course is my father and speak often of him And uh it's been a blessing to be down with him. Uh we went out yesterday, we were just knocking on doors through a neighborhood. I said, Dad, why don't you come along? He says, All right. So it worked pretty good. I didn't know the running up to the door and knocking and talking, running back, and he handed me the literature, so it w worked out pretty good. And then we were talking this uh week or so when he was down, I had a Sunday school teacher when I was young, and if I remember correctly it was third grade. A lady by the name of Thelma Felton, a different denomination, but uh she taught us, and I still hear these many years later. I remember the influence of that Sunday school teacher that would teach us the Bible. And she taught us from God's word that God loved us and that Jesus is the savior and we needed to accept him as our personal savior. And though I did not at the time make that decision, I learned of that and I believe that And I'm convinced to this day that her influence in my young life as a Sunday school teacher had a profound role in me coming to know Christ as Savior. Now I'm saying that for a couple of reasons, and one is to encourage our children's church and our Sunday school teachers and our youth workers, our bus workers, listen, what you're doing is not in vain. And you may not see immediate results. And that little kid sitting there, you may want to wring his neck. But I'm telling you w when I'm telling you when you're teaching that child the Bible And you're pointing that child's heart and mind to God and the things of God, you are planting seeds. You're having an influence that lasts for many, many years and often bears fruit down the road that you and I may never see. So I always believed the Bible was God's word. That wasn't an issue. I didn't fight that. I always believed that God existed. That never was an issue for me. Jesus the Savior, that was never an issue. But in 1979, the beginning of the year, that January, and that area, that period of time, I began to come to a conclusion. That if I kept living my life the way I was living, if I kept going the direction I was going, if there was not a change in my life. I was going to become a man I did not want to be. And I did not want to get to the destination that the life I was leading, I was living, was leading to. And I came to the conclusion: if something doesn't change in my life, this is going to be total failure. And I'm going to end up in hell. Something had to change. And I don't want to sound spooky, but I'm telling you, I I began praying. I remember very clearly in January 1979. I began late at night, I'd come home out carrying on. Get home, two, three, four o'clock in the morning. I'd lay in bed, with tears, I'd say, God help me, God help me. I don't want to go this way. I don't want to be this way. And I'm telling you, as clear as if it was an audible voice, and it was not an audible voice, but in my heart and soul God spoke and said, Read the Bible, find the Bible. I began rooting around and I hadn't had a Bible out in years. Rooting around, I found a Bible in one of the drawers that had been given to me as a Child, I got that thing out and late at night, early mornings, come home drunk out of my head on high And I'd read that Bible and God began speaking to my heart. I tell you one thing, you can be as drunk as a skunk, however drunk that is. But when the Holy Spirit of God brings conviction, you sober up pretty quick. I began reading that Bible and I learned some things. I found out that my problem as a young man was not the environment I was living in. That wasn't what was messing my life up. It wasn't my home situation. It wasn't my financial standing. That wasn't the problem. That's not why my life was such a mess and why I was going such a wrong direction. That wasn't my problem. The problem was in here. The problem I learned from the Bible is I had a sinful heart. I had an incredible sinful nature, and it didn't matter what my environment was, it didn't matter what the home situation was, it didn't matter any of these external things, unless something changed in my heart, my life was never going to change. Unless my nature wasn't changed, unless I was given a new heart, a new nature, nothing was going to change. I tried desperately to clean my life up. I tried desperately to reform, turn over a new leaf. And it was all failure, all failure. I saw in the Bible my problem was I was a sinner with a sinful nature that needed God to change my heart. God told Israel that you have a heart of stone, you need a heart of flesh. Did it change the heart? And I read in my Bible and I saw and I learned in those early morning hours so messed up and crying out, desperate for God to help me I found out that yes, God did exist and God loves me. And God had died on that cross so that I could be a new man, so that I could have eternal life, so that I could be a new creature. That's exactly what I wanted. In the Bible, I saw that God could do that for me, and He would do that for me. My responsibility was to accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Humble myself before God, let go, and let God come in my heart and life and save me and give me a new life. And May 7, 1979, kneeling beside my bed. I made that decision to accept Jesus Christ as my Savior. You know what I found out? God did exactly what He promised He would do in His Word. He saved my soul, forgave my sin, and gave me a new life. The Bible, like no other book in all of history, reveals to us who God is. And what he's like. This is God's word. And it reveals to us who we are and what we are. It reveals to us who this God is that we know exists. We can't see him. And God has revealed Himself to us in His Word. What a powerful, important book the Bible is. We look in the Bible. We learn things about God. We find out who he is and what he's like, as I said. And one of the things we learn and we find out in the Bible about God is this: that God is immutable. We read several verses, and as I said earlier, we could go to scores of passages all through the Old and New Testament, revealing to us that God is immutable. And by that we mean he is unchanging. He is unalterable. You cannot alter God. In fact, not only is he unchanging, he is unchangeable. It is not even possible for God to change. He's always the same. He's always the same. So I want to give you three thoughts. Now my mind is kind of simple, and anybody that's been here any length of time, you would say Yeah, that's pretty obvious, preacher. My mind's kind of simple. I think in categories, and so when I put a message together, I like to use three points and a poem and a tear-jerking illustration. That that's a pr that's a joke for preachers to understand. But I like to think in first point, second point, third point, and I like to alliterate, use the same letters and all that. It helps me I don't know if it does any good for you, but it helps me. So having said that, here's the concept. We want to preach about what the Bible says about God being unchangeable. And so I have three thoughts on that. Number one, God is unchangeable in his substance. Now that's probably not the best word, but I use that to fit my categories. A Bible student or a theologian would say something like this: God is unchanging in his essence, in what he is. God exists forever, and he does not change. Now I just throw this out there. God's the fact that God does not change and the fact that God is eternal always was, no beginning. It's hard for us to comprehend. Always will be no end. Again, impossible for us to grasp that The eternality of God and the unchangeableness of God, the immutability of God, are closely connected. Now this is my simple mind. I could be wrong. If I am, you can correct me afterward, not now I believe it's possible I I can comprehend something being eternal, possible for always been, always will be. And yet not necessarily be immutable. Could exist forever, but still could change throughout their existence. May or may not be possible. But I know that it is impossible For God to be unchangeable and not be eternal. Follow my thinking. If God had a beginning, then he changed. He didn't exist, now he does exist. That's not being immutable. If God had an end where he would cease to exist, then things would change. But the Bible says God does not change. He cannot change. Thus, the fact that he is unchangeable tells me he has to be eternal. You follow what I'm saying? And so God is eternal. He lasts forever. This God we cannot see. We know he exists. We're in his presence now. He sees us. He hears us. He knows everything about us as we're sitting here. We actually we don't see him, feel him, but we are in God's presence right now. He has always existed, he always will exist, and he does not change. Whatever God was like before He created this world and universe He is still now. Whatever God was, whatever his characteristics were before he spoke this world into existence He still is now. And he will be long after this world is gone and the new heaven and new earth are established. God always has been all-powerful. And he always will be. God always has been holy. And he always will be holy God has not changed. As far as God's concerned, what was sin a thousand years ago is sin today. And will be sinned in ten thousand years from now. Whatever was pure and good and right ten thousand years ago is still pure and good and right today God does not change. He is as holy now as he ever has been. He always will be. God is as loving now. As he always has been. God has always been ever-present, and he always will be. God has ever always been all-knowing. And he always will be. Think about that. This is mind-boggling. God never learns anything because he's all knowing. If you know everything, you don't have to learn something. Keep this in mind when you're reading your Bible, and God asks questions. He is not seeking information, he is teaching lessons. God always has been all-knowing. He always will be all-knowing. God always has been good. And he's unchanging. He always will be good. Think about the power. This just captures my heart and mind. Think about the power that God exercised when he spoke this world into existence. What power is in a being that just let it be whom the universe exists? Wow. And that power that was displayed at the beginning of creation is unchanging. He hasn't spent a bit of it. The power of God. The love that God and the power of God displayed all through history in uh flooding the world. With Noah and that event, at God's word, the world is altered by this world flood, worldwide flood. Think about when God has Moses hold the rod out of the Red Sea and the Red Sea parts and they cross on dry land. What a powerful God! God stops the sun in the sky. I don't comprehend that. He turns the compass degrees back. He raises the dead. He makes the blind to see. What a powerful God. And the Bible tells us God has not changed. He's just as powerful today as he ever was, and always will be. The love that God has shown throughout the history of man. God always has been loved. He always will be loved. When Adam and Eve sinned against God and deliberately and directly disobeyed God's clear instructions. Out of a rebellion against God, the very first thing God does is comes down and makes restoration. Makes it possible for man to be restored in his relationship with God. Don't tell me that's not a loving God. Unchanged. You show all through history God displaying almost incomprehensible levels of mercy. To people that have done some of the most wicked, ungodly things, and they would humble themselves before God, and God would show mercy, and God would forgive. That God has not changed. That mercy is just as available and just as evident as it was all through history. The judgment that God exercised upon individuals and upon nations throughout history. God hasn't changed. God hasn't changed. Of course, we mentioned the beginning in our prayer for our country. We love our country. But I think America needs to consider the fact that God has judged nations in the past and he will continue to do so. He has not changed. He has not changed. God is unique in this characteristic, unchanging. I don't believe there's anything in creation, in the created world, that is immutable, not in the sense that God is. All of creation changes. Think about how this world has changed since God initially created this world. The horrendous effects that sin has had. Upon creation and the world. And how that one act of disobedience on the part of Adam brought God's judgment and grief and woe into this created world. And the death and destruction that follows. Sin has introduced horrific changes to our world, landscape changes. Think about the effects that a worldwide flood would have upon. Continents and land masses. Just recently, my wife's hometown, Richwood, West Virginia, and I think most of you are aware of this, had the worst flood in a thousand years, they say. And of course a lot of you gave generously to help the folks down there. I was talking to the pastor of the Independent Baptist Church, Liberty Baptist, right there in the middle of the town. And he said, Brother Latherman, he says, you wouldn't believe how this town has changed just by that one day of flooding. He said their entire hollers, as they call hollers, where there was folks living in roads. He says they're so completely altered, you wouldn't even know there was a community there anymore. You wouldn't even know where the road was. The whole landscape's been altered. Credible changes that hurricanes and floods and earthquakes bring to this world. This world's not immutable. Creation changes. Nations change. Great kingdoms of previous centuries. Are now gone. World powers that other nations of the world would tremble before, now they no longer exist. No nation is immutable. Think about Nineveh. It's hard for us to comprehend the size, the immensity, and the influence of that one city of Thousands of years ago, Jonah of course went and preached there, and God delayed his judgment a hundred years or so. But eventually the judgment of God fell upon Nineveh, and it was so completely destroyed that even today The archaeologists are not sure exactly where that city was located at, so completely obliterated Nations are not immutable. Babylon is now a wilderness. Egypt is not even a drop in a bucket compared to the power it was a few thousand years ago. God is unique in the characteristic of his immutability, unchanging. Creation changes, nations change. Can I suggest to you, and this one grieves my heart, churches change Churches are not immutable. The great churches of the New Testament we read about in the book of Acts and the Book of Revelation and others through the epistles. Great churches of years gone by that had a powerful witness and the presence of God was there and the gospel went out in power and they had a testimony of the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ today no longer exist. Ephesus, Berea, that was a noble church, and they searched the scriptures. Philippi. And of course, my favorite, the church at Thessalonica. What a powerful, missions-minded, soul-winning church. None of them exist today. In fact, if I understand correctly, Brother Charles Keane was with us some year or so ago, a little while ago, and he said there is no Bible preaching church in the city of Thessalonica to this day. And yet there was one day a powerful, powerful church there. Churches are not immutable Matthew 16, 18, the Lord said that the world would never be without a church. The gates of hell would not prevail against it. He would build his church. Now, I think he's referencing the church in sense of churches, independent Baptist churches in general. In other words, this world will always have a local body of Christ. In various locations, there will always be a witness. The body of Christ will always exist. But that is not a promise to any particular church that they're going to continue on. For years I had the privilege of being a member of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Brother Koblitz, I think you were down there. Graduated from Temple. And for five years I was a member of that church, worked in the bus ministry, preaching, the visitation, active in the church, or my school years, and after for a year. Do you know that church does not exist today? The first Sunday there was the dedication of a new auditorium. 6,000 people. Seat 6,000 people in that church. Every seat filled, chairs in the aisles Doors to the lobbies opened all around out there. The place was absolutely packed. Overflow buildings. Today, sets empty. No buses, no preaching, no kids, no altar, no choir, nothing. Who'd ever dreamed that that church would ever cease to exist? Churches are not immutable, my friends. My dad's home church, though it's still in existence, it's not what it once was. Our God was upon the Faith Baptist Church up there. In amazing ways, and they would tell stories, they'd have great revivals and the place would be filled. And I remember Bob or somebody was telling me one time that out in the parking lot, the ushers were leading people to Christ in the parking lot. God's presence and power was there. I remember one time before I was safe, we were going to uh the drinking age in Pennsylvania was higher than New Jersey, and we used to go over to New Jersey. A bunch of us were piled into the car, and we were going to head over to New Jersey, and lo and behold, our route took us right past the Faith Baptist Church of Sowersville, P. A. I don't remember what night it was, probably a Sunday night, but we're heading out and we drove by. I'm in the back seat and we're all just carrying on. I looked out the window and we drove by and there was the church, the lights on, the parking lot full And just seeing that church brought such incredible conviction to my heart. The presence of God was there. Today, no buses, no revivals, no invitation, no conviction, very little, if any, preaching of the gospel. God is unique in the sense that God does not change. Creation changes. We look around, the world changes, nations change, churches change. By the way, we talk about these churches that change, that sends a message to us here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. We ought to be very, very vigilant. And be very, very careful that we do not allow false doctrine to come in, that we do not allow ourselves to drift from the Word of God and the standards of the Word of God. And I understand I have a tremendous responsibility as pastors of this church To provide the leadership and the oversight that we remain the church God intends for us to be, not what the world thinks we should be, not what we want to be, but what God tells us to be And stay true to the Word of God. We need to be remain very, very humble. Some of these churches that I referenced, the New Testament and current churches that no longer exist. One of their problems was they became very proud Became very self-righteous. They failed to humble themselves before God and realize how desperately they needed God to lead them and empower them and direct them. So we need to be very careful. Churches change. I'll throw this one in very quickly. People change. People change. I'd seen him in years. Boy, he's different than what he was. I knew him years ago. Did you ever say that about somebody? Man, they changed. Whew. People change. Sometimes wealth changes. Somebody that had great wealth Through circumstances. Suddenly now they're very poor. Sometimes they're health as uh very uh active and healthy and strong. And boom, cancer shows up, heart disease And their health changes. Circumstances change. Their character change. I thought about Demas He was a faithful servant of God, a partner with Paul, but he fell in love with this world. And Paul said, Demas hath forsaken me. Demas changed. His commitment to Christ, his love for the Lord, his service for God changed. And now he's out in the world. Loved the world. I thought about John Mark. Started out good, went on the mission trip, for whatever reason, turned around, forsook then, came back. He changed. Now thank God he was apparently restored, and we see how he is. I thought about King Saul. Started out very humble and a tremendous man and a great first king, but he became proud. And he changed. And God says, I've taken the kingdom from you. People are not immutable. Churches are not immutable. Nations are not immutable. But God is. By the way, not all change in a person's life is bad. In fact, God designed us to change. For good. 2 Corinthians 5:10:17. If any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Something's changed. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. We change, we grow, we change. There needs to be physical growth, physical change. If you go and see um Let's see, uh uh little Bowser baby here, just uh um Eric and and uh Jody Bowser's little baby was here back I saw her back there, just a little, it's got more hair than I do. And um Made me mad, but Well if you come back in five years and this baby's still there holding it and it hasn't grown a bit, just still there. How many people say something's wrong? We expect change in that setting. Change in our lives isn't necessarily bad. There needs to be physical growth. There needs to be spiritual growth. Romans 12 1 and 2, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice wholly acceptable in God, which is your reason service, and be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed. It's a type of change. By the renewing of your mind, God wants us to change how we think. He wants us to see this world the way He sees it. He wants us to adopt His values and His priorities. And he renews our mind and our lives are transformed. We change. That is a good change on our part. First 2 Peter 3 18 says, Grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord. I would hope this would be true, but if you would not see me for five years and you come and meet me again in five years from now, I would like to think that my faith in God would be stronger than it is right now. That my love for the Lord would have grown and be greater than it is right now. And I would suggest that in five years, if my faith is not stronger and my love for the Lord is not greater, something's wrong. I'm not growing, I'm not developing. I'm speaking to some this morning, right now, I have no doubt, that God's been changing your life. God has been working in your heart and life, and you have values now that you did not have before. Your priorities as a child of God, as you've walked with the Lord and grown in your faith and understood the Word of God, your priorities have changed, and what was once very important to you is now no longer important. Once not important, now is very important in your life. That's change, that's growth, that's Christian maturity. My focus, what was once focused on in my life, is no longer true, and I'm focused now on Christ and His will for my life. These are good changes, and I'm talking to folks. I know I am. And God has been bringing about these changes in your life, and we rejoice in it. No doubt I'm talking to some also that desperately need God to bring some changes in your life. I'm talking to some folks I have no doubt. Now you know there are things that need to be changed Maybe there's someone here this morning. You don't know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you're going to heaven. You don't have that assurance. You don't have that confidence. You can't say, based on the word of God, yes, I know That God has forgiven me. I know that I have eternal life when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. I'm here to tell you, you need God to change that, and you need Christ to be your Savior so you can have that assurance and have new life and let go God change your life. So I'm saying all this to say this. Unlike you and I, and unlike the world and nations and churches, God does not change. He is always the same. He is everything he could possibly be, and that never changes. It never changes. So one God does not change in his substance, two very quick thoughts. I put it this way, God is unchanging in his statements. Our man's words are unstable. Would you agree with me? You turn on the news, you're hearing all kinds of promises. I mean you listen to the politicians. If this person gets elected, we're going to live in utopia. And it's just going to be awesome. And make all these promises, and I'm not trying to disparage the importance of you know elected officials and all that were to honor them, but I'm simply saying this. Sometimes man says stuff That later on he has to eat his words. Can I get a witness? Believe me, I speak for a living. I know what it means to have to eat your words. I know what it means to have to take things back. Sometimes people say something and they are dishonest. They don't ever intend for that to be true. And later they have to change what they said. Sometimes people say things or make promises. And they have full intention of fulfilling it, but circumstances change and they're unable to, and thus their word changes. But when God says something, it does not change. When God promises something, it does not change. Psalms 33:10 says, the counsel of the Lord shall Standeth forever. When God says something, it's so. It doesn't change. I like what Jesus said several places, and then Isaiah makes this statement to this effect Says heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. God's promises are unchanging. What God has promised you and I it's going to be true today, will be true next week, will be true next year. God's promises do not change. In fact, we sing about it, standing on the promises of Christ my King, through eternal ages, let his praises ring. Glory in the highest, I will shout and sing, standing on the promises of God. Why can we stand on the promises of God? Because God's promises are unchanging. 2,000 years ago he promised, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That is still true today. God's promises are unchanging. God's warnings are unchanging. He said in Ezekiel, the soul that sinneth, it shall die. He said in Numbers, be sure your sins will find you out. These are warnings from God. Don't think that because we live in the year 2016, we've gotten so smart that we can sin against God, and somehow there won't be any consequences. God's warnings haven't changed. Our sin is just as visible and known to God now as their sin was back in the Old Testament. The soul that sins in 2016 shall die just as much as it would back when Ezekiel said that. The wages of sin is still death. Be not deceived. God is not marked. Whatsoever a man soweth, he shall reap. These statements of God are unchanging. These truths that God gives to us are unalterable. These warnings. Are immutable. They're true. And so what we need to do is claim these unchanging promises of God, heed these unalterable warnings from God, trust Him. And let him lead us and direct us. Am I making sense this morning? So God's substance, not a good word, God's essence, God's substance is unchanging, what he is His statements are unchanging. Now here's another pitiful attempt at alliteration, but I put it this way: God is unchanging in his schemes Substance, statement, schemes. What do I mean by schemes? His plans, his purposes. God's plan of salvation is unchanging. It's by grace through faith. By the way, it's been that way all through history. The people in the Old Testament were not saved by works or not saved by any other way other than grace through faith. You and I saved today is by grace through faith, by accepting Jesus Christ. Now in the Old Testament, they were looking forward to the Messiah. They were putting faith And a coming Messiah, you and I at this end, we are looking back to the crucified Messiah, buried and risen again, Jesus Christ. But it's still by grace through faith. God's plan of salvation has not changed You and I, an old sinner, was able to talk to a fellow yesterday, not in depth, but I got to go through the gospel briefly on his step. That guy if he would decide to trust Christ, he'd get saved the exact same way the Philippian jailer got saved, the exact same way Moses got saved. The exact same way Abraham got saved by putting his faith and trust in God's Messiah The plan of salvation is unchanging. The plan of God through ages is unchanging. God promised way back that Jesus Christ is coming again. I'm here to tell you, Jesus Christ is still coming again. God's plan hasn't changed. Oh, but we're 2016. We've advanced in our oh hogwash We're still a bunch of sinners under the judgment of God and desperately need a savior. Jesus Christ came and he died for our sins, was buried and rose again, he ascended to heaven and he promised us he is coming again, and I'm telling you, he is still coming again. Coming judgments, the judgment seat of Christ, the great white throne judgment, judgment of the nations, a new heaven, a new earth. That's all in place. God hasn't changed any of that. Now that does not mean that God's treatment and interaction with mankind doesn't change. Sure, he treats us differently. He doesn't change in his essence. He doesn't change. His promises don't change. His plans for the future don't change. But when we trust him and obey him, then he changes in his interaction with us. For instance God treated um uh Adam differently after he sinned than he did before he sinned I have a completely different relationship with the God that created me after I got saved than I did before I got saved. Before I got saved I was without God in my life. I was without hope in this world. I was doomed on my way to hell. God didn't hear my prayers. My sins had separated him from me When I humbled myself and trusted Christ, put my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, now I'm a child of God. And He hears me and He leads me and He directs me. I have a relationship with him. So God's interaction with man changes depending on our trust in him, our rebellion in him. against him. For instance, you have a child of God that saved and is living for the Lord, trusting not perfect, but they're trying to live for God and please him, obey him, God blesses, God meets needs, He gives peace and fulfillment. You take that same Christian and they start rebelling against God and they start living in sin and they start re uh disobeying God's word And Hebrews 12 is very clear. God's chastisement comes down. And things change. God deals with him differently as a disobedient child of God than he does the obedient child of God. So God Unchanging doesn't mean he doesn't change in his interaction with us, but it does mean he doesn't change in his substance, his essence, his statements, his word doesn't change, his plans do not change. I read about story is told of a ship that wrecked off a rocky coast in the midst of a storm. And everybody on the ship was drowned, was killed, destroyed, except one fellow. And somehow he managed to survive the waves and the wind and the storm And on that coast, there was a rock sticking up, and he was able to grab a hold of that rock and held on for dear life. By the time the tide went down and the storm had settled, he was able to get down off that rock, and there was people searching for survivors, he s staggered up on the low tide. He staggered up. They found him. They came over to him. And he was just trembling and trembling. And he was cold and he was scared and he was trembling so bad. And they said, how in the world did you survive? And he said, There's a rock out there and uh that's stuck up even in high tide and uh that rock is what saved my life. And they said, Well, how in the world did you survive your trembling so bad? He goes, Yes, I was trembling so bad. But the rock wasn't. And the rock was secure. And the rock was unmoving. The rock was unchanging. And that's how I survive. I'm here to tell you this morning: you and I change, and we tremble, and we're scared, and we have our ups and downs and we're in and out. But our God does not change. And we can trust him. And we can lay hold on him. And he will take us through the worst storms because God does not change. And we can trust him. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us. I pray that you would challenge us to understand what a mighty God you are. Your love for us is unchanging regardless of our behavior. Your power is unchanging regardless of our needs. Your plans for us are unchanging. Help us to trust you. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed if there wouldn't be some here this morning and say, Pastor Leatherman My life is struggles right now, and there's difficulties, and I maybe I'm talking to some that have failed and say, I've sinned against God, I've failed terribly. And you said, I'm saying to you this morning, why don't you come and just trust in God? Let the Lord have his way. He's unchanging. He loves you as much today as he ever has. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I have some struggles in my life. I have some issues. And I need the Lord to help me. And you'd say, pray with me that God would help me trust him. God would help me. Just let him lead me and direct me. This unchanging God that we have. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I have some needs in my life. God bless you. Hands all around. Young and old. See, I need the Lord. I need Him to help me. Maybe there's some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. I can't honestly say that I know that God has forgiven all my sins and that when I die, heaven's my home, and I not go to hell. And you're concerned about that? And you'd say, Pastor Levinman, I would appreciate if you would pray with me that God would help me settle this matter. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know. That my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Any at all this morning like that, preacher, pray for me. I need that settled in my heart. Any at all? How about it? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. Help us to grow spiritually. Help bring about these necessary positive changes that should be true in our life. And Lord, if there's other things that need to be dealt with, God help us. We believe you, and we know you, and we want you to help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.