Amen. Thank you. That was good food we had today. Uh what did I eat, preacher, down there? Gigantic pepperoni. I have a thing as big as me and and we're sitting there talking and this little girl brought out I'm gonna put this over here if that's okay. And uh About seven people ordered all their food come out at the same time. And him and I started yelling at the waitress. Who's it? What's that? What's that? And uh pretty good food. What was the name of that place? Bretna's. Brenda's. Brenda's. Well, you didn't want good Italian food, go to Brenda's. She'll fatten you up. Amen. Hey, turn in your Bibles with me tonight to uh Jeremiah chapter 32. We'll start there Don't know where we'll end up. Got a phone call this afternoon. Um God is greater than anything you'll ever face. Got a phone call this afternoon. This morning I talked with a Navajo Indian. Cassandra, Alex's wife, missionaries for us, one hundred percent Navajo American Indian. Speak their language and speak English. Educated at Pensacola Baptist Bible College, West Coast Baptist Bible College, doctor, master's degree from Heartland Baptist Bible College, and they I met them last year and they're missionaries for us going to go to Uganda of all places. And we're talking, they got a four year old, a three year old, a two year old. Something going on in that NDNTP, amen And uh good couple, love the Lord. And we're talking today in the noon. We've got everything ironed out for them. They'll be with us for a candidate school. Then at 2 o'clock today, 15 miles from where they lived there in New Mexico, her 22-year-old brother committed suicide. And their hearts are broken. And uh I don't have an answer for that. And uh, earlier on in the afternoon I got a phone call from Alan Books in New Guinea. And he FaceTimed me. And uh the manager for Air New Guinea Airlines for the whole country was in his hotel room. His name's Kelly Powell. And I led him to the Lord when he was twelve. Now he's forty-two years old in charge manages all the planes in air new in in Papua, New Guinea. Biggest airline in New Guinea. And now when Allen and our American Talboters get stuck in airports, they make a phone call and puts them up in first class. It's amazing how God and they just called me and said, Man, that was great. And five minutes later I talked with the Bufords and it wasn't so great. You know if you live long enough you're going to have some highs and lows. Am I true on that? And God's going to bring some things into your life and my life. And God's going to see of what sort we are. Then the devil comes along. And he's going to try to tear you down, tear you up, let you lay along the side of the road like a deer up there on that road I'm staying on, the roadkill. People just pass you by. Pass you by. What I want to do tonight is give you a thought. It's entitled, God is Greater Than. He's greater than our sorrow. He's greater than our situations. He's greater than our strength. He's greater than our sin. Well, we can pray and go home. Amen. We're going to stop and look at those four things tonight for just a little bit. I want to tell you, you live long enough as a Christian. And we have a revival this week. You live long enough as a Christian, it is going to happen. It's not going to be what you planned, it's not going to be what you desired, but it's going to take place. And what I want to do as I speak this tonight is encourage you. No matter what happens, you keep that relationship with the Lord where it needs to be. And the Lord is not the one that needs fixed. We are. And so tonight, and as last night, and I'm not one to run around and jump up and down. I do I'm animated to a point, but I let God work in that invitation. I was praying today and I've not preached this message. I don't think I've ever preached it in the United States. I've preached it in Australia and New Guinea. And God just put it on my heart. I want to do something else, but God put it on my heart to do today. So let's take a look at Jeremiah chapter 32 and verse 27. Behold, I am the Lord. The God of all flesh, is there anything too hard for me There are many things that are too hard for us. I'm telling you what, you don't want me to look at any motor on any vehicle. Because I don't know where to start on it. Airplane cockpit, I don't know. I can open the door and that's about it. Taking care of raising turkeys, I can't do that. I can hunt a deer if I get a chance, or maybe catch a fish, but you know, I have a hard time. You know, I would I couldn't be a doctor because I don't know how to do that. And uh I can't overhaul an engine, I can't give prescriptions, and I've been to I went to a glass-blowing place down in Ohio, Vienna, Ohio, watching make glass. That's amazing. I can't do that either And I've watched guys take chainsaws and make statues out of pieces of wood. I can't do that either. I've watched people put uh chunks of ice together and freeze it and Go in there with a chainsaw and come out with a a castle. I I can't do that either. Uh in Australia we had a guy preach for us, he took a one dollar bill. Started cutting it from the inside out, but never cut it into in any place. When he was done with his sermon, ten minutes later as an illustration, he stepped clean through that dollar bill without ever cutting it in two amazing feat. And I said, man, I don't know how he did that. But I know one thing When I get going and serving the Lord and I get living a normal Christian life, things begin to take place, and I sometimes stand at the mountain or at the base of discouragement and desperation. It's too high to climb, it's too wide to go around or to tunnel under, and it's too hard for me to get through it, and the devil's discouragement has frozen my feet right where they're at. And I'm ineffective. And folks, I want you to know tonight that there is nothing too hard for God. I said two years ago I thought I was dying in the dentist chair. What a place to die. And I just kind of went, whoa, what is going on? How many of you folks have ever fainted while you're laying down? Most of us paint when we were standing up, but man, I'm just like, what it happened? I and I went into a seizure and I honestly if this is death, it's okay with me. My wife can finish paying the bills and I'll be okay And uh they brought me back. And man, I thought for a minute there and when everything shut down Man, I was between laying there asleep and I saw a white light out there and and all of a sudden I my eyes came to and the dentist on top of me slapping me, trying to get me to come to. I'm still here. He can't get rid of me. Then on the way to the hospital, the ambulance was involved in a wreck. Bad day, right? Got to the hospital and wanted to give me penicillin, but I'm allergic to it. And they didn't have the other stuff. And bad day, uh. And uh how many have ever had days like that? Bible says in verse 27, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh, in case you forgot, and there is nothing too hard to me. Is there anything too hard for God? And in our personal lives, we live as if God cannot handle the circumstances that come into us. God never stutters at anything brought before Him. God is greater than anything we're going to face. And I want you to understand, 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 2 and 3 says, Grace be unto you. And peace from God, our Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. How many have you ever seen people having a struggle? You're glad it's them instead of you. Amen. My first thought tonight is this as we get started. I want you to catch this with me. God is greater than our sorrows. And it says there in 2 Corinthians, if you want to see it And chapter one, uh uh and it's and the God of all comfort. He's the God of all comfort. In second chapter one it says in verse three, Blessed be the God even the Father our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all comfort. You know the word comfort here is proclaiming that No matter what takes place and if you're drowning in that sea of sorrow and your heartache is hurting so bad, you have there's no those there's no way that It can be unbroken and there's no voice and there's no medicine and there's nothing that can stop that's hurting you and there's no therapy. You and you can't match the deep trouble or terrible sorry that you face no drugs. There is nothing you can do about it. You have to sit there in the agony of your life. And I'm telling right at that point, most of us quit Now I've never had back problems that bad. I've had a couple backs hurt me a little bit, but I've run into people where their backs were completely out of whack. We had a guy in New Guinea, in Australia, a good friend of mine, and and he'd live on drugs because the pain was so bad, and they tried three surgeries and he had for two or three days he couldn't even move And you talk about discouragement. He used to be a pastor, and I'd go by and see him and try to encourage him. And he there was no way to quit the pain. And the only thing he had to turn to was the Lord. And you know, uh, uh he he got better. God took care of him. The back finally got fixed. Amen. And he's back in the ministry again. But not everything ends up like that, does it? I want to encourage you tonight. You're going to have some agonies in your life, it's going to be so deep. You're going to be in the straits of despair. You're going to be close to and I and I I have dealt with people wanting to take their lives. In the last six years, I've dealt with three different people, two of them were in ministry, that they were that close to suicide. I didn't think I'd ever see it, uh ever, ever experience it. In in Australia I had two people there that I counseled, one was a man and one was a lady. Uh there two different instances, uh their their mates had left them. And boy they they're they they come undone. And if you've ever been around somebody that you respect and somebody that you love and Somebody that you rever revere when they come undone and they're a Christian just like you, and you look up to them as a mentor and you see that they are shaken to the core, it'll make you sit up straight and pay attention. You're glad it's them and not you. And the Lord says, This is there nothing too hard for me? He doesn't answer it. He goes later on, but he doesn't answer in that verse. And every one of us in here would say, there is nothing too hard for the Lord. But he was preaching to Israel because they got up against some hard things and they didn't come to him. They went everywhere else. You know my first rub with this, my my father died of a heart attack in our front yard when he was fifty-seven years of age and uh raised in a Christian home. I was in a ministry and My mom was strong, man. She should have been a preacher. She was nice to church every every Sunday morning. My dad bought her a Methodist church that was shut down. He bought it for in 1960, not one or two It was a church about half this size. Uh belonged to the uh uh Methodist uh what do you call it uh society or area down there in southeastern Ohio Everybody quit going to churches built like eighteen nineties, or maybe eighteen eighty, and he no back tax was paid on it, so he went to the county uh office our cousin was running he was the county treasurer and he said hey cleat you want to get a piece of property you can buy that church for like three hundred dollars and he did he paid the back taxes got the deed Mom was the one to start a Sunday school class and she took her two sisters and started it. And uh round about fifty-sixty people every Sunday morning, just kids and aunts or all everybody's related in there, no preacher They just met and prayed and went to Sunday school class and prayed and went back home for seven years. They prayed for a preacher to come on the seventh year they got one. Man, that church grew, you know, and and she she uh she helped start that thing and and uh uh and and God blessed that thing and and my dad uh got got uh right with God and And and and he was starting to go to church and and I'd gotten married without in the ministry, and when he had that heart attack, I I I rushed home. And he died there in the front yard. I got there the next day. I flew in from Chicago. My twin came in from Detroit and we're there trying to get things in order and And mom said, Man, things are coming undone, uh your dad didn't have a will and all the banking accounts in his name and and and there's no uh you know, no probate and and we got about five hundred acres of land here and And Mo, I don't know what I'm going to do. And and I said, Well, Mom, you know, uh you prayed for a preacher and you got me. A greater is he that's in you, than he's in the world. She said, Yes, but you're not going through what I'm going through Boy, I went to bed with that that night with my wife, and I get up the next morning at five in the morning, get some coffee on, and I couldn't find my mom. Couldn't find her in the barns, couldn't find her in the fields. Had a deep frost stone. My twin got up and his wife and Sandy got up and we're going all through that property and Uh we're going through barns and going through fields. We thought what had happened, what she done went to the creeks. And as I'm coming back to the house, uh I looked inside the frosty truck, the windows that frosted over. I saw her sitting in there He's sitting in the middle of the truck just rubbing the steering wheel. And there. I slid in the driver's side and My twin saw me and he went and got the keys and he came out and sit on our other side. We started the car. Started that truck up and I said, What's wrong, Mom? She said, I think I'm coming undone. Trying to ask God why we'd have me go through something like this. I don't know why. I mean I didn't want my yeah, I didn't want Cleek to die, 56, 57. I wanted at least 10, 15 more years to argue with him She had a Snickers candy bar in her hand. We talked and I said, Mom, you know we need to trust God with us. We don't know. She said, I'm in a straight place right now. I don't understand. I've got to work my way through this. I said, God, you told me years ago, God will teach us through all these things. She said, I'm trying to find out what he's teaching me. I said, Mom, what's a candy bar about? Well your dad was a chain smoker. He quit four or five years ago. And I I had Snickers all over his vehicles and all over the property. When he got a hanker and a pullow and a cigarette, he could start hunting Snickers I knew he had one left in his truck. It was over there in the glove compartment. She said, oh, how did I love dad? She was having a hard time. Little did she know, ten years to the day, my twin sitting on her right side would be killed the same day, 11 o'clock at night. Construction accident. She walked through that one too. Two years later, her nephew, 18-year-old, was killed by a doctor in a procedure in Akron, Ohio. Covered up. Dr. Wassoot. My mom learned through all those things, what sorrow was. But she taught me at the end of the day, God still rules. God put it on my heart tonight to speak to you about this because every one of you is going to face this someday. And when that sorrow comes, whether it's a prodigal son or daughter that's turned their back on you, Whether and whether it's a physical death of a mate or a child, I don't know how you want to put it, uh but that that road you're going to travel down and you and you won't understand the the spamacy of it And you and you you may have the the death of a child, the death of a career, the death of a job, the death of a house, a repossessed car. You may have lost your reputation. And you stand under the stark reality to the fact that you've made poor poor choices, I submit to you, no matter what takes place, God is greater than anything you've ever made a mistake at as a Christian. All God's people said. I talked to a missionary in Brazil today, we talked about it. There was an individual that was a Christian that uh this thing happened 30 years ago. He did wrong 30 years ago, and he got it right. He waited for 30 years, it came back up again and cost him his ministry. Devastated. And he stepped aside and he quit the ministry. Kept his family. He's still in church. His heart is broken. Here's my point. Listen very carefully. You're going to face sorrows in your life. But you can understand Jesus said God says this, is there anything too hard for me? I'll tell you death will bother you But the death of a Christian dad or mom or brother or sister or nephew, at the end of the day, that's amen, right? They go to heaven. But the death of an unsaved prodigal son or daughter Uh the the messed up life, uh the messed up testimony. I'm telling you what it brings sorrow into your life. When that comes, can I tell you You need to turn to the Lord. And I'll show that to you tonight. And I want you to understand. He's with you every step of the way, and he allows some of these things to come. To see what sort we are. Now let me step over here for a moment. A little different preaching tonight, preacher. I want you to understand it. And then a lot of it's on us. We quit we need to stop pointing a finger at everybody else. We need to get over the fact this happened to me back in 1942. We need to understand we need to have a relationship with God now. And when these things come I'm telling you what. Paul dealt with it. We'll get into it. Hey, the sorrow comes, he's greater than any sorrow you're going to face. Number two, he's greater than any situation you're going to go through. Let's take a look at this with me. Go to Philippians chapter 3 tonight. He's greater than any, any, any situation. Now I want you to understand this. It says in chapter 3, in verse 20 of the book of Philippians, and it says, for our conversation. That means uh uh for our conversation is in heaven, our lifestyle conversation, not our talk talk, but our walk-walk. Understand this, from whence also we look for the Savior and the Lord Jesus Christ, who uh uh shall change our vile body. that in may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working, whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself. Hey, we're going to make it to heaven, amen. But between here and there as Christians, we're going to run into some situations. And you've got to understand whereby he is able even in verse twenty-one, su do all things unto himself. That means that word subdue means to conquer. It means that God is able to take that discabotulated thing that you have in your life That thing that has taken place and in our life and dismantled us, it's just destroyed us, and we have know which way to turn. We have no idea where to go And I want to ask you a question. What situation are you in tonight? Amen. What do you mean by that, preacher? Money problems. How many of you folks had to pay taxes this year? How many dot did not want to pay taxes this year? How many did not know if you had to pay taxes or not before you went in there? And you were praying, oh, and uh man I had it figured out this year that I was gonna have to pay a couple hundred dollars of taxes. And that my tax guy, he's a Christian down there, B I M I and he goes, uh-huh, uh-huh, uh uh, uh-huh. And he he waits, I'm going. I'm sweating bullets, right? And uh you know, and uh last year I had to pay and I'm paying him to tell me that I have to pay. I thought I was gonna get About a thirty-five dollars back. And he said, Well, let me tell you, it's uh it's not like you think. I said, Oh, is it worse or better? Well depends how you look at it. And how you look at it. What's worse to you? Well, if I have to pay. Well it's better than last year. Man, I got $150 back. I thought I won the lotto, amen But you know we're going to go through some situations financially, and it's going to cause problems in our spiritual life. Not only that, health problems, uh, marriage problems. School problems. For every person in this room today, there is a story where you've been in situations that you have been falsely accused of something. Can you raise the hand of the witness? Okay. How many of you folks in here have ever done something wrong and never got caught? Okay? How many have done something wrong and wish you'd got caught? How many's ever confessed something before you got caught? A couple of us. Most of us will wait till we're pulled out of it, right? We get in situations, don't we? And when I was a child, I uh believe it or not, I told a lie. And uh about nine, ten years old, and We did our chores and we ate breakfast and we was done. We couldn't go back to breakfast, couldn't go back in there and eat anything until lunchtime. But I was hungry. Mom and went up to the garden and dad's at work and I went back in that little kitchen and I loved burnt toast And I put two pieces of Nichols bakery bread and nut toaster, nobody's looking around. I put the butter on it, put the strawberry jam on it. Love strawberry jam in those days Ate those two pieces of toast, put the butter back just like it was, put the bread back just like it was, but I w I mean w I cleaned the d the everything off you wasn't a crumb anywhere Went up to the garden to go pick pickles. Went up there and mom looked at me. I thought, man, because she's got she's a prophet of God. She looked at me and said, You've been back in the kitchen? And you've been eating toast, and God's gonna judge you, and your dad's gonna spank you. I said, Well, Mom, I uh I didn't eat anything. I didn't take anything out of the kitchen. She said, hey dummy, you've got a strawberry mustache. Man, was I in trouble. How many folks have been that way? I want you to understand you look at Jeremiah with me, Israel was in trouble, and you get in trouble too. Go back to Jeremiah with me, chapter 18. Let's slide back at chapter 2 in Jeremiah chapter 18. We're going to go down to the potter's house. And uh Israel made a mess of things. He says in verse 3 of chapter 18, Then I went down into the potter's house, and behold the rod of work on the wheels. And uh the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter. So he made it again, another vessel, and seemed good to the potter to make it. He rebroke that thing, put it back in a hump of mud, and Put the water to it and started spinning the wheel and remade the thing because it wasn't right the first time. Situation was bad for that little pot But the potter knew how to correct it. Then the word of the Lord came to me, saying, O house of Israel, can I not do with you as this potter? Saith the Lord, Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are ye in that mine hand. O house of Israel. Now here it is, at what instant I shall speak concerning a nation And concerning a kingdom, to pluck it up and to pull down and destroy it. Look at verse 9. And at what and at what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, concerning a kingdom, to build and to plan it. At that instant, do you understand no matter what situation you're in? God, He created this world. He did it in about a tenth of a second. Amen. I listened to a thing the other day, I want you to understand he's greater than any situation uh you're ever gonna face. And when he made the sun, it takes the uh a sun, travels light s it tra uh speed of light, uh that that's fast as you can go, right? And uh it takes it eight minutes for the the the sun to come up in the morning. When it starts coming up, it's eight minutes for it to get all those thousand and thousand miles to get here. And then our galaxy's one Hundred what is it one hundred one point eight billion plus thousand mile light years out They got planets out there. They know that they are they see. We're a big place, aren't we? And you don't think he can't take care of you and your little situation God created the mountains and God created uh the seas and God created the trees and he created time and don't you think he can take care of you? So what the situation that you're in Sometimes it's impossible situations. Moses went across the Red Sea and Daniel and the Lion's den, and uh Paul and Silas the Philippian jailer and David taking down Goliath. I mean, and everyone at that instant. David got that stone. At that instant, the lion's mouths were closed. At that instant, the Red Sea started to depart. And who's in charge of all of this? God is. I got in a situation, and you're going to get into them too, that you won't know the answer to. I was in New Guinea and Chris Sir Ruby was my song leader, little potbellied P and G boy, and uh about 25 years old, just got married and Good sweet wife, never missed church. And he's with me from the beginning. And and uh about five years in, his wife's going to have a baby. And uh uh that baby was born and died in about five minutes. And uh and he was he was heartbroken and hurt. He didn't he didn't understand. And uh and and he came to me and said, Do I have a sin? I said, No Uh, do you have a sin? He said no. And his wife was fine, and and they brought the dead baby to the house because I had a freezer And he said, Pastor, I we we got a bury her. And uh as he put her in the freezer there, he says, I I don't understand this. Why would God put me in this? Why would God do this to me? Why? Why? I said, I don't have the answer except God knows what he's doing. We've got to trust him. He said, Well tomorrow we gotta go dig the grave. I'd never dug a grave as I told him about it. First grave I ever dug. And him and two other boys and myself and and it went down about six feet. It was squared off. It's a little a little smaller than a normal one. Took us all day, mattocks, shovels, he's crying through the whole thing. Funerals the next day, we get her and pack her in ice, she's frozen, and we dress her up and put her by a large igloo cooler. We get ready, put her in the ground, we take the ice out, take that little igloo cooler, fill the bottom of it with lime, and put her body in there and sit and pray and say goodbye and fill it full of salt Lay that in the middle of that little hole and fill that hole full of lime and salt and put the dirt on top. So we were putting the first clot of dirt on it, and it started to rain. And everybody stepped away. He fell to his knees crying. And he said, I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Consumed in his grief, everybody walked away. And he said, Pastor, with his head down in that mud, would you help me fill this grave in? And we did. Took us a couple hours, we were done, both soaking wet to the bone, muddy. We put the couple flowers on top of that little round mound. I said, Chris, I don't know why, but I know God's going to use this in your life. I don't know how. Last year I'm preaching in New Guinea. He comes in, he's the special music for the night. Him and his wife, he's got six kids. And by the way, two years after this, he had a set of twins. And they're 18, 19 years old, now about the same age as Selena. They got up to sing and he gave his testimony to the church. And he said, twenty years ago I didn't have any idea what God was doing with me, but I can sing with joy tonight that God God had a plan. He saw me afterward. He said he's counseled six families that's lost children since he's lost his. Got them through that, and they're all in the churches there that were You know, in in the Mooresby area. Can I tell you God's going to put you in situations and it's bigger than yours? Now you listen to this. Mary and Martha, when Jesus would not come save Lazarus, And Mary and Martha, Mary was so upset, Mary was so upset she wouldn't even greet Jesus. And when she came out there, how could you wait Hey, he was your best friend, he was your bud, he was your BBF, and you let him die, and you're only seven miles away. You could have been here in a couple of hours, and you waited these three days. Why would you do such a thing? He said, just take a deep breath. Calm down. I did it because, watch me now, that God may be glorified. You girls come with me. Walk down there, that tomb. Hey Lazarus, come forth. You all know that story, don't you? But when you read the backlog to it, but it's sad. It's sorrowful, is it not? And it's in a situation, hey, he he could he could have healed him. He's going to do more than that. So when you go through a situation you don't understand, you just stay right with our Jesus. You stay right with God and get right with him and watch me. And at the end of the story. He will be glorified. Amen. Let's go to number three. Look at me now. Not only the the the sorrow, not only the situation, but can we look at this third thought? And that is God is greater than our strength. Would you join me in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 9? And the Lord asks this question, is anything too hard for me? And he answers it time and time again in Scripture. The Bible tells us here. In Second Corinthians chapter twelve, look look at verse nine I like hear those Bibles rustling. Look what it says here. He said unto them, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Most gladly therefore will I rather glory in thy infirmities and the power of Christ may rest upon me. Therefore I take pleasure in infirmities and reproaches and necessities and persecutions and distresses For Christ's sake, for when I am weak, then I am made strong. Hey Lord, I got this thorn in the flesh. I'm your number Uno One Preacher Boy And I want you to take that thing off. Get that off of me. Get that how many ever had kidney stones in here? Oh, you don't want those, do you? It's like it's worse than kissing your mother in law goodnight. But uh and and and and Paul said I I've got the storm And it twice. God take it away. We got it going on. We you got a good relationship, you and I. But you've got this thing on me. I don't know if it was his feet. It could have been gout, it could have been His eyesight and he said causes a thorn in the flesh, so it must have had some pain in it. And I and I don't know. You got a pride problem. Now I can take it off of you, but if I do, you're not going to have the type of power that you can have with me. He said, okay, Lord, I'll just keep the I'll keep the pain. Are you with me on this? He's greater than our strength. He's greater than what you can do or go through. And sometimes when the ouch comes Learn to just toughen up a little bit. I tell my daughter, toughen up, princess, get out the other side. You'll be all right. Amen. I've been through those things. I just want to encourage you when God puts you through a thing. And you want to see, let's see who's in charge. How many's ever seen the bumper sticker? God is my co-pilot. You talk about a dumb statement. Is that dumb or what? God should be the pilot. Should say, I am the passenger. God is driving this vehicle. Get out of the way. Amen. How many of the God's got the wheel of my life? Sure. You sure? He should have the whole car. I'm not picking on you, but I'm telling you about this strength thing. The older we get as Christians, we can manipulate a lot of things. You listen to somebody talk long enough, they could rob a bank and tell you it's God's will, and you'd end up believing them I'm just being honest here. But God will really, really, really get a hold of your heart when you come to the end of your strength. I was uh broke my hand in New Guinea. I used to be more animated preacher when I preached. One night I was doing one of those stump jumping things. And God said, right? As I did that, and God said, hit the Bible, hit the corner, broke that hand right there. Okay I've never stumped jumped after that. That night I couldn't go to the doctor and I had it in ICE. That night they chose to have a military coup and a uh in Papua New Guinea. The next morning I couldn't get out of my property. Roads were blocked. Police are shooting at people, and people are shooting at the military, and military shooting at the police. Whole country went shut down. I had to stay on the property for seven days. We couldn't have church. We had to keep down. And you know, how many have ever been through a military coup? You lay low as an American, all right? But I found out I'm looking through the church, you know, and watching the streets and police are coming down, shooting tear gas, and chasing rascals that are trying to loot stores and the rascals jump over the fence of the church property and because church ground safe ground. And when I saw them running through the church property, I yelled at them, Hey, get in here. And they all run into the church. So down there I'll have you arrested. You know, man at a church service, right, doing a military coup. The police come on and knock and all these six or seven rascals sitting there and I'm talking to them. The police said, These boys, these yours Yep, they're mine forever. And the cop knew what I was saying. And I said, I'll keep them here and you guys clean up the street and we're going to have a church service today. My hand was throbbing. And I went to the doctor when the coup opened the next Monday. My hand was broken. It started to heal in a broken state. So that doctor from New Guinea never told me, he said, I want to see your hand later on it couldn't lay level on the table. He took it and just crushed the thing, rebroke it. Welcome to third world medicine. What are you doing? And I'm squalling on the floor and he put a cast on it and said, Come back in 12 weeks and we'll take that off. You'll be healed. You kidding me? I never went back. I waited ten weeks and got a pair of wire clippers and stuck that thing in and out of water for about twenty minutes and cut it off myself. Didn't work right for a couple years, but I wasn't going back to him. Javis thought I was smarter than the doctor. I thought I was stronger than what God was putting me through. God has a way of humbling us. And I want you to understand when the Bible tells us, and I want you to catch this, why is it that you still run around with God as your co-pilot? Why this thing takes place in your life instead of victory, it's defeat. Because sometimes it's in our strength and not God's strength. Amen. I want to encourage you tonight to have a revival in your life. You've got to understand God is greater than any sorrow you're going to face. You're going to face them. Situations. Man, I see these cute little kids. He's just so cute, you know. Y'all grow horns about 12, 13 years old. I'm just saying And boys, you know, you guys are so nice and cute, but you'll be dumb until you're about twenty-one, you know. And as parents, you'll try to tell them what to do, am I right? They'll look at you and say, what are you telling me to do? I I I I'm I don't you have to tell me what to do. You know they they had a uh uh uh on the uh on the news a uh a mother bought her daughter like a two hundred and thirteen thousand dollar uh uh Land Rover and she wanted a blue one and mom got her a green one. She wanted a four-door, mom got her a two-door. And the girl yelled and screamed at her on film how bad a mom she is. Man, I'm telling you, I would just take a Vega, amen. Pink one, I don't care as long as I have a set of wheels, right? But we live in a day and age, you listen to me, parents, that you live long enough, your kids, if they're not raised right in God, they're going to cause you some sorrow They're gonna cause you to put you in situations and you're gonna say, I'm gonna come unglued. What am I gonna do? I tell you what, you keep turning to the Lord. You look the Lord up now You have the revival now, it says the foundation for later. Here's the last thing. God is greater than our sin Amen. Aren't you glad he's greater than all the sin we're going to face? Turn in your Bibles to Romans chapter 5 and verse 20. I say to you that The faint of hearted you that think that that you're bulletproof and that that you can do you can get by and without God, it's not going to work. Amen. But Romans 5 20 says, but where sin abounded, grace much more abound I want to encourage you that grace did much more abound. God is greater than your sorrow, your situation, your strength, and he's greater than your sin. I think we want to call you to mind of this fact That Apostle Paul wrote 14 books. Apostle Paul went to the Gentile nation, but before Apostle Paul got there, he was a murderer and a blasphemer He was a tormentor of the people of God. And he's the one that declares in Romans 5. 20, where sin abounded, there did grace much more abound. Now you've got to understand how many folks realize, for by grace, that's God, for by grace are you saved through what? Your faith. Not of works lest any man should boast. It is a what? Gift. Isn't it great That God's gifted this to us. You know, even before Adam and Eve sinned, God knew that he'd have to make a way for us to get back into heaven. And now, can I tell you the truth on a couple of things here? Every Christian here. If you know Christ is your personal Savior, and if you live with sin in your life, can I tell you, watch me now, you can get that correct with God. You don't lose your salvation. But as an unsaved person without Christ, God is greater than any thought process you have. God is greater than any excuse that you got. I don't care if you've murdered, you've lied, you've stole, you've cheated, I don't care if you're homosexual, I don't care what you've been immoral, God can save you. All God's people said, getting pretty sticky there, preacher I'm preaching one day and God can save anybody. There was a guy sitting in the back of the church. No matter if you've committed murder, you've got to be careful when you say that. No matter if you've done robbery. Matter if you know where dead bodies are. God can save you. And have the invitation. He came forward. I thought he'd come forward to get saved. He said, preacher, got to see you after church. What was that? Well, I got two dead bodies out there in the car in the parking lot. Oh. Okay. So uh we finished in prayer and and I said, Paul, you stayed back. He was the policeman in my church and And I said, son, sit down here, what's what'd you say? Last night I was a driving for a car and two guys paid me because I can drive a car fast. And uh we uh robbed a couple of uh stores and And the police guard chasing us and shot in the back of the car and uh the bullets didn't come to the front seat, but the two with the money bag and the stuff in the back, uh uh they uh they both were shot. So I drove around and and uh drove around and hid behind the church last night and and they were laying in there groaning and and I'm in the front seat and scared to death and they they quit groaning and When I went back and got out in the car to check on the back door, they both bled to death. They bled out. So I I put them in the back seat of the car and you notice my car's parked over there. Oh I walked over there and opened up the trunk and there they were I had a policeman with me. He said, I'll take it from here. That boy went to jail. He didn't shoot or kill anybody, but he spent about seven years in jail. He got out of jail, he came back to our church. Got saved, baptized, went to our Bible college there, teaches the Marinath Christian school today. But he said, You mean God will forgive me if what I've done? Yeah, oh yeah. Oh yeah. First week in Australia, uh John um Serena had moved into us a day after we moved in and and uh he he's an unsaved uh a s uh cook on a boat for the Aussies in uh in the Australian Navy and uh he came over to my house and he only had a pair of shorts on. Flip flops, no shirt He's a muscle builder. He's not as big as you, but he was boy he looked like Arnold Schwarzenegger, about six foot three. Hi, hi, good day, mate. My name's John. What's your name? Uh uh you know he said, John and my wife named Serena. Uh Sabrina. I said, That's good to see ya. And uh he said, I uh I'm in the navy and he had a couple he had a beer in his hands, he had one in her hair and I said, Well my name's Dan DeLong and I'm the preacher of the gospel, going to start a church here. He said, Oh no. He said, I just moved away from preacher in Sydney. I said, God's got a plan for you, boy. He turned around to walk away, and his back was Tattooed and pornography. I said, Hey, by the way, son, don't ever come back to my house unless you got some clothes on. Cover that up. He said, Well who are you to tell me what to do? Or who are you to run around with me with this this stuff on your back? He said, Man, you sound just like the Catholic priest where I had to go to the, you know, go to jail or go to the Catholic priest school. And I said, Well, no, I think I'm a little better than them, because I we'll go by the gospel at my house. Now you you I'll see ya He came over the next day and had his shirt on and said, just exactly what do you do? And I told him. I witnessed to him, oh that's not for me. That's not for me. And I'm telling you, God is greater than any of our sin. And God will bring people in your life to be a witness and testimony. And it's not by accident. God's got a plan. And so he uh he uh would uh you know he was a friend but every morning at 8 o'clock before my daughter went into homeschooling, I had devotions with her in our garage. Now garage in Australia, they got front doors and then they have back doors. You kind of drive through into York. Kind of a neat concept. And uh we'd open that door and that concrete there and I'd give her a ten-minute devotion, teach her a character principle. And I noticed Smoke waffling over the fence between his house and mine. We had like a fence, solid fence you couldn't see through. Smoke would be coming over. And every morning at eight o'clock when I'd start devotions, I could hear him or his wife lighting up. Hear that old cigarette lighter clicking? Sucking cigarette makes noise, doesn't it? See they know. Deacon, yeah, head deacon, yeah. Anyway, call him out. And I would be teaching and I I and the smoke wouldn't stop till devotions was over. And uh I realized John was coming out and listening. He said, Pastor, can I see you? This out of the blue walked over you. I said, I've been listening to your devotions the last couple months. You've invited me to church and I said no. He said uh do you make us do do we have to do anything special to come to your church? No, just come to us as you are. He said, Oh, oh, we don't have to wear a tie? No Oh, uh, I don't know how to pray. That's fine. You don't need to, just come on. He came back first Sunday with her. She had never been in church before. She had never opened the Bible. And I laid out salvation. They didn't get saved The next day he called me to come over to his house. And I led him to Christ on his couch there. She sat and listened. She wouldn't get saved She as she was a Canadian, a little hard more hard-headed than he was. And uh three months later, on Mother's Day in Australia, I led her to the Lord on the same couch. John's best friend in the Navy, Boz, guy about five foot two. I mean he's a he's a like he's a Marine for the Australians. And he came in there drunk one day and I told him to sober up He did and he came back to my house. I led him to the took him over to John's, led him to the Lord on the same couch. And then got to lead his wife to the Lord on the same couch. John's couts, nine Navy people got saved within a 12-month period. Now you listen to this. And every one of them went through discipleship. And every one of them is still in Kansas today. If they're in the Navy, they still come in the Coastline Baptist Church. M Ball's mustered out and owns his own company now. He's still coming to the church. His wife's in charge of the nurseries. Amen. Now you listen carefully on this. God is greater than any sin that you have in your life as an unsaved person. Now you people playing with sin, be very careful. If it caught David, it'll catch you. It caught Samson, it'll catch you. Be not deceived. And watch this. That thing that easily besets you, that thing that weights you down, listen carefully. Listen tight on this. He can take that thing and wash it away. But you've got to bring it to him. You don't have to stand in front of the church. You don't have to stand in front of people. You stand before him. You kneel before him Jealousy, hate, pornography, I don't know. Lying, stealing, embezzlement. Sounds like a missionary, amen. I'm telling you. Just because they're saved doesn't mean they don't do it. Are you listening? And I want you to tell you right now today, in the bottom of my heart, I want to tell you as a Christian, get that thing right with God. Because he's greater. than that temper. He's greater than that faithlessness. He's greater than that untrust. He's greater than that melechon in us. He's greater than that negativity. He's greater than that distress. He's greater than that discouragement. He's greater than that debauchery. He's greater than that discabotulated thing that's taking place in your life. He's greater than any sorrow, any situation He's greater than any strength you'll ever face. And the prince and the power of this earth, the devil, and his crowd. You are greater and more powerful than all of them, because greater is He that is in you and He that is in the world. Isn't that a great time? As you close your Bibles tonight, Mama took me soul winning with her after my dad died. After my twin brother died, and after my nephew died. She said, we gotta go up and see Eugene Crawford's mom, Burl. We went up to see her and her husband died on her. She's in debt. Unsaved. Mom says she's a cousin. We need to get her saved. So we went in there and that uh my mom went soul winning and it's great to go soul winning with your mom when she's 80 years old And she was went and knocked on that old house trailer and I'm with her. She had her Bible. She said, Burrow, I'm coming in. I know you're in there Mom opened the door and wobbled in. Got my son Dan with me, the preacher. She's sitting there on that couch. Oh no. And now he's not going to preach at you. I am. Now she said, Burl, how are you doing? She said, I'm not doing good at all. And she mom said, Well you've never done too good You've always been pretty poor. She said, yeah. It's always been, you know, never come to church when I invited you. But you're getting down here about your last day, so I'm coming for my last time. Girls said, I can't get saved. Margaret, man, I'll tell you what. I've been a mess. I've done things wrong. I've lied, I've stole, I've cheated. I drove my car when my husband rubb robbed a cousin twenty years ago of a bunch of corn there in the barn and and went down and sold it for liquor money. And uh in fact uh I drove the car for him once when he stole some of your dad's chickens down there on the road, right out of the hen house And I've done some mean things to you. She said, Mumps, I know it. And she said, how would you know, Margaret, the suffering I've gone through? She said, I've been there and done that. Remember my husband died? But she said, you Christians are supposed to act different. You're supposed to react different. She said, remember my son died, was killed? Yeah, but you're supposed to act different. You're supposed to be different. My mom says something I'll never forget. She says, I'm just like you. Except I have Jesus Christ in my heart And he's greater than anything I've ever faced. I'm listening to mom talk and I recall her sitting in the front seat, patting that steering wheel down when the day after my dad died, and said, I've almost come undone. I've almost want to quit. I'm deep in my situation here. I'm deep in my sorrow. My strength is all gone. But I'm sinning here, sitting in this seat, not trusting God with what He's going to do to me, for me, in me, and for me You know what? When she was done, she led that old lady to the Lord. She died about three months later. But my mom learned through the sorrow. She learned through the situations. She learned when she didn't have the strength. She learned as a Christian when she got sin in her life. Watch me now. And her revival, she always went to him And she looked at me and says, Dan, there is nothing too hard for God. He's greater than anything you'll ever face. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. I don't know what you're facing as a church. I don't know what you're facing as an individual. I don't know what you're facing as a family. I don't know your hearts, but God does. God wanted this message preached tonight. It's a message I normally not do not preach at revival meetings, but the Lord wanted it. You're not saved in here tonight. You may be coming to church. You may be faithful. You may be a first-time visitor, but if you've never trusted Christ as your personal savior. Would you do so tonight? Why? Because it's appointed once for man to die. God wants that. He loves you. He died on the cross for you. He's greater than your sin. He took on death and hell and three days later rose again, resurrected. To make salvation complete. His blood was shed on the cross for you. Who can say, Brother DeLong, Pastor Leatherman, I need to trust Christ as my Savior today? Could you raise your hand and say, pray for me? Pray for me. You can say, brother Along, as a Christian, I've dealt with sorrow, and I've not had the faith and trust in God that I should have. But God touched my heart tonight. I need revival in this. And I need when that sorrow does come, when that trying does come. That I'll keep God first in my life. I will have a faith that will trust him first. Who can raise their hand and say, God spoke to me? Thank you. Many hands all over tonight. Secondly, how about us in here tonight? A man of situations. God lets us get in situations like the Red Sea. He puts us in places like lions' dens and puts us in Philippian jails. He puts us in front of giants. He puts us in in situations that looks impossible and and or they looks looks like it's all it's all over. Situations where it's a problem with our marriage or our money, our workplace. And we get so frustrated we quit or we stop or we try to manipulate. Has God spoken to you tonight that no matter what situation you get in, that you will lift him up Put him out in front and understand that God wants to work on you, in you, so he can work through you. You can say, preacher, I need to give God my situations. Could you raise your hand and say, I need to give God a situation You may have somebody that doesn't like you. You may have a person that you can't get along with. You may have a sin. You need to get rid of that situation tonight. And you said, Great preacher, the thought about strength. My strength is gone. I struggle sometimes and I just want to quit. I'm so weak. I want to faint. I want to walk away. But God spoke to my heart that when these things come, that's when I must lean on the Lord. He walked with me through the valley of the shadow of death. He'll never lead me more, forsake me. He is my comforter. He will comfort me in all things. And in that instant He will come. He will lift up. He will encourage. But we have to do. We have to Asked him. We have to come to him who can say, Preacher, I want to give God all my strength tonight. Couldn't you raise your hand with me? That strength. I've got to give that to him. And that sin. That sin that sets us down. That sin that turns our head. That sin that stalls our thought process. The Bible says in 1 John 1 7, the blood of Jesus Christ, his Son, cleanseth us from all sin. 1 John 2 says, My little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not, and if any man sin, ye have an advocate. with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, and he is the propitiation. That means he is the satisfaction for our sins and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. Folks, he's done this for you. Who can say, tonight, I've failed in my faith, I've failed in my prayer life, I've failed in my personal devotional life, but tonight, tonight I want to give Christ. I want to give God, He's greater than all my sins. I want to lay that at the cross, step up and step out and move on and live a life of revival. Live a life that's different for the Lord Jesus Christ. Who can raise their hand and say, preacher, pray for me that I'll do that? Anybody at all, pray for me. Several hands again. A very simple message tonight. A message that will encourage you. I hope a message that will challenge you as an unsaved person and as a saved person, no matter what your sin, no matter what the situation. No matter what the strength is, no matter what the sorrow, God is greater than all these things. The Lord, we give you the invitation tonight. We pray it to touch the hearts of the people and bring revival to this church, strengthen this church, make it a light, a lighthouse in this community. Before it's a lighthouse in the community, there's got to be light in our hearts here inside the church. And Father, we pray these things in your name, Pastor.