Alright, Second Peter is where we're at, verse number nine, if you would. I'm just going to read this one verse and uh just share a few thoughts with you tonight and we'll ask the Lord to speak to our hearts and and help us a little bit And I know folks online, uh I want I want God to we don't want to have church just for the sake of having something, right? We want the Lord to do something in our hearts and lives. And we want God to encourage and challenge and help us. So I want to give you a few thoughts. uh for us here and and online and and maybe God will help us. Notice verse number nine. Said as Lord the Lord is not slack concerning his promise as some men count slackness But is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. That's a good verse. And I don't know if you're in the habit of marking in your Bible, underscoring verses, or highlighting verses. I do a lot And I'd highly recommend 2 Peter 3. 9. It's a verse to underscore there. It's a very significant verse. So I want to talk about God is long suffering. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, We thank you for the church. The church is your idea. You established it. Lord, you bought the church with your blood, the Bible tells us in Acts. And so, Father, we ask that you would bless our service tonight. We've assembled together here, some of us. Of course, the weather's bad, and others are by extension through the internet. But Lord, wherever we are, and particularly here in our assembly, that you would meet with us, I pray your presence would be evident as we look into your word, and I pray your Holy Spirit would speak to our hearts. You said, faith cometh by hearing. Lord, as we read and hear, consider what your word says, help our faith to grow. And so I yield my will to you. I present my body anew at this hour. And I pray with all my heart, dear Lord, that you would fill me with your Spirit and speak through me. Bless our church, help us grow. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Peter's been addressing in chapter three here, he's addressing these uh folks that he says are going to come in the last days. Uh that back there at verse number if you would Verse number three says, knowing this, that there shall come in the last day scoffers. So he's being a little bit prophetic here. He's saying as the days progress, as we get closer to the coming of the Lord, there's going to be these folks he identifies as scoffers. They're going to mock and ridicule some things. We worked our way down through there and we noted that one of the things they're going to scoff at, that they're going to ridicule, is the idea that Jesus Christ is coming back again. And they just blow that off to them. It's something to mock and make fun of. And so they ridicule, they scoff at the promise of the Lord's return And then there's something else implied in their statements there is they ridicule the idea of God's judgment. Of God's judgment And he'll so he refutes them. Peter responds back to them and anticipating this happening, he's telling the church and you and I through the pages of Scripture uh that the reason they scoff at this is because a couple things they're ignorant of. And he uses that term ignorant there in verse 4 And saying, where is the promise of his coming? For since the fathers fell asleep, all these things continue as they were from the beginning of creation. Look what he says. For this they are w they for this they willingly are what? Ignorant. Come on, talk to me. It's just a bunch of us sitting around here. They're what They're ignorant of what God had done. They say, oh, everything's always uh the way it's been. It's just always how things have been. Uh nothing's changed. And uh he's saying, Listen, you guys are ignorant on purpose. You're willingly ignorant. If you just look at history and look back, you'll see God did some amazing things in years gone by. So he's refuting their their ridicule of the second coming because they're ignorant of what God did in the past We said this before, I want to repeat it. Those who are ignorant of the past are doomed to repeat the mistakes of the past. And so history is important. And uh for a nation and for a church, it's on it's that's important. So they're ignorant of God's power that was displayed in the past. We already looked at that Their second thing they're ignorant of is God's perception of time. They say, where is this coming? And basically their idea was this, it's been so long. God never did anything in the past. What makes you think he's going to do anything spectacular in the future? And it's been so long it ain't going to happen. They just mocked it. And he says, you don't understand God's perception of time You don't understand how God sees and measures time. Look at verse number eight, and we looked at this last Sunday night. He says, but beloved, be not what? Ignorant, second time, he says they're being ignorant. Now he's not being derogatory here. He's not ridiculing them. He's just a term saying you don't have this information. the the the history they were deliberately ignorant of that. They wouldn't even look at it. And now he says, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day with the Lord is as a thousand years and a thousand years. as one day. And so he's not saying God can't tell time. We already preached this. But he's saying God doesn't measure time the way we do. What is a long time for us is really just a few, not much time at all for the Lord. And uh man, we think, oh, good heavens, 2,000 years, Jesus isn't back yet. Well, for you and I, in our perception of time, that's a long time. In God's perception of time, it's not even a factor. Not even a factor role. God transcends time. So he continues this idea of God's timing, God's perception of time. And then he comes into verse number nine. And that's where he makes this great statement Says a day with the Lord is as a thousand years, a thousand years says a day. He doesn't measure it the way we are, way we do. He says, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise. That's what they were ridiculing. Oh, Jesus said he's coming back. It's been so long, he ain't coming back. He goes, oh no, no, the Lord's not being slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness slack. Who do you think the some men are that he's wrenches? The scoffers He says, these guys, uh, oh, God's just being slack. Um, as some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to usward. I got three thoughts I want to give you. Number one, I'm going to jump right into it here. I want us to notice God's promise. God's promise. Again, verse number nine. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise. Promise. God has given us a lot of promises. Uh my dad wrote down one year in his devotions through the year. Dad read the Bible through at least one time a year for decades and decades and decades. And he had a little notebook. He always took notes on stuff and kept journals and different things. Had a little notebook he'd write down. Uh one year he said, I'm going to write down every promise I come across when I read through the Bible And he did it all just, and when he was done, the end of the year he showed me the notebook, man, he had hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of promises that are given in the Bible by God God has made a lot of promises. Now what promise is Peter talking about here? He's talking about the promise of Jesus coming back again. God's promise. All through both the Old and New Testaments, we are promised repeatedly that Jesus Christ would come the first time, but over and over and over were promised that he would again return the second time. Not just coming one one and done He comes back, and then at his timing, on his schedule, according to his perception of time, he's coming back again. And that is a promise of God. You mark it down. Anybody here believe God can lie? God can't lie. He doesn't lie. He can't lie. And if God promises something's going to happen, you mark it down, it's going to happen. All through the Old Testament, Old Testament prophets over and over and over referenced and prophesied the second coming of Jesus Christ. In the New Testament, we have angels in Acts chapter 1. We have angels say, this same Jesus, as you saw him go into heaven, shall so come in like manner. Angels of God, the holy angels of God, saying, Jesus coming back again Jesus himself said he's coming back again. In John chapter 14, I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will Come again. That's a promise of Jesus Christ. Just as much as, just as sure as God promised He loved us He loves us. His promise that he's coming back again is just as sure. The apostles in the New Testament, Romans, all through the New Testament, the Apostles are assure us that Jesus Christ is coming back again. Wouldn't it be wonderful if on a Sunday night two foot of snow on the ground uh bitter cold, uh uh half the folks sitting at home, us here. Wouldn't that be something if the Lord came back tonight? Rapture take place Boa, I got thinking uh last night, I was thinking, um I was studying my Bible. I can't find anywhere in a Bible where it says there's snow in heaven. How do you like that, Rissa? No, who was it that said they like snow? Chloe. No snow in heaven. I don't think there's any in the other place either. But anyway. Coming back again. We're promised that God is coming back again. Jesus is coming back again. We're promised over and over and over and over and over we can be confident Jesus Christ is coming back again. Now there's one thing we are not promised. Something we're not told. We're told and assured he is coming back. But we are told we do not know when he's coming back. Let me show you a few verses and keep your place here. Go with me, if you would, to Matthew. We know he is coming, but we don't know when he's coming. And uh we haven't I haven't heard of this lately, but uh it seems like every now and then we go through this some uh people uh start declaring they figured out when Jesus is coming back again. And um some of the folks have been around for a little while. In 1988, a fellow wrote a book, 88 Reasons Jesus Coming Back Again And um uh if you haven't figured it out, he was wrong. All eighty-eight reasons were wrong. So lo and behold, rather than saying, hey, you know, I messed up In eight in 1989 he wrote another book, 89 Reasons Jesus Coming Back in 89. And uh he was wrong about that. 88 reasons he's coming in eighty-eight. Didn't come in eighty eight. in eighty nine. He didn't come in eighty-nine. Uh in the nineties there was a fellow had a radio station and it was fairly decent radio station. He was out in California and uh he started proclaiming that. He figured out he had a certain date Jesus coming back again. And they were wrong. And I could have, we knew at the time they were wrong. Look with me, Matthew chapter 24. And notice with me, and again, if you underscore passages in your Bible, these would be good ones. Look at verse number 35. Matthew 24, 35. Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away. Look at this. But of that day and hour, the return of the Lord That day and hour, what do the next three words say? Talk to me now. Say, what's it say? Knoweth no man And then he expounds on that. No, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. Just that, would you agree with me? Just that one statement in itself or to settle it. We don't know when Jesus is coming. But he goes on. Look with me, come down to verse 39. Talking about Noah and the flood, and he's emphasizing the fact that nobody knows when the Lord's coming back. Look at verse 39. And knew not until the flood came. They didn't know when that flood was going to break loose. They knew it was coming. God told Noah he was declaring it, but they didn't know when And they knew not until the flood came. I underscored that little phrase, knew not. I underscored, knoweth no man, back in verse 36. Look at 42. Verse 42, watch therefore for ye. What? Are you there? Verse 42. Are you everybody there? Watch therefore for ye Know not what hour your Lord doth come. Look at verse 44. Therefore, be ye also ready for such an hour as ye think not The Son of Man cometh. Look at verse 50. The Lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, in an hour that he is not aware of. Look chapter 25 Come over to uh verse 13. Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of Man cometh. We are promised by God. Peter references this promise. We are promised by God Jesus is coming back again, but he tells us repeatedly, you don't know when it's going to happen. Maybe today, maybe tomorrow, maybe next week, maybe next decade, maybe next century. We don't know. But one thing I am sure of, Jesus coming back again. He's coming back again. So Peter makes this promise. And by the way, uh in Acts chapter 1, verse 7, we don't take time to turn there. But um the Lord said to his disciples, they said, Will you at this time rebuild the temple? When are you going to set up your kingdom? Are you going to do it now? And he says, um, and I'm putting my own words, this is Leatherman translation here, uh, but he says basically to him, he says, uh, it's none of your business when I'm coming back. You just get out and win souls, you get out and be a witness And I'm coming back, but you don't know when. So we have this promise Peter gives us. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise. Second thing I want us to notice tonight is God's patience. We have a promise, Lord's coming back, but we don't know when. Then he says, the Lord is patient. Again, verse number nine. Lord's not slack. concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but is what? Long summer. When I say what, that's when you're supposed to say the next word. He's what All right. How many people aren't going to s repeat what I say no matter what I do? I thought so. He is not slack concerning his promise, but he is long-suffering to usward. What does the word slack mean? The Lord is not slack. It's a negative term. It has the idea of just loitering, hanging around, doing nothing. Sitting at home watching videos all day long and not doing anything, just lounging around and uh not doing anything. It has the idea of negligent delay Uh some people are late because they just are negligent. They just put it off and put it off and then uh they uh and that goes on in time. And uh negligent delay, that's the word that's like That's what slack means. And he says, the Lord is not slack. I'm glad God doesn't just loiter. When I was little, and I don't know anything about this song, so don't hold me to quoting it, but there was a song that said, I'm just going to lay around the shack till the mail train comes back. Just loitering, laying around, doing nothing. And the Lord is not slack. God is not lazy God is not negligent. He's assuring them. It hasn't been 2,000 years that the Lord hasn't come back because God is just loitering. Because he's just being negligent. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise. Then he makes this statement, as some encounters like this, but is long suffering to us word I got looking up the word that that word long-suffering comes from. It's translated in our Bible six times patience. Patient. The Lord is patient. The Lord is patient. Our God is a patient God. He is not in a hurry. He knows what he's doing. He knows when he's going to do it. He operates on a schedule. Did you ever think of this? Our God is very disciplined. He's in control of time and his schedule and never gets away from him. He is long suffering So if he if his del if it seems to you and I as a delay in his return, it's not because the Lord is negligent, it's not because he's undisciplined, it's not because he's just laying around the shack. It's because he's patient. He's very patient. He has a purpose and a reason. Amazing thing is, all through Scripture, we're reassured that God is patient with us. Now we're not going to turn to all these scriptures, but listen to Nehemiah chapter 9 and verse 17. It says this, speaking of the Lord. He is gracious and merciful, slow to anger. You know, sometimes you meet someone, every little thing sets them off. I mean boom. Just in me any some little slight boom they're angry instantly. Uh we went out I was up in Pennsylvania with uh uh brother John Leatherman preaching these meetings last week and he took us out to breakfast Tuesday morning and it was a great restaurant and it was nice But when the waitress walked in, we sat down, I was sitting beside another preacher from Georgia, and uh as soon as she walked in, I told him, I said, she is on edge. I said, you just watch it. This gal is gonna and she came in there, well what do you want? And uh this was real and um And uh, well, uh, he said the one guy wanted runny, he said he wanted runny scrambled eggs. And she says, what? Runny scrambled eggs She goes, uh we can't do that. And he said, Well, can you try? And she goes, All right. And uh so anyway, she was just I mean just waiting for something to set her off, this dear lady. She was a very el elderly lady And uh she was just waiting. And uh I tell you, Baptist preachers have ways of winning old ladies over. And by the time we were done there, she was laughing and carrying on and and uh was nice as can be But some people are right on edge. I mean, they have no patience. They are not long-suffering. The slightest little thing sets them off. I am glad that our God is patient. Slow to anger. If he wasn't, man, he'd be angry all the time at everybody So God is patient. Listen to Psalm chapter 103 of verse 8. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger. Psalm 145, verse 8, the Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger, and of great mercy. It's very patient with us. Very merciful. Joel, Old Testament book of Joel, chapter 2, verse 13. He is gracious speaking of the Lord and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness. Man, our God is kind, he's patient, he's gracious, he's a very long-suffering God. Jonah of all people, in Jonah chapter 4. When God didn't destroy the Ninevehes like Jonah was wanting them to. Jonah got upset with the Lord. You know what he got upset with the Lord about? Because the Lord was so patient Because the Lord was so suffering. He says this to the Lord, I know that thou art a gracious God and merciful, slow to anger and of great kindness. That made Jonah mad That God was patient. God was long-suffering. I don't know. I'm not mad at God being patient with me. I'm not mad at God being long-suffering. I am glad. That God is longsuffering, patient with us. And Nahum, little Old Testament book, chapter 1, verse 3, says the Lord is slow to anger. And so God is patient with us. Peter is saying, he says, listen, these scoffers, the Lord's not slack. He's not just laying around. He's not being negligent. Since he hasn't come back yet, he's long-suffering. He's patient with us. He's patient with mankind. He endures our flaws. Right? Can I get a witness? Man, God is patient. I hesitate to use this term, but it's really true. He tolerates a lot with us Now he deals with it. If it goes on, he'll deal with it and chase it and correct it. But uh he's very patient. He holds back his judgment. We're told in Ezekiel, the Lord does not take delight in the death of the wicked. If you would, keep your place here again. Come with me to the book of Psalms. I have two passages I'd like for you to see. And again, these would be good verses to mark or some way that you can come back to them, because if you're like me, I need a little reassurance from the Lord sometimes, and these are good verses to go to To find some reassurance. Psalm 78. Psalm 78. And verse number 38 and 39. Speaking of the Lord In verse 37, he's talking about Israel testing the Lord and doing wrong. Look at verse 37. For their heart was not right with him, neither were they steadfast in his covenant. They didn't do right. They didn't stay faithful. They weren't consistent in their walk with the Lord. Can anybody relate to that? Consistency is a challenge. But look how he responds. But he, the Lord, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity and destroyed them not. He's patient with them. Yea, many a time he turned his anger away and did not stir up his wrath. Now, verse 39 is a encouragement to me For he remembereth that they were but what? Flesh. They're just humans. They're sinful human beings. He remembers that. A wind that passeth away and cometh not again. Aren't you glad God remembers that we're just humans? Uh we're we've we're flawed. Sometimes in my prayer time I say, God please my heart and my mind is just corrupted and I want to serve you, I want to love you, but I got this old nature, Lord And I'm sorry I confess it. Any anybody know what I'm talking about? And uh I'm glad to come to a verse like that. It says, Oh, he remembers that I'm flesh. He remembers we're just temporary. He's very, very patient with us. Come over to Psalm 103. A few pages back there. Psalm 103, great, great chapter. They're all good, but some just kind of stand out. Psalm 103 is one of those chapters. Psalms 103, and notice with me verse number 8. Peter says the Lord's not slack, he's not being negligent and just laying around. He's long-suffering on purpose, deliberately. There's a reason that he's taken so long. Look at what it says here. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. We just referenced that a few minutes ago. Then he goes on and elaborates on that He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. Look at this. For he hath not dealt with us after our sins. nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. Aren't you glad the Lord don't slap us down every time we think something wrong or say or do something wrong? He doesn't deal with us. And by the way, the reason he doesn't deal with us according to our iniquities is because he dealt with Jesus for our iniquities But he does chasten, don't misunderstand. He he he'll he'll he'll take care of things, but he's very kind and gracious and patient. He had not dealt with us after our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. Verse eleven For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Doesn't that sound like that, scapegoat? Scapegoat, all our sins were conf uh uh um uh uh what was the word I used? Um uh uh Transferred over to the the uh uh scapegoat, he put his hands on, he confessed the sins, and they were consigned, is the word I use, consigned to that uh uh ram, that scapegoat, and put it out in the wilderness never to be seen again. That's what he's talking about. Um uh As far as the east is from the west, so hath he removed our transgressions from us. Look at this. Act as a father pitieth his children. So the Lord pitieth them that fear him, for he knoweth our frame, and he remembereth that we are dust. Boy, what a patient God we have. I wonder how many of us have ever messed up and we thought, man, God's done with me God says, I'm not gone. I remember. I know what you are. I know you're just a human. I know. And he's very, very patient with. I don't know about you, but I thank God that he is patient. So Peter references, back in Peter again, he references this promise that Jesus is coming back again. These scoffers ridiculed the idea that Jesus came back, and one of their arguments was it's been so long. Since he's come, he's just slacky he's not worried about keeping his word. And Peter says, Oh no, no. That's not why it's been so long since he's come back again. It's not because he's negligent or he's forgotten about coming back. No, he's long-suffering. There's a basis to this extended period of time till he comes back again. There's a reason for it. It's deliberate and on purpose. It's because God is long-suffering. So we have the promise of God, the patience of God, and I'm going to end with this, the purpose of God. Why is he being so patient? Why is he being so long-suffering? What's his motive? What's the reasoning for that? Well, Peter tells us. Look there at verse 9 again, 2 Peter 3. But his long suffering to us were there in the middle of the verse. Now here he explains why. Not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The purpose, the Lord Is the uh is taking so long from our understanding of time, our perception of time, the reason the Lord's taking so long is because He don't want anybody to go to hell He loves us. He has a purpose for that. Let's look at this what these statements here. He says, but he is not willing. That little phrase, not willing, has the idea of it's not his purpose. It's not his desire. There are some theologies out there that twist the scriptures to suggest that God, in his sovereignty, wants, wills, and predetermines some people to go to hell. This verse absolutely puts the lie to that. God is not willing. It's not his purpose. It's not his desire. Well, everything that happens is God's will. No, not everything that happens is God's will. And yes, God is still sovereign. And there are people that perish. But he doesn't want them to. It's not his purpose, not his desire. Not willing, and then it says, not willing, that any. And notice I circled the word any, and then it says, but that all God wants everybody to be saved. That word any, it's kind of an interesting definition if you look it up in Strong's and some of the great dictionaries, you look it up. It has this idea of every specific individual. Every specific individual. He's not just talking about a general group. He says God is not willing that any, not any individual person. Any person you can think of, God says, I'm not willing for them to perish. Any individual, individual. Then he says, not willing that any should perish Perish means we understand, Bible students, we've been heard enough preaching and studied the Bible enough, the word perish means to end up in hell. It means to be doomed to destruction, eternal destruction in hell. And again, and for you and I, this is old stuff, but the fact of the matter is God does not want anybody to end up in hell. Doesn't want anybody to be destroyed for all eternity in hell and the lake of fire. I put it this way: every person that you and I meet Is someone that God wants saved. You can't meet a person anywhere that God doesn't want that person saved. You see that gr you say, that grouchy old waitress at the restaurant, God wants her saved? Yeah You mean that guy, that bully in school that picks on everybody? God wants him to be saved? Yeah. In fact, if he got saved, maybe he wouldn't be a bully. Maybe that waitress gets saved. Maybe she won't be so grouchy. You can't meet a person anywhere in the world. That isn't somebody that God doesn't want to get saved. You can't meet anybody. God wants every single person to get saved. Romans chapter 11, verse 32 says God wants to have mercy on everybody. He wants to show his mercy to everybody. Turn over, if you would, and I'll end with this. 1 Timothy chapter 2. And verse four. First Timothy chapter two and verse four Anybody that suggests that it's God's will for some people to go to hell is either incredibly ignorant or they're lying. Bible is very, very clear. God does not want anybody to perish. Look at 1 Timothy chapter number 2. Look with me at verse 4. Another good verse to underscore. Speaking of God our Savior, verse 3, this is good and acceptable in the sight of God, our Savior, who will have how many men? All men to be saved, all men, and to come into the knowledge of the truth. God wants all men to be saved. So why is he being so why is he taking so long to come back? He promised he would come back. The Old Testament prophets Said he would come back. The angels said he would come back. The apostles all through the New Testament said he's coming back. He's coming back. He's coming back. Why is he taking so long? It's because he has a purpose. He wants more people to get saved. He wants more people to get saved. I believe with all my heart the primary purpose for the church's existence, now there's secondary reasons The primary purpose for the church's existence is to do everything we can to get everybody saved. Now, not everybody's going to get saved, but we do our part We give the gospel, we pray, we plead, we do what we can, and uh try and get people saved. Why? Because Jesus coming back again and until he comes back he wants everybody at least have the opportunity to be saved and uh he wants everybody to be saved. Now God God has a different time frame. I just want to make a little different application than what Peter's making here, a little bit. God does not work God does not always work on our schedule. Has anybody found anybody been saved long enough? Figure that out. There's a preacher, I think I mentioned this recently somewhere, but uh there was a preacher that was the chaplain of Congress back 150 years ago in the early 1800s, I think it was. Or it's been a while ago. It might not have been that long. But the uh old time preacher, and he was chaplain uh for our nation's congress And one day he had an office down there in Washington, D. C. , and one day a fellow walked in and the preacher was just pacing back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. Did I have I told I think I told this just recently And he's going back and forth, back and forth. And uh the uh I said this last Sunday, and they said, uh, why are you so upset? He says, because I'm in a hurry and God ain't And I found that to be true. So God sometimes sometimes it seems like God delays God, what are you waiting for? And can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? God, what are you waiting for? God's delays, as we call them, let me put it down. Let me read it the way I put it down. All of God's delays are for man's good. Whether it's not coming back for 2,000 plus years, it's so that more people can get saved Maybe he doesn't answer my prayer right the when I think he needs to. God, I really need you to answer this prayer. And he holds off. He holds off. He holds off. Why? Because there's something he has for me. He wants me to learn. He wants me to develop. He wants me to grow in my faith. Every all of God's delays are for our good. It's never out of negligence. We preached the other Sunday on David got impatient with God. How long, O Lord? God had to change his thinking. God knew what he was doing, and God had a plan and purpose. If you ever raise kids, you know what it's like for a child to get impatient, amen or not, taking a trip. Are we there yet? You know? And uh no, we're not there yet. And uh sometimes God and God says, I got a purpose, I got a reason, just trust me, just wait on me And God has his time frame. So what I'm trying to say is this, is God's patient. And uh wait on him. He hasn't come back yet. That doesn't mean he's not. Doesn't mean he's messed up or he lied or he forgot He's n the he's holding off on coming back. Oh, you know, to us seems like a long time. To him it's like not no time at all. But he says, I don't want anybody to die and go to hell when he gives I want to give everybody an opportunity to be saved. Give everybody an opportunity to be saved. He's patient with us. He's patient. And if God's patient with us, and I'll leave you with this, if God's patient with us If a perfect, sinless, perfectly wise and good God can be patient and long-suffering with me, a sorry sinner that's limited in my understanding and and impatient in my attitude. If God can be patient with me, perfect God can be patient with an imperfect man, don't you think That you and I, as imperfect people, should be patient with other imperfect people. If a perfect God can be patient with an imperfect man, then surely an imperfect person can be patient with other imperfect people. Amen? And so let's rejoice in God's patience. Let's be assured He's coming. Let's do our job and get out and try and get people, as many people saved as we possibly can. And then let's be patient with one another. Let's just be kind and merciful and gracious with one another. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to take these thoughts tonight and Or maybe you could challenge us and help us to trust you and not doubt you, even though you're Schedule and timing is sometimes very different than ours. We'll just trust you. We know you know what you're doing. You have a reason. And Holy Spirit of God, I ask you to convict us when we're impatient with others. We get sharp and we don't show mercy. We withhold mercy and we withhold grace that you showed us so abundantly. Help us turn around and share and show that to others around. I don't know. How many tonight say, Preacher, God spoke to my heart, and I don't trust him tonight. I just need I always want him to have his way. Any like that, uplifted hand, God bless you Now we'll finish out with an old-fashioned altar call without the piano. And so if you would, let's stand together at