You would turn there with me. Matthew chapter one. And it's good to see James Kent back there. And you got the whole family with you? Oh but mom. Okay. Well we're good to see you, Brother James. And um Matthew chapter one, I want to read verse 22 and 23. Not a full-blown message tonight. I just have one thought, and I really believe I think if uh if we can get a hold of this one thought I want to share tonight, I really believe it could change our lives. It could really transform our Christian our Christian walk. If we can just get this one thought, and I I hope you'll catch what I'm trying to say. Notice Matthew chapter 1, verse 22, it says this. Now all this was done, speaking of the of of the birth of Christ and all these prophecies. Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is God with us He says, all this was done that it might be fulfilled. And here's my thought tonight. God always keeps his word. God always keeps his word. And I think if we can just get a hold of that one thought, whatever promise God gives us, whatever prophecy God makes You mark it down. God will keep his word. He will fulfill his word. Let me have a word of prayer. I'll share some thoughts along those lines Um and then we'll move on. Father, we come to you tonight and everything that we are celebrating on this Christmas Eve and tomorrow Christmas Day. is a result of you keeping your word, fulfilling what you promised you would do, what you prophesied you would do And I pray we could get a hold of that, Lord. And that it would uh the fact that you keep your word, you keep your promises would affect our Christian life So Lord, I yield my will to you tonight. I present my body anew, and I pray, again, with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit, that you speak to us and help us tonight, the one that's struggling Help us to get a hold of the fact that you keep your word. We can trust you. Lord, others that have needs and burdens, help us to get a hold of this fact that we can trust you, and then help us to trust you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The Bible is full of prophecy. All through the Bible we have prophecy Many of the prophets, uh the prophecies that were given in Scripture have already been fulfilled. Many of them were fulfilled at the birth of Christ and throughout the life of Christ, throughout his earthly ministry. Many of these prophecies were fulfilled There's many prophecies yet to come still to be fulfilled. So the Bible is a prophetic book in many ways. I think the two most significant events in all of history, the most significant events in all of history, I think number one, was the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Our calendars are dated by the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. No other birth in the history of mankind has affected mankind like the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. What a powerful, powerful impact the birth and life that Jesus Christ had on mankind, on humanity. Even the unbelievers have to acknowledge the impact that Jesus Christ's presence here on earth had. And so I think the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ is uh one of the most significant events in all of history. I think the second is equal to it. That was the crucifixion, burial, and resurrection from the dead of Jesus Christ. What an event. Hebrews tells us that when Jesus died on that cross, that through that death, he destroyed him that had the power of death. That is the devil. Now we we warn people about the devil, and I get railing on them sometimes, but I just want to remind us on this Christmas Eve, because of Jesus Christ and what he did on the cross, the devil is a defeated foe. He's defeated. And so the death, burial, and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ, I believe, are two most significant events in all of history. At least 300 prophecies were fulfilled during Jesus' earthly ministry. And when I say fulfilled, I mean to the T. specifically detailed prophecies fulfilled to the T. His manner of death. The fact that they A Roman soldier just randomly took a spear and pierced it up through his ribs into his heart. That was fulfilled prophecy in Old Testament. At least three hundred. I read a couple other Bible scholars and they suggested up over five hundred. One fellow said five hundred and 87 Old Testament prophecies fulfilled to the T in the life and ministry of the Lord Jesus Christ. Many of those prophecies were fulfilled at his birth. Let me just share a couple very quickly with you, and we won't turn to them. I'll just reference them. But the fact that Jesus would be a descendant of Abraham in Genesis chapter 22, verse 18, was prophesied. In Numbers 24, 17, it was prophesied that he would also be a descendant of Jacob. And if you'll study the genealogies in Matthew and Luke very carefully, you'll see Jesus Christ was a descendant of Abraham down through Jacob, and even David was in on that. The fact that Jesus would be born of a virgin was prophesied in Isaiah 7 and verse 14. The fact that the time of his arrival was prophesied in Daniel 9, verse 25 and 26. And he gives these 70 weeks, and then he references the 69 weeks of years. A week of year would be seven years. And if you would check that out from back in Nehemiah when Artaxerxes gave the decree that the temple in Jerusalem should be rebuilt And the captivity was over. From that point on, 483 years, the Messiah would show up. And the Bible scholars, the Jewish scholars of the Old Testament, they should have at least known exactly to the year when Jesus was going to be born. The fact that he was born in Bethlehem was prophesied in Micah chapter number 5 and verse 2. In fact, remember when the wise men showed up in Jerusalem And they said, Where is he that is born king of the Jews? And the scholars went to the scriptures and they said, Bethlehem. You know how they knew that? It was prophesied 700 years before. The fact that the children, that Herod would destroy all the children in Bethlehem and surrounding areas, two years old and under, that was prophesied in Jeremiah chapter 31, verse 15. God led uh Joseph and Mary and little baby Jesus to flee to Egypt during that time. And Hosea chapter 11, verse 1 prophesied that Jesus would return as a child From Egypt back to Nazareth. 300, at least 300 prophecies fulfilled In the life of the Lord Jesus Christ, scores of prophecies fulfilled at the time of his birth. I mean to the detail, specific prophecies fulfilled. Prophecies made hundreds in some cases thousands of years before, fulfilled to the T. My point is this When God says something's going to happen, you mark it down, it's going to happen. In fact, there are some prophecies, and again, this would take time to go through all these, but I'll just give it to you. There are some prophecies that God uses past tense terms to refer to future events. In other words, he references future events as if they already happened. You say, why would he do that? I'll tell you why he would do that. When we're dealing with God, if God says something's going to happen, it says sure of happening as if it already did happen. We can refer to future prophetic events with as much certainty as we refer to past events that have already taken place. God's word is filled with prophecy. Many of his prophecies, as I said, were of Christ, were fulfilled perfectly at his first coming. There are many more prophecies concerning his second coming, and I don't know of any prophecies talking about music during preaching going on, but uh nevertheless that happens I heard the bells on Christmas. But there are these prophecies of Jesus' first coming were fulfilled to the T. Now here's the thing There are more prophecies of Jesus' second coming than they were of his first coming. Now use a little logic with me. Let's see if we can think this through a little bit. If every prophecy concerning the first coming of Christ was fulfilled perfectly, we can safely assume That all the prophecies of his second coming will be fulfilled with exact same certainty. In other words, Jesus Christ came the first time and he's coming back the second time. So we celebrate the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's keep in mind everything that God said prophetically about Jesus' first coming, just as that's fulfilled, we can be certain he's coming back again. Now I can't prove this from Scripture. Scripture says we don't know when He's coming. But I'll be honest with you, I look at this old world, and I can't help but think His coming has to be soon. Has to be soon. Everything is in place. I don't know what would have to take what would have to change for the world to be in a situation where the events of revelation for them to take place. I mean we are sitting, I believe, on the cusp Of the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I could be wrong. It might be years, might be decades, might be a hundred years or more. But I can't hardly imagine it's too much longer. God's prophecies, he kept them. Bible's full of prophecies. The Bible is full of promises. Not just prophecies, but promises he gives to you and I. And I want to say this: not only does God keep his prophecies, God keeps his promises. The first promise in the Bible was given in Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15, where God speaking to the serpent after the fall of man And he said the woman would have a seed. He referenced the seed of woman. Now let's do a little biological let's do a little biology class here Question, does the woman have the seed? No. But he doesn't say the seed of man, he references the seed of a woman That is a very obvious reference to the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. God, the person of the Holy Spirit placed in the womb of Mary. A little embryotic body of the Lord Jesus Christ, prepared of God in heaven, placed in her womb. Her womb conceived that, received that little body And she gave birth, having not known man. Very first promise in the Bible. And that's the prophecy. And then the promise was That seed of woman would crush the head of the serpent. Crush the head of the serpent. That's a prophecy of Jesus Christ's crucifixion where he destroyed the works of the devil. Very first promise in the Bible Is the coming of the Lord Jesus Christ and the fact that he would defeat the devil. Did you know the last promise in the Bible is found in Revelation chapter 22 and verse 20? And there it says Jesus speaking, and he makes this promise. He said, Behold, I come quickly. That's his second coming. The first promise in the Bible is to the fact that Jesus would come the first time. The last promise in the Bible is he's coming back again. He's coming back again. Now here's the thought I want to leave with you. Considering the fact that all these promises the Lord gave, He fulfilled them to the T. These promises God has given us. I'm here to tell you, God keeps his promises. You can take that to the bank. God makes a promise, you mark it down, he will keep his word. Did you ever hear somebody say this? That man's word is good as a bond. Or something. Did I say that right? What was it? Good as gold. No, it's not the one I wanted. That's close enough. But um Did you ever hear somebody you ever hear the old timers talk about, yeah I remember back in the day your word was good. You'd shake your hand and give your word. And it was going to happen. Anybody remember talk about that? I'm here to tell you, God is as good as his word. He keeps his word. I learned that in the summer of 1979, I'd gotten saved in May, early May, beginning of May, first week of May. Trusted Christ. God was changing my life. I mean just miraculously. To this day it boggles my mind. At the time I didn't fully grasp what was happening Oh my life was changing. Old things were passing away. All things were becoming new. But I never had certainty. I never had real assurance. That I was, my sins are forgiven. I'd go to heaven. I had about a month or so a period of time there where I knew my life was changed. I knew I'd called on the Lord. But if you'd have asked me, do you know for certain you go to heaven, I'd say, Well, I believe. I read a sermon by an old evangelist, John R. Rice, from John 10, 13. And this is the verse that says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And I got thinking, I read that sermon, read that reference, I got thinking, you know, I know I called on the Lord, I know I did. There's no doubt about it. I called on the Lord with all my heart desperately And if he doesn't save me, then that verse is a lie. If I'm not saved, then that verse is a lie. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, I knew I did that. shall be saved. If I'm not saved, then that verse is a lie. And I came to this conclusion. God don't lie. Doesn't lie. And I walked away from that confident that what God said was so. That God keeps his word. I'm here to tell you tonight, if you've never called on the Lord Jesus Christ your personal Savior, you admit you're a sinner, you believe he died for you, is buried, rose again. And you'll come to him and call on him for forgiveness and cleansing and salvation. I'm here to tell you, God will keep his promise and he will save your soul from hell. The promise of God. There's a lot of other promises I learned. I got down to Bible college, eventually ended up, and I told the story in Sunday school this morning. I ran I came across this, ran across this promise in Philippians, that my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in Christ Jesus. And I memorized that and we talked about it, but I never really had to prove that. About my second or third year into college, I ran out of money and I told the story in Sunday school. And I decided I was going to test that verse. And I didn't tell anybody the fact that I didn't have money for the spring semester. I just told God and God alone God, you promised that you would supply my need. And God, I need this. You called me to college. I'm here at your beckoning. You promise to meet that need, and I've tried to honor you with my finances. I've invested all my money in my story and giving to the Lord of the Lord. God, you promise. And I was submitted. If he said if he didn't provide it, uh that was fine. And the day I was to take a bus back home to Philly I got a note to come down the registration, got down there, and lo and behold, the bill had been paid in full by somebody I had no idea who did it. I know who did it. God did it God started. You know what I found out? God keeps his promises. He fulfills his prophecies, and he keeps his promises. I wished I could say to you that since I got saved, I've never sinned, I've never messed up, but the honest truth is I have. If we say we have no sin, we call God a liar. Wasn't long into my Christian life. Messed up, did said some things, did some things. I come to God broken. I mean broken. I said, God, I'm sorry, I sinned. I confess my sin. And I tell you, I just kept praying that prayer over. I kept confessing it over and over and over. One evening I was walk outside walking. I just kept confessing that sin over and over and over and over. Finally, the Spirit of God pricked my heart. And he brought to mind a verse, if we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. You know what I learned? I learned that God keeps his promise. If we confess our sins, he will forgive our sins. I don't have to keep coming and coming and coming. I confess it, I make it right, I repent, I forsake it, I confess it, and God says, forgive it. I like that old song. What sins are you talking about? I don't remember them anymore. So my point is this. Matthew says that these things were fulfilled. They were a fulfillment of God's prophecy. They were God keeping his word. And I'm here to tell you on this Christmas Eve, God keeps his word. You and I can trust him. You and I can take our cares. We can take our burdens. We can take our failures. And we can bring them to the Lord and we can trust him that he will take that and help us. He can make the wrong right and he can help us carry those burdens. God keeps his word. God keeps his word. I put these three thoughts down. I am with this. Number one, God loves you and me so much. He promises that he loves us dearly. And because he loves us, he wants what's best for us. How many of you parents here love your kids? Any parents here? Um most of the parents' hands went up. Maybe you love most of your kids. Would you agree with me? You love your kids, you want what's best for them, don't you? Yeah. God loves us, He wants what's best for us. Not only does God love us and want what's best for us, number two, he's wise and he knows what's best for us. How many parents hear you? You love your kids, you want what's best, but sometimes you're s you have you kind of have a conflict, you're not sure what is best. Man, I uh I'm not sure what's the best thing to do with my kids. Can I get a witness? Anybody know? I've been there. I love them, I want what's best for them, but my understanding is limited, my wisdom is limited, I'm not sure what's best for them. God never has that problem. He always knows what is best for you and me. He's all-knowing. He's all-wise. So he loves us and wants what's best. Number two, he's all-knowing. He knows what's best. And number three, he's all-powerful, and he can do what's best. Sometimes there's been times even just since the boys moved out that I want what's best for my boys to this day, desperately. I love them. And a lot of sometimes I don't know what's best, sometimes I do. And there's been times where I knew what was best for them, but it was I was not capable of doing it. I wasn't able to do what I knew was best for them. But God never has that problem. God can always do what's best for us. This Christmas season, let's give Him our heart. Let's give Him our trust. And let's say, Lord, I know you keep your word. You've promised. And I'm going to trust you with my life. I'm going to trust you with my future. I'm just going to put it in your hands and take you at your at your word. Amen? If you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, Christmas Eve would be a good time to get saved, wouldn't it? If you know Christ as Savior, let's give ourselves to Him tonight and just say, Lord, here I am. I trust you. I trust your word. You're good. I know you love me. Take my life I give it to you, Lord. Father, I pray you'd bless now this little thought here and help us get a hold of this. That you always keep your word. We can trust you. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder there's some tonight, say, preacher, on this Christmas Eve, I have a heavy burden on my heart. Maybe you have a situation that just seems too big And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that I'll learn to trust God with my burdens. I'll try and I'll learn to trust God with my questions. Trials and difficulties. Is there any like that tonight? Uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. That God will help me. Just trust them. Take them at his word. Whatever that need is, whatever that burden is this Christmas Eve. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know I'm saved. I trust the Lord. I believe his word. I just want to dedicate my life to Christ. Or maybe I want to renew it. Given my life to Christ before? Tonight I just want to put myself back in the hands of the Lord. Say, here I am, Lord. I'm yours. Take me and use me how you ever you see fit Is there any like that tonight, preacher? I just want the Lord to have all of me. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe on a Christmas Eve in an old Baptist church altar A good place just kneel and say, here's my heart, Lord. Here's my life, my trust. Lead me. Take care of me. Help me. I believe God will do it. Turn any tonight say, preacher, I'm not saved. I've never trusted Christ. I need to settle that You say, I'm not I'm not going to put it off anymore. It's time. You say, preacher, pray for me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get this matter of my soul salvation settled. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. Any at all? Any at all? Father bless now our invitation. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. James playing that invitation hymn. How about