Bible says Psalm 46. Psalm 46. I was gonna tell a joke tonight about an elephant, but it wasn't that important. It didn't really matter too much It was kind of irrelevant, so we'll just move on from that. Psalm forty-six. Uh some very familiar uh scripture here, especially in what we would uh call hard times, I guess you could say. Psalm 46, 10 says, be still and know that I am God. Very, very famous verse. A lot of times you'll hear this at revival meetings and things like that. And oftentimes we come here for encouragement. We're going to read more than just that verse. Psalm 46, we'll start in verse 1. Says, God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble. Therefore, will not we fear? Though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea, though the waters thereof roar and be troubled Though the mountains shake with swelling thereof, Selah. Go down to verse 8. Come behold the works of the Lord, what desolations he made in the earth. He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth. He breaketh the bow and cutteth the spear in sunder. He burneth the chariot and the fire. Be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth The Lord of hosts is with us. The God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah. Let's pray and then the message this evening. Heavenly Father, Lord. We certainly do have a lot to be grateful for. Sometimes we get to focusing on the negative aspects of things. And Lord, there's always been negative in the world. It's cursed with sin. But Lord, there's so much positive we can look at as well. Lord, if nothing else, we that know you as our s is as our Savior, Lord, we have a home in heaven. And Lord, we certainly have a lot to be grateful for there. And Lord, as we look at negative circumstances that are brought into the world, we look at the positive that you have brought out of these negative circumstances. And you have taken something what we would call bad and used it for a lot of good in a lot of ways. And we praise you for that. Lord, I ask now that as we look at your word tonight, you would bring encouragement to us Bring conviction where needed, I pray, Lord. Lord, I ask that you would preach tonight and speak to our hearts. Lord, I yield my will to yours, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Again, verse 10, a verse that we often quote in in times of distress, be still and know that I am God. Very famous verse there. Pastor asked me to preach the other day, and I began to pray and I began to uh study and look and and pray and think about what uh the Lord had me preach. And then last night I was um going to sleep, and as I was going to sleep, this verse came to my mind So then of course I got up and and um wrote some notes down and then went and slept very well. And then it's funny this morning Pastor said he woke up with this verse on his mind. Um so I I think that uh that's pretty interesting there But be still and know that I am God. One of my favorite hymns is Be Still, my soul. Often we will quote that verse or sing this song to bring us comfort and peace and calm. Um I think that's a good thing. I think it's a good thing. And if we can't find peace in the Word of God, we're not going to find it anywhere else, that's for sure. But tonight we're going to look at this entire chapter. I think a lot of times we look at one aspect of this verse, and that is just to bring us encouragement, and of course it does But there's some more truths I think we can learn as we read this entire chapter. If you would break up this chapter into sections, you could break it up this way. Verses 1 through 3, or excuse me, verses 1 through 5, rather, give facts about or attributes of God. He is our refuge, our strength, and so on. Verses 6 through 9 give some demonstrations of God's power and shows us his might. Verse 10 and 11 talk about how we should view God considering what we know about him and have seen of him. So, real quickly, and of course I'll be brief tonight, but verse 1 through 5, let's go ahead and look at some facts we see about our God. First thing I see is God is our refuge. God is our refuge. This is a fact. This is not up for discussion. This is what he is. He is our refuge. The word refuge in Noah Webster's 1828 dictionary It says that which shelters or protects from danger, distress, or calamity, a stronghold which protects by its strength Or a sanctuary which secures safety by its sacredness, any place inaccessible to an enemy I like that definition. I like Noah Webster's dictionary in general. Oftentimes he cites the Bible as he did with this definition as well But understand this, because of the fact that God is our refuge, He is our protection, we do not need to fear. Verse 2: Therefore will not we fear. We do not need to fear. You can see a lot of fear and panic going on across the entire globe right now. You can just go to Walmart and see fear. People are scared. People are fearful. But as God's people, we do not need to be fearful because we have a stronghold, we have a refuge, a secure place. And part of that definition that I really like, it says secures safety by its sacredness. That is our God, that is our refuge. We understand this. God will do more to protect us than anything else. We can take precautions and we should, but understand this, we should not be trusting in our precautions, but rather in our refuge. God will do a whole lot more to protect us than Lysol and hand sanitizer, and those are good things. I've used them myself, but what are you trusting in? Your precautions for your God. God will protect us from calamity and distress. He will take care of our needs. That's the first fact I see. He's our refuge. The second fact I see about God is He is our strength. God is our strength to help us through tough times. A lot of people have lost some or all income. A lot of people are dealing with stresses for various reasons. Understand this. God is our strength to help us through these times. A lot of times we say, you know, I don't think I can make it through this. I don't think I'm going to make it through this. Or something like this. But can I remind you, Philippians says, I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. God is our strength to get through whatever we are facing. We won't find this strength in entertainment or politicians or anything like this. A lot of times we try to uh drown out what's going on on the in the world outside by trying to alleviate our our stresses through distractions such as TV and and things like that. But again, that doesn't fix the problem. The only thing that'll give us strength to really actually make through this is God. God provides that. So the first thing I see, God's our refuge. Second fact about God or attribute, you could say, is He's our strength. And the third thing I see is he's present. He's very present. Verse 1: God is our refuge and strength, a very present help and trouble. It doesn't just say God is present. If it did, that should satisfy us there, but he emphasizes the point and says God is very present. God is very real today. He is here. He is very present. And whether or not we see him, whether or not we feel like he's working, is irrelevant because he is here. We might say, well, I don't see him in all this. I don't see God working in all this. And sometimes I wonder if he's even here or if he's even paying attention. Can I say our wandering and our thinking and our feeling are totally irrelevant to the fact that God is present? He is very present. Whether we think he is or not. You can see his presence all around you. I can. I'll tell you just one thing, past few days, we've been having our sign-up for around the clock prayer And people are calling, people are texting, and I can sense the presence of God in their lives just in their eagerness to pray for our country and for our church. Very encouraging. You can see God working. So God is our refuge, He is our strength, He is present. I like this one, He will help. God is the only thing that can help. The only one that can help, I should say. God will help us more than any packages our government votes on. God will help us more than any drug can help us. God will help us more than any politician. Can I say this? If God can't help us, then no one can. That's right. And a lot of times we trust, we look to, we focus on things to help us, we focus on other people to help us. We look to Washington and say, when's the help coming? Can I say rather than looking to Washington, we should look at the one that controls Washington. Rather than looking to the king, we should look to the one who controls the heart of the king. Proverbs twenty-one, one talks about that. God will help you more than you can help yourself. Sometimes we as humans we try to come up with the answer for everything all by ourselves and then after we think and study and plan realize we can't do anything then we go to God. God is our help. And we could spend the next few hours really going through each attribute we see here of God But I can I say this: it doesn't matter what we think, or rather if we think God is here or not. I want you to understand He is here. He is in control. Pastor mentioned that earlier. He is our refuge. He is our help. And that leads me to say this: if you don't know him as your savior, I don't know where you're going to look to for help. If you don't know Christ as your savior, or if you're one of these people that claim not to believe in a God, then Man, you're out of luck. Because that was the only help you had. That was the only refuge you had. So then verses six through nine Really, in verse 5 through 9, we can see some demonstrations of how great our God is, and we can see some demonstrations of His power. He uttered his voice, verse six, says he uttered his voice, the earth melted. Understand, God can accomplish anything with his voice. He spoke the world into existence. He said, peace be still, the waters stopped. He talks, and things happen. God is powerful. And so we can't comprehend how holy and how powerful He is. In the midst of the heathen raging, he silences the heathen raging. I like this. Verse 5, excuse me, verse 6: the heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved, and he uttered his voice, and the earth melted. Understand this, the heathen have been raging for a long time. And when God says enough, he just speaks It's an amazing thing. Throughout all of history, God has been silencing the heathen when the heathen rages. Remember the flood? Man's wicked was wickedness all over the earth. Only Noah and his family found grace in the eyes of the Lord, and God destroyed the earth with the flood. The Tower of Babel, again, the people of the earth grew and multiplied, and rebellion was great again, and sin was great again, and God divided man there. By confusing the languages, the pagan gods of Egypt and the pagan practices and the filthy lifestyle that went along with Egypt. And along with oppressing God's people, God stepped in there and sent Moses and really wreaked havoc on Egypt. He's the then the Roman Empire when it be it became wicked and and and was just overrun with filth and uh sodomy and and and other horrible things. Same thing with Greece. And then God shut these down, these empires. God will silence the heathen whenever he wants to One day, of course, we know he will silence the heathen forever. And I'm looking forward to that day, as I know you are as well. Verse 8, look at this. Come, behold the works of the Lord. What desolations! He hath made in the earth. I get the sense here of just absolute destruction. When God wants to silence sin, sometimes he brings just great destruction. Again, we talked about the flood, the plagues that were on Egypt alone, what great destruction that that brought. God has sent famines and pestilence and he sent hurricanes and earthquakes and volcanic eruptions and floods. God can bring destruction when he wants to. These destroyed kingdoms, empires. And when we think about the facts we looked at about God and the attributes of God and how holy he is, how powerful he is, and that just with his words he can just move nations, destroy nations, and just his power is just unlimited. Verse 9 makes wars to cease. When he wants to, he can stop wars, even. We get the sense of just a little glimpse, even of just the power that God has. And then verse 10, we get to the verse of our main text tonight. Be still and know that I am God. The idea of be still here says it has the idea of hold tight. Or be silent Like when Jesus was on the boat, Pastor has been preaching on this on Sundays, he says, peace be still That's the same thought when the winds and the waves are just raging and there's just all this commotion. He says, be still. They have to stop. They have to cease. Peace, be still. The idea here is not merely that we find encouragement or peace, although that is true. He is our refuge. We do find peace in the refuge of God, but the idea here is there is a silence and a stillness and just awe and reverence that should overtake us in the presence of someone that's just so overwhelmingly holy and glorious Again, when Jesus says, be still to the waves, they have to stop. And it's quiet, and it's still in the presence of God. Can I say this? Again, pastor has been preaching on that on Sunday mornings, and we see the heathen rage and we see uh effects uh uh of this this virus and then things that are indirectly related to that and there's just storms going on on all around us. And I almost get the sense that God is saying, hang on. Be still. Be quiet. I'm still God. Be still and know that I am God We need to be still and know that God is God. This should be our reaction when we see what He is and what He is capable of. We need to be still And know that God is God. He is in control. So much so that even the winds and seas obey him. Be still and know that he will be exalted. Verse 10, be still and know that I am God. I will be exalted. Again, I don't see a debate here. I don't see that this is up for discussion. God said, I will be exalted among the heathen. One of my prayers is that this virus thing that's going on and the restrictions and everything, one of my prayers is that through all of this the heathen will look to God. And maybe one reason the things are happening the way they are happening is because God's people have been too silent, and so God Himself is saying, Be still, and I want the heathen to know that I am God. I will be exalted among the heathen. I will be exalted in the earth. He repeats it. Be still, and we need to understand this, that God is with us. Sometimes we can feel kind of lonely. Especially if you have you bit maybe you've been laid off work or hours cut back and maybe you live by yourself anyway, I don't know. We can get kind of feeling all alone sometimes. Be still. Know that you're not alone. Understand the fact that God is here with you. He will never leave you nor forsake you. Be still and know that He is our refuge. We can worry, we can panic, we can be fearful as anything. And I almost get the feeling that God's saying, just calm down, be still. I'm God. I'm still your refuge. I'm still your help. Be still. The chapter ends with the word sila. It means think about it. No, no, a lot of church folk are watching. A lot of people that I probably have never met are watching. Let me just ask you, have you thought about this? Last word, Sila means think about it. Have you thought about this? There might be someone listening and you say, well, if my only refuge, my only safe place, my only hope, my only help is God. And I don't even know who God is. I don't know that I'm saved, we would say. Can I say that's a just that's a that's a decision to trust Christ? That decision is not something you can put off. I don't understand how people would go through any kind of hard times without this refuge. Whether it be the loss of a loved one, whether it be losing work or anything else, I don't understand how you could make it through this without having this refuge. The only way we can have a sense of security is to know that we have a refuge. Do you know that you have that refuge? Do you know that? While the whole world is watching the media panicking and horse and toilet paper, running around the stores scared to death and some people even scared to come out of their homes How can we not be fearful? Understand God's not given us a spirit of fear, with love and a power and a sound mind. Again, it's not wrong to take precautions, but it's wrong to have fear because you don't trust in your refuge. How can you not be fearful by trusting in Christ and knowing that He is in control? And to those of you that know the Lord as your Savior, I encourage you tonight, be still. Know that He's God. He is in control. And if you're listening or watching tonight, and you don't know the Lord is your Savior, can I encourage you to put your trust in Him tonight? Because without him you don't have a refuge. You you don't have that security Be still and know that I am God. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you again for this day you've given us. Lord, we thank you for your word and showing us in your word. This this encouragement, really, Lord, that we see your power, Lord, and if you have the ability to speak things into existence, you have the ability to stop wars, bring pestilence and uh bri cause earthquakes and destroy kingdoms and rise up others and turn the heart of the king just by your hand, Lord. If you have that power, then Lord, we know you have the power to take care of anything else that's going on. We trust you tonight, Lord, we trust you, we love you, and we thank you for loving us, and it's in Jesus' name, Amen.