Second Corinthians chapter one. If you'll stand with me please, we'll begin reading in verse number three. I forgot my readers last night. I was reminded of what my son told me about a year ago. He said, Dad, you need to start wearing readers when you when you preach and read the Bible. I said, Well, folks will think I'm old and can't see He said, right now they think you can't read. And uh so I I put these on and that helps. Second Corinthians chapter one, verse number three. Uh blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. The Father of all mercies and the God of all comfort, who comforteth us in all our tribulation, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation also aboundeth by Christ. and whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation which is effectual in the enduring of the same sufferings which we also suffer or whether we be comforted, it is for your consolation and salvation. And our hope of you is steadfast. knowing that as ye are partakers of the sufferings, so shall ye be also of the consolation. I'm going to preach this morning on this subject. God works in us to work through us. God works in us to work through us. Heavenly Father, thank you for the preaching that we've heard already. And thank you, Lord, that that story has been refreshed in our minds of Daniel. And thank you, Lord, for his testimony. And thank you, Lord, for his faithfulness to triumph and bring honor and glory to you. And Lord, you preserved that story as an ensample, as an example for our lives. And may it be true in our living and not just our believing And now as we come to this message, may you be pleased, and Lord Holy Spirit, would you help us to receive and understand not just for the knowledge and not just for the knowing, but for the obedience of the Scripture. In Jesus' name I pray, Amen. You may be seated As we read through the passage of Scripture, the title, of course, describes what we read. God works in us. to work through us. Let me give you five statements by way of introduction from this passage of Scripture. First of all, I want to say Trials are a part of all of our lives. They preached about Daniel. We all have trials. He uses two different words here. He uses the word in verse number four, all our tribulation, and then he uses the word that trouble, and even in verse number five, Talks about the sufferings of Christ. Trials are a part of our lives. Now, trials are a part of everybody's life, and we don't have to have a lawyer to prove that. We understand that But as a child of God, we have an additional trial or difficulty that we all face, and Paul here is talking about the sufferings of Christ. He's not talking about physical ailments. He's talking about the difficulty that he faced in getting the gospel out Uh when uh Paul went into town, he wasn't asking where the best western was. He asked what kind of jailer do you folks have, because that's typically uh where he ended up Uh they weren't in those days worried about losing tax exempt status uh in their churches. It was their heads they were concerned about because it was not an easy task to preach the gospel of Christ I'm thankful for the freedom that we have in America, but aren't you glad that the gospel works with or without freedom, the wonderful story of freedom, the gospel of Jesus Christ So first of all, we learn from our passage of Scripture that trials are a part of our lives. Second of all, we're always helped by the grace of God. The Bible says he is the God of all comforts. Aren't you thankful? For the grace of God that carries us through the difficulties. Sometimes that we don't know how we will make it But when we do make it through the valley, we look back and we say, Thank God for the grace of God. I love that verse in the song Amazing Grace that says, through many dangers, toils, and snares I have already come. Tis grace hath brought us safe thus far, and grace will lead us home. I'm thankful for the wonderful grace and mercy of God that I preached about last night. Every person that attempted to do a work for God not only experienced the trials of opposition They also experience the wonderful grace that God gave them to help us through the trials. I want to give you the third statement, and it is we help others By the grace that God helped us with. I want you to look at it. He repeats this statement again and again We help others by the grace he helped us with. Look at verse number four. Who comforteth us in all our tribulation? that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble, notice this, by the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. I'm glad I don't have to come up with my own answers to the problems of this society and of this world. I'm glad that the same grace of God that saved me will save them I'm thankful that the same grace of God that helped me through the trial will help another through the trial. And so it's very important that we understand We help others by the grace of God that helped us in our trials. That means trials are necessary because trials is where we learn the grace of God And that's how we help others is we help others with the same grace that God helped us with. The grace that Paul received in the story of 2 Corinthians chapter 12, he used that same grace to help others. In fact, that's what he says in verse number 5, 6, and 7, as he said, For as the sufferings of Christ abound in us, so our consolation aboundeth by Christ. I'm able to help a lot of people when I've received a lot of grace, when I've been through a lot of trials. Don't complain about the trials Thank God for the grace that God has given, because every trial is an opportunity for the grace of God, but more than that It is an opportunity to help somebody else. You see, God works in us to work through us. I said, first of all, trials are a part of everyone's life. I said, second of all, we are helped by the grace of God. I said number three, we help others by the grace that God helped us with. Number four, and this is my favorite. We are helped again Every time we help someone else with the grace God gave us. There's just something else, so there's just something special about helping somebody with the grace that God has helped us with. Every time we help them, it encourages us when they get help. L let me give an example. This probably been two years ago and it was about this time of the year. I'd come in uh from uh traveling on Wednesday and I looked at my watch and I said, I've got time to run down to my favorite restaurant and get a snack uh before church tonight and so I did. It's only about two miles McDonald's is from our house and from the church there and so I drove down to McDonald's and I'm trying to think am I going to get a plain cheeseburger or chicken nuggets or I'm going to get And I saw the sign and it said, Pumpkin pies are back and better than ever. And uh I said, Man, I like this. I I like it And and what they had done, they added that cream uh to the pumpkin and uh I I said and and and then and and I believe uh for sure, yesterday it was a dollar ninety-nine, but I believe this is true. I believe they were eighty-nine cents. Two years ago. I believe that's right. And I don't know about you, but they say inflation's up eight percent. I'd like to know what one thing has gone up just eight percent. But anyway Pumpkin pies. I mean $1. 99. But anyway, it said $89. But you could get two for like $1. 49. And so my wife has taught me how to save money I I I imagine I imagine in these thirty-six years of marriage I imagine that gal saved me a million dollars. I'd be broke. I would have been terribly in debt had it not been for her saving me money, and so I decided, I'll get two of those pies. I'll eat one and I'll give that other pie to my wife and I got me a small senior coffee and uh I started back on my two mile journey down to the church house and uh I thought, Well, I wonder if it is better than ever so I was a bit off the end of it. Well, it's pretty good in a drink of coffee. And uh it was extra good. I mean it was so good. The trouble is when I got to the church I'd eaten a pie and had a half a cup of coffee left And there laid that other pie. Don't get ahead of me now. And uh there was that other pie And uh I thought, well, I can go back and get her one later. And uh so you know what I did? I ate the second pie, finished off the coffee, it was just perfect. Two pies, one cup of senior coffee, it was perfect It was so good when I went to church that night I testified. I said, folks, just by the way, pumpkin pies are back down at McDonald's, and they are better than ever, and I went on with the service. The next Sunday morning, next Sunday morning, that was Wednesday night, Sunday morning, kids started coming in for Sunday school. Hey preacher, hey preacher! I mean kids that just would typically go to their class, they came running to me. Guess where we went Wednesday night after the church? I said, Where did you go? We went to McDonald's. I said, did you get a pumpkin pie? We got a pumpkin pie. Boy, they are good. Everybody was excited about getting that pumpkin pie. Now I don't know why it is, but you feel good When you tell somebody something and they enjoy it like you do. In fact, it's been two years I'm still testifying about those two function five. And by the way, they are back. I got one on the way here yesterday And uh so so so here's what I'm saying. We're helped again when we help others with the grace God helped us with. There's something satisfying about that. Let me give you the fifth statement Uh first of all, uh trials are a part of our lives. Second of all, God's grace helps us through the trials. Number three, we help others with the same grace God helped us with. Number four, we are helped again when we help someone with the grace God gave us. Number five. All of God's grace is given to work through us, not just in us. I believe the difference in an excited church The difference in a growing church and the difference in a dead and dying church, those that are taking what God has given them and they go out to tell everybody else about it That church is excited. But the church that just comes and shouts about what God gave them, they never tell anybody else. They're the dying churches. I believe the reason Paul was able to help so many people is that Paul not only had been through so many trials, that's not all, he had been helped by the grace of God through all of those things that he's listed three or four different times in the scripture and some of it in verse number eight if you read through the things that he suffered through. But not only that He told everybody, he said, Hey, you can make it through that trial. I've been there and God's grace is sufficient. You can carry that burden. I know you can because I carried it. I didn't think I could But God's grace helped me. I believe that's why Paul was able to write that wonderful book of Philippians, not to people that were in prison, but Paul being imprisoned himself, writing to those that were free, saying You can rejoice in the Lord. You can be glad in the Lord because of the grace of God that is available to you. You see, Christianity is fulfilled when its blessings are not consumed in our lives, but when they become a consolation for others. Let me say it again. Christianity is fulfilled when its blessings are not consumed in our lives. but when they become a consolation for others. You know the Bible even talks about prayer, when it is selfish prayer, does not bring joy, but it brings trouble. Take your Bibles and go to James chapter 4. Let me show you this passage of Scripture. James chapter 4. We'll just start right there in that first verse And he's talking about prayer, talking about the importance of it. But notice what he says here in James chapter 4. Let's look at verse number 1. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence, even of your lust, that war in your members? Ye lust and have not, you kill and desire to have and cannot obtain. You fight in war. And notice this, yet you have not because you ask not But then notice what he says here. Ye ask and receive not because ye ask amiss, or ye ask for the wrong reason. What is that wrong reason? That ye may consume it upon your lust. It's an interesting thing. When you pray just for self, those prayers are more difficult to get answered than the prayers that you pray to be of help to others. I don't know how many millions of dollars God has blessed our church with, not just for ourselves, but in planting new churches. There have been times that I have had needs, in my opinion. God bypassed my need to use me to help meet someone else's need to plan a church, to buy a building, to get property, to get songbooks. I mean it's expensive to plant churches, but it's an amazing thing when you pray on behalf of others, just like your faith promised giving When you pray on behalf of others and you watch God give, for you see God's grace is not given to just work in us, it is given to work through us. I contend churches are dead, churches are dry, and churches are dying because of the fact that their prayers are to be consumed on their own lust. rather than to further the gospel of Jesus Christ. You see, God's grace is given to work in us, to work through us. Two years ago, I was um I was teaching class on a Thursday and a young man named Rob, Rob Jones, uh he's uh in Africa right now on a survey trip there As a missionary and he said in class, Preacher, would you pray for my grandfather? He said, You know, my sister is getting married this Saturday. I've never met my grandfather. He lives in California My my grandfather and his wife divorced when my mother was nine, and my mother hasn't seen her father in all these years, but my grandfather Ronnie is coming to the wedding And I said, Well, sure I'll pray. Sid, you pray that I'll get the opportunity to witness to my grandfather And so so we did. We prayed right there in class and then Friday night the next night it was time uh for rehearsal, and so all the families were there. And his grandfather, uh her grandfather, he and his sister, uh, he was there, Ronnie, and he sat there and went through all of that. About a forty-five minute uh preparation uh for uh the rehearsal And after it was over I went down and we had moved the uh communion table out for the decorations and so forth, and we were standing here I said, Ronnie, what part of California you live in? He told me. I said, Where do you work? Or what do you do for a living? He said, I work for Phillips 66 Oil Company. And I said, Wow, that that's great. I said, How long have you worked there? He said, It's the only job I ever had. I believe he told me forty-three years. Now that's a charactered man to work at the same job forty-three years And and I knew he was a character man because of what he said. And I said, Ronnie, you go to church any. He said, No. He said the wife goes sometimes but but but I don't ever go. And I said, Well you don't go into church, it's important But most important thing is that you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die. Do you know that for sure? And and he grabbed his chest. So he said, Don't talk like that I said, well, one day, you know, you have to uh you have to face death, and where where will you go, heaven or hell? He said, Well, I no doubt about where I would go. I said, wouldn't you like to know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? And he said, I sure would. So I took out a track from a pocket. We just turned around and I used the platform uh for uh uh a desk there and I just just laid my uh my track there and went through the simple plan of salvation and I said, Now do you believe if you ask Christ to come into your heart and save you, he would and give you a home in heaven. He said, I believe he would. I do. I said, would you be willing to do that? He said, you know, tomorrow is the wedding, right? I said, yes, sir. He said, it would be a good day to do that tomorrow, wouldn't it? The same day of the wedding. I said, that'd be a wonderful thing I said the only problem is, and I have to tell you this as a preacher, the Bible says, boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. Now I have to tell you that and uh I suppose you'll be here, I'll be here, we all will. But there but there's a chance you may die. And he again he grabbed his chest. Oh, he said, don't talk like that. He said, We better not wait till tomorrow. He said we better do that right now. And so we bowed our heads. I put my arm now everybody in the church knew what I was doing. We we was at we was at a wedding rehearsal, but everybody knew what I was doing because they'd been praying for Ronnie They've been praying for an opportunity to give him the gospel. I'm going to tell you something. When he prayed and received Christ as Savior, as soon as he said amen, I mean they were shouts went up His daughter, she was outside in the back of the building back there in the next part of the building decorating, and she hadn't seen what was going on. the grandson and the granddaughter had. I don't know if you're supposed to have a revival at a wedding rehearsal, but we had one. And I want to tell you something. The only thing that comes close to the day I got saved is every time I hear a sinner bow his head and receive Christ as Savior, boy it just all of a sudden it just happens again, the fireworks go off again, and I can only get saved one time. Ah, but every time I take the same grace that God gave to me for salvation, and I tell somebody else he'll save you as well, and they receive him as Savior, dear friend, the same fireworks go off in my soul. His daughter Jennifer. And they had gotten reacquainted in that two days that they were there. But just just so nervous and afraid they had witnessed to him. And and so she hears all the commotion. She starts coming in. She said, What's going on? I said, Jennifer Ronnie, your daddy, just trusted Christ as his Savior. I'm telling you, they hugged and they shouted and they cried We just had a wonderful time, and can I tell you the grace of God that rescued your soul in a time of salvation, a time of trial, and brought victory in your life You can relive that every time you help someone else from the time of their salvation, but through their trials of life, through their difficulties of life, every time we help someone with the grace of God We experience that same joy again. You know why you tell somebody about a new restaurant? You want them to enjoy What you've enjoyed. Do you hear about the guy the other day was going to tell his friend he was going to tell his friend about a new restaurant he'd been to, and he couldn't think of the name of it. And he said He said, what's a what's the name of that flower with that long stem and and and thorn? He said a rose. He said, yeah. He said, hey Rose. He said, what's the name of that restaurant we ate at the other day? There's something about telling folks, are you with me about Christ? And if you want to relive your salvation Go win somebody to Christ. If you want to relive the joy of victory of the good grace of God, tell somebody the same grace that brought you through the valley will bring you through the valley. Twenty-two years ago, a family in our church said, Preacher, would you counsel with my sister? My sister is in terrible health and mental and emotional condition And she has suffered by the hands of an abuser and we didn't know anything about it. And and it's a terrible situation. She'd been in the hospital and there's a there's a chance she may not live. And I said, I'd be glad to meet with her. I said I'm not a psychiatrist. I'm not a doctor, but I can tell her what the Bible says. Now I remember when that young lady came to my office and and and she wouldn't even talk out loud. She would just whisper And and and and and anorexic and just every problem you can imagine. And I remember her saying to me in a whisper, I'm not worth anything. I'm not worth anything. And I remember telling her, you're worth What someone's willing to give for you, for example. God gave his son That you could have and I could have eternal life. That's how much God loved you. He gave you His Son I began to go through the scripture and tell her, and and and she was a saved gal. She was saved, but all the difficulty. I said to her, I said, You know what? You're going to be here a couple of weeks I said, you you've worked as a as as a secretary or a transcriber for a doctor, from what I understand I'm glad doctors do have transcribers because the last prescription I read I was worried that the pharmacist would know what that scratch meant that he wrote on that piece of paper. You ever seen the ri anyway She said, and I said, would you work a few hours this week? You see, when you when you give, it helps to it helps to uh you you understand your value when you're needed And so she did work in the office a few hours and I gave her a check at the end of the week. I said, Any chance you'd do that again? I said, we we need a secretary in our school. And she she would just whisper, she said, yes, if you want me to I gave her another check. She came to me and she said, Would you mind if I stayed a couple of more months? I said, I'll tell you what, why don't you just take this job part-time? And I watched God begin to work in her life. She sent me a poem one day after I preached. Now I'm not a poem person. I I'm not against them, but it just Rose are red, violets are blue, that's fine. I already knew that whether it rhymes or not. It is my wife likes poetry and that's okay. I and I'm not against it, but I just I've just never been poem reader. But she sent me a poem And and it was about the sermon that I had preached, and I thought that poem's better than the sermon. And I thought, if you'd write these poems before I preach, you could save me a whole lot of time. I preached a sermon one Sunday where the Bible says several times that God will turn your sorrow into joy It doesn't say he'll take your sorrow away and give you joy in the place of it. He said he'll turn that sorrow into joy, or he'll use that sorrow as material to make joy. And she wrote a poem about that and she sent it to me. In fact, after she'd written a hundred poems, I had them published, I have, oh, a third of them published in this little book And she wrote this poem after I preached the sermon, Don't Waste Your Sorrows. Here's what she wrote Guess I'll toss this out, I told myself one day. I was paging through ol through some old memories, choosing which should go or stay. This one I don't like and that one cuts too deep. I never did like this one and that one makes me weep. So one by one I piled them up. They were the sorrows of my past. Thinking they were useless, I'd throw them out at last. I had them bundled up, prepared to take outside. I'd throw them in the trash can and forget I'd ever cried. But I stopped still in my tracks as the Lord spoke to my heart Don't waste all those sorrows, I'll show you where to start. So he took them out and pointed to each one He said, This one brought you closer to Christ, my precious son. This one it kept you humble, and this one broke your heart. But it was exactly what you needed to begin a fresh new start. My grace came through on that one and you learned to lean on me. It forced you to look up and fix your eyes on me. This one made you tender toward others that were just like you It gave you a compassion to help them make it through. Remember this old heartache? Yes, you suffered harm. But that was when I held you in my tender, loving arms. Ah, that one was just dreadful. And you lost your hope that time. But I stayed right by your side and I held your hand in mine What I'm saying, dear child, is you have a job to do. Don't waste this pile of sorrows. Share the grace I've given you. I don't know how many thousands Of copies of this book have been distributed across America. You know where her joy comes from today Not from the grace that helped her through the trial, but the grace she shared with someone else that brought the joy back again and again and again. Her doctor flew in one day from Wisconsin. He made a meet had a meeting with me and he said, I want you to know, I want to know what you told her. And I said, well I just shared with her that God loves her and I shared with her from the Bible that God loved her enough to give his son. He said, listen to me. I didn't fly down here to to hear a sermon. I want to know what you told her. He said, I can help a lot of people if I can just you'll just share with me what you told her. They told her at one time she'd be a vegetable. There's a poem in here about the happy Christian vegetable. She sent me an email the other day and she said, I just celebrated my twentieth year as the happiest Christian vegetable in the in the world. The doctor was angry at me. He thought there was some psychology, some magic formula. But it isn't. It's a grace of God. Now he went away unsaved, wouldn't receive the grace of God, and he went away without joy and gladness. I've learned in my life, the way to keep joy in my life is to take the grace God's given me from salvation to the trials and say, You can make it. God's grace is sufficient. By the way, you have a story to tell. You have a story to tell, and God's grace has brought you through. You ought to use that story to win others to Christ. Heavenly Father, thank you that your grace doesn't just work in us. But it is given to work through us. Bless I pray the continuation of the service this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen.