In just a moment, I will uh read uh from this 1 Peter chapter 1, but in preparation for that, let me let me just say this morning, I'm I'm reminded and I'm happy to report that God so loved the world Well, in fact, he so loved me, and he so loved you, that he gave his only begotten Son. He allowed the Lord Jesus to leave heaven, come down, be virgin born, live a sinless life, die on the cross, rise from the grave, ascend back to heaven. And do all of that, he allowed all of that to happen for us. He loved us that much. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him That whosoever. That means that tall and short, Americans, Canadians, Latin Americans, Africans, Asians, whoever, whomever. One and all. Every living, breathing human being, whosoever. The Bible says, believeth in him. When the Bible uses that term believe, there it's it's uh one thing it's believing about Him. Believing about Him. Who is he? Well, he is he is God, and he's God the Son and the Son of God. And uh so we we have to figure out who he is and believe about him. But the verse also indicates just the the uh utility of the word there. It's not just to believe about it, but you've got to believe in him. And if you believe about him and believe who he is, then believing in him is coming to a point where you're willing to have confidence in him and trust him and risk it all on him. I've noticed whenever people die, they're not able to do much for themselves. But death is not the end. There's more to come. And so we need somebody to ferry us across uh to keep us out of hell and to get us to heaven. And so the verse says, God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. But have everlasting life. You and I will live here for a while, and our life will be over and done. But whenever our eyes close in death, the body collapses in death, you will not be done. There's more to come. There will be a morning after the life before. We have not only here, but we have hereafter to deal with. And God knows all about that, and so He made great arrangements. And so I'm happy to report to you this morning. That's in the Bible. It's God's word and it's God's truth. I'm also happy to report to you, the same Bible says that as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. So if we come to that point of making the choice, making the determination to trust him and receive him as Savior, the Bible says that he admits us into his family. We become like his sons and daughters. That's a special thing. And we need to have that. I'm also reminded, as I think in terms of reading this text, the Bible says in another place, there's a way that seems right unto a man. But the end thereof are the ways of death. And basically that verse reminds us that we all do our figuring, we all do our cogitating. And we all, it's like, well, I've got an idea about how this ought to be done. Well, if you'll permit me to be direct, I don't mean to be unkind, but I just want to be direct and tell you My opinion, your opinion, really is not what counts on this. The way that seems right to us may not be right at all. And so you and I need to listen to whatever God has said, because after all, if we go to heaven, we'll go on his terms, not on ours. And so I I'm I'm reminded of that, knowing that all of us are sinners, and we are. Theresa, you don't have to teach your kids to lie and do other things. They'll figure that out without any help from anybody. So, well, why do my kids lie? Because they're kin to us. You know, we have to teach them not to lie. But the fact is, the Bible makes it very clear we're all sinners, and the wages of sin is death. Sin pays off in a horrible wage. But the fact remains that sometimes people try to hedge a little and say, well, you know, I'm not as bad as so-and-so. Listen, the Bible says that even even if we sin one time we're guilty of the whole law. I mean if you uh if you get out there and take a chain and you're gonna pull pull a vehicle with a tractor or something And you say, well, I I think I'll I'll break one of the links in the chain. And you got a broken chain. Only takes one broken link to break the chain. Now, uh you commit a sin, you're a sinner, and that puts you in jeopardy. And uh therefore we need a savior. And and I'm I'm advising I mean the Bible tells us, and I'm happy to report The Bible says that God commended his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. I mean, before we we had anything to offer at all, he died on our behalf and rose from the grave. 1 Corinthians 15 says, I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins, that he was buried, and he rose again. And all of that so that we could go to heaven if we'd r if we'd just sign up, if we'd sign on and trust him. Now, the text for my message with that introduction to it, 1 Peter chapter 1, verses 3, 4, and 5. Say, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you who are kept By the power of God under salvation, kept by the power of God through faith under salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. So the passage says, Blessed be God. You and I ought to express our love and our commendation to the great God of heaven. It says, Blessed be the God. You know, the Bible uses that distinguishing, defining term the God, any number of times. And it does that because man is so incurably religious, uh sometimes so obnoxiously religious, sometimes even so wickedly religious that he goes out and invents stuff on his own and sometimes in the process of that what he does is he he decides I'm going to make some gods And man-made gods are not the same as the God who made man. And when this says, blessed be the God, we're talking about God the Creator Not God the evolver. Your your ancestors were not polywogs in a puddle. You you didn't you did not I mean you you may you may gravitate toward the swamp Once you're up on two legs, but uh but you did not gravitate out of the swamp. That's not where you came from. You are not you do not have protozoic ancestors I mean, your great uncle was not an amoeba. None of that. God, by creation, created a man and a woman and set the human race in place And so what we're talking about here is not some idol or icon of some kind, but we're talking about the God who is the Creator, who spoke worlds into existence. And my privilege over the years to dabble a little bit in a lot of different subjects, but but I've always been fascinated with astronomy. Just uh mind boggling to put your face uh up next to a telescope and just look in the vast beyonds of this universe and those beyond it. Uh it is it is to say it's mind boggling does not even begin to express it. And uh to imagine that it uh could happen at all just by chance Why, you know, most of the things that I've noted by chance, they don't come together real well. Chance situations have a tendency to be sloppy, broken down, piled up, just a mess But our universe is one more orderly piece of work. And you know, it just doesn't happen by accident. Now The Bible says, blessed be the God. He's God the Creator. He is God who allowed his Son to come and be incarnate, meaning put in flesh. So putting his son into human flesh, bringing him to earth on purpose, I mean mind boggling. Uh we're you know, we're we're all uh paying attention now. They're talking about, you know, spaceships and taking people to Mars and You know, those kinds of things and apparently people are willing to sign up and pay all kinds of money to get to do that. I I'm not sure whether it's a one-way trip or a round trip, but uh But you know, I I mean I I fly a lot in these little airplanes that that we fly around the uh country, you know, the seven thirty sevens and so on. And um and uh you know uh the twenty four uh almost twenty-four years that I've been the sword, about three million miles of flying. I've uh Betty has dropped me at the Nashville Airport now over thirteen hundred times And uh you know, the amazing and wonderful thing about that, I've gone back to the National Airport over 1,300 times. I love round trips, amen. Now now, hey listen, God God is the the the God who gave us the you know he's he's God God who gave us His Son made it possible through the Lord Jesus Christ to to be to for us to have a Saviour And uh not only uh to send him here, but he but he let him die and then brought him up out of the grave So he's God the Creator, God the Incarnator, God the Resurrector, and He's God the Savior. He saves people like me and people like you. Makes it possible so that f I mean I mean here we are sinners, all of us, I mean e even in the uh slightest uh amount of thinking we would have to acknowledge, yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm a sinner. And and yet God's going to love us anyway. He's going to save us anyway. Pretty amazing to me that he would do that. So this passage says: He's God, the Father of our Lord Jesus, and by his abundant mercy, he has made possible our salvation. You think about mercy and you say, Well, how much? This verse says it's abundant. He provides it to the full. He said, well, what's it going to take to save me? He's already arranged, done enough to make that possible. You know, sometimes You look at your bank account and you say, Well, it's not enough for me to do this or that. Sometimes you look at the food on the table and you say, Well, it's enough for me or maybe the two of us, but it's not enough to feed the neighborhood. But God's fountain of mercy is inexhaustible. It never runs dry. And no matter how great a sinner No matter how deep and far down into the into the doldrums of society, somebody has gone. God is able to reach down, pick them up, pull them up, and make of them what they could never make of themselves. Well, the years right here in the state of Maryland, our ministry at Westminster, thousands of people, thousands of people come to Christ. And we the places where we found a bunch of them. I mean I mean you you just sometimes uh I mean Many, many, many, many times somebody came and I would introduce them, tell the folks they've come to Christ. I didn't tell them their whole story. Folks don't need to know all the story. All kinds of things where we found people, and when they trusted the Savior, their life began to take on a whole new light and direction. And it's what he does for what he does for all. Because of his abundant mercy, the verse says that he has begotten us again. Begotten civil means he's birthed us. We've been birthed a second time. I mean, people ask all the time, what's that born-again thing? Well, it's what happens. Whenever a person comes to faith in Christ, God, another Bible term, he regenerates us He provides us a new life and births us into his family. It's not something you and I have to figure out when we trust the Savior. He does that for us. And admits us to his family, and he uses the term that he births us in. You know, sometimes things that I join, I can unjoin. Sometimes things you get in, you gotta pay dues. You don't pay your dues, you're not a member anymore. It's not that way in God's family. He doesn't sign us in like joining the club, but he births us in. You say, how do you know that? It's in the Bible. In clear, unmistakable language. So here it says by his abundant mercy he hath Begotten us again, that means another time, a second time. We're all born into this world. If we want to get into heaven in the next world, we've got to be birthed again. And so it says he has done that and provided for us a lively hope. A lively hope, yes, because It's lively because he puts life into us that we didn't have before. And that energizes us in ways that we did not have hope before. And he does that because of the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. The next verse says, to an inheritance. Inheritance. It's pretty neat to inherit stuff. Pretty neat. I'm guessing some of you probably inherited something somewhere along the way. A relative died, and they left you a box of stuff. They left you a little money in the bank. They left you something. And you say, well, how do I get in on the inheritance? You've got to be an heir You gotta be an heir. Betty and I redid our wills the other day. In fact, uh they're still laying on my desk Uh we've signed them but uh we've haven't registered them yet. But uh You know, we listed right on there that our son and our daughter will be the heirs of whatever's left over. Whenever we're not whenever we're gone. You say, well, why are they gonna get the truck? Why are they gonna get the house? Why are they gonna get whatever's in the bank? Because we designated them to be the heirs. You gotta be an heir if you want to get in the inheritance And the Bible says in another place that when we come to Christ, He makes us an heir of God and a joint heir with Christ. And therefore the inheritance. And so, to an inheritance, you say, what kind of inheritance is this? In this case, by the way, that that truck that you inherited from your granddaddy when he died. It won't last. It'll rust out and break down. Ten years down the way it'll be setting out back, jacked up, no tires on it, won't run. Why? Because it's a corruptible piece of equipment. But the inheritance that you get when you come to Christ, look at the verse. It says, incorruptible, undefiled, and that fadeth not away. I mean, this is an inheritance like no other. Incorruptible, undefiled, fades not away. Check with me next year. Is it good? Oh yeah. Is it going to be good next century? Oh yeah. It's going to always be good. And it's reserved for you. Reserved where? In heaven. Reserved in heaven for you who are kept with the power of God. Now, if you're trying to keep it by Helping a little old lady across the street, and uh maybe contributing to some community cause, or even giving to a church. I mean if you're by your doing you say, oh yeah, yeah, I'm gonna do it by by my doing. No. Have to be direct again. That's not gonna cut it. See, the reservation that you need for heaven has to be made by the Lord Jesus. I checked in the motel over here last night And I've I've stayed there a bunch of times. I walked in, the lady remembers me, and uh she says, Oh, come right in, come right in, good to see you. How you how you doing? How you been, all that? Yep, okay, good. I mean I wasn't in there I wasn't in there ten seconds. She handed me a key over what the number was and I went and you say why the because they'd already made a reservation for me. They already had me checked in. But because of the reservation, I didn't have to deal with daily around. I was able to get right in. And if you're going to go to heaven when you die, you've got to have a reservation, and that reservation is one that the Lord Jesus must make And it's kept, I mean, I mean it is kept in place. You say, well, if I got saved, I don't know whether I could, I don't know whether I could be a good Christian or not. I don't know whether you could either But I'm just telling you, if you come to Christ and if you receive the Savior, it will not depend upon How well you perform, it's going to depend upon the authority of God and upon the power of God. You say, how do you know that? It's in the book. I just read it right here. And it's not the only place that it's in the book. Kept by the power of God through faith, under salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time. I'm telling you. Pretty exciting stuff, I think. I mean, to imagine that the great God of the universe would pay any attention to me at all It's pretty stunning. And if you think about it for a moment and just imagine, he arranged all of this so that I wouldn't have to go to hell. So that I could go to heaven? Wow. Now, the book ahead of this is the book of James, and there's a verse in it that says, draw nigh to God. And he will draw nigh to you. You know, God never forces himself. On me, and he won't force himself on you. What he's looking for is for you to come close to him He says you do that, I'll come close to you. You draw nigh, I'll draw nigh. He said, Well why don't why didn't he take the initiative? Well he he took a bunch of initiative already. He's already got everything set and ready The table's set. He's just checking to see if you're going to put your feet under the table. And what he wants to know is, will you come close? Will you draw near? And if you draw near in faith and trust in Him, He says, I'll draw near to you. One other verse in that same chapter in James. Actually, two other verses. One of them says, Go to now, ye that say today or tomorrow, we'll go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get game. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow, for what is your life? It's even a vapor that appears for a little while and vanishes away. So what you and I need to do, we must do while we have time to do it. The years that I served over in Westminster, I conducted several hundred funerals One summer over there. We had a lot of families and a lot of folks even who were not members of our church. They ever needed anything. They came our way. One one summer over there I went to the cemetery five times with families with little short caskets bearing a baby. I mean I mean in summer I'm talking about in in June, July, and August, five times. See, not not ever not everybody lives to be a ripe old age. Some members of our family just two weeks ago, grown man and woman and an elderly lady. They were the family birthday party, not our immediate family, but extended family members, all of them. They left the birthday party ten minutes down the road. Somebody made a miscue in driving and hit them head on. Now they're all going to survive, but they all had significant injuries. One of the ladies just yesterday got out of intensive care after two and a half weeks or so. It happens so quickly. What is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little while and then vanishes away. Folks, the uh the news that I'm glad to give you is God does love the world. And he does love you, so much so that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth on him should not perish, but have everlasting life. These are days of opportunity for all of us. Now, I'm going to ask you in just a moment to bow your head and we're going to pray together. Then there'll be some music. And during that music, the pastor will be here at the front. And listen, if you don't have this settled, if you don't know that it's settled, happens here all the time. People come to the Savior, get it settled. What a wonderful, wonderful privilege it would be. Take advantage of that, get it settled today. You say what's going to happen? Somebody will sit down with you with a Bible and show you exactly what you need to see in five minutes' time. Get it settled, get it done, and you leave here knowing what some of the rest of us have figured out and know from the Bible And that is, God loves us, He will save us, and assure us of a home in heaven when we die. Would you stand up with me, please, and let's pray together. Our Father, we're grateful that we can just open the Bible and find things so clearly. In fact, from almost every page, the great truths jump at us, telling us the sweet story. Of the God who is the God, who made heaven and earth, and who's willing to remake us and give us a home in heaven when we die. And dear Lord, I pray for those, I pray for those who might be here today who have not settled that, don't know for sure that they're saved, don't know for sure that they'd go to heaven if they were to die. I pray, dear Lord, that you'll do something right now Stir them, help them to see what they need to see, and I pray that they'll respond and do some business with you today I pray for those who might want to come and join Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I pray that this would be the day when they would say yes to do that which you put upon their heart to do. And may the sweet, sweet blessings of heaven flow our way just now In Jesus' name, I pray, Amen