Ago now we began looking at Noah and the Great Flood and we kind of brought an introductory message, wondered why in the world does this have anything to do with us And tonight we're going to start looking into the Bible's record of Noah and the great flood. And I'm going to begin reading in verse number 5, Genesis chapter 6, verse 5. The Bible says, and God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. Now look at this next statement. And it repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart. Now listen what the Lord says in verse 7. And the Lord said, I will destroy man, whom I have created from the face of the earth, both man and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air, for it repenteth me. That I have made them. Strong words. And let's look tonight. God repenting. Let's pray, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Lord, I do ask now that you would use this passage, apply it to our hearts and lives Father, I want to be true to your word, and uh I want to be true to the letter and the spirit of what your word has. And so I need your Holy Spirit to do that. I yield myself again tonight, present my body anew, fill me, I plead with you, Lord, with your Holy Spirit And help us to go out of here this evening with a stronger faith in you and a clearer understanding of the gravity of the hour in which we live. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How many people know what a speak and spell is? Speaking spell. Anybody know what that is? Apparently it's a toy. Now I'm not familiar with it. So after my de childhood days, apparently a speaking spell is something, and correct me if I'm wrong, if I understand it right, is something You type in a word and the it's a computerized toy and it tells you how that word is sp is Pronounce. Am I right? Is that basically what it is? Something to that effect. Well Michael, Matthew was a little boy, five years old, lived in Greencastle, Missouri. He was playing with his speaking spell and typing in stuff and whatever you do and it'll come back. And according to the story, he put in the word God. And his speaking spell came back, said word not found. So he put it in again. Came back, same response, word not found. He did this three or four times. And every time his speaking spell came back, word not found. Finally, in disgust, the little boy, Matthew, cried out and said, Jesus is not going to like this at all. We're at the point in Genesis chapter 6 in the history of man where God is at the point where he is not liking this at all. Verse 3 tells us, look with me if you would at verse 3. And the Lord said, My spirit shall not always strive with man. There comes a point where God says, no more. There comes a point when God says, that is enough. Then you get, as I just read, verse 6 and 7, and to me, if you stop and think about what God is saying here, and it's that it's God saying this. These are shocking statements. He says, the Bible says, it repented the Lord that he had made man. I mean, even that he made man. It grieved the heart. He says, I will destroy man, whom I have created That is amazing that God is at the point where, I don't know how it sounds to you, it sounds to me like God is saying, I wished I wouldn't even created this creature. I wish that one even made them. The word repented, it said it in fact it's used twice here, verse 6, it repented the Lord at the end of verse 7, for it repenteth me that I have made them. The word repent means to change your mind about something. And I think taking it at face value, God is saying here, I wish I had not created man. I completely changed my mind. Now, I don't want to be irreverent in any way, but it almost gives me this impression. Where God is, it sounds to me almost like God is saying, you know, I don't know what I was thinking when I made this thing. It's interesting. We hear a lot of preachers and talk about repentance and they tied in with the gospel, and that's true. That's an aspect of the gospel. But if you study the term repent in the Bible very carefully, you find that the Bible speaks of God repenting more than it does about man repenting. God changing his mind. Now I feel like I need to stop here and just touch on that for a moment so we don't misconstrue who and what God is. Would you agree with me? God does not change. Hebrew is very clear in that. Jesus Christ saying yesterday, today, and forever. Malachi, I am the Lord thy God, I change not. God does not change. So if God does not change, how could he possibly repent? How can you change your mind if you don't change? What the Bible means, when the Bible says that God does not change, that term and that truth throughout Scripture means God in his character, in his nature, does not change. It doesn't mean that God's interaction with man does not change, because God's interaction with man does change. For instance, did God treat man differently after the fall than he did before the fall? Yes. His behavior, his interaction with man changed dramatically. But not because God's character had changed, but because man's character had changed In fact, because God's character does not change, therefore his interaction with man must change. Because he is holy. And when man became sinful, God's holiness could no longer interact with man. God could not become unholy, therefore his interaction with man. So does that make sense? So when we talk about God repenting, we're not talking about him changing in his character or who or what he is, but rather he changes in his thinking towards man. He repents. He changes his attitude towards man, his interaction with. So we have the word repented here, which is a strong word. Second word used here to describe God's reaction to man's condition is the word grieved. The word grieved means to be extremely sorrowful. In fact, it has the idea, it's a very strong word used here, it has the idea of being emotionally broken. It is much more than just being sad. It is to be emotionally broken. It almost, again, and I'm not- I don't want to be irreverent. In handling and portraying God here, but the word itself almost has the idea of an emotional breakdown type thing. To be absolutely shattered. Man's condition had gotten to a point where God, in effect, says, I wish I wouldn't have even made them. I am so brokenhearted. I am so crushed by what man has become that God's heart is completely broken. And then he makes another strong statement here. In verse 7, the first part, the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I have created. The word destroy there means to erase. To blot out, to wipe out, to eradicate. God says, I am going to completely remove them from the face of the earth. There will no longer be a human being in existence. That's rough. That's God saying that about mankind. God is slow to anger, but that does not mean he has no anger God is very long suffering, but that does not mean he eternally suffers with man's shenanigans. And God is at the point where he says, no more. No more. We're told very little about the physical characteristics of the world before the flood. It's a lot of speculation. I have a number of fascinating books written by Christian scientists, believing scientists, creation scientists And they put a lot of speculation, they got a lot of scientific uh thoughts into what the world was like. Uh we had uh one of Ken Hovind's men here a number of years ago and He speculated about what the world was like before the flood. We really don't know a whole lot. We're not told much. But we do know this when God initially created the physical world, what we would call nature, I call it creation, the birds and trees and plants and rivers and all that. It initially it was what? God looked at what he had made and said it was what? It was good. In fact, it was a perfect environment for man. And so we're sixteen hundred years of thereabouts into creation and the effects of sin that's that the effects that sin is having on creation. So we really don't know at this point what the physical world is like. We can speculate We speculate about the water canopy around the earth. We'll talk about that in another message later on. You know, the uh the greenhouse effect that that would have where there would be a uniform temperature from pole to pole Most likely the again speculation, but most likely the earth was on a up and down axis, we believe is very possible. That's why you we that's the reason we suggest that You go to the North Pole or Arctic areas and you find within the rocks, you find fossils of tropical plants. You find these types of things. And so we have a picture of what it was like. We know it was created initially perfect. Up to this point, we know there's not been any rain. The plants are watered by the mist in the morning, the dew and whatnot. But we don't know a whole lot as far as population is concerned. We don't know what the population of the world is. I'm going to get on this here in a moment, a little more detail, but some have suggested that conservatively At this point in time in Genesis, there was a perhaps Bible believers, scholars suggest that conservatively there was about 1. 5 billion people on the earth at this time. So there's not there's not just a handful. Um technology We know we're told nothing really about the technology, but I am confident I can assure you they were not cavemen going Ug carrying pulling their wives by their hair around the cave. That is a figment of man's imagination. Actually, I think I met a few of those over in West Virginia, but um but anyway. Uh We have reason to believe that mankind was technically very advanced. My pastor, after I got saved, and my daddy has been under it was under for years, he's with the Lord now, Pastor Auckland Dr. David Auckland, he believed, and he had documentation he had picked up that uh man was actually harvesting electricity. And using electricity in ways perhaps similar to the way we do today. He had a picture that they had uncovered that was supposedly thousands of years old that the only thing they can figure out what that item was was a type of battery, cell battery, like we use today, and it's way beyond the uh our understanding of that, and various things like that. But that's all speculation. What I'm trying to say is we really don't know what the world was like before the flood physically. We use our imagination, we have a few little peepholes we can look through and get little glimpses, but we really don't know. But in Genesis 6, we're told in pretty much detail what the world was like spiritually What the character of man was like, what the morals of pre-flood mankind were like. And I'll be very honest with you, it's not a pretty picture. It's not a pretty picture. I see in these verses three factors that led up to what I'm calling the boiling point with God. Where God just says, all right, no more. I wish I wouldn't have even made you. I'm gonna wipe you off the, I'm gonna eradicate you off the planet Earth And I am absolutely brokenhearted over what mankind has become. Now these may surprise you. As I studied these, I thought this isn't what Well, I would have anticipated. The first thing I notice is the multiplication of mankind. Look at verse 1. And it came to pass when man began to multiply on the face of the earth, he says, and daughters were born unto them. Now think about this. They're in as imperfect environment as we can imagine it would be. Sin had entered into the world and death by sin, but it hadn't had its full effect. It is beginning to spread. The consequences of sin, the effects of sin on creation are beginning to spread, but they're not at full harvest yet. And so much of that perfect environment is still in existence. As we said, the canopy would keep out U UV rays and those types of things. And so with this perfect environment for uh estimated 1600 years. We find man living a very long time. Chapter 5, you have the list of men who are living hundreds and hundreds of years. Now that age of man begins to diminish as time goes on. You get later in the Bible, the age is getting shorter and shorter and shorter because the earth has been fundamentally changed by the flood. And sin is having more and more effect on the physical nature. But nevertheless, this perfect mark, you have the longevity of man But on top of that, with a perfect environment, the best word I could think to come up with was the fertility of man. Man is reproducing like crazy. And they are having children not by the tens and twenties but by the scores And man is reproducing, reproducing, reproducing, reproducing, reproducing in an almost perfect physical environment. And as we said, in 1600 years, conservatively, 1. 5 billion people on the planet Earth. That is the same population of the world in 1850. So what does that mean? Why would God destroy the world because they're multiplying? Isn't that what God wanted? Didn't He tell Adam and Eve, be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth? It's not man's reproduction, prolific reproduction, that is a problem, but this is the problem. When you have more sinners, you have more what? Sin. We know this to be true. The larger the city, the more prevalent the wickedness is in the city. Right? Higher the crime rate, more perverse. seedier neighborhoods. In Acts chapter 6 and verse 1, just for sake of illustration, the Bible says that the church began to multiply, and then the Bible says the members began murmuring. The more people you had, the more problems you had, the more promiscuity you had, and the more sin. And so, and by the way, the higher the population, the more you have contagious diseases. Right or wrong In fact, that's a big issue in our highly populated world and all our international travel is can take taking disease back and forth and sharing it. And so you have this world is exploding in population. Physically, the environment is ideal for man's longevity and fertility. Fertility and uh and with that man is a sinful nature, sin has taken root, and it is just exploding God has no problem with the population. But man's corruption is reproducing as rapidly as his population is. I see a second factor in God coming to the boiling point. And that is this. And this is what surprised me a little bit. The breakdown of marriage. The breakdown of marriage. Look with me if you would at verse 2. The sons of God saw the daughters of men, that they were fair. And they took them wise of all that they chose. Then you come, it says verse, the Lord said, My spirit's not always spirit. Then come to verse 4. And there were giants in the earth in those days. And also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children unto them, and the same became mighty men, which were of old, men of renown. Now, there's a lot of fantastic explanations for who the sons of gods are and who the daughters of men are, and how these giants fit into this. And the purpose of the message tonight, for several reasons, one per s none the least of which is the sake of time, I don't want to deal with all of these fantastic ideas out there My personal opinion is the simplest explanation is generally the best explanation. And as I see this and I understand it, the sons of God mentioned here in verse number Verse number two is God's people, the people who took God's name. Those who we understand to be the offspring and the lineage of Seth, the godly child of Adam and Eve And these were men who had been taught the principles of Scripture, who had been taught godliness and purity and the holiness of their God. And the Bible says that these sons of God, these people who had grown up under the principles of Scripture, they saw the daughters of men. Now, the daughters of men, the simple explanation for that is simply ungodly, profane, unsaved people. These, many Bible scholars would say, would be the offspring or the lineage of Cain. Ungodly, murdered his brother. Not Cain Browning, Cain Cain Adam sorry Kane. Uh but uh So, what you have being presented here is simply God's people intermarrying with the world's people. You have God's people breaking down the principles of separation, the standards of distinction that God has given his people. And they are intermarrying, inter um uh uh uniting Joining up with the people of the world. And thus the distinction between the people of God and the people of the world is completely broken down. The Bible very clearly and very strongly warns about God's people yoking up with the world's people. God very clearly and very strongly warns of His people intermarrying with the unsaved, disobedient people of the world. And God says here one of the factors that led to the total breakdown of humanity's morals that had led to the total breakdown of man standing with God was the fact that the sons of God were marrying the daughters of men Take your Bibles, if you would, keep your place here, but I'd like for you to turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 6 Second Corinthians chapter 6, I'd like you to notice verse number 14. Don't worry, two months from now you won't remember what the score was or anything. So don't worry about it, alright? It'll be alright 2 Corinthians 6, look with me at verse 14. Now hope that we as God's people take this very seriously. Be not unequally yoked, together with what? Unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? What communion hath light with darkness? What concord, that means agreement, hath Christ with belial? That's another word for the devil. What part hath he that believeth with an infidel, someone who rejects the truth? What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? For ye are the temple of the living God. As God saith, I will dwell in them and walk in them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Here you have the child of God Has the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within them? Has the principles and truths of Scripture been put into their hearts and minds? And they take that body, which is the temple of the Holy Spirit, and they yoke it up and become one with an unbeliever, a person who's not a child of God. And God says this ought not to be. This is a breakdown of God's establishment of purity and goodness and that which is of God and that which is of the world. Let's read on. He says, Wherefore come out from among them and be ye separate, saith the Lord. Touch not the unclean thing. And I will what? Receive you. Now take that truth that's presented there. Now let's project it back into Genesis chapter 6. You have the sons of God yoking up with the uh the daughters of men. Believers and unbelievers laying aside their relationship with God, becoming one, and God says, I wish that had never made you. 2 Corinthians 6 says, Come out from among them and be sepia, and I will what? Receive you. You see the parallel? In Genesis 6, they didn't come out from among them. They yoked up one with another, and God refused to receive them. He says, I will destroy you, I will eradicate mankind. One of the greatest factors in society's moral collapse are unscriptural marriages. Remember, Daniel saw a great statue, and the head was made of gold, and the shoulders and chest were made of brass And the waist was made of silver, but the feet were made of iron and what? Clay. Iron and clay do not adhere. Iron and clay do not mix. And because of that, the very foundation of society which that Statue was a representation of, because there was an unequal mixing of clay and iron, that whole thing became unstable. And the unscriptural and unscriptural marriage, and an uncommitted marriage, and an unbiblical marriage. The breakdown and the distortion of God's intention for husbands and wives has promoted, above anything else, the moral collapse. of society. There was no church established in this day. There was no government established. The only soci the only organization To provide stability and consistency to humanity before the flood was the home, was the marriage The only foundation that society had was father and mother and child And man, the sons of God, saw the daughters of men, and they forsook the principles And ideals and standards that God had set up for a secure society and a secure and happy home. They abandoned it. They married the daughters of men. Forsaking all relationship with the Lord. And thus you had no government, you had no church to make up for the fractured foundation of society. And man's morals began to collapse. I notice two factors in the breakdown of marriage here. I've seen, first of all, there was a flawed criteria. Notice, if you would, quickly, and please bear with me. Notice if you would come back to Genesis chapter 6, and notice with me again verse number 2. It says the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair. That word saw is a very significant word. It doesn't mean to just look at something. It means this, to lust after. They and what was it about the daughters of men that the sons of God lusted after? What's it say? Look there, what's it say? What was it about those daughters that they lusted after? They were fair. Ooh. They were pretty And the daughters of men knew how. . Now I'm this is leathermanism here a little bit, but I think it fits the pattern, the model. Those daughters of men, boy, they know how to fix their hair And they know how to put those eyelashes on. And they knew how to wear clothes just a certain way that it enhanced their figure. And brother, they knew how to put the appearance on. Boy, that caught the sons of God's eyes. And over a period of time, the criteria For a happy marriage, a lasting relationship, was no longer the character of the person I am in love with, but the appearance. Suddenly, it was whether they looked good or not, not what they were, but how they appeared that determined whether I loved them or not. What a shallow temporary basis for a lifetime, lifelong relationship. They look good. They make me feel good. Whether that thing will last about as long as you can as far as you can throw it A flawed criteria, shallow, temporal, and led to absolute disaster. It was their outward beauty, not their spiritual character that appealed to them. It was their outward appearance, not their moral integrity. And thus their marriages and their life, the most important life relationship they ever established was built on something as shallow As a person's physical features. So they had failed criteria, a flawed criteria for their marriage, but they also had flawed choices. Look at the second part of verse 2. And they took them wives. What's that last phrase say? Look what it says, verse 2, and they took the last part of verse 2, and they took them wives of what? All that Who chose, that they chose. There had become such an emphasis on, please forgive me, and I'm not I'm not off the wall on this. My wife and I have talked about it, but there became such an emphasis on dating. That it led to the point where man was choosing who his spouse would be, and God was left out of the equation. And it no longer was who God chose for the spouse, but it was who I want. The most life-affecting decision I'll ever make is who I'll marry. What a knucklehead to think that I'm smart enough to know who that person is. Say, well, I think the parents should pick for the kids who they should marry. Hey parents, you ain't smart enough to know who's best for your child either. There's only one person in existence that I know that is smart enough to decide who the best spouse for me to be, and that's Almighty, all-knowing, all-wise, a good God. And they no longer left the choice of their spouse up to God. It was who I was. And if you want to know how that works out, read the story of Samson. All he was doing was choosing which woman he wanted, which woman he wanted. His parents say, Don't marry the Philistines, don't marry the Philistines, get her for me because she pleases me. And that's what the whole world had turned into. So the entire society had deteriorated down to these shallow surface. Self-centered decisions in the most important decisions made in life. And it had absolutely destroyed the foundation of society. Proverbs 19, 14 says, great verse. It says, a prudent wife is of the Lord. You know what's a smart thing to do? Let God choose your spouse. Come on now, parents, help me out. Let God choose that spouse. He said, How do I know? How do you know? You read your Bible every day, you get a burden for souls, you establish godly standards And if anybody violates any of those scriptural standards, you know immediately that is not God's man or woman for you. Come on now, I'm awfully lonely up here. That is not, if they violate any of God's standards, I know immediately that is not God's spouse for me. God will lead you, God will direct you. And God will give you someone that'll last longer than the wrinkle cream holds up. Amen? That was pretty good. I just thought of that. Write that down. Have these up here like, wow. The last thing which all this led to is verse 5 is the moral corruption of mankind. God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. Look at this. And that every imagination of the thought of his heart was only evil continually. I don't know about you, but that's one of the most disturbing passages I read in Scripture. Where mankind had gotten to that point. This was an HBO MTV Cable TV Society. Everything that Hollywood, everything the cable companies, everything the rock and roll industry desires in society, this world, had absolutely become Nothing but ungodliness. The Bible says every thought was permanent. Every conversation was perverted. It had gotten to the point where it was impossible to have a decent conversation. without every word you were using being twisted into some perverse meaning Every thought of the imagination and the hearts of man were on evil continually. Now we're not anywhere close to what it was like then, I'm telling you. But we live in a day, you go to Walmart, you can't even talk to some people without them snickering by some word you innocently say that they've got some perverse meaning for. Am I right or wrong? You can't even, and you see some news report or something, and as somebody makes a statement and these supposedly intelligent Leaders of our community snicker and laugh as if there was some perverse thing said. When a normal sane person sees nothing but an innocent conversation, they see perversity Is it that way or not? There are some people professing Christians you can't even talk with If you inadvertently use some word that has some innuendo that you don't even know what it means, that professing Christian will laugh and snicker and give some meaning to it that is ungodly and wicked and perverse. And that is what the whole world was like. The breakdown of the home. The breakdown of godliness in marriage had led to a point where society was completely corrupt to the very core. They could not even have a conversation. If you would look with me at verse four. It says there were giants in the earth in those days. What does that mean? I think it simply means there may have been gigantic people. David dealt with some giants, right? No reason to think it had anything to do with the sons of God and the daughters of men marrying. Also, after that, the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them. What kind of godliness do you think you have an ungodly, you have a godly man and an ungodly wife getting married? What are their kids going to be like? It's always it's going to be messed up. It's always going to go deterioration. Everything tends to deteriorate So look what it says. The daughters of men, they bear children to them, and they became mighty men, which of old and men of around. You know what they're saying? They became leaders in society. They became the movers and shakers of society. They became the people with tremendous influence. Now with that in mind, I'm going to end with. This verse, Psalm 12 and verse 8. Would you come over there very quickly with me? Psalm 12 and verse 8. It is hard, if not impossible, to paint a dark enough picture as to what the world was like. That led God to the point where it repented him that he'd even made man. Look at Psalm 12 and verse number 8. Look at this statement. Now think about it. The wicked walk on every side when what? The vilest of men are what? Are honored, are put in positions of influence. When wicked, perverse people are given say over the direction of society and over the direction of a community. Boy, you're going to have wicked people all over the place. The wicked walk on every side when the vilest of men are exalted. What happened in Genesis chapter 6? Sons of God were intermarrying with the daughters of men. And they were producing offspring that they didn't know God from a hole in the wall. They became very corrupt, became very influential, and they led society down cess the s the the Slippery slide into cesspool. Now, artist society is bad. Do you agree with me? I mean, it's disgusting. But I'll be honest with you, it's nothing compared to what the world before the flood was. It's not that bad yet We had time and we won't want to bring out another message, but Matthew chapter 24, the Bible says, Jesus said, as it was in the days of Noah. So shall it be in the days of the coming of the Son of Man. I don't believe we're there yet, but I'm telling you what, we are on a fast track to that place. God says it's going to be that way. Evil men and seducers are going to whack worse and worse. The love of God's people for God and His Word is going to get colder and colder. There's going to be a moral intermingling of the people of God with the people of the world. The church of God with the church of Satan are going to absolutely join hands in marriage. And then the end comes. Then the Lord returns. Back in the Middle Ages, an old Saxon king sent out with an army To put down a rebellion in the distant province of his kingdom, when they had finally quenched the insurrection The armies of the rebels had been defeated. The king placed a candle over the archway of his castle where he had his headquarters. He lit the candle and he announced through a herald to all those who had been in rebellion against them that if they would come and surrender and take a loaf an oath of loyalty While the candle was burning, they would be spared. But the offer was limited only to the life of the candle. And when the candle went out, the offer of mercy was over. Now God says in Genesis 6, that's enough. The candle's out. And there's a day coming when Jesus comes back again. And he'll say, that's enough. The candle's out. Judgment begins. That's a sober thought. But I tell you, we live in a pleasure-sick world. Absolutely eat up with funny games, laughter and everything, and we forget we are on a runaway train. Downhill to the judgment of God. And somebody's got to stand up. Somebody in Oakland, somebody in Western Maryland's got to stand up and say, hey, the day of grace isn't forever. The opportunity to be saved, the opportunity to be made right with God and find forgiveness is not forever. It's now, it's freely available. But judgment's coming. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. Lord, I hope these aren't overly dark messages, Lord, but these are passages of Scripture you've given to us. And I pray you'd help us to take seriously our walk with you. Help us, dear Lord, to take seriously the private of the world we live in. And understand the distinction, the clarity that needs to be in our walk, in our testimony, our earnestness. Lord, I pray for our young people. You would bless them and lead them again. Give them wisdom and give them faith in you, that you have what's best in mind. You'll lead them and take care of them and bless them. Help us Lord, to be shining lights in a dark and sinful world. Our heads abound are