1 Samuel chapter number 18. If you have your Bibles there, turn with us. We're working our way through into the life of David. And um we're plugging away here. How many people noticed our new playground out there when you pulled in over there? We've got a big extension to it. And so you have to go out and try it out here after church and climb around on that thing. And that was uh Mark and Jackie made that available. It was actually Austin's when he was little. And uh it's in great shape. He mustn't have played on it much. Because uh or at least he didn't play on it like we would have played on it when I was a kid. We'd tear the thing up. But um it's in good shape, looks really nice, and uh we're actually gonna add to it a little bit and we'll have a nice little place out there for the kids And we're very grateful for that. Alright, 1 Samuel chapter 18, the last three verses of the chapter is what we're looking at. And we're studying the life of David. Now here's the thing, I want to be real careful. I'm going to make a few statements on introduction, but while Laura was singing, I just kind of read through them, and the thought came to me, we have to be very careful that we don't exalt David above measure. You know, I mean but there's so many tremendous characteristics about the life of David and uh he is he has such strong integrity in so many ways. That we have to be careful that we don't lift him up that he's more than just a man. And actually here before too long as we're studying along, we're going to see that we're going to be reminded, we're going to see very obviously that he's still a man And he still has issues and things we can learn not just from the positive side, but we can learn from the negative side We're never I'm never glad when I read in the Bible of a great man of faith that is weak or false in some way. I'm never glad for that. But I do find encouragement from it in that God can use people who are not perfect. God can use people who are flawed. And so David is a man at best, and we're going to see a little bit later. But right now we just see some amazing things about him. Look at verse 28. And uh I'm gonna read down through the end. Let me see if I got my mic on here. I do not. There we go. Verse 28 says, And Saul saw and knew that the Lord was with David And that Michael, Saul's daughter, loved him. And Saul was yet the more afraid of David, and Saul became David's enemy what? Continually. Then the princes of the Philistines went forth, and it came to pass after they went forth that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul So that his name was much set by. I don't know what to titled this. I titled it, God's Continued Favor on David. Let's pray and uh we'll try and pull some thoughts out of here and see how it applies to our lives. Father in heaven, I thank you for David and Lord what we've studied and I pray that I could be a better Christian because of David's influence on my life through the pages of your word. I pray our church would be, we as individual members of the church would be stronger Christians uh because of David's influence on us through the pages of your word. And so we need your Holy Spirit to help us tonight. I need your Holy Spirit to fill me, Lord, and speak through me and apply these passages, these truths to our lives. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew, and I ask with all my heart, Lord, that you would be the preacher this evening and we would be the students, the disciples. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think it's important to note here as we look at this and uh as we kind of pull out of here some of the characteristics of David, but David goes from a very obscure a shepherd boy that's on the backside of a wilderness. Now think about this, in just a matter of months, if my timing is anywhere close to correct In a matter of months, he goes from an obscure shepherd boy out in the wilderness. He goes from that to a. The top military man in the nation of Israel and a hero, a national hero And he goes from one thing to another. How many people agree with me? A young fella, that could um that might turn his head a little bit, if you know what I'm talking about. I mean, here's a young guy, late teens, early twenties at most, and he's exalted so quickly. and praised so highly and adored so deeply and honored and respected so thoroughly. And yet I don't see any evidence that that goes to David's head even in the least. He's uh he just plugs away, he just keeps going on. It doesn't go to his head. I got reading in my devotions the other day. How many folks read your read devotions? Anybody here? I was reading in Saul in Samuel back here. I'm coming up through where we're at And uh look back with me to chapter 9 of Samuel. This is when of uh Saul. This is when Saul is just starting out, he's just been anointed, he's very young And he's just beginning his adventure as king of Israel. And look at a statement he made. See if this sounds familiar at all. Verse 21, 1 Samuel 9. And I read this, and boy, it just struck me. 1 Samuel 9, verse 21. Let me find it there. Look what it says. And Saul answered and said Am not I a Benjamite of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? And my family is the least of all the families of the tribes of Benjamin. Wherefore then speakest thou so to me? Does that sound like anybody? What does that sound like? Sounds like David. He's saying almost verbatim things that David said when Saul was just starting out, when Saul was young. The difference between the two Is that Saul allowed his success, his position, and for a period of time, his popularity, he allowed that to go to his head And he fell Saul fell in love with himself. And Saul picked the Lord off the throne of his life, put himself there. And that was his demise. I think part of Saul's problem was he took God's blessings for granted. And that's something we have to be very, very careful about. How many people hear God's been good to you I say this so often. God's been awfully wonderful to our church. And I don't think it's because me or any of us are anything real wonderful in and of ourselves. It's because God is wonderful. But if we're not careful, we can take those blessings and that goodness and that favor that God shows us. We can take that for granted and somehow think that we're entitled to it some way. And if we're not careful, we can lose it. So I don't see that in David. I see that took place for Saul. We see early on. Boy, he had a humble attitude, but that changed very quickly. Now I want us to look at these three verses And I'm going to try and pull a little bit out of it. I got looking at it, I tried breaking it down here. I broke it down into three thoughts, verse 28, 29, and 30. My first thought is going to be this I see the evident presence of God in the life of David. The evident presence of God is very evident Well look at that. Then the last part of verse 28 and all of verse 29, I see the enity that was persistent in Saul's heart and life. This enmity was just persistent. And then the last one, and this one it's a little bit wordy maybe, but my last thought, verse 30, is the extensive prudence of David He behaved himself what? Wisely, in fact, more wisely than all the other servants. His wisdom, his prudence was extensive. It went beyond the other. So let's look, number one, first of all, the evident presence of God. Look at verse 28 with me again, the first part. The Bible says, and Saul saw and knew that the Lord was what? The Lord was with David. Now, it says that Saul saw that He didn't hear people talking it. He didn't hear he didn't hear David saying this. He observed it. He observed it. I mentioned this a couple times before. in illustrating uh in other sermons, but when I was in Indiana, it was towards the last my ch the end of my time there. We were there four years at the church and a good church and I I'm grateful for the pastor and everything. But there was a fellow in the church there um kind of a leader and a little bit outspoken and he took issue with the preacher one time and the preacher had a um a couple come in there and sing and they I thought they were fantastic. They were a little opera-ish You know what I mean by that? A little bit opera-ish. Now I'm you can look at me and tell I ain't an opera kind of guy. But they were pretty good. Uh Ray and Ann Gibbs, you're probably familiar. I don't know if anybody's familiar with Ray and Ann Gibbs. Tremendous. They're they're uh Tremendous. Well anyway, they had them in there saying, and this guy didn't like that style music. They were just a little operish, not contemporary, worldly, and just a little operish. And boy, he got griping about that. He gave he started giving the preacher a hard time about that And he didn't appreciate that music, and that was uppity music, and da-da-da. And you know, it was just nice. And Sunday morning, he had been stewing with the preacher all week long about that And Sunday morning back in the lobby and their lobby was a little bit bigger than ours, he's back there. And I mean this is between Sunday school and church and it was like ours, people coming and going, standing around talking. I mean it's crowded, it's a big group of people And he got going with somebody, and he got worked up, and all of a sudden, out of the out of the blue, just loud, everybody heard it. I was across the lobby coming up, getting ready for the service And and out of the blue he said, I'll have you know I'm the best Christian in this church. I walked in, I was walking up, I was thinking to myself, Well, we all just found out who the worst Christian in this church is You know, if we're walking with God, if we have God's presence in our life, if we if we're in fellowship with the Lord, we don't have to broadcast it. Right? I don't go after around telling everybody how right with God I am. I don't have to go around telling everybody how spiritual I am. I don't have to go tell everybody that I'm the best Christian in whatever If that's true, if I am right with God, if I am filled with the Holy Spirit, if I do have God's presence in my life, if I am the best Christian, if you want to put it that way, if I am the best Christian, I'm not going to have to broadcast it. That's the way it was with David. Saul observed this. He could see it. David didn't have to declare to everybody his walk with God. It was evident. I'd like to think that we can, we should and can live our lives in such a way that people would know we're a Christian before we ever open our mouth. That people would know that we are in fellowship with God. We have the presence of God in our life before we ever have to say a word. Just by our character and our demeanor and our work uh uh ethic and and uh whatever else you want. Um We were somewhere, I think it was down at Master Clubs on Saturday at the competition. They had they have a Christian school there and had billboards all over the hallways there. Not billboards, um Bulletin boards all over the hallways and they have little sayings and verses and different things. And one of them I noticed, I walked by it a bunch of times. I noticed every time I walked by It says, if you were taken to court for being a Christian, would there be enough evidence to convict you? That's a good, that's a challenging thought. And so I see here David, the Bible says that Saul saw and knew that the Lord was with David. The presence of God in David's life was evident. Even to his enemy, the man that hated him, the man that's looking for faults, the man that's looking for a reason. to take him down. The man that's looking for something that he could criticize and diminish and take away David's uh uh the adoration of David from his people and he can't find anything the only thing he can see in David is God is with this guy. Man, what a testimony. What a powerful, powerful testimony. I got, as I always do, I got looking up these words and seeing what they mean and how they're used. And the Bible says that Saul saw, the word Saul there means he was clearly visible. It's not like he had to scrutinize them to find this. And the Bible says he saw that the Lord was with him. That word Saul has this idea. It was very, very obvious, very, very clear. And then he says that he knew, and this is kind of interesting, that the Bible would use that he saw. You know, he could have just said, and he saw that the Lord was with him, but it God added in that little phrase, and knew that the Lord was with him. That word new there means to acknowledge or to recognize And I think what the Lord is telling us here, when Saul was looking at David, it was very, very obvious God's favor was all over this man, that God's blessing was on this man's God's hand God's hand was upon this guy. Saul saw that clearly, and he had to acknowledge it. He knew. He had to recognize and say. And the thought struck me as I was studying this and seeing how clearly Saul understood. And Saul, if pressed, he had to say, yeah, God's with him. He would have had to have said that. He knew it. And I came to this conclusion. Saul is no longer fighting just David. Who's he fighting? He's fighting God. Because the presence of God in the life of David is now a factor in Saul's thinking about David. Now I don't know about you, but I would like to think that if I was in those shoes, I would think, wait a minute, God's hand is all over the sky. I better back off. Right? Now I don't know. But I'd like to think that we would act that way. And so Saul is now no longer just at war with David. He no longer has hostilities just with David. He has hostilities with David's God It was very obviously present with them. Can I just throw this out? We ought to be very, very careful about our attitude towards God's people. We ought to be very, very careful what we say and how we act and how we treat and our attitude towards other people that know the Lord as Savior. Dr. Brother Charles Holmes used to say to us in Bible time And when I was in training and I was on staff, he'd say it over and over and over. He says, there's no reason why two spirit indwelt, holy spirit-indwelt believers can't get along. If the Holy Spirit is in this person and the Holy Spirit of God is in this person, then there's no reason why that can't be fellowship and connection there. So Saul is now, he sees, he has to acknowledge that God is with David, he knows that, he recognizes that, he has to acknowledge that, and hostilities continue on. And he's fighting God now. Now here's the problem. And uh if you would, come back to chapter 18. Or we're in chapter 18. Come back to the first part of chapter 18, come back to verse 8 And there is a huge two-letter word. I mean a big, big, big two-letter word in verse 8 of chapter 18. And Saul was very wroth. And the saying displeased him, and he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands and to Me. I underlined that word me and I circled that word me, and me they have ascribed but thousands. Who is Saul concerned about? Me himself. Who is Saul focused on? Who is Saul worshiping? Himself. himself. And that word me, I think, as I got thinking about this, I think that word me explains Saul completely. That is his whole problem. This has all become about Saul. A person yelled at me one time, not too long ago. They were yelling at me, it's all about me. I said, okay, maybe that's the problem. Saul is saying it's all about me. Did you ever hear that saying, sin will take you farther than you want to go? It will keep you longer than you want to stay, and it will cost you more than what you want to pay. Anybody ever hear that saying? Can I modify that a little bit? Self Will take you farther than you want to go, keep you longer than you want to stay, and cost you more than you want to pay. So Saul is obvious here. He has to acknowledge, he sees it, that God's presence is very evident in David's life David's not broadcasting it. He's not having to blow his own horn. It's just there. It's very obvious. Number two, my second thought, and I get this from the second half of verse 28 and all of verse number 29. This enmity is persistent with Saul. Let's read it here. The last part of verse 29, it says, And he saw that the Lord was with David, and that Michael, Saul's daughter, loved him. And Saul was the yet more afraid of David. And Saul became David's enemy. Continually. I think there's two key words in that section I just read there. One is afraid. Saul was afraid of David The word afraid there has two applications. One is positive. Can you think of any situation where it would be a positive thing to be afraid of someone? Where w where that would be in a positive sense. Do you ever read in the Bible where we are to fear God? Yeah, same word. Saul, uh Saul was afraid. Saul feared David. Now the fear of God That we are told that we are to have is not the same application as the word fear of David here. You follow what I'm saying? The positive sense of the word is to reverence somebody Is to, actually one of the definitions of the word is all, A-W-E, stand in all. Wow. It has the idea of having tremendous respect is included in that word fear. Now that is not the way the word is used here about King Saul towards David. It is the negative application of that word, which means this, to be in dread of, to be terrified of, to be afraid of. Saul was scared of David. He saw the Lord was all over him. He saw the presence of God was there. And that scared him. That scared him. Do you know why some people don't come to church? I think I think they're afraid of God. They're scared of what God might do. Um I've I've had I've done a few funerals over the years where there was family members would not come into the funeral home, refuse to come into the presence of the dead body. They wouldn't even go in the funeral home, they'd stand outside I went out and talked to him, I said, why don't you come in in? He goes, I ain't getting around that, I ain't getting around that. And I talked to him a little bit, tried to witness, and uh I walked away with this conclusion. He's scared of death He's scared of death. And I think that's the way Saul was of David. He was just scared of him. He didn't want to get right. He didn't want to make things right. He was in love with himself. The self was on the throne. And David was a threat to himself. And he was scared of David. He was scared of David. It has the idea of being intimidated by him. I don't know. Um I think that that idea that he was afraid, he was uh he dreaded David is one of the definitions. I I just kind of put myself in Saul's shoes a little bit and I can see Saul maybe he's got an office, you know, or whatever whatever kind of office they may have had in that day. He's doing administrative work and he's dealing with, you know, maybe finances in the kingdom or whatever. And he happens to see David go down the hallway and his heart just sinks and he gets sick. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Did you ever know somebody like that? Every time you saw him, you just your stomach kind of tightened up. I think that's the way it was with Saul. Every time I think he lay awake at night and David would come to his mind and he would just his heart would sink. He was in absolute dread of this. And then the other word, the key word, he was afraid of David, and he became David's enemy. Well, that's a strong word. It means to this to be hostile towards someone, to be at odds with. So Saul was his this enmity with David was persistent. I noticed three things about his enmity here, his fear and this enmity. First of all, it was isolated That's where we come back to verse 28, the last part it says, Michael and and King Saul saw that Michael, his daughter, loved David. That you know what that was telling Saul? Michael ain't on his side no more. She's been won over. And we're going to see that a little bit later. She's loyal when Saul tries to kill David. We'll see that in a little bit. She's loyal and helps hide David Boy, that backfired on him. Remember what he said Michael would be just a little bit ago, he said Michael would be a what to David? A snare. She's not a snare no more. She's an ally. And she sided up with David. And uh we're going to see that here in a little bit. So King Saul's hatred and animosity and enmity with David is narrowing down. He doesn't have too many allies. In fact, he's losing them more and more and more all the time. So his animosity, his his enmity with Dav with David was isolated I put this down in verse 29. His enmity with David was increasing. Look at verse 29. He was yet the more afraid of David, and Saul became his enemy continually. That little phrase, yet the more. Has this idea, it's building up. This fear is increasing. It's getting more and more every day that goes by. Saul is a little bit more afraid of David. Every day that goes by, he dreads him a little bit more. He can't stand him being around. He gets sick to the thought of having to have David in the same room with him. And it's increasing, it's increasing. And then I noticed this, I put this down, Saul's enmity with David was incessant. If something is incessant, what does it mean? You have a dog, it's a dog that incessantly whines. All the time, unending, just whine and whine and whine and whine. I'm not talking about any dog individually personally, I'm just saying the dog in general. But um uh you know, just incessant whining. Uh that's the idea here. Saul's uh enmity with David was incessant. It was continually. I got looking up that word continually, it's interesting. Some places it's translated night and day. Day. It's just on and on. You ever hear this phrase, twenty four seven? That's a good definition of that word continually day and night, ongoing and ongoing and going and going and going. I mean This hatred, this enmity with David would not let up. Now, here's the thing that's happening. Think about this. Early on The evil spirit of the Lord would come upon King Saul, and what would they do to deal with that evil spirit of the Lord? What did he do? He'd play the harp or whatever. They'd play music and the evil spirit would leave him. He'd calm down. He had, we could put it this way, he had fits of anger. Towards David. It would come in fits. And then he'd calm down. Everything's fine. Alright, I'm alright. Alright. Then he'd go on for a little bit. Then something would happen. You'd get thinking about you'd get all worked up. The evil spirit come on him Play the music, play the music. Okay, I'm fine, I'm fine. And we go through these little fits. But now what does it say is happening? It's not fits anymore. It's all the time. It's all the time. That music isn't going to have any effect anymore. This thing, this anger and this animosity towards David has settled down. Now get this. This is important. It has settled down into a deep-rooted hatred. Now there's a word we use for that. What is that word? It's turned into what? And you get the word I'm thinking of? Deep-rooted hatred. It is, here's the word, bitterness. Saul has become intensely bitter. Bitterness is a terrible, terrible weed that has a root in our hearts. If you would take your Bible and turn to me to Hebrews chapter number 12. And by the way, if I'm convinced we're going to see this here, if we don't deal with bitterness when it's still just anger, if we don't deal with it And it turns into bitterness. We're going to have a mess on our hands. Look at Hebrews chapter 12 with me, if you would. And um verse number 14. He deals with this here. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 14. Look what he says. He says, Follow peace with who? All men. Who does that mean? I mean surely that excludes some people, right? No, it's what? Oh man, there's no qualifications on that Follow peace with all men. And I think it's Corinthians, Paul said, as much as it possible, much as it's possible, live peaceably with all men. There's some folks, no matter what you do, you're not going to have peace with them, right? No matter what. So you do the best you can and you go on. But here he tells us, follow peace with all men. Would that include Saul having peace with David? Sure. All men. Follow peace with all men and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. Look at verse 15. Looking diligently lest any man fall fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up, and it does two things. When bitterness settles into our heart When we don't deal with that anger, we've let it turn into hatred, and that hatred gets rooted. It does two things to us. Number one, less bitterness springing up, it troubles you. That word trouble means to disturb, to disturb my peace of mind, to annoy or to unsettle me. 1 Samuel 16, 14, the first time the evil spirit of the Lord came upon him, the Bible uses that very word. And Saul was troubled. And so the Bible says that bitterness, we get bitterness in our heart, we're going to be troubled, we're going to be upsettled. We're not going to have any peace of mind. It is going to eat at us, eat at us, eat at us. While we're going through the day, we're dwelling it. We're rehashing it over and over in my mind We're just it we we can't get any peace about it. We can't settle our mind about it. It just eats away and troubles us and troubles us and troubles us. And then look what else it says. It says, without uh says any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be what? Defiled. That word defiled has a lot of meaning, a lot of application. It has the idea of polluted, contaminated. Here's the one that I think applies to King Saul, ruined. Brother King Saul's bitterness has absolutely ruined him. It has polluted him It has absolutely contaminated his thinking, his mind, his heart, everything. Did you ever know somebody that was eat up with bitterness? Just bitter And that's what King Saul has become. Now, I got working on this. How do I deal with bitterness? What if? And by the way, Christians are not immune from bitterness. Bitterness can creep in a church. Somebody says or does something, disappoints you, somebody you trust to look to, and man, that hurts. It hurts, no doubt about it. So when bitterness has settled in, you say, preacher, what do I do? What do I do? This root of bitterness has sprung up. I put down six things real quick, I won't elaborate on, I'll just give them to you. I think, first of all, I need to acknowledge it I need a person say, hey, listen, I've allowed bitterness to root up in my heart as a child of God, as somebody saved by grace, forgiven by Christ. I have sinfully allowed bitterness to root in my heart. I have to acknowledge it. By the way, I'm never going to have victory in any area of my life until I acknowledge that I need victory there. And so, number one, I must acknowledge it. Number two, this one's important, I need to take responsibility for it. If I'm bitter at somebody, who am I generally going to blame for my bitterness? The other person. That person said this. That person did this. They hurt me. They lied to me. They stole from me. And we tend to justify our bitterness and we try to tend to deflect our bitterness onto them. But if you notice Hebrews, he says the bitterness is in my heart. I need to accept responsibility for it. I think it's interesting here. King Saul did more, sinned against David, a whole lot more than David sinned against King Saul, but which one was bitter? It's King Saul. So the bitterness is not in the one that I'm bitter towards. That's not where it's rooted. That's not what justifies. That's not its source. The source is in the one that is bitter. And so I need to acknowledge that bitterness is there, then I need to take responsibility for it. I am wrong for being bitter. That is sin. It's my decision, it's my condition. Regardless of what the other did. Number three, I need to I put this down, agree with God's assessment of it. I need to agree with God's assessment of it. I think I bumped my mic off. I get bitter when that thing does that makes me so angry. Um I need to see it the way God sees it. Bitterness. Number four, I put this down. I need to forsake it. That's a decision I have to make. Ephesians 4. 31, put off all bitterness and wrath and malice and evil speaking. Put it off. It's my responsibility. So forsake it. Then I put number five, I put this down. Replace it with biblical love. Now, I said biblical love. If I'm bitter towards somebody, and let's put it this way: let's say somebody has lied to me and they have hurt me deeply. And I'm not careful. I'm a Christian. I know the Lord. I want to be right. I want to be a good Christian. And man, I let that get to me. And I don't keep my guard up. And before I know it, I'm angry, and that anger is turned into bitterness. And we have a revival meeting or something, and God speaks to my heart, and and I've got the attitude that Saul has towards David, I've got that same attitude towards someone else for whatever reason And boy, God pierces my heart. And I say, God, all right, you're right, I'm bitter. And uh I take it's my decision. I'm the one that allowed that to happen. I agree with you, Lord, it is wrong and it's sinful, it's damaging I want to forsake it. I want to put off that bitterness. Now I need to replace it with biblical love. Now here's the question I'm getting at. This person has hurt me deeply. Am I naturally going to be attracted to them? No, not naturally, I'm not. I'm not naturally going to i if someone if someone has lied to you, is it is it is it going to be easy to trust them? No. If somebody is hurt And so what I need to do is practice natural love's not going to happen. Phileo love, that's not going to happen because uh you know, just because of the situation. So I need to exercise biblical love and put this down. Biblical love is a decision. It is not a feeling. It is not an affection. It is a decision I make. I am going to love this person, 1 Corinthians 13. And they are all action words, action words. This is where I'm going to be kind. I'm going to be in just go right down that list. Long suffering. I'm not going to think evil. And it is a decision I make regardless of the feelings. Feelings come and feelings go, and feelings are what? Deceiving. But I need to act on decision, on principle. And then number six, I put this down: trust God. Just trust God to help you. Faith, have faith in God, God I'm going to trust it, you enable me. So I see this enmity that is persistent with Saul that has become has developed into a deep-seated hatred towards David, this bitterness. And Saul never deals with, Saul never acknowledges it, and we're going to see here in a little while, he dies in the in the pit of bitterness. And he goes from a bitter, hateful animosity towards David heart, and he goes in a second in the presence of the Lord. And so, a sad thing. Then, last of all, I noticed the extensive prudence of David. Now, let me explain that that title. Come back here if you would. And look at verse number 30. Then the princes of the Philistines went forth, and it came to pass after they went forth that David behaved himself more wisely. I got reading that and it says the Philistines, the princes of the Philistines went forth. I thought, what in the world does that mean? They went forth. Now think with me a little bit. What had just happened previously to the Philistines? Just a few verses earlier. David killed. Remember, Saul sent him out, give me a hundred foreskins of the Philistines. David went out and got how many? Two hundred. Now, it's bad enough they killed 200. The Philistines are warriors, they're battle hardened, they they just lived for war. So losing a hundred or two hundred soldiers in a battle, that's not something they're going to get real worked up about. You know, that's part of it. That's uh uh what do you call it collateral damage that's casualties you know they factor all that in on uh so uh a bunch of soldiers getting killed in the battlefield I'm sure they're not glad for it but that that's not a factor But Brother David starts circumcising them, then that's an issue. Remember we talked about that before. That is an insult to them And I think when it says the princes of the Philistines went forth, I think what it's saying is they got stirred up They have, it's like, did you ever hit a hornet's nest with a rock? I saw a video here about a month ago. It said dummies and it was called something like this, dummies and hornets' nests And they had two guys. One guy was holding a trash bag like this under the hornet's nest, and another guy had a stick and he was going to break it off and it was going to fall down in the trash bag and they were getting dummies He hit that thing one time, it didn't come off, and those things came out, those guys went running. Well, Saul sent David out there. David gets out there, he kills 200 of them, he circumcises them, and man, they are hot. They are stirred up. They are riled up Saul got what he wanted. Saul got the response he wanted from the Philistines. That's what he wanted But he didn't get the results that he anticipated with David. God's favor is on David. God's presence is on David. And those Philistines, excuse the English, those Philistines ain't gonna kill David. Because God had anointed him to be king. He says, You will be king. Saul's fighting a losing battle. So he stirred up the enemies, but he did not get his end result of David being killed. God's favor was on him. Now look how David responds. Boy these Philistines are worked up and they're probably it doesn't give us a lot of details here, but apparently they're making raids on Israel and boy they're wreaking havoc. And David's dealing with this, and look what it says. It says, after they went forth, that David behaved himself more wisely Now phrase he behave himself more wisely means this. To act with prudence. Now, what does it mean if somebody is very prudent in their actions? They're very prudent. They're very All right, matter of fact would be part of it, but boy he's real prudent with his finances. He's real careful about it. He's very he makes sure he knows what he's doing before I invest this here. I'm going to be Uh what do you think about investing in this? Well we need to be prudent. Let's check it out. Let's see what it is. If it's a good investment And so David is being very prudent here. He's behaving wisely. He's being uh the other word that uh was used here was the idea of circumspect Well, very, very careful. It is the opposite of being impulsive. Anybody here ever do something impulsively? Anybody here ever do something impulsively and regret it? Wow. He will get themselves in a lot in a mess financially by being impulsive In a lot of other ways. And uh this idea that he behaved himself wisely, circumspectly, prudently, it's the opposite of impulsive, it's the opposite of temporal There's a lot of people sacrifice the eternal on the altar of the temporal. In other words, they'll sacrifice their future for enjoyable time now. And prudence, wisdom, circumspect says, wait a minute, what is the consequence of the actions I'm taking now, the behavior I'm taking now? The decision I'm making now, what will be the consequences of it? A prudent man, a wise man, a circumspect man say, Hey, wait a minute, I can see where this will lead if I do this Whereas the foolish person says, doesn't even think of that. They just dive in. Hey, this would be great. And so David was prudent. He had the ability to look ahead and see. And so his behavior with the with the Philistines and his and his leadership with the military of Israel He's being very prudent, he's being very wise how they're going to attack, how we're going to respond. He acts on principle and acts with discipline. Now I notice two areas here where he was very prudent. He was very prudent with. First of all, in his performance, it says, notice what it says, David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul. Now I see that in his professional life. He's a man of integrity. But more importantly than that, look what it says, and all the servants of Saul, so that his name was met set by. And I put this, he was he was prudent and highly respected in his personal life. He was highly esteemed. He the the word there um who is much set by, has the idea of appraise. Do you ever have your house appraised? It's the value of their house. And what they were saying is, man, David as a person is highly respected, highly esteemed, highly valued. And so God, here's what I want to end with: God is using Saul's attempts to destroy David. And God is using that to develop David and strengthen him and establish him in the kingdom. Anybody here ever have somebody treat you unkindly? Anybody here ever have somebody do hateful, hurtful things to you? Sure. And our immediate response is to what? Get angry at them I had a guy today called me. I mean he he left a message and he laid in to me that it is against federal law to leave a gospel track on a car. And um I mean he's just gone off. And so I I didn't answer, I w went through the voicemail and then uh and then the old the old Dennis Was like, well, who does he think he is? And so uh I called him back. And so in the bet while it was ringing, I was praying. Lord, I I need I'm a preacher, I'm a pastor, I gotta be nice. My name is on that track, so I have to be careful. And so I called him back and he he went off and I said, well, I'm not sure about the law concerning that. And I s and I just talked to him a little bit and he kind of calmed down. He thanked me. And by the way, we're done, he said this Well have a blessed Easter. And I'd like to think that that's just a silly little event that happened this afternoon that's fresh in my mind. But uh I would like to think that maybe the Lord used that to help me be nice when somebody else isn't nice And I see God using Saul's bitterness and his hatred and his animosity towards David, and you don't see any of that back from David. And I just think God has strengthen them, and the exact opposite is ha is happening that what Saul wants. And God will use a hateful phone call, God will use an unkind co-worker, God will use a family member that's antagonistic. And if we'll just trust him and be a disciple and bless those that curse us and do good to those that despitefully use us and pray for those I think God can help us grow and be stronger in our faith and stronger in our walk with God. Joseph understood that. In Genesis chapter 50, verse 20, he said to his brothers, You meant it for evil. You meant it for evil. But God meant it for what? Good. In Romans 12, I think it's verse 14 says, overcome evil with good. And that's what we see with David. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn from David here. Help us not to be saw, Lord. And if we've got some of that down in our heart, help us, Lord, to acknowledge it. and uh deal with that and replace it with the grace of God. And Lord, if we're on the receiving end I pray you'd help us to be gracious and kind, to trust you, and understand that you're in control, you have a plan, you're allowing this, and help us to grow in our faith, and help us to take it as an opportunity to exercise discipleship. And to be exactly what you've called us to be in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, now I'm I don't know how you'd answer, how you'd respond to this, maybe just in your own hearts But maybe there's somebody there. We're talking about bitterness. We're talking about hatred. And man, somebody comes to mind. The Holy Spirit of God just touches there. And I just want to urge you, between you and the Lord, deal with that. Don't let that settle. Don't let that take root. Acknowledge it, take responsibility, put it off, replace it with kindness and grace, and then trust God to enable you. And then maybe we're on the receiving end. And let's not retaliate, not fire with fire, but grace and kindness and the presence of God. Father, bless now, I ask. Help us in Jesus' name. Amen.