He finds himself in the midst in the smack dab in the middle of a war between the Syrian king and Israel. And you know sometimes we talked about this, uh uh not sometimes we as Christians we need to be involved uh in the political affairs of where we live, I believe, to some degree, at least in registering and voting And I'll be honest with you, I'm of the opinion, I don't think, this is just me right now, but I don't think anybody in our country should be re-elected. None of 'em. Don't re-elect anybody. Get new blood in everywhere. What do you think of that? That's not a bad idea. So anyway, Elijah finds himself in this situation. Let's begin reading in verse number E. And by the way, he doesn't run from the conflict. You know, he takes it and deals with it. Then the king of Syria warred against Israel and took counsel with his servants, saying In such and such a place shall be my camp. Now, if that was in on a piece of paper, it would be in a Manoa envelope, and on the cover of the envelope would be stamped top secret. Right? Now let's read on. And the man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware thou pass not such a place, for thither the Syrians are come down And the king of Israel sent to the place which the men of God told him and warned him of, and saved himself there not once or twice. Therefore the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled for this thing, and he called his servants and said unto them Will you not show me which of us is for the king of Israel? One of his servants said, None, my lord, O king, but Elisha the prophet that is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bedchamber What I want to zero on tonight. We looked at looked at different aspects of this. But what I want to zero on tonight is verse number nine Says the man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, look at this phrase, Beware that thou pass not such a place. That was a warning that God was giving to the king of Israel through Elisha, and this was the warning, there are some places God's people ought not to go. They were dangerous. Don't you go there. That's dangerous. That's where the enemy is. So let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless our look in your word this evening. Help me, Lord, to be to the point I ask, Father, that you again in this hour would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and present my body anew, and just speak through me. Lord, help us to grow. Help us to grow in our faith, our maturity, our boldness. Help us to grow in number, Lord. We'd like to see more people come to you and be added to the church. We'd like to see the church house filled, not just Sunday mornings but Sunday nights. And so please help us. We're looking to you, Lord. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. We noted previously, we looked at, first of all, the awareness of God. And what was it a week or two ago? I guess it was two weeks ago. We noted That there are two natural, there are two attributes about God that stand out. One is his omnipotence, he's all powerful. And uh there's no dispute about that. The other is his omniscience, he is all-knowing. And that comes into play with the situation here. The top secret decisions and um Orders coming out of the king of Assyria in his most innermost circle, the most secret, the most uh secure uh meetings he had were wide open to God. God knew it. Let's just settle the fact we can't hide nothing from God. That's bad English, but it's good preaching. Right? We how many people will like like it we can't hide nothing from God? I like that better and we can't hide anything from God. But anyway, the fact of the matter is we can't. Everything's wide open there. God is all knowing. And we're only fooling ourselves if we think we're hiding something So, because of God's omniscience, and we went through a number of scriptures the other week, and uh we verified that and confirmed that from scripture, God knows everything, nothing's hidden to him Because of that, he was able now get this, God enabled Elisha to give the warnings to the king of Israel about where not to go. And that leads me, as I said, to our thought tonight, the warnings of God. God's warnings to the king of Israel, don't you go down to these certain areas. And he didn't do it just once or twice. The Bible says he did this repeatedly. There are some places you ought not to go. And that, why would God say that to the king of Israel? Why would he say there's some places you should not go? Well, somebody says, I know why God said to him, God's just hateful. God just doesn't want him to have fun. Some of those places he told 'em not to go, those would be pretty cool places And uh, you know, it'd really be great, and strategically it would make sense if we went there. And God's just a hateful old grouse, doesn't want me to have fun. How many people ever heard that I mean as from a child saying that. Anyone? How many people ever said that as a child to your parents? The fact of the matter is, God's warnings to Israel through Elijah were based on two of his characteristics. One, we already looked at his omniscience. God knew everything. And God knew if the armies of Israel would go to this place, they would be defeated. They would be destroyed. People would die. People would be injured, soldiers would be, there would be casualties. Mothers' sons would be killed. Children's fathers would be maimed. It was bad for them if they went to those areas. God knew that. So his warnings are based, first of all, on his omniscience But second of all, and equally as important, they were based upon God's love and compassion for his people. God wasn't just being hateful. He loved the children of Israel. He did not want them to be hurt. He did not want the young men to have their arms cut off. He did not want them to have arrows go through their chest. He did not want them to be destroyed. He loved his people And because he loved them, he says, don't go to those places. They will hurt you. They could destroy you. God loves us. What more could God possibly do to assure his people of the fact that he loves us? What more could he do? He gave his own son to die for our sins. Well, God just doesn't love me. Well if God led me, uh you know I could I could go wherever I want and do whatever I want. God just doesn't love me. You're a knucklehead. I like that. It's Greek God, what more could he do to tell us he loves us? Why do we fight against the restrictions of God? Why do we reject the warnings of God? And God says, don't do this, don't go to these places. I know everything. I love you. Those are bad. God's warnings to Israel through Elijah were based upon his omniscience and his great love and compassion for his people. God loved Israel. He knew all things. And he warned them there are some places they should not go. And God loves you and I. And I'm here to tell you, God loves Mount Lake Independent Baptist. This church. You say, how do you know God loves us so much? Because he gave his blood to purchase us. God loves this church and others. God loves you and God loves me. And he is all-knowing, and he loves us, therefore he tells us there are some places as a child of God that I have no business going, and the reason he doesn't want me to go there is not because he doesn't want me to have fun, not because he doesn't want me to prosper, but because he knows it will hurt me There are some things God tells us we must not do. Say, well, I don't think God God doesn't give us lists of do's and don'ts. Well, you haven't read your Bible very much. God doesn't give us a list of do's and don'ts for salvation. But he does give us a list of do's and don'ts if we want to prosper spiritually, if we want to grow and please him with our lives and not destroy our testimonies Man, how many people have destroyed their testimony because of a place they went that they ought not to have gone to, and something happened, and their testimony scarred. There are some things God says we ought not to do. There are some places God says we ought not to go. Now, do you got your Bibles with you? Huh? Everybody got your Bible? I hope you brought it to use it because we're going to look at some verses in our Bible. Take your Bibles with me if you would. If you would turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 6 Second Corinthians chapter 6. Now this is not in some circles this type of message would not be a very popular message. But the fact of the matter is it's a biblical message. 2 Corinthians chapter 6 and verse number 14. Now if you have a pen, I would highly recommend these verses being underscored or highlighted in one way or another in your Bible. 2 Corinthians 6 and verse number 14. Now it's worded a little it's a little uh Uh the wording here is a little uh what's the word I want? Um complex or a little difficult. You have to pay attention here, and I'll we'll work our way through it. And we've looked at this before Verse 14, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. For what fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? And the answer is none. What communion, that's another word for fellowship, what communion hath light with darkness? There is none. What concord, the word concord has the idea of agreement, making a contract with someone. What concord has Christ with Belial? Belial is another word for the devil. Well, there's no agreement between Christ and the devil, correct? There's no agreement. They don't negotiate anything What part hath he with believeth with an infidel? An infidel is not necessarily just someone who has not been saved. It's someone who knows the truth and rejects it. They deliberately know what the truth is and reject it. That's an infidel. So what part hath he that believeth with an infidel? What agreement hath the temple of God with idols? None. For ye are the temple of the living God. As God has said, I will dwell in them and walk in them, I will be their God, they shall be my people. Wherefore, come out from among them and be ye what? Separate, saith the Lord, touch not the unclean thing, then I will receive you. What is the Lord saying? He is saying there's some places a believer ought not to go. Just like Elisha told the king, God told the king through Elisha, don't go down to that area. The enemy is there, they're going to defeat you, you will be hurt if you get out of there. God tells you and I, there are some people we ought not to yoke up with, there are some places we ought not to go, there are some things we are to keep ourselves away from. Why? Because God's so grouchy. God just doesn't want us to have you just don't care. God cares more about how you and I feel than we care about how we feel. So God tells us someplace we ought not to go. Come back to 1 Corinthians with me, if you would. And I'm just pulling verses out of a hat basically here that teach this. 1 Corinthians chapter 5, and look with me at verse number 9. And you know, God gets down to the nitty-gritty. You know, He He just says things sometimes. And I'll be honest with you, the Bible says and teaches some things that are a little difficult to stand sometime in front of people and deal with. Because God just deals with it sometimes in the raw. Do you know what I'm talking about? So look what he says here in 1 Corinthians 5, and I'm going to begin reading in verse 9. Paul, under the inspiration of God, says, I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators. Fornication is any type of sexual involvement outside of marriage. No matter what. Anything outside of marriage. And God says you're not to keep company with people who do that. Am I right or wrong? I wrote you before, he's saying. I told you this before. If that person is a fornicator, If they are impure, don't you keep company with them Don't you stay around there? You put distance. That place is dangerous. The enemy is there. You will be hurt. Now look, he goes on. Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world. What's he saying? Not just the unsaved perverts. And by the way, man's definition of a pervert is a lot looser than God's definition. Huh? What God considers a fornicator and what the world says with that are two different things. So he's saying, I'm not just talking about the unsaved fornicators of this world, or of the covetous or extortioners, with idolaters Not just those people like that out in the world. I mean you gotta rub shoulders with them, you gotta work beside them. He says, that's not what I'm talking about But now, verse 11, I have written unto you, he said, this is what I'm talking about. Not to keep company if any man that is called a what? A brother. Be a fornicator. This guy claims to be a Christian. This gal claims to be a Christian. And yet they cannot possess their vessel purely. And they're loose with the preciousness of their purity. And yet they claim to be a Christian. He says, don't you keep company with them. Don't you go there. That is dangerous. They claim to be a brother, they claim to be a believer. Fine and dandy, but if that's the kind of person they are, have nothing to do with them. That is a dangerous place. If you go down in that area, the enemy will be there and you will be hurt Let's read on. If any man if any man called a brother be a fornicator or covetous or idolater or railer, somebody that's constantly starting to fight, a drunkard, a extortioner, they steal. Was such a one no not to eat. Now some fellas, some folks, Bible folks will say, well, that's talking about Lord's Supper You know, if they're like that, don't let them take part in the Lord's Supper. And that may not be the case, but I don't see that he's talking about Lord's Supper here. He's talking about don't get together and have dinner together Don't can I put it this way, don't go on dates with them. Huh? If that's the kind of girl she is, don't you take her out on a date You're gonna you're gonna be hurt. That's the kind of man he is. Don't you go out to eat with him? What are you crazy? For what have I to do to judge them also that are without? Do not ye judge them that are within? But them that are without, God judge it. Therefore put away from among your yourselves that wicked person. You know what he's saying to you and I as a believer? There are some people we need to stay away from. There are some people we are not to fellowship with, we are not to hang out with, we're not to spend time with. And by the way, this is not directed to teenagers, this is directed to Christians. No age factors involved here. Some places we need to stay away from Some people we need to stay away from. Now, don't misunderstand. We're to be friendly to everybody. Right? Hey God bless you. Good to see you. Stay over there. I'll stay over here. You follow what I'm saying? We're not to be unkind to anybody. Oh, you fornicator, I'm not coming near you. Don't do it that way. Alright? Come with me if you would to Ephesians chapter 5. And again, there there's the New Testament. I don't believe the Bible teaches that there's things you shouldn't do. Brother, you haven't read the New Testament. Ephesians chapter 5. I'm just, like I said, I'm just pulling some verses out here. Chapter 5, verse 3. Ephesians But fornication, there we go again, and by the way, that is a bigger issue in our world than we care to admit. This world is saturated with fornication, our society. It's interesting in Puerto Rico, and this was true in the Dominican Republic, the kids going to the public schools dress more modestly than they do here in the United States of America. And these are not Christian nations Don't they? They have dress standards for the girls. You know what the girls in Puerto Rico wear to school? Knee-length skirts. In Dominican Republic, public schools And that's something. Our society. Fornication and all uncleanness and covetousness, look at this. Let it not what? Once, uh be once named among you as becometh saints, neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting which are not convenient, but rather giving of thanks. Let no man deceive you. Or verse five. For this you know that no whormoner, nor unclean person, nor covetous man who is an idolatra Have any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God? Let no man deceive you with vain words, for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience See what I'm saying? That's a dangerous place if you go there. Because of these people, because of places like that, the wrath of God is coming on some people Be ye not therefore partakers with them, verse 7. For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord. We walk as children of light. For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth, proving what is acceptable unto the Lord. Have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them. For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret. But all things that are approved are made manifest by the light, for whatsoever doth make manifest his light. Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light. See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wives In other words, he's saying here, listen, don't be stupid. Think about it. What are these people like? What are these places like? You better stay away from them. Alright? If you're not convinced yet, come with me to 1 Thessalonians, chapter 4. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 and verse number 3. God is all knowing. And I liked uh the other week in the message a week, two weeks ago, uh I liked the idea The thought that God not only knows what the future does hold, he knows what's going to happen, he knows what could happen in every possible scenario Uh and and we talked about this before. You ever think, boy, I wonder what would happen if I did that? God knows. I wonder what happened. I wonder where this ever do this? I wonder where that road goes. I'm gonna try that road. And then you regret you took that road? Any truck drivers ever do that? I was I was coming back from Elkins one time I don't know. I was by myself. I went down for some reason to visit something. But I was coming back and somebody told me a shortcut where you can cut in up there at Fairfax on on top by the windmills Or no, over on by the rest area on the other side of Thomas, you can cut down and somehow it comes out through lead mine and comes up. Does anybody know what I'm talking about Somebody told me you could go that way. Is there a secret shortcut down through there? It sure is a secret. I turned in there and I thought, oh, here's that road. I'll take that. You know where I ended up? Somewhere on the other side of Parsons. I had no idea where I was at. Finally I come in and this is Parsons. How'd I end up here? God knew I was going to end up there. Maybe why that guy was holding the sign. Don't go this way. Don't go this way. But God knows every possible scenario. And he says, listen, don't go down that. I know what will happen if you do that. If you associate yourself with this person, I know what's going to happen. I know how it's going to affect you. It's going to be devastating. It's going to be horrendous. Don't do that. First Thessalonians 4, look at verse 4. Verse 3, I'm sorry. For this is the will of God. Alright. Can't get any clearer than this. Even your sanctification, in other words, whenever we set apart to the Lord, that ye should abstain from fornication. The word abstain means to hold back from, stay away from. That ye should abstain from fornication, that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and in honor. So God says, hear that word again, fornication. I'm not deliberately pulling these out, just getting verses that talk about places we're to stay away from. And God says, you need to stay away from that. It's my will. You back off. Don't go to that place. Chapter 5, verse 22, and I'll end with this one. Here's the word. Abstain from all evil. Is that what it says? Look at it. Chapter 5, verse 22. What's it say? Abstain from all evil No. Of course we're to stay away from evil. But God says not only do I you need to stay away from evil, you've got to stay away from anything that even looks bad. Just has the appearance. Don't don't get don't don't get in something that just looks bad. Abstain from all appearance of evil. So how do we deal With these issues that God says, don't go there, don't stay there. What if we're tempted to? What if we say, you know It looks to me like this would be good. The king of Israel could have said, what do you mean stay away from those areas? Man, that would be very strategic. If we got there, that would be good for us. We maybe could win, we'd be happy. And God says, no, don't go there. It's dangerous. I know. I know more about this than you do. I know. They're there. You're going to get hurt. So what do we do when we're tempted to say, you know, preacher says this, the Bible says that, everybody's told me not to do this. You know, I don't see it. I think I ought to pursue this. I think I ought to go there. I think I ought to involve myself in this. How do we respond to that? There's one response to the temptation To go or do something that God forbids. Go somewhere or do something God forbids. And that is this. Flee. Stay away from it. The only correct way to deal with temptation is to flee it. When the Bible talks about enduring temptation, it's not talking about enduring the solicitation to do evil. The temptation there is difficulties, trials. Brother Mike is enduring his temptation. Follow what I'm saying? That's his trial. His cancer. He's enduring it. He's exercising great faith. He has a tremendous testimony. He can't flee that. But the temptation to do something that God forbids, the temptation to go somewhere that God says we're to stay away from, the temptation to get involved in something that even appears wrong. The only correct response, the only correct way to deal with it, is to get away from it. Flee from it. The only correct way to have victory over sin is to flee it. Run away from it. The classic Illustration of someone fleeing from a place that God forbids him to go is Joseph with Potiphar's wife. Huh? Now put yourself in the shoes of a young man. This apparently was an attractive woman. Nobody's around. She's coming on to him. Joseph had enough integrity. Joseph had enough wisdom to know. And he says, God forbids this wickedness. And he says, no, I'm not going to do it. And the only way he didn't try and reason with her, he didn't try and negotiate, he didn't just try and work around her advances, he got himself out of there And left his coat behind. We know the story. It's the only correct way to deal with it. Let us beware of the places we go. Let us beware of the company we keep. Let us give earnest heed to the warnings of God. Because God knows what he's talking about and he loves us dearly. I end with two illustrations, and I've used these both before. One, I worked when I was in Bible college, I worked at a carpet mill for just a brief period of time, and I worked the graveyard shift, 11 till 7 in the morning. We the the school with at that time the setup they provide us with a lunch. And you've heard me tell this before, no doubt Now one day I missed my little lunch, brown lunch bag they gave us, and it's like two our lunchtime was like 2. 30 in the morning, something like that. Well, there's hardly any restaurants open then. And I said, man, I'm starving. Where can I go to get something? They said, oh, they make great sandwiches right across the street. It's it's the middle of the morning, middle of the night, middle of the dark time. Um and so I said uh they said, yeah, they're great, they're real inexpensive. I said, okay So I went running out and only got a half hour for lunch and it was right across the road and I didn't pay attention and I just ran in there and there was two sets of doors. There was one set of doors and there's like a little lobby area, then there's another set of doors. As soon as I went through those first set of doors, and some of you know what I'm talking about, the Holy Spirit inside me started screaming out, no, no, no I immediately felt like, whoa, this isn't right. There were spiritual warnings going on, and I had no idea where I was at or what I was getting into. And everything inside of me, I know, looking back, it was the Holy Spirit of God was screaming to me, no way, this is no place for you to be. And I but I was hungry. And I went through the second set of doors and opened up and here it was a bar, nightclub, dim lights, smoke, bands playing, and everything going on And I immediately turned around and went right out. You know who that was? That was God saying, here's a place you better not go. You say, Oh, preacher, you're studying the ministry, you're called to preach, you wouldn't have gotten drunk, no? Uh I hope not God knows what would have happened, but I do know this, it certainly wouldn't have been avoiding the appearance of evil. It'll look bad. And God through Elijah was telling Israel there's some places don't go there, they're dangerous, they're bad. And this I heard Larry Brown tell this story years ago. He presented it as a true story. He said a preacher moved to a new area, took a little church, the kids were teenagers, his kids were, and they got into public school, it was all that was available. And he said, listen, you know, be careful. We don't know anybody here. Just be careful who your friends are. And the young man made friends with some unscrupulous young people. He didn't smoke their cigarettes, he didn't smoke their pot and he didn't go to their parties and all that, but he became friends with them. You know what's sad? A lot of times it's the it's the bad kids that are the friendliest to the new kids. Why is that? And his dad had cons told him, Listen, I'm concerned about the people you're hanging around with. He goes, Dad, it's nothing. Don't worry, I'm not doing nothing there doing it. I'm just trying to have some friends And you know, can't blame a kid wanting to have friends. One day he had gone down the street to get something, he was just out walking up the street, and these friends came by. They were in the car And they said, hey so-and-so, hop in. We're just going for a ride. He goes, all right. He says, I can't go long, but I'll I'll ride around with you for a little bit. So he hopped in. Little did he know That earlier that evening they had going by to pick up one of the girls that hangs out with them, and her daddy was drunk, and he said, No, she's not going out with you, and they had gotten mad And they had gone by and smashed his mailbox. And they came back and they were driving around and they picked the preacher's kid up. He didn't know any of this was happening. Then he got in and said, hey, what's going on? And they're talking a little bit and they says, hey, and they went by and they started yelling things at the house and doing all this. And he's sitting in the back seat and he's thinking, man, what did I get myself into? About that time, the drunk daddy came out with a rifle, pointed at the car, and shot. And guess who the bullet hit? The boy, preacher's son, that wasn't involved in any of it, but went with some people he ought not to have been with. Follow what I'm saying? Now listen, God knows what he's talking about. God knows every scenario what it's going to end up. He loves us dearly. What more could he do to prove to us he loves us? And he says there's some things we ought not to do, there are some places we ought not to go, there are some people we ought not to be with. Now we either listen to them or we don't. And to Israel's credit, they listened to God. And they ultimately won the war. If we want to win, have a testimony, if we want to win victory over sin and the devil, we better listen to God. Does that make sense? Let's pray. Father, help us. Lord, help us to heed your warnings. We're glad you love us. Lord, we're glad that you know. Help us, Lord, to trust you. When you say no, to heed that warning. When you say go, help us to trust you and step out in faith. I'm grateful for Elisha and this experience here and how you've taught us so much from it. Our heads abound, alright?