This message, every missions conference that I go to, because I do think it's an essential thought for all of us. One of the things I'm concerned about in our day is that we've become incredibly pragmatic and we've become incredibly focused on the novel. Is it new? And if it's not new, well it must be bad. If it's old, it must be bad. And here's what I would submit to you. We might be real wise To do what God did, even if he did it in the first century. What I mean by that is, is God very clearly gave us a commission And very clearly gave us the plan to accomplish that commission in the first century. First century church. And I'd say we'd be very wise in the 21st century to be very careful to do what God did and outlined for us to do in the first century. I don't need something new, I need something God ordained. And if it's God ordained, it will work. Amen. And so I want to just uh really teach a lesson tonight. on what I call God's plan for missions. So I want you to find two scriptures to launch out in. I want you to find Matthew chapter 28 And when you find Matthew chapter 28, I want you to find Acts chapter 1 and hold both of those, but we'll begin in Acts chapter 28. When we come to Acts chapter 28, it's a very familiar passage to us. We hear it every missions conference and often all through the year, and we refer to it as the Great Commission. It's not the only place the Great Commission is given. As a matter of fact, each of the gospel writers give a version of the Great Commission. Luke gives it to us again in the book of Acts. We can find it other places. But this may be the best known. Matthew twenty eight, look at verse nineteen. Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son. and of the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always even unto the end of the world, amen. Now the Lord very clearly tells us that we have a responsibility to go. My first question to you this mor or this evening is this, who's the we? Who is the we that he is telling they've got a responsibility to go? He has summoned his eleven disciples to the mountain And there on that mountain, he expresses to them this commission. Did he express that to eleven individuals that he had called to them on the mountain? Well, in a sense, he did But if the commission was given to eleven individual men, then when those men died, the commission is over. They don't come to that mountain as 11 individuals. They come to that mountain as representative of the church. And the Great Commission, though individual members of a local church are the participants The commission is given to the local church. Don't ever lose that. Don't ever forget that. Because if you do, you'll wind up in a parachurch uh ministry somewhere giving to things that are not sanctioned uh in the way that the Lord wanted his program to go forward, the commission is given to the local church Now, here are the components of the commission. He says, number one, I want you to go teach. Now, I'm not a Greek scholar, so don't hear me trying to uh uh be one, but that word teach is an important word to understand. It's the word matetuo, and it means very literally go make disciples. How do you make a disciple? I'll tell you how you make a disciple. You walk up to him and you say, Hey, did you know you're a sinner? And after you've convinced him of his sin, you give him the good news, the gospel, that Jesus Christ came and hung on a cross in his place, so that the penalty of his sin could be paid, and there is forgiveness and redemption in the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ, if he will call out to Christ to be his Savior when he confesses that he's a sinner and he when can he f confesses that Jesus is the only way to seven to be to heaven He is saved. You've made a disciple. Now the second thing is, after you've made a disciple, see that they get baptized. Now baptism, to be honest with you, in a whole lot of churches is being ignored. It's being neglected. But I want you to know baptism is still the Bible commission. And when a man or a woman or a child gets saved The Lord wants them to make a public profession that something has changed in their life. They've gone from trusting nothing or whatever they were trusting to trusting Jesus Christ, and he wants us to make that public statement to the world. And the mode that he chose is that we get into water And we don't get water poured on us, we don't get water sprinkled on us. There's a very definite sign of being Dead, symbolizing death by getting in, symbolizing the burial while going under, and then the resurrection by coming out. And he says, make a public profession of that. Hey Baptism to us here in America, I mean we're a little shy. It's a little bit hard to get up in front of people, but it doesn't cost us anything But I want to tell you the crowd that he's talking to, it might well cost them their life. It might well cost them their business. It might well cost them their family. Hey, it's not a throwaway thing. Baptism is part of the commission. And then he says, I want you, after you've made disciples, after you've baptized them, I want you to teach them to observe all the things whatsoever I've commanded you. Now I'll be honest with you, I have been at this for a long time. I've not arrived yet. Have you? In the life of Mike Edwards, I'm not grown to full maturity. I'm not perfected. Every day the Lord reveals something to me. Every day And I believe that what we've got to understand about this portion of the of the commission is that it takes a lifetime to grow into all that the Lord wants us to be, and I believe it takes a church over a lifetime To be the instrument that God uses to help us become disciples. I think we need to be church-planting missionaries. I think we need to be church-involved missionaries. I think the aim and motive of everything we do for missions ought to be the gospel. So that's the commission. Go, local church, go make disciples, go baptize the disciples, and go teach them. to observe everything I've commanded you. Now, that's a lot of work, but let's move up to Acts chapter 1 and see this. That's the what we're supposed to do. I want you to see the where we're supposed to do it In Acts chapter 1 and verse 8, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me. Now mark this word. Both. Both in Jerusalem, and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. You know what that word both means? It means this at the same time. At the same time you are in Jerusalem making disciples, baptizing disciples, teaching them, I want you to be doing that very same thing in Samaria I want you to be, or Judea, I want you to be doing the same thing in Samaria. And oh by the way, if that's not enough, I want you doing that to the uttermost parts of the earth. Now I want to ask you a question. I'm a pretty wide guy. Don't don't say yes, alright? Just accept it. I'm a pretty wide guy, but I can only occupy one place at a time. Right. I can only be here. Hey, can I ask you this? Did the Lord just give us a command we can't fulfill? Did the Lord just give us a commission and say, I want you to make disciples, and I want you to do it both in Jerusalem and both in Judea? both in Samaria and both to the uttermost parts of the earth. Lord, have you told us to do something we can't do? And the answer is nope. Because God spends the rest of the book of Acts and the Epistles in giving His exact plan to do what He has commanded us to do. And here's the truth. It takes one Greek word, here I go again, one Greek word to understand how God intends for us to accomplish the Great Commission That Greek word is propimpo. P-R-O-P-E-M-P-O. It's not even a pre-sounding word. If you take that Greek word and add $10 to it, you can go get a cup of coffee at Starbucks. But that word is important. It's used nine times in the New Testament And Mr. Strong tells us that it is it's translated like this: brought, being brought Bring forth, accompanied, supported, conducted. He says what it means literally is this: to outfit something for a journey. Here's what it means. It means to take this thing and brought it from here To here. That's bad English, but that's great preaching. Alright? It's to take this thing and brought it from here over to here. And God says, church, here's how I want you to do it. I want you to understand that the church has the responsibility to brought missionaries, and we'll show this in a minute, to brought missionaries to where I call them so they can do the work that I've made you responsible to do. Now it's used three times in three ways, I should say. In the book of Acts and in the epistles. It means and deals with finances. It means and deals with prayer. And it means and deals with what I'll call, for lack of a better term, encouragement or emotional support. Now I want you to get a hold of it. Turn with me. We're going to do a sword drill. Acts chapter 15. Stay with me because I'm going to talk faster than you've ever heard me talk. So you listen fast, alright? Look at Acts chapter 15. We're going to get the principle here. Acts 15, look at verse 1 Certain men which came down from Judea taught the brethren and said, Except you be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved. When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas and certain other of them should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and elders about this question. Now here it is, verse 3, and being brought, that's our word propimpo. And being brought on their way by the church, they passed through Phoenix and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles, and they caused great joy unto all the brethren. Let's unpack it. What just happened? Well, Paul and Barnabas are preaching to the Gentiles in the area of Antioch. And brother, they are having a great evangelistic meeting. Gentiles are getting saved all over the place. Well, you can count on it. Any place God's doing something great, the devil's gonna send his crowd to see if he can't hinder it And sure enough, some Pharisees from Judea, Jerusalem, come down and they begin to mess with Paul and Barnabas's controversy, and they say, Hey, you know Boy, that that Paul and Barnabas, they sure are good men. And they've been preaching to you about Jesus and all how we love Jesus. We're just like them. We love Jesus just like they love Jesus, liar. But listen, Jesus isn't quite enough. No, you gotta add some law to that. You gotta add some ceremony and some ritual to that to really be saved. No, you don't. And I want to tell you, if you wanted to make Paul mad You start messing with his converts and telling them that Jesus isn't enough. Paul and Barnabas go to the church at Antioch and they're furious. There's no small dissension going on. And they say, we've got to deal with these Judaizers. And so this church at Antioch says, oh, okay, we've had enough of this. We've got to get this settled. Paul, Barnabas, here's what we want to do. We want you to go up to Jerusalem. We want you to sit down with Peter. We want you to sit down with James and John. Sit down and think this thing through and talk this thing through. We know we're right, but let's let's just get them and see if they agree. Let's get this thing settled. You go up there, have a council with them, come back, tell us what they say, and we're going to set this thing right. Now Here's what the church says to him. Since we're asking you to go, we can't all go. We can't all leave our jobs. We can't all leave the church. But we're asking you to go. As a matter of fact We're going to deputize you to go in our place. They're going to make them deputies. Brother Jared, are you here on deputation? Oh. Brother Williams, are you here on deputation? Oh They're here on deputation. You know why they're here on deputation? Because we're going to send them somewhere. We're going to send you up to Jerusalem, they say to Paul and Barnabas, and because we're asking you to go, hey, it's the church that needs the answer, but we're asking you to go in our place We're going to propimpo you for the journey. We're going to outfit you for the journey. What did that mean? Maybe it meant that they were going to give them some strips so that if they had to stay in an inn They could pay for the inn. Maybe they were going to have to stop for some meals and we'll pay for the meals. Maybe some sweet lady said, hey Barnabas, I notice your cloak is not really warm. I'm gonna make you a new cloak and it'll keep you warm on those on those evenings, and Paul, your samples are flat worn out I'm making I don't know what it meant, but I know this. It meant that the church knew they had a responsibility because they were asking them to go and do something for them to outfit them for that journey. Amen. Now I want you to see how it works for missions. I want you to go up in the book of Romans, go up with me to Romans chapter 15. Notice with me in Romans 15. This is awesome. Romans chapter 15, look at verse 22. For which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you? That's Paul talking. But now Having no more place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come unto you, whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I'll come to you For I trust to see you in my journey and to be brought, there's our word, uh-oh, to be brought on our way thitherward by you, if first I be somewhat filled With your company. What just happened? Well, the Apostle Paul is in a part of the world. He's finishing up what God has for him to do there. He believes God wants him to go to Spain to preach the gospel because he's always about the regions beyond And there's nobody preaching the gospel in Spain. So when he's finished here, he wants to go preach the gospel in Spain, and Rome lies in between where he is and where he wants to go to in Spain. And so he writes this church in Rome and he says, oh, I've heard so much about you and how God is blessing you, how God is using you. Hey, I'm just about done here. I'm going to Spain, and I'm going to come through Rome because I want to meet you. And I want to preach to you, and I'm sure there's things you can teach me. And then he pops it on him. He says, but here's the other motive. I'm going to ask you to propimpo me to Spain. I'm going to ask you to support me, to assist me, to help me financially to get to Spain. You mean Paul asked For money? You know what, Baptist? We need to get over it. Sometimes we act so fearful to talk about a reality. And the reality is it costs money to get missionaries' places. It costs money to sustain them in those places. And not one of these missionaries are in this conference seeking to enrich themselves with what we make and what we give. They are simply seeking to get to the field that God has called them to. And stay with me on this, stay with me on this That field is not their responsibility, it's ours. God told us to reach the Netherlands. God told Mountain Lake Independent Church to reach Puerto Rico. God told this congregation that they are to reach all the way up to Iceland. It is not their responsible. Oh, it's their calling and their responsible to obey God, but it is our responsibility as a local church. It is Heritage Baptist Church of Woodbridge. It is heritage responsibility. That local church was commissioned and God says, I know you can't all leave the church Let me call the Williams, we'll send them to the Netherlands. Let me call the Larsons, we'll send them to Iceland. Let me call Jared Gastrock and his family. We'll send them to Puerto Rico. But it's your responsibility. I'll fit them for the journey. That's cool, isn't it? That's God's idea. And Paul was not shy to say, Will you help me? Will you help me get there? I could show you other places where not only did he ask for himself, but he asked for Timothy. Somehow we have in our mind that the Apostle Paul, all of his ministry, just made tense. And he was bivocational all of his ministry. Can I tell you something? That was the exception, not the rule. It is true that for a period of time he was bivocational. He made tents with Aquila and Priscilla. But I can point out to you where churches like Philippi and Corinth and Thessalonica and Berea gave to him once and again from their own affliction, so that he could do the work of the gospel in the places that God sent him to. Church, I'm just saying that the plan of God is for local churches to support these missionaries because God commissioned us. To preach the gospel both here and there and there and there. Now, having said all that, let me say this. A dollar bill never softened one hard heart. A dollar bill never pulled the scales off of one blind eye. A dollar bill never penetrated one dark culture. No, no, no. The dollar bills get the missionaries there and provide a place for them to live there. But only through the power of prayer do we open blind eyes and unseal hard hearts. Look with me at another passage very quickly. Notice with me in Acts chapter 21. Back to Acts 21. There in Acts twenty one, notice in verse one. It came to pass that after we were gotten from them and had launched, we came with a straight course unto Kus, and the day following unto Rhodes, and from thence unto Patarah And finding a ship sailing over unto Phoenicia, we went aboard and set forth. Now when we had discovered Cyprus, we left it on the left hand, sailed into Syria, and landed at Tyre, for there the ship was to unlaid her burden. And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days, who said to Paul through the Spirit that he should not go up to Jerusalem And when we had accomplished those days, we departed and went our way, and they all, oh, there's our word, brought us. They all propeopled us on our way with wives and children till we were out of the city and we kneeled down on the shore and prayed. And stay with me quick. The ticket is already bought. When it says propimpo in these verses, it's not this church giving him more money. It is them praying for him. Hey, when you took a journey in Bible times, in Paul's time, you didn't call carnival crews or Princess Cruise line, you found a boat that was carrying cargo going the general direction you wanted to and who would eventually get to where you wanted to go, and you rode with them till they got there. Paul says we paid our fare, we got on the first deck, maybe if we were lucky, got on the second deck, and we started off with this ship, he stopped here and unloaded, he stopped here. It was Paul's habit when They would stop. He was going to be there four, five, six days while they unloaded and loaded. Paul's going to minister, man. And so if there's a synagogue, he's going to find a synagogue and preach to the Jews. If there's not a synagogue, he's going to find a church and teach believers and fellowship believers. with believers in this town there was a church. And he goes and he's fellowshipping, preaching, teaching, praying with these people. And God speaks through the Holy Spirit to one of the elders of this church, and they say to him, Paul, don't go. Don't go to Jerusalem, Paul. Paul, there's danger for you in Jerusalem. Hey, the ticket is bought, and Paul's mind is made up. He's going to Jerusalem. But you know what that church did? When it was time when the captain called and said, Hey, we're we're leaving, they accompany him down to the shoreline. And there Because they know that the apostle is heading into the unknown. He's heading into danger. They don't know what that means. They don't know if he's going to be beat. lose his life in prison. They don't know what it means, but they know he's heading into danger. And they do what they need to do. They don't give him more money. They don't give him new sandals. They get on their face and they pray for him. I'm to the grandpa stage of life. It's a pretty good place to be. And I want to tell you, I got a granddaughter. I know you're not supposed to have favorites, but she's kind of back there. She's got a heart for God. She spent all of her Christmas, all the month of December in India, working in an orphanage. She called me and said, Papa, I'm pretty sure God wants me to go to India. You know what I said to her? I said, Lauren, you're my granddaughter. No. I didn't say that. She called me last week, Papa. Can you help me get to Guatemala? I just want to be sure God wants me in India, and I just think if I saw another country, I've got an opportunity to work there for a month with a missionary, I'll just be with that family. Can you help me get I'll tell you my first reaction is that's a dangerous place. And I say, of course I can help you get there. But I'm going to pray for my granddaughter like she's never been prayed for before. Beautiful little girl on a mission field. And I'm just saying this church said, Paul, you shouldn't go. But if you're gonna go, Paul, we want you to know we're going to beg God to protect you. We're gonna pray God's power upon you. We're gonna pray for God to give you wisdom. We're gonna pray for God to give you everything you need to go to that place. Not money. We know you've got the ticket. We know you're going. We're gonna To pray for God to do what only God can do. Send these kids, and that's what these people are to me. They're kids with their kids. We send them into places that they don't know the culture. We send them into the cultures that they don't want what they bring. And if we think that our responsibility ends when we drop a dollar bill into an offering plate, goodness gracious, folks, that begins our responsibility. And we have failed our mission's responsibility. If all that we do is give money, you and I We send these people. They're going because we enable them. And we ought to be on our knees regularly pleading with God to protect and provide and empower and lead and bless all that they do. It's the only way that they'll see people saved. You ought to have a prayer letter and know your missionaries' names. You ought to know their needs. You ought to know their kids' names. Pray. I gotta go quick. Here's the last one. Acts chapter 20, just dropped back a chapter. Same journey, different setting. Look at verse 33. Paul speaking, I've coveted no man's silver, gold, or apparel. Yea, ye yourselves know that these hands have ministered unto my necessities, and to them that were with me. I've showed you all things how that's so laboring you ought to support the weak and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said it is more blessed to give than to receive And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down and prayed with them all. All right, now listen, the ticket has been bought. He's on the journey. They've kneeled down and prayed. We're not talking about money. We're not talking about prayer, but I want you to notice verse 367. And they all wept sore and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him. Notice the sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake. They should see his face no more. Here's our word. And they accompanied him They propinpoed him unto the ship. I'll be as brief as I can in this. And I'm telling you right now, this is the Book of Edwards. It's a great book. This is my mind's eye. Tickets bought. Prayers done. It's time for Paul to go to the ship. And he has said to these people, you probably will never see me again. And the elder of that church, in my mind's eye, he gathers all of them and he says, folks, we're going, we're going to go with Paul. And they walk down to that shoreline and that old apostle gets onto that boat and he turns and he thinks they're going to be dispersing, but in my mind's eye that pastor just holds them there. He said, It's quiet the kids. We're going to stay. Ropes are let go of that ship and begins to drift away from the dock and the pulling the sail up, and the apostle's still there at that rail looking at him. He's thinking, I'm I'm my arm's tired of waving at them. Are they just going to stay there? The pastor says, we're just going to stay. Ship bobs out past the harbor and into the open Mediterranean and begins to bob harder and harder and begins to get further and further away and some of the kids are getting restless and some of the ladies say, Should we go now? And the elder says no. No. And until that ship drops off that horizon and is completely out of view. Then only do they move. And here's what I think in my mind's eye is being done. We may never see your face again. But we will never forget you. I've had the privilege of serving on BIMI's board and now the treasurer of BIMI for 25 years. One of the greatest joys is when I see young couples, thousands over the years, who go to a mission field. We approve them. They give their testimonies just like here, preacher. It's exciting. Just missionary after missionary after missionary. You know what the saddest time is? Is when some of them come home devastated. You say, what brings them home, preacher? War sometimes. What brings them home, preacher? Illness sometimes. You know what really brings them home sometimes? Sense of isolation. Does anybody even know we're here? Does anybody even value what we do? Does anybody even care what we just went through, what we're going through right now? Oh, us pastors are very big on this. You better report to us what you're doing on the field, what we're not so good at is making sure that we stay in touch with them. You know, when my wife and I sent our kids away to college, my wife, she's a mama and a grandma. And when we send our kids away, she would shut their bedroom door, and and she's very Very docile person, very sweet person, but she would look at me and she'd say, Don't open that door till I tell you. Yes, ma'am. My son was on staff for five years when he went to start a church. He shut his office door and said, Don't open that door until I tell you. I said, We need the don't open it. Yes, ma'am. Yes, ma'am. I mean she's going to miss her kids. You know what these folks do? They put their kid on a plane, fly them a continent away to go to college. They may never see him at Thanksgiving. They may not make it home for Christmas. Who can afford five airfares back and forth all the time. I'm just telling you, I'm not asking you to feel sorry for them. I'm asking you to understand their lives are different than ours None of my grandkids or kids ever had a birthday where Mammaw did make it a stop the earth from spinning day. You know, some of these kids in Mozambique, if mommy and daddy don't help them celebrate their birthday, you couldn't go buy a brownie mix. It's the poorest country on earth. We got four families there. Some kid gets sick at two in the morning and you wake up, man, call urgent. There ain't no urgent care. And I'm just saying, sometimes when they go through these things and they never hear from us, They never know if we're praying for them or not. They wonder if anybody ever knows where they are. I just remember that old pastor saying, we're going to go down. We may never see his face again. We will pray for him. We will remember him. And folks, you and I Have the responsibility of more than just dropping a dollar in a plate. We've got the responsibility of praying for them and knowing them. Your pastor I hope you know you got a good one. He's a good man and his emphasis every night is know the missionaries, know the missionaries, know the missionaries. Can I tell you there's no people happier to hear that than the missionaries? That somebody would actually know them and where they're going and what they're doing and what they go through. Hey, I've got a cell phone in my pocket. I can be in touch, my beautiful wife is on there. I can be in touch with literally anybody on the planet in seconds. I hate this thing. What a tool. What an incredible tool to be used for God. I can email, I can know that it is. Abigail's birthday. When'd your birthday Abigail? When? Seventh February? Oh, I missed it. I can know that. And and I can't afford to send a brownie mix or a cake, but I can send an email. And say, Abigail, you turned fourteen in February. You almost made leap year, Abigail. The simplest things that say, I know you're there, and it matters to me that you're there. Folks, here's all I'm saying. God has a plan for missions. It's a great plan. Go baptize them. Make disciples, baptize them, teach them, do it everywhere, do it where you live, but do it all across the globe. And listen Propimpo them, send them your responsible local church, but send them, deputize them to go in your place, and for goodness sake understand they've got to be undergirded in prayer. Pray for them. And with the tools that we have, let them know you care about them. What a team. The church and its missionary. And it was God's idea And it still works today. Now here's the invitation. Have you prayed about what you're going to give? Have you truly made it a spiritual journey? Don't just give out of your abundance. Really make it a matter of prayer. Hey, do you consistently pray for them? Pastors got letters that are probably posted somewhere. Find you a missionary. Find two or three. Get that letter and know their needs and know their names and then communicate with them. Goodness gracious, we can find five minutes to pen an email. And that simple email might get there providentially at the moment when that lady is about ready to say What am I doing here? Does anybody care? That missionary might have just had seven people walk out after he'd invested a year in them, and it might just get there right at the moment when he's gonna throw up his hands and And say, nobody eat uh what's this? Oh. Okay. I don't know what God can do. God's smarter than me. Is he smarter than you? But God has a plan. Get in the plan. Would you pray with me? Father, we thank you for your blessings. God, you are so good to us. And Lord, I pray that you would convict our hearts tonight, not just about giving, but Lord, would you speak to us about our giving? Would you remind us that it's to be prayerful, that it's to be sacrificial? And Lord, not only our giving, but God, are we failing in praying for these people that we send in our place? Boy, if they were our granddaughters, we'd pray for them. If they were our children, we'd pray for them, but these are just people that came to our church. No, they're people that we deputized and sent. They are our family. And God, are we good about caring about Him? Trying to encourage Him? Lord, if we are not where we need to be on those things, would you prick our hearts right now? And help us to purpose, to be right in our giving, to grow in our praying, and to make a project of encouraging the people we send. Convict our hearts, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen