Well it's great to be here, is it not? I love this place, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, and I appreciate so much the uh the pastor, uh Pastor Leatherman, uh tremendous preacher. I I appreciate him so much. And uh outstanding services last night. Outstanding. That wanted that got me wanting to be back in the fight for my Savior. I've seen a lot of my friends drop out. A lot of my friends drop out this year. So much so that I put up on my Facebook forgive me, I've got Facebook. I uh put up on my Facebook Until I drop because of age or disease, I want to remain a good soldier for my Savior. Amen to that. Sing with me, this little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine. This little light of mine, I'm gonna let it shine This little light of mine I'm gonna let it shine, let it shine, let it shine, let it shine everywhere I go, I'm gonna let it shine everywhere I go. I'm gonna let it shine everywhere I go. I'm gonna let it shine, let it shine, let it shine, let it shine. Oh, that all of us would let our light shine for our Amen. I thank the Lord for the sword of the Lord. I've been taking the magazine, the newspaper since I was a boy. And I've saved many, many, many, many issues of them, devouring them, and they have been a tremendous help to me. I went to Bible college, but I'll tell you, on church um staff that I learned so much about the ministry and And the soul of the Lord has been such an aid to me all through these years. And I appreciate Dr. Smith and I appreciate Dr. Belcher so much. Um God lets us do this little magazine, and it's a little surreal for me this morning This magazine. If you look on the front cover at the bottom, it says John Reynolds resigns. Look on the front cover, John Reynolds resigns. Oh my That sounds controversial. Well, uh twenty-two years ago John Reynolds was on staff at the sword of the Lord called me And interviewed me. I didn't even know it. I was so dumb I didn't even know it was an interview. You know what I'm saying? And uh the next issue of the sword of the Lord, 22 years ago, came out and said on page three, it says, big letters Byron Fox resigns, so I got him back, okay? That issue of the sword of the Lord. God used that issue of the sword of the Lord in 1994 That titled, Byron Fox Resigns. God used that article. I got 18 meetings out of that article. The second person called me was Tom Wallace, who was the pastor at that time of Franklin Road Baptist Church. And uh I had one meeting scheduled, and he saw the article, and so he called me. I'd left singing for him in a couple of meetings, and so He called me. He said, Brother Fox, I see you're available. I want to schedule you for a meeting. I said, Wonderful, I want to come He said, do you have such and such date available? I said, well, let me check my calendar. Now I had one meeting. But it was in the same month he was asking for. I wanted to make sure I didn't double book right away, you know what I'm saying? And praise the Lord, it was a different date. And uh I had my second meeting, and so when I first put out my itinerary that um that I was going to Franklin Road Baptist Church. That helped me. The sword of the Lord has helped me. And praise God for all of these things. Amen. And this is the Lord's meeting, is it not? The Lord Jesus is the commander of all of us. He's leading the Sword of the Lord. He's leading Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. He's leading the God Bless America magazine. He's leading Bible truth music. All these things. I so appreciate. Some of the things that Dr. Smith said today. And in regard to music, I am going to preach about music this morning. Ephesians, if you would turn with me. The book of Ephesians quickly. Ephesians chapter 5 And as you're finding your place, and I'll be brief this morning, as you're finding your place, if Bible truth music can be of help to you, we want to. This brand new hymn that we're singing, it's about 12 weeks old. Speak to us, we pray. That is what we want the Lord to do in this service. Amen to that. We want God to speak to us through the Bible, through his servant. And this new hymn, anyone who wants to make copies of it, you may. You can go to our website and get a little cleaner copy. uh perhaps and uh download it. Over 101,000 people have come to the website the last 12 weeks and downloaded the song. It's free. Go right to our website, Bible Truthmusic. com I'm amazed 101,000 people have already downloaded. That's amazing to me. And I want everyone to sing it to God. Speak to us, we pray. And I've seen God answer that prayer. That is a prayer. If you want God to speak to you, get the Bible out, ask Him to speak to you, and He will Amen. I saw it again today. You know, I I hear about people saying, Boy, I hope we get a breakthrough. I hope we get a breakthrough. Man, you can have a breakthrough every day Get your Bible out. Pray and say, Help me, Lord. And if you'll let him, he'll help you. We've got all these CDs back there. We've got 259,000 pieces of music in our warehouses right now, 17 tons of hymn nulls. 17 tons of hymnals. So if you need a ton of hymnals, we'll help you, okay? Talk to me. We'll be glad to help you. And uh I do believe that Christian homes need Christian music. I don't need help sinning. All this sinful music promoting drunkenness I despise it. And the music of the today promoting immorality like it's okay, it is not okay. The Bible's still right. God is still right. Purity is still right. Amen. Hallelujah. And some good, godly music will help you live a godly, noble, dedicated Christian life. Our CDs back here are any size donation while I'm here. You go to our website, they're $15. I think that's high, don't y'all Well y'all are being nice today. You don't think it's too high, thank you. We did spend $100,000 on this series. of Bible songs for kids. We uh I hired um a world-class graphic artist uh to do the covers. This is the word of God set to music for boys and girls across our country I took aim, as best our little group can do, to do our dead level best for the Lord. And we put 175 scripture passages to music. What's learned in song is remembered long. I remember little songs when I was six years old. And I want our boys and girls, 65 million boys and girls in America, 65 million. I want all of them to learn the Word of God And one great way is through music. I wish you would, I don't know, I wish you'd get a thousand of these. I'll make you great deals on these. We've got to pay for the duplication of the royalties But I'm I mean it. And I've said that numbers of times and I've had businessmen get a thousand of these at a time and give them away to boys and girls throughout their community Do something in the cause of Christ. Do something big. Let's do some great and mighty works like what we heard about that could have taken place there in Nazareth if they had believed. Belief is the key. Do we believe God? Do we? I want to put my faith in him. My faith has found a resting place, not in device or creed. So we've got these song books that the choir is learning out of this week New book coming out in um in January, all these things. You got your you've got your place now, right? Book of Ephesians. Let's get to let's get to the Bible. Praise the Lord. In the book of Ephesians, chapter 5 The Bible says in verse 16, Redeeming the time, because the days are evil. No doubt about that. Verse 18: be not drunk with wine. Wherein is excess, but be filled with the Spirit. And then verse 19. Yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual psalms, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord Verse 19 is one of many, many verses in the Bible about music. Music is talked about in the book of Genesis The first music teacher is found there in the book of Genesis. His name is Jubal, J-U-B-A-L. You read on through the Bible, you find out that Moses was a song writer Exodus chapter 15 is a song that Moses wrote. They had just walked over on dry ground. God Almighty had parted the waters. And what a victory. And Moses wanted to make sure that everyone remembered what God had done. And it was set to music. And they sang about it. The song of Moses is still being talked about. You read the book of Revelation, it's still talked about. Amazing. On and on through the Bible. The book of Psalms is basically a song book. David No one's name appears in the Bible more than David. David's name appears in the Bible more than anyone else. He's a great warrior, he's a king, he's a man of prayer, but he's a great musician. It was David who went before Saul. Saul was troubled and an evil spirit. And David played. And Saul was refreshed. Results, you know. Saul was refreshed. You read on in the Bible, the book of Jesus says that stars sang at creation. Mmm, it was music at creation. Amen. I like it. I like creation. I wouldn't know how this world got here without the Bible But I've got a copy of the Bible. Someone came by my door just a week or so ago trying to get me to vote for a certain candidate running for president and I I'm not going to vote for that person But um I said to the young man, he's twenty-five years old, I said, I'm so sorry you've been lied to so many times. And he said, What? I said, Oh, you just graduated from that school over there. I said, that school has been lying to you I said they taught you this evolution. I said been taught at all 128,219 schools in America. I said evolution is not true. I said, son, there's a God in heaven. And I began to preach to him. He asked me if I was Billy Graham. Well no, I'm not. I'm not ninety-seven years old. I just look it, you know. Been getting senior discounts since I was forty-one. I've looked old all my life. Oh, but music's in the Bible. Jesus sang. We find Jesus Silas being on them who cast a dick that we've been making money on and and they beat them and and put them in prison and midnight and what are they doing? Well they're down there praising God and they're singing You cannot defeat a singing Christian. And what a miracle takes place that night. And the warden gets saved that night. Praise the Lord. Many shall see it and fear and shall trust in the Lord. That's a verse about music in the Bible. 330 Bible, 754 references to music in the Bible. So much in the Bible. Well, I want to preach just a little while this morning about God's revival music. God's Bible music. May I make a few more introductory remarks? Let me say this. Nothing exposes indifference in a congregation. Like half-hearted congregational singing. When it's time for the congregation to sing, that book Stand up and sing with all you've got. Amen to that. Sing to the Lord. Sing for the Lord. Sing about the Lord. Amen to that. I don't like half-hearted anything. I want Sunday school to be wide open, don't y'all? I want everything we do. When the preacher gets up here, I want him to preach with all he's got. I want him to have gotten in that prayer closet, met with the Lord, got a message from God, and get up here and deliver it. And when it's time for singing. It's not time for it to be ho-hum and mechanical and plain and just simply ordinary. No, it ought to be the best we can do for our Lord. And the kind of singing in a church reveals a lot to me about a church, what they're singing and how they're singing it. Oh, I don't want our church to become worldly. Amen. Worldly in the way we speak? No. No. The preacher here ought to speak with propriety, with good taste. Amen to that. I've heard some things from a pulpit that I don't think ought to be said from a pulpit No, I think when we're representing the Lord, we should do our best and speak properly and correctly in that situation. I believe we ought to have the right deportment. I think we ought to look right. I think we ought to act like act right. Amen to all of these things And the music in our church. I'm not interested in worldly music. Amen to that. I want it to be distinctly Christian. Now we've got lots of variety in our music that's appropriate We've got some that some folks classify as highbrow. The Lord is my light and by salvation Whom then shall I fear? Whom then shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. That's a little highbrow But I still like it. It's the Bible. And then we've got some that's a little more what they call common folk music I'm in love with my Savior and He's in love with me. I like somebody loves me, answers my prayer. There's a big variety in our music within the realm of what is right and tasteful and good for our church. Now I want to talk about a little more specific God's revival music. Well, number one, I'm going to give you a little outline. Number one, God's revival music will proclaim biblical truth. God's revival music will proclaim biblical truth. I'm not interested in a song that gets up here and uh is contrary to the word of God. I'm not interested. I don't care how nice the tune is How beautiful the harmonies are, how the form of the music is. If it's contrary to this book, I don't want it. Amen to that. Now we've had some of that That's why every song ought to be scrutinized before it's sung from up here. When I published that hymn though, man, I put on a different pair of glasses Man, uh looking at these hymnals, um Let me reveal a little bit. And I know I have believed. Who's it written by a hyper-Calvinist? I'm not a hyper-Calvinist. I'm not a Calvinist. I'm a little hyper at times. A little wound up at times. But there's no Calvinism in that song, so I put the song in. And you didn't even know that about the song in all likelihood. Most people don't. But boy, I began looking at things different Because I'm going to stand before God. Because that Hymn know. I tried to take my responsibility seriously. I prayed, I fasted, I asked good counsel Now my Lord's perfect, I'm not perfect. That hymnal's not perfect, but we try to do our dead level best for our Lord. Amen to that I'm not interested in poor doctrine being sung from up here. I was in a good church, a good church. Wonderful church. And they had me working with their choir and they bought a new piece of music from some other publisher. And um they said, Brother Fox, help us learn this song. Well, I really didn't have time to study the music like I liked to before the rehearsal. They just handed it to me, and I was supposed to read music and read English and all that sort of thing. So I'm up trying to teach the song, along with other music and so forth. I'm teaching this song and it dawns on me. This song has baptismal regeneration in the song. Now I'm not interested in that. I said, oh, I said, friends, I just have just now beginning to struggle with this song. I said, uh I I think whoever has bought this song uh probably uh didn't notice because I know that church would not on purpose bought a song that would teach that because they don't believe that. They're against that because it's it's wrong. And so now look I'm a steward. I said, let's rewrite the words. So we was trying to rewrite the words to make them doctrinally correct. You know what I'm saying? Because now my you know I say I'm frugal. My wife says I'm cheap. But anyway You know, I'm trying to salvage that music. Finally, I said, friends, I said, I don't want to say this. I said, but the best thing we can do with this piece of music is throw it away We're not going to sing it just because we bought it. It's not a proper doctrine song. So we're not going to do that. Amen to that. God's revival music will proclaim the truth. It will teach the Bible. Colossians 3:16, let the Word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. Teaching and admonishing one another. How? In psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts of the Lord. So what are these songs that we sing at church? What are they going to be teaching? They're going to be teaching the Bible. Psalm 119, verse 11, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. Luke 4, 4, Jesus answered him saying, It is written that man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God. I want our songs to be Bible-based and Christ-centered 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine For reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, truly furnished unto all good works. The music of our churches must be in accordance with the Bible. Amen. And God's revival music will proclaim biblical truth. Number two, God's revival music will preach Jesus. There's one that we're lifting up today. His name is Jesus. There's a lot of topics that music has. Good music, good Christian music, God's revival music. It has a lot of topics. We're going to sing about prayer. Sweet hour of prayer. Oh, have you been in that prayer closet and and just that means it's just sweet. Now the devil fights me at my prayer time too. I think the devil fights me more at my prayer time than any other time But oh sweet hour of prayer. So we'll sing about we'll sing about prayer. We'll sing about the Holy Spirit. Oh, spread the tidings round. Wherever man is found, oh I like that song about the Holy Ghost. The Comforter has come. Oh, I like it. All these topics that we sing about, the soon return of Christ and and uh but oh about the gospel more than anything else because the whole Bible is the gospel. And the Bible says it this way. Acts twelve, neither is there salvation in any other For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. So, yes, we're going to sing about Jesus. There is a name I love to hear. I love to sing its worth. It sounds like music in my ear, the sweetest name on earth. Oh, how I love Jesus. I like it There's within my heart a mellow day. We get to the chorus. Jesus, Jesus, Jesus I know that every line of every song that we sing at church, every line does not have Jesus by name. Not every line. But you know that's who we're singing about, don't you? He's we sing about him, sing about him, we sing about him. Why? Well John 12 32, Jesus said, I, if I be lifted up from the earth Will me. Yeah. Second Corinthians four and verse five, we preach not ourselves But Christ Jesus the Lord. Ourselves are servants for Jesus' sake. I'm not interested in this puppet song after song after song and saying it's a Christian song and never talking about Jesus. I'm not interested in that. I want Jesus, my Savior, to be lifted up in our music. Number one, God's revival music. Number one, it will proclaim biblical truth. Number two, it will preach Jesus. Three, God's revival of music will praise God. It will praise God. Psalm one hundred fifty, which is a song. Psalm one fifty says it this way, praise ye the Lord Praise God in his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmum of his power. Praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him according to To his excellent greatness. And that song, Psalm 150, ends this way Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. So when we sing these great hymns Holy, holy, holy, Lord God Almighty. Let's sing praise to our Lord. Let's worship Him. Well, why should we be worshiping Him? Well, we ought to worship Him because of simply who He is. All of His attributes. Psalm 148 Verse thirteen says it this way Let them praise the name of the Lord, for His name alone is excellent. His glory is above all the earth and heaven We praise God in our songs because of who he is and because of what God does. What does God do Psalm 139, I will praise thee, for I am fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that my soul knoweth right well. Last month I worked hard and prepared a doctrinal sermon. I'm under conviction. I'm under conviction that one thing our country desperately needs is doctrinal preaching. I'm deep under conviction. And I preach from that text. Jeremiah 32, verse 17, Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth. By thy great power and stretch that arm. And there is nothing too hard for thee. I tried to preach a doctrinal message on God. When you start a study of our great God, you begin to realize how puny and little we are. God doesn't need me. I need him. Why does God relate to me and you? Why does God relate to me and you? I'll tell you why. Because he wants to. He doesn't need me to defend him. I mean I get up in the pulpit and I say, I believe the Bible. Yeah, I say that, but he doesn't need me to defend his Bible. He's he's he's certainly capable of defending his Bible. As a young evangelist, I went into evangelism and I said, I'm going to loan you my influence. I'm going to promote you and so forth. I can loan influence to a fellow like that. I can't loan any influence to God. He has all the influence. Oh God Almighty, we need to be praising Him. And as a congregation and as a family and as a Christian, one thing that we ought to have is some good revival music That helps us praise God because of who he is, because of what he does, because of what God says. Psalm 199 19 verse 171, My lips shall utter praise when thou hast taught me thy statutes. One more, Psalm 107, verse 15. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men. Number one, God's revival music proclaims biblical truth. Number two, God's revival music preaches Jesus. Number three, God's revival music praises the Lord. And then lastly, God's revival music prods the believers. It motivates us. It stimulates us. It's a catalyst. It moves us along. At Bible Truth Music, I've probably told you that we've got lots of sayings there at Bible Truth Music. We try to under promise and overproduce and uh all these different little sayings that I I can start the saying and they can finish it. Uh sometimes now just use abbreviations. I'll say some of those young kids there. MIH That means make it happen. David, look at me. MIH boy. Yeah. We want everybody making it happen. Well, one saying that God gave me a long time ago for Bible Truth music. We want to produce music that touches people's head, their heart, and their volition. Their head. We're going to touch their head with Bible facts. I serve a risen Savior. He's in the world today. I serve what kind of Savior? A risen Savior A risen Savior. That's a fact, man. Amen. If there was no resurrection, there'd be no salvation. It wasn't hard though. It was not hard for God. It was not a hardship for God to raise his son from the dead. I serve a risen Savior. What kind of tune is that? Ta-da ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta ta. Well that's not a dirge. That's not sad That's not depressed. No, no, that's joyful. That's triumphant. Yeah. That music is telling my heart something good. Something good. This is good news. You know, let me tell you something There's a technical word. There is a technical word for music that does not touch your emotions. There is a technical word for music that does not touch your emotions. Here's the technical word: boring. There's an alternative word. Drab. Dull. Uninteresting. Now we don't want wildfire, but it's good news. Jesus rose from the dead. And good music will speak to your heart. It will speak to your volition, your will. I want our music to help folks choose right. We're either getting closer to God or we're getting farther away. That's the two choices Only two choices on the shelf, choosing God or choosing self. You've heard the little poem? It's true. I want some music that'll help me choose the right way. Good Christian music will help you make the right choices. Good Christian music will bring you under conviction. It'll lead you to commitment. I am resolved no longer to linger. Boy, that song will lead you to some commitments It ought to be committed to our Lord. Take my life and let it be. That next word. Consecrated, Lord, to thee. Consecrated Oh, don't you want to be consecrated to the Lord today? Wholly dedicated to him? Good Christian music will bring you into close communion with the Lord. I heard Dr. Smith as he preached Sunday morning. He said as he drove over here that morning, he was saying to God, Oh, yes. Just you and that vehicle and the Lord, sing to him, commune with him. In fact, the Bible, the Bible has lots of instructions in it. From God, divine instructions. Here's a divine instruction. Sing to the Lord That's an imperative. It's not a suggestion. God wants you to sing to him. And I'll tell you this, good Christian music can bring a lot of comfort to your heart. The last two days I've had two of my buddies die. Sunday, my 50-year-old buddy Ben had cardiac arrest and died. Yesterday, one of my missionary friends, Bobby, he had been in the hospital. He died. He's with the Lord. Death's an enemy of man. The Bible says so. The Bible says that the last enemy God's going to defeat and destroy is death. And I reminded both those widows of that passage in the Bible that God one day is going to destroy it. We go to our funerals and we have preaching, but we have some music too, don't we? There's a land that is fairer than day. That's not a little trite song, is it? No, it's the truth. Would you bow your heads for a moment? Let's all make some commitments to God right now to have the right kind of music in our homes, in our lives, and in our churches. Preachers. Don't violate your conscience. Don't go against your good discernment and introduce some music into your church that you would later regret. No. And then all of us, let's not Let's not have poor effort in our music when it comes to congregational singing. Make up your mind you're going to participate. Let your little light shine. Grandmamas, your grandchildren hearing you sing to God. I'm telling you God can use that. Granddad Your grandchildren ought to see you come to the altar some and carrying some gospel tracts in your pocket, and they ought to know you read the Bible and pray. But they ought to hear you sing for God. Dear Lord, please continue to work in this meeting. I pray you'd bless Brother Smith as he travels and Dr. Belker as he's going to preach. And thank you, Lord, for our pastor. And I pray, Lord, that you're pleased with all of this. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, Brother Pop. Yes, sir. You know we have to decide that our music is a good idea.