This morning to Second Kings chapter number four if you'll find that passage in your Bible and while you're turning there I'd like to thank Pastor Leatherman and his good wife and this church for the wonderful privilege to be a part of your uh two thousand nine uh missions conference and we have had some great days and we thank God for it and uh this is a good church. I want to encourage you if you're not a part of this church you ought to make this your church home How many of you understand everybody needs a church home? Everybody needs a church home. It's in the Bible. Everybody needs a church home. I heard about this fellow on this deserted island. He'd been there for years, didn't think he'd ever get off, and one day, as he's laying out underneath one of those trees, he looks up and he sees this little Cessna plane Circling overhead, he gets so excited, he jumps up, he's waving his arms and so on. And believe it or not, that plane landed on that deserted island. Fellow got off the plane and said, We're here to take you home He said, I can't believe it. I've been here for all these years, never thought anybody would ever find me. I can't believe it. The fellow who got off the plane said, uh, is there anybody else on this island except you? He said, No, I'm the only one. He said, Well that's odd because when we were landing we saw three huts. Can you explain that? He said, I can. He said, that first hut is where I live. He said, oh okay. He said the second hut is where I go to church. He said, okay. He said the third hut that's where I used to go to church Sometimes people think that the problem in the church is somebody else, but it's really themselves. Did you know that? If you ever find a perfect church, please don't join it. You'll ruin it, okay? Everybody needs a church home. If you live in this community, you ought to make this your church home. Pastor didn't say anything about the the uh the meeting tonight. He's going to, I know, a little later on But uh this church is going to have an international banquet tonight. Man, I'm telling you, the Baptist motto is Eat Huh? Fellowship. And so I hope you'll be here tonight as we eat and as we preach a little bit. Have a great night tonight. I hope that you'll be a part of what the Lord is doing. I heard about um heard about these kids in show and tell in kindergarten and uh they the teacher asked them to bring uh to show and tell the next day something that they could show and tell the other classmates uh about their religion. Little girl stood up, held up a crucifix, and said, um My name is Maria, and I'm Catholic, and this is a crucifix. Little boy stood up and he said, My name is Daniel. He says, this is a star of David, and I'm Jewish. Then a little boy stood up, he said, My name is Johnny, I'm a Baptist. This is a casserole Amen. So tonight we're gonna have a Baptist meeting. And we're gonna have an international international supper. You know, faith promise missions giving, I believe, is your part in God's program. Your part in God's program. The world is God's program. The Bible says the field is the world. 6. 7 billion people. Alive right now in God's world. You know how many God loves? God loves all of them. Do you? Do I? Faith, promise, missions giving is your part in God's program. Everybody doing something. Can you say that with me? Everybody doing something. And everybody doing something more than they've ever done before. It is never as much as God can do, because God can do anything It is always as much as we will allow God to do. And God is only limited by our unbelief. Or by our disobedience. And so today I hope that you'll prove the sincerity of your love. Any way you want to give to missions, as long as it's not illegal or unethical, is an okay way. But faith promised missions giving is the best way. The best way. And you're going to fill out a commitment card today, and I want you to understand something. You cannot bluff God. How many of you ever bluffed yourself out of a situation, you know? I mean you got into something real deep and then, man, you wiggled out of it. Weren't you glad you were able to do that? Heard about these two fellows walking their dogs in New York City? One guy was walking a German Shepherd and his buddy was walking a Chihuahua It was lunchtime. They said, let's go in this restaurant to eat. And they headed into this restaurant and they noticed on the door the sign that said, no pets allowed. I said, man, what are we going to do? And the fellow with the German shepherd said, I know what I'm going to do. And he pushed the door open. He walked in with his dog. And the owner said, Hey, you can't come in here with that dog. He said, It's my scene. I dog. He said, I'm sorry, sir, have a seat His buddy's outside watching this whole thing happen. He's got this chihuahua and he says, Man, if he can do it, I can do it too. He opens the door and walks in with this chihuahua. The owner says, Hey, you can't come in here with that dog. He said, It's my seeing eye dog He says, What do you mean, seeing I dog? It's a chihuahua. The guy says, What do you mean? They gave me a chihuahua? Yeah, you might be good enough to bluff your way in and out of certain situations, but God knows our hearts today. God knows our motive. God knows our bank account. God knows our plans, our goals. He knows what we really love. Hey He knows who we really are. My message today is a faith promise message from 2 Kings chapter number 4. You'll notice beginning at verse number 1, the Bible says, Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying Thy servant, my husband, is dead. And thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord. The creditor is come to take unto him my two sons to be bondmen. Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee? Tell me, what hast thou in the house? And she said, Thine handmaid hath not anything in the house save a pot of oil Then he said, Go borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors, even empty vessels, borrow not a few. And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons, and shalt pour out into all those vessels. And thou shalt set aside that which is full. So she went from him and shut the door upon her, and upon her son. She brought the vessels to her, and she poured out. And it came to pass when the vessels were full that she said unto her son, Bring me yet a vessel. And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more, and the oil stayed. Then she came and told the man of God, and he said, Go sell the oil and pay thy debt, and live thou and thy children. of the rest. I want us to think this morning about this subject. God's oil business. God's oil business. And in our text I want us to notice a few things. The first thing I want us to see in verse number one is the crisis. The crisis. The Bible says there cried a certain woman of the wise of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying, Thy servant, my husband, is dead. And thou knowest that thy servant did fear the Lord, and the creditor is come to take unto him my two sons to be bondmen. In verse number one, we're introduced to a preacher's wife. Her dream has collapsed. She has just left the cemetery. And in the cemetery is a fresh grave. The body of her deceased husband is buried there. Not only do we have the death here of her husband, a dead preacher, but the Bible says as she leaves that cemetery and as she heads home. She's facing the fact that she has a heavy financial debt. There's no way, there's no way humanly possible that this lady can pay that debt So she's got a burden heart. In fact, she's got a broken heart. Her husband has died. And now she's got a battle to face, an uphill climb. How in the world can she pay this debt? And the Bible says the creditors have no sympathy. The creditors are not kind. In fact, they want payment. And I'm sorry, ma'am, for the situation you find yourself in. But if you can't pay the debt, we are going to take your sons to be our bondmen, our bond slaves. Do I have to remind you this morning? I don't think I do, but we are in a crisis in this world. Amen. And it's a crisis that compels us. Myssiologists tell us that we'd have to win about 200,000 people a day to Jesus Christ just to break even. The three elements of the crisis in verse number one is the death of a parent. The second element, the debt that had to be paid. The third element, bondage, because of the inability to pay the debt. I think the applications are apparent, are they not? The Bible says that in Adam all die. Friend, if you don't know Jesus Christ today, you need to trust the Lord Jesus. The Bible says in Adam all die. We are sinners. Because of our forefather Adam and death that has passed upon all men, for all have sinned. And there is a debt that has to be paid. The wages of sin is death. And friend, in this world, maybe in this room today, are people that are in bondage because of that debt. In bondage, in slavery, I mean literally in bondage to sin and to Satan. Having no hope, the Bible says, no hope without God. in this world. What a crisis we have today. And the Bible says this this woman cries unto the prophet in verse 1, Elisha. She turns to the man of God. She turns to the one who's supposed to have a message of hope. She turns to the one for some answers. And friend, I want to tell you today, the Church of Jesus Christ Better have some answers in the world of crisis that we live in. There is a crisis. I want you to notice secondly the question. Verse 2, the Bible says, Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee? Tell me, what hast thou in the house? Elisha says, What can I do for you? And by the way, what do you have in your house? She speaks back to the prophet. She says, Thine handmaid hath not anything in the house. Notice these words, save a pot of oil. The prophet says, What do you have? What do you have? She says, I don't have anything really except a pot of oil. Now, the truth is, ladies and gentlemen. In comparison to the need, the heavy debt, the inability to pay, the fact that the creditors were there to Possibly even confiscate her property. We don't know that for sure, but definitely to take her sons. In light of the need What she had did not seem to be very significant, did it? I have a pot of oil. And the truth is, God asked us today, sir, what do you have? Lady, what do you have? And what we have often seems to be very insignificant. And the truth is there are people here today that are actually thinking that the answer to the needs lies beyond what we have But I want to remind you, if God is going to do something, he will most likely start with what we have. The Macedonians gave to their power. What do you have? And friend, today, as God asks the question, what do you have? I want you to think about what God has put into your hand. I want you to think about what you have. You say, oh I don't have anything. All I have is a pot of oil. And I say, that's enough. Moses, what's in your hand? It's just a rod, just a staff, just a crude shepherd's stick. That'll be enough That can part the Red Sea. What do you have in your hands, son? I I I don't have much. I just have a lunch, five small loaves and two small fishes That'll be okay, that'll be enough. We can feed 5,000 men, plus women and children. What do you have in your hand? Can I ask you today, what did Jesus have after his earthly life, after his death on the cross, after his burial, after his resurrection? After his ascension, the Bible says in Acts chapter 1, there were 120 people gathered in an upper room. A hundred and twenty people? We have more than that here today. A hundred and twenty people? That's it. Yes, and those 120 people, the Bible says, marched into the world and turned the world upside down. And we are here today because they looked at what they had. By the way, this is a widow in our text, isn't it? Testimony that everybody can do something. What do you have? God took care of her. Before we get too possessive about what we think we have, let's remember something. We really don't have anything. But God owns everything. We get possessive of our things, don't we? Hey, that's fine. That's my parking spot. Why is he sitting in my pew? Oh, when did you pay for it? Heard about this lady in Christmas season. I know what it's like here Christmas season going to the mall, I mean you take your life in your hand And uh she she had been shopping, she had several bags in her hand, and she went down to the um the food court area there and it was just Boom, and everybody was there. And and uh she got a little pack of cookies and a cup of coffee and she's she's kind of managing that in her hands, got her bags in her arms, she's trying to find a place to sit down And she can't find a place to sit down, and lo and behold, she finally decides that she'll sit down at this table where a man is already seated She sits down at this table, she gets her stuff laid aside and her coffee and everything, and and to her amazement, if you can believe this, this man reaches out and takes a cookie and starts eating it. And she is astounded. She's just staring at him. And he's kind of looking at her like, why are you looking at me like that? And then she reaches out and takes a cookie and she starts eating it and staring at him and he stops shooting and starts staring at her. And here they are, eating those cookies, staring at each other. They both reached out and grabbed the last one and they're looking at each other. She put it down, she grabbed her bags, left her coffee there, she was so upset, she stormed out of the mall, she got into the parking lot, and when she reached to get her keys for her car, she found her pack of cookies. I can imagine what that man said when he got home that afternoon about the lady he met in the mall Hey, before you get too upset with God about how bad things are, just remember who really owns it? And the Bible tells us, Alisha asks this lady the question, what do you have in your house? All I have, she says, is a pot of oil. I want you to notice thirdly the command. The Bible says in verse 3, he said, Go borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbors. Even empty vessels. Notice these words, borrow not a few. The command, go and borrow vessels. Now, you and I would think that's a good command, but wait a second, it gets kind of foolish here when the prophet says Borrow empty vessels. If I need gasoline, what good is an empty gas can? Go and borrow vessels. Oh, praise God. Yeah, let's let's go. Empty vessels. What good's an empty offering plate? Go and borrow empty Vessels. Now wait a second. If you're a student of the Bible, you know that sometimes, in fact, I shouldn't say sometimes, often When God is about to do some amazing, powerful, miraculous things, he starts off with what we think is foolish. Noah, I want you to build an ark. What? What's an ark? It's gonna rain. What's rain? Abraham, I want you to leave. Er the Chaldees, alright? Where are we going? I can't tell you. Hey Sarah, we're moving. Where are we going? I don't know. Typical man. I tell you what though, we never ask for directions, amen. Say you're lost? No, I know right wherever I met him here in this car Someone said that's why Moses went around for 40 years there when he has direction I got me a GPS, amen? It's got a female voice on it. I refuse to listen to her. All she says to me over and over is recalculating, recalculating, make a U-turn, recalculating Hey Joshua, what are you doing? I'm doing what God said. What did God say? God said, march around this city seven times. What? What kind of military strategy is that? Gideon, what are you doing? I'm sending all these men home. You are nuts. Hey, Naaman. You think you can get cured of leprosy by tunking yourself in a muddy river? How foolish! And yet the Bible tells us that God often gives us commands that you and I we think are strange, and the world would look upon people that came to church Wednesday night and Thursday night And Friday night and went out yesterday on an outreach day and came Sunday morning and they'll come back Sunday night and they'll make a financial commitment in an economic time of difficulty and you'll give money that your church won't even keep for themselves, but they'll send it all away. And they'll say, man, that's dumb. That's strange. And you know what's even more bothersome than that? There are some Christians who don't know the heart of God, and they'll think this is strange. Go and borrow empty vessels and make sure you don't borrow just a few. Get a bunch of empty vessels. I think her neighbors were sympathetic to her, don't you? I mean when those boys walked down the street, headed up the driveway, knocked on the door, said, Hello ma'am, my mom sent me here and uh you know we're having a tough time, my dad died, and Um we've got some debts we're trying to pay and my mom my mom sent me here to see if you had any vessels. Oh, yeah, I'll be glad to help. And she come oh I'm I'm sorry, ma'am. We need all your empty vessels You want my empty you want empty vessels? Yeah, we need your empty vessels. Okay. I have I have six here. You can have six. Oh thank you, ma'am. Thank you. We'll bring them back. Thank you. She gets on the phone. Edith. Hmm. Start Edith in your church. Do you know what? As she was obeying the command, she was exercising faith in God's word. Exercising faith in God's word. And I want you to notice the miracle in verse four. The Bible says, And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons, and shalt pour out into all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full. So she went from him and shut the door upon her and upon her sons, who brought the vessels to her, and she poured out. And it came to pass when the vessels were full that she said unto her son, Bring me yet a vessel, and he said unto her, There is not a vessel more. And the oil stayed. Wow, what a miracle! Absolutely unbelievable This is one of the replays I want to see when I get to heaven. I mean, I want to honestly watch all those empty vessels stacked up there. And I want to watch that pot of oil as she pours out. Whoa, look at that. Wow, look at that. And and it just and and and she says, Bring me another vessel, and and her son says, Um, that's all we have, Mom. And isn't it interesting? It's never as much as God can do. Because God can do anything. It is always as much as we will allow God to do. And God is only limited by our unbelief or by our disobedience. And friend God is able to fill up empty vessels, but he won't do it unless you're willing to believe him and bring those empty vessels. I look after myself. Well then God will let you. God will let you What a wonderful miracle. I want you to see finally today the second blessing. The second blessing, verse 7. Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, Go sell the oil and pay thy debt. And live thou thy children of the rest. You say, second blessing, you charismatic? Not at all. But you'll notice in the beginning of this passage, she was consumed with the fact that she had a debt to pay. I gotta pay my debt! I gotta pay my house off! I gotta take my boys! Not only did God pay the debt, there was a second blessing. God said, you'll never have to worry the rest of your life. Everything's taken care of. Everything's looked after. Everything that you need will be supply. Supply for the crisis, supply for the future. Hey, the Bible says, Every man according as he purposeth in his heart, so let him give not grudgingly or of necessity, for God loveth a cheerful giver. The Bible says, My God shall supply all your need according to his riches and glory by Christ Jesus. Says, give, and it shall be given unto you. That's what the Bible says. Some gifts are almost too precious to spend. Little Peter's letter arrived to this missionary in Australia. He said, My name is Peter. I'm seven and a half years old. I go to First Baptist Church of Willingboro, New Jersey. This summer I have a lemonade stand to raise money for missionaries. I sell one cup of lemonade and two cookies for 50 cents, and I give the gospel tracts for free. Each week I choose a different missionary to send the money to. Here is $18. 50 for you. I hope it will help you preach God's word in Australia. It was later learned that Peter had operated that lemonade stand all summer and earned $170. And he sent all of it to missionaries. After school was out, the next summer Peter was back in operation. He wrote a certain mission board. This was the first week that I had my lemonade stand. I made thirty-six dollars and eighty cents. Maybe this will help you get your tracks for Russia or whatever you need. At the end of the summer, another letter to that same mission organization. This past week was the last week for my lemonade stand. Last Sunday in church, our pastor said that you needed money to help you move to a new building. Here is $25. 28. I hope it will help you. Love. Peter. I wonder what God is doing in that man's life now, as he has since grown up. Mission Sunday is an important Sunday because this is this church in business meeting. And in just a few moments, you're going to vote. And you're going to vote on the fate of the heathen. You're going to cast a ballot. Someone has suggested if you don't cast a ballot, leave it zero or say, ah, I'm not going to do that. What you're saying is, Pastor, let's take these flags down. Let's not have any more prayer letters. Let's throw away our missionary Prayer guide because we don't have any missionaries to pray for, because we don't want to do anything to help reach the world. Someone has suggested if you give less this time than you gave last year, what you're saying is, Pastor, let's sit down and decide who we're going to stop supporting. Because we're not going to do what we've been doing. We have to take some of these names off. Someone has suggested if you give the same, what you're saying is, we don't want to reach any more, Pastor, we're just going to hold on, you know, we're just going to take care of the ones that we have. We don't need a presence in any more places. But someone has suggested if you give more than you've ever given before, you start giving in light of the fact that you have not previously given. What you're saying is, Pastor, we want to reach more places in the world. We want to pray for more people. We want to have more fruit. All of that is based today on how many empty vessels you'll be willing to bring. I wonder today: do we have an oil crisis? Or do we have an ownership crisis? And my prayer for you today is that you'll have part in God's program. Everybody doing something. And everybody doing something more than they've ever done before. Let's pray together, shall we? Our Heavenly Father, I pray today for the response of your people concerning faith promise giving Dear Lord, I don't know the needs here. There might be people that don't even know Jesus today. Oh, what a debt they owe. Thank God Jesus paid that debt. Oh, what bondage. Oh, what peace we often forfeit. But yet, Lord, the truth shall make us free. I pray for that one that might need a Savior today. Help them to trust the Lord Jesus. I pray for all of your children today that you help them to respond and to make their life an empty vessel so that you can fill it up. and use them. Our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed. I thank you for your attention today. I'd like to ask you this morning this question. Are you absolutely certain that if you died today through some unforeseen circumstance, are you absolutely certain that