Okay. Well, good evening. Let me ask you to turn in your Bibles tonight to uh Acts chapter one. Acts chapter one. Was that a meal or was that a banquet or what was that? Well wasn't that great? Huh? I am so stuffed, I'm telling you. Goodness gracious. How many of you feel like a nap about now? I thought so. How many of you are planning a nap about now? Did any of you eat any of that chili? Huh? You won't be going to sleep. I'll tell you that. I had some of that chili and I feel like the tip of my tongue is like a hot iron, just uh That stuff was wicked, I'm telling you. I had to find some way to cool it down a little bit. But that was great. I enjoyed that. Of course I've enjoyed it all week. Somebody asked me tonight, said, What are you doing sitting over there with Ed and Chester. I said, I'll tell you why I sit with them. I really feel sorry because nobody else will sit with them. I mean even their wives won't sit with you. That's the you you're bad when your wife won't sit with you. So I try to be nice. I'm afraid they won't come to any of the services if we uh continue that. But we we really enjoy being here and just love this church and I know I kid about the the weather but We uh we just love to come up here and and be here and you know there's certain people you would like to be with more and see more and But uh not able to do it because of ministry, but we uh we want you to know we appreciate all you do for us. Appreciate the church supporting us over the years. We thank you for the room that you provided, the basket, that basket that was in there. I just about overdosed. From that basket. But uh just appreciate everything that has been done and provided. I'll tell you what I want to do tonight, just uh closing service, always Uh you always wrestle with what to do in the last night. I want to deal with this thought and I want to try to do something To sort of get this thought in us. The fact that this whole thing is God You know, we we talk about we made this commitment and we're giving this and we're going there and we're doing this. We really don't do anything. Except put ourselves in God's hand, and God does it. This whole thing is God. And I want to try to emphasize that a little bit tonight. As a matter of fact, I wanted to read this verse. You're at Acts chapter 1. Just hold your place there. You're familiar with Galatians. 220, where Paul said, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless, I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Paul got a hold of that thing. He knew his life was not what he was, who he was, what he did. He knew everything he was, it was Christ in him. Everything he did that counted for anything at all, it was Christ in him. And uh I think it would benefit us greatly. If we could get a hold of that thought and hold on to it and realize we are nothing more than an instrument in God's hand And that is a privilege. Don't you sit sometimes, or maybe you maybe in your prayer time, don't you just you're talking to God and you're thanking him and And praying for other people. Don't you just wonder sometimes why me? Why am I able to enjoy this? Why am I able to have this relationship with God? And you just feel like you know I don't even deserve to sit here and talk to you. I don't even deserve to to have what I have and to be able to thank you for it. And I really don't understand why I do. You know, we n we know where we came from, at least I know where I came from. And I know what God got when he got me, and he sure didn't get much. But uh what a blessing. And uh it helps you to come to a place you realize it's just God. So I want to deal with some things, and I just want to point out some things tonight, just for a few minutes, about this matter of it being God. So let's pray and we'll uh get into the Bible. Father, thank you again tonight for the Bible and the privilege we have to open the Bible and just think about you. God help us to honor you tonight, to lift you up, to praise you the way you deserve to be praised. Now, we know in our heads, but sometimes we just lose sight of uh who we are and who you are, what we have because of you. God help us to keep in mind that you are the one that we enjoy, and all that we do enjoy, and all that we do have, is because of you. Now bless tonight as we try to emphasize this a little bit. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. In Acts chapter 1, this is one place that he talks about, you know, he's finished here, ready to ascend back to heaven. So he gets the apostles together. And he's ready to give them those final instructions, like he does, uh like he gives an account of uh this same thing in each of the Gospels. In verse 1 of Acts chapter 1, it says, The former treaties have I made, O Theopolis, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach. Now, you might circle that word began. It's talking about what Jesus started but did not finish. And that is getting the gospel to the world. And it's talking about him leaving this task to those apostles. He has spent three, three and a half years training them to take over this work. Now imagine that. Being trained by Christ. And yet we find, especially in Luke, That when he came to this final time and he's ready to turn the work over to them and ascend back to heaven, they didn't even completely understand what was going on. Can you imagine being taught by Christ and not grasping all that He's teaching you? That should be encouraging to us. To see and feel and sense the human side of this whole thing. But he's ready to turn it over to him here. Verse 2, it says, until the day in which he was taken up, after that he, through the Holy Ghost, had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen. To whom also he showed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs Being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God, and being assembled together with them. Commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which saith he, Ye have heard of me. Now, what I want you to do for a few moments is I want you to think about this meeting. He has these apostles together. He's been crucified, and of course that was a shock to them, even though he told them what was going to happen. They did not expect it. And he has risen, and now he has spent those days uh walking again, and now it's uh it's the last days. He's ready to ascend back to heaven. So he gathers these apostles together, and he's getting ready to leave with them the responsibility. of the gospel. He's getting ready to leave them with the responsibility of taking the gospel to the world. And so he meets with them and he starts instructing them. Now, I want you to think about that meeting. I want you to think about what took place. I can see those men as he began to tell them what he's leaving for them to do, the responsibility. He's leaving the world to them. Don't you think they start looking around and saying, you know, just us? We're just one small group of men here. You mean you're leaving this responsibility to us? And yet, he's chosen these men, and he is leaving this awesome responsibility to this small group of men. I want to I want to try to get you to to realize what's going on. I want you to see it tonight. So I'm going to do something. I want eleven men to come up here. Could eleven men come up here and help me? Just eleven men. I'll tell you, let me get them in from the church. Okay, let me get them in from the church. Church fellows. I got two, four, six, eight, nine, ten, eleven. That's got it. Okay, come on up. You folks are on your feet, just come on up. Just just uh spread it across here. Okay? And what do we have? Two, four, six, eight, ten, eleven. Okay, we've got eleven. Judas is gone. And so we have the have these eleven. Unless we have a Judas here, you can come on up. But now here's what here's uh what I want you to think about for a moment. I want you to think about those 11 men that met with Jesus that day. And I want you to think about who they were. Because you see, they were men just like these men They had problems like these men. And some of you women know these men have problems. They were made out of the same stuff that these men are made out of. Just they were no different. Those men that day were no different than these men standing right here. And these men standing right here are no different today than those men were in that day. And yet Jesus is leaving this responsibility to those eleven men. And that command that he gives them means, think about it, the command that he gives them means What he is leaving them for them to do can be done. Why? Why can it be done? Well Verse 8, but ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, in all Judea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth. He it can be done through these men, not because of who they are, but because of who he is. And he says, you are going to receive the power to do what I want you to do. And the thing that you and I need to get a hold of is the fact that that when when Jesus gives us a command to do something. Like he gives us a command to take the gospel to the world. When he gives us that command, then it can be done. The only thing we have to do is agree with him And then he will empower us with whatever's needed to accomplish what he wants to accomplish through us. All he needs us to do. is to agree with him. That's all he needs us to do. If we if he reaches down and says, I want you to do this, I want you to go there, I want you to stop this, start this, give this When he does that, the only thing he needs from us is for us to agree with him. And when we agree with him, we become uh an instrument that can accomplish everything he wants to accomplish in and through us. You think about You think about the uh well you think about those apostles there. Uh you know, one of them uh one of them Didn't even believe Christ when he resurrected. I'll not believe it until see the hold in his hands. And uh one of them just uh totally denied him. And uh you can go on and on, but yet he's ready to use them because they belong to him. You think about Hebrews chapter eleven. You go through Hebrews chapter 11, you find a bunch of people that God elevates in their testimony. And uh you go through there and you find one of them was a prostitute, and one of them was a murderer. Moses committed first degree murder. I mean, he looked both ways before he killed a guy. He committed first degree murder. You think about Abraham. Twice Abraham gave his wife to another man because of fear. And yet those people are listed in Hebrews chapter 11. Why are they listed there? They're not listed there because of who they are or who they were. Here's the only reason they're listed there. Now think about this. Get a hold of this. One day God came to each of them and said, I want to do this through you. I want to build an ark through you. You know, I want to start a new nation through you. I want to make a leader out of you to lead the children of Israel out of Egypt. He he came and he said, I want to do this through you. And all they did, all they did was say, Okay When they said, Okay, God empowered them To do beyond what they were humanly capable of doing. Making them something that can they could never be within themselves. And if you and I could just get a hold of that thought, When God reaches down and says, I want to do this through you, he already has a plan. All he needs is us to say, okay. Okay. And if we will just give him the okay, just agree with him That he will perform in and through us that which will amaze us when he does it. Thank you, fellas. Now what I'm trying to say is It's all God. It's all God. He just wants us to hand ourselves over to him. And just say, here am I. Here it is. I want to do what you've asked me to do. And when we do that, then he becomes active in making us the instrument that he can accomplish what he needs to accomplish Now let me show you let me show you another thing that that just really turn with me to Acts chapter nine. Now here's another, this is another amazing thing, just to to see how God does it, how God works. And and this is this is how he does it. It's just a It's an amazing thing how God can just change a person. Just uh Just take somebody that's at the bottom and make something usable out of them. And we see that with the Apostle Paul. Let's uh let's just begin reading in verse one. Of chapter 9. It says, and Saul yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord. Went unto the high priest, and desired of him letters to Damascus, to the synagogues, that if he found any of this way, what way? Christianity Any Christ believer, any Christ follower, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus, and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven. And he fell to the earth and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus, whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the bricks. And he, trembling and astonished, said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do. Now I want to I want to show you something. I want to uh Brother Chad, why don't you come up and help me? Well bring your Bible. Bring your Bible. We're gonna we're gonna go through this dialogue together. I'm gonna be the Lord since I'm in charge. You're gonna be Saul since you need to be ch saved. Okay, I'm going to start and and we'll we'll get this. Let's get it down together first. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Who art thou, Lord? I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the bricks. Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Arise, go into the city, and it and it shall be told thee what thou must do. Now let's do it one more time. Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Who art thou, Lord? I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the pricks. Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? Arise, go into city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do. Now, who has a watch with a second hand? Huh? If you have a watch with a second hand, time us. From the first word to the last. Okay? Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? Who art thou, Lord? I am Jesus whom thou persecutest. It is hard for thee to kick against the bricks. Lord, what will be Rise, go in the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do. Alone. Now think about this. In fourteen seconds, Jesus totally changed Saul. Fourteen seconds. He is a he thank you. He is a he is a Christ hater He wants to kill Christians and has been involved in killing Christians. He is involved right now in hunting Christians down so he can throw them in jail. And in fourteen seconds, God totally changes his agenda. Now think about that. His agenda is kill Christians, persecute Christians. Fourteen seconds later, he's saying What do you want me to do? How do you want to use me? What can I do for you? Now that's what we're talking about. That's what God does in the life of an individual. Now, when does he do that? He does it. Now, here's when it happens. That change takes place when we say, Okay, okay. When you and I, when God reaches down and says, okay, I want you to do this, I want you to teach a Sunday school class, I want you to get a bus route, I want you to disciple here, I want you to involve in this I want you to go to mission field, I want you to give faith promise. When he reaches down and says, This is what I want you to do, what he's saying is, will you let me do this in and through you? And when he does that, all he wants us to do is say okay, and when we say okay, he totally changes us. And many of you sitting right here, right now, you've been through that, and you know exactly what it's talking about. But you and I fight the battle because of our human makeup, don't we? Huh? We forget. We forget what this is all about. And that's when the fear takes over? That's when the doubt takes over. That's when the questions arise. But if we would just keep our minds, keep keep our minds set on the fact that this is God's business. And we belong to God. And God can do anything in and through us that He wants to do if we will give Him the okay to do it. If we'll just say, I want to be used, I agree with you. I mentioned, I think we've already mentioned this week Uh I was uh I was working a job, job that I was pleased with, a job that I was moving in. And uh we had just bought a new house, new car, and lived uh lived near Elka, Maryland, our home. And uh We were going to this church, exciting church. We enjoyed church. And I just went to a Sunday night service in December of 1966. Just went to church. June and I are sitting there. And God reached down that service and said, I want you. I had no idea what it meant. No idea. But that night I walked the aisle and got on my knees and I said, God, here's my life. You can have it. And that night, that night, I left that church with a different agenda in mind. Now, sometimes it scares us. It scares us because we're afraid of what he might want from us if we let him change us. But I'm going to tell you something. He will never he will never reach down and make a change that we regret. He never will. He will never ask us to do something, command us to do something, or do something in and through us. That we will not enjoy because it's a personal, special relationship with him. What's the other thing? You go to 1 Timothy chapter 2, and you find that it's his desire that all men are saved. See, it's it's God. And the thing I would just like to challenge you to do is just just keep in mind, hey, this missions thing is not me. God permitted me to be in a place where where I've been able to learn and connect And now I'm able to enjoy. I am able to enjoy God, doing what he wants to do in my life. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight would just Say, preacher, I want I want God I want to I want to sense God in my presence. I want to I want to experience God doing something in my life. I want God to empower me just to do what He wants me to do. Right here at Mountain Lake. My community, my job, wherever. I want God in my life in that way, and I want to recognize it. Would you pray with me, pray for me that God would help me to sense that? Would you slip your hand up all over the building? Why don't you get alone with God tonight? Say, God, I want that relationship I want I want to to see less of me and more of you. I want to sense that. I want to experience that. Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless our invitation tonight and help us just to be willing to To listen, to recognize, to understand, to agree with you as you speak to us. Bless these that raised their hands, God folks that just love you and want to want to walk with you and have you in their lives and be empowered by you. Blessed as we do business with you. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed, as the pen is placed, why don't you slip out of your place and come? Why don't you get along with God and say, God, that's what I want.