Ephesians chapter two, I'd like for us to read together verse number ten. Now last week, this was my intention to preach on verse ten last week as I prepared the message. I ended up zeroing in on verse eight and nine, which are just tremendous passages. But today I want to, this morning, Lord will and we're going to look at verse 10. If you have it there, would you read it together with me? Ready? Here we go. For we are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them I want to speak this morning on God's workmanship. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless our message. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, for the opportunity to be in your house on your day. I pray, Lord, that uh you would take uh the next few moments as we look into your word and that you would speak to our hearts I ask, Lord, that you would help us that know you as Savior to see the purpose of our salvation and your plan for us as Christians. Lord, if there's someone here this morning that does not know for sure their sins are forgiven, they don't have a biblical assurance of a home in heaven. I pray that today that would get settled. And I pray that our faith in you would grow as a result of looking into your word, and our witness in this old sinful world would be a little bit stronger. Please fill me with your spirit. I ask, Lord, with all my heart. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And pray that you would speak through me. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Many, many years ago, there was a Shakespearean uh actor was invited to a dinner party, a very wealthy, upscale dinner party. And in the crowd there was a uh was an elderly preacher, old Bible-believing Bible preacher. They're in the in the dinner together, and as the evening progressed, one of the folks shouted out to the actor They said, read us, uh, uh do a reading for us. And he was well known for doing dramatic readings and that type of thing. And they said, Read something for us. And he stood up and he says, I would like to read for you this morning the 23rd Psalm, very well-known passage of Scripture. The Lord is my shepherd. He stood up and said, I will read the 23rd Psalm to you on one condition. That when I'm done, I want the dear old preacher man over here, I want him to read it also. And they said, okay. The Shakespearean actor got up there, he paused, he brought, got himself into character, and he read with some of the most dynamic and dramatic flair. He read the Psalm 23. When he was finished, the place erupted. People applauded. Standing ovation. They said that was tremendous reading of Psalm 23. Now is the preacher's turn. The old preacher made his way up. He bowed his head and began to read Psalm 23. No drama, no dynamic reading. He just read Psalm 23 from his heart. And the folks that were there said that when he was done, there was no applause, no standing ovation. But they said there wasn't a dry eye in the place. Everybody's heart was touched, and everybody's heart was stirred, as this dear old man of God. Read Psalm 23. When it was all said and done, the people were stunned. And they said, what a contrast in response to an actor reading this passage. And an old man of God reading the exact same passage. Somebody said, What's the difference? The actor stood up and he said this. He says, I know the psalm of the shepherd. But this dear man of God, he knows the shepherd of the psalm. What was he saying? He was saying that old preacher had a personal relationship with the God of the Bible He had walked with the Lord for many, many years. And when he read that psalm, it wasn't simply a dramatic reading. But rather it was the testimony of a heart in fellowship with its God and Savior. That's what salvation is. Salvation is not religion. Salvation uh Christianity, genuine biblical Christianity, is not a religion. It's not some ritual we go through. It's not uh genuine biblical Christianity is not simply knowing Bible verses. It's not being a church member or knowing church doctrine. I want to suggest to you there are many, many people who died in their sins and are separated from God for all eternity in a very real, horrific place called hell that could tell you church doctrine inside and out. They could quote scripture, maybe faithful church members. You say, what do you mean, preacher? Is church not important? No, church is very important. We'll talk about that here in a moment. Preacher, shouldn't we know Bible verses? Yes. Christians ought to know their Bible. They ought to memorize and read and study their Bible. Shouldn't we know Bible doctrine? Yes. We ought to know what the Bible teaches. But what I'm saying is this: that in and of itself is not Christianity. Christianity is having a personal relationship with the God that created me. Genuine biblical Christianity is having uh is being a child of God, my heavenly Father. It's not knowing facts or knowing doctrines or going through rituals. It's a relationship. It's a relationship. And last week we looked at verse 8 and 9, and we noticed that that relationship is established completely by the grace of God. You say, how can I have that kind of relationship with the God that created me? How can I have that kind of relationship with the God that spoke this universe into existence, this holy God? How can I have that relationship? Ephesians 2, 8, and 9 tells us, For by grace are you saved through faith. That not of yourselves, it's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. The complete forgiveness of sins, to be completely forgiven by God. My sins completely forgiven. To know that God has given to me eternal life, life that lasts for eternity. To know that God accepts me And will accept me into his presence, into his heaven when I die. To know that God has delivered me from the devil's hell, to have that assurance. Now hear me out. That is not something I can earn. I cannot earn God's forgiveness. I cannot earn God's acceptance. We pointed this out last week Nobody will ever stand before say, God, you owe me acceptance into heaven. Nobody ever do that It cannot be earned. We do not. God, I deserve your forgiveness. Nobody would ever be able to say that. It is not by works of righteousness which we have done. But it's his grace. His grace. Salvation is a free gift made available to us by God's grace, his undeserved favor, and it's received by faith on our part. By faith, I accept what Jesus Christ has done for me, and I put my total dependence, my total reliance upon the Lord Jesus Christ to fully forgive me, to give me eternal life, change my life, and accept me up into heaven. Salvation, being a Christian, is not being religious. It's not knowing Bible verses. It's not Bible doctrine. It is having a genuine personal relationship with Almighty God through His Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's important we understand that Salvation is knowing on a personal basis God and my Savior. It's having a relationship with Him, it's being a child of God. It's having the God of the universe as my Father. You read the Gospels, it's interesting to see how Jesus addressed God and how he taught his disciples to address God. In that very famous prayer, our Father, which art in heaven, our Father. That's what Christianity is. Having God as my Father. His love for me, his care for me. His protection and provision, a father for a child. I tell you, that's the way we need to see our Christianity. That's the way we need to view What it means to be a Christian. God is my heavenly Father. He loves for me. He loves me. He cares for me. He corrects me when I need correction. All this whole world looks at Christianity as simply a superficial external thing I go through, something I tack on, something I use to identify myself. Oh, I'm a Christian. I do Christian things. Oh, that's not biblical Christianity. Biblical Christianity, as I've said over and over just now, is a relationship with my Heavenly Father. Ah, it's an amazing thing to be a Christian. Think about it. What an amazing thing to be a Christian, to be a child of God. What a tremendous thing to be the recipient. Of God's forgiveness, of God's eternal life, the privilege of being saved. I'm afraid, and I'm proud, no doubt, I've been guilty of this myself, but I'm afraid too many times. We simply view Christianity as something on an aside. We don't see it for the amazing thing that it is to be a saved child of God. And we just kind of put it off in a in a cabinet, we just put it off in its own little cubicle, and we'll pull out our Christianity as we need it. That's not biblical Christianity. It is a living, daily relationship with our Lord. Now, I said all that to say this. When a person trusts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, they come to that point in their life, they see themselves as a sinner. I'm under the wrath and judgment of God, according to John chapter 3, verse 18 and 36. I'm under God's wrath. I'm under God's condemnation as a sinner. And I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. And God forgives that. It removes that judgment. It was placed on Jesus on the cross. And God fully accepts me. That moment, that is not the goal that is achieved. That's not a goal achieved. I hope I can express this the way I mean Back in May 7, 1979, I say it so often, I knelt by my old bed there in Hardy'sville, Pennsylvania, and I knelt by my bed and I called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior. And God heard me and God saved my soul. Now what I'm trying to say is this. That was not the end of this matter of salvation. That was not a goal achieved. What happened there is that was the beginning of a whole new life. You follow what I'm trying to say? When a person accepts Jesus Christ the Savior, say, oh, good, I'm saved now. That's settled. I'll just go on. No, no, no. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, God forgives me, He saves me, I become His child, but that's the beginning. That's the beginning of a new life. That's the beginning of this lifelong transformation that starts taking place in my life. Let me ask this question. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. I trust that's true. You know, we're so enthusiastic about it there. Amen. Let's try that again. I mean, if you're saved and you really know it, say amen I was there we go. Now that sounds like a saved crowd. I was telling in Sunday school we're studying Corinthians and there's a phrase there, we shall not all sleep. And I said, Uh I'm praying that will be true in the church service this morning. That we'll not all sleep. But um uh here here's the point I'm trying to make. We got say sometimes we'll have folks though oh this is what I was getting at. Uh let's tr let's do I really liked it. Let's do it one more time How many folks you saved you know it? Say amen. How many folks since you got saved there's been changes took place in your life? Get a witness on that? Yeah. We used to sing a song with the kids. The things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. Things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. Things I used to do, I don't do them anymore. There's been a great change since I've been born again. Then we'd think Oh, the words I used to say, I don't say them anywhere. How many folks here when you got saved your language changed a little bit? Yeah. Oh, the place I used to go, I don't go there anymore. How many people used to go places that after you get saved now you don't go there anymore? Anybody Yeah. Uh the place I used to go. Then we used to sing this this years ago. Oh, the girls I used to date. I don't date them any. But uh we'll leave that alone What I'm trying to say is this. When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, when a person gets saved, that's not the end. Oh, shh, got that taken care of. No, no, no. That's the beginning. That's the beginning of a whole new life, eternal life. It's the beginning of this lifelong transformation. Does anybody know what 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says? If any man be in, he is a what? A new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. What that verse is teaching is when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, God the Holy Spirit moves in and he begins changing things in my life He begins taking away the things that are not beneficial, that are harmful to my spiritual well-being. He begins injecting things into my life that I need if I'm going to grow and be the person God created, intended for me to be. It's a lifelong transformation. And by the way, this side of heaven, this side of heaven, nobody ever reaches that goal of totally everything God wants me to be. It goes on and on and on. Some of our dear, some of the some of the folks that have been around for a while, our dear uh senior citizens, uh they'll testify to you, some of our older folks in the church, they'll say, God's still working in my life. God's still bringing about changes. God's still convicting and molding and working in my life. It's a lifelong thing. It's a lifelong thing. And so salvation is not the end. It's not the goal. It's the beginning of a new life, a lifelong transformation. It's the beginning of becoming a new person Uh have I ever mentioned to you I got saved on May 7, 1979. I was saved out of a life of horrific sin. And some of y'all uh similar backgrounds and and um and and that was just my experience i made some incredibly foolish decisions as a teenager And uh I made it's amazing to me how quickly a person can ruin their life. And I absolutely ruined my life, and I saw where it was going, I didn't want to be that way. And I that night I bowed and said I just said I called the Lord. And it's different. God works differently in different people's lives. But for me, he brought a dramatic change. I mean almost instantaneously, he brought such a change. And the drugs and the debauchery and everything of that lifestyle, he just almost immediately washed out of my life And I'm not attained, and there's still a lot of work to be done in my life, as all of us can testify. But God brought such a dramatic change. And people would come, and that was in May. And uh that in uh December, whenever deer hunting season came in in Pennsylvania, my dad and I and a couple others we'd always go up to um North Central Pennsylvania, up Tioga County, and Jersey Shore, if any of you know where that area is, up in the mountains, up in there. We go up there deer hunting for a week. And uh that that deer season after I got saved um went up there. I mean, dramatically changed life. And uh we walked in and one of the ladies said to my dad, and my dad will tell he's homesick this morning, but he he could tell you, he said, one of the ladies came to my dad and said this. She goes, what? She said this. What in the world has gotten into Dennis? She said this. It's light, he's a totally different person. You know what my dad said? He said, I'll tell you what got into him. Jesus got into him. He said he got saved. And that's what happens. Now whether a person is lit sin, drunkenness, and drinking and all that goes on with that and and uh God changed them, or maybe they're just a Pretty good church member, but self-righteous and and not trusting Christ. Whatever the case is, when a person gets saved, there's a process begins, there's a change that begins from the inside out God begins molding and making and changing and developing us to become into the image of God. And all this is made possible by God. God does it. Somebody said to me years ago, back shortly after I got saved, they said, Letterman, how in the world did you get out of that lifestyle? You know what I said? I said, I couldn't get myself out of it. I didn't do it. It was God did that for me. I just trusted Christ as Savior and God Changed all of that and redirected the direction of my life. And by the way, that was 40 years ago this past May, and I stand here today, I thank God He redirected my life. I thank God for the change that salvation produced in my life. I wouldn't take anything to go back and be what I was before I was saved. Change takes place. It's the beginning. Salvation is the beginning of a new life, a wonderful life. Oh, it is wonderful to be a Christian. What a great song. Now, I want us to look at this verse. That's what verse 10 is talking about. Verse 8 and 9 talk about how we get saved. By grace, through faith, that not of yourself. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And then verse 10 he says, all right, that's what this grace produces. This is what that salvation produces. And the first thing I want us to notice this morning in verse 10 is the display of God's workmanship. He says, we, those of us have received Christ as Savior, those of us have been saved, we are God's workmanship, the display of God's workmanship. Look at the first part of verse 10. For we are His workmanship. His. I circled the word His. Only God can produce a Christian. Only God can do that. The world can't make a person a Christian. Ah, this world can make some super uh Olympic athletes. I'm telling you what, boy, they'll uh you look at some of these athletes, what they can do, some of these basketball players, I mean they can go up there and hang time you know, and fly through the air with the greatest of ease and slam that and throw it. I mean, uh why are you standing all and say, man, look at these the world can produce some tremendous athletes Uh the world can produce some superstar actors. Man, no, some of these actors they can put on a show and they'll convince you that they are just the most amazing thing in the world and all of that, and you say, oh What a superstar they are. Uh this world can produce rock con rock stars. Man, they can scream and holler and carry on and get everybody's attention. This world can produce billionaires Multi-billionaire rich people, big yachts, the world can produce all that world can make a lot of things, but one thing the world can't make, the world can't make a person a Christian This old world hasn't come up with a way to get rid of man's sin. This old world hasn't been able to produce eternal life. This old world hasn't come up with a way to keep people from going to hell. You know what? Only God can do that. Only God can do that. We are His workmanship. He's the one that forgives us and saves us. He's the one that gives us new life, eternal life. We are his workmanship. His. And I said my point was this. Notice the display of God's workmanship. That word workmanship has this idea, a finely crafted product that is put on display. A finely crafted product that is put on display. I put this definition down. A product that brings praise, respect, and honor. to the one that produced it. This past June, my wife and I went were invited down to St. Lucia. And I preached a conference down there for one of our missionaries, brother Bartley, Wes Bartley and his wife Faith Ann. And uh since Kathy went along, I tacked a couple extra days on and we did a little sightseeing and we went to a market. And there in that market, this guy out on the shelf there, he had these wood palm trees that he had carved. And you know what he did? He put them all out there on the front to display them. He wanted everybody that went by there, he wanted them to see his workmanship. He wanted everybody to see what he was able to produce, what he was able to design and create. And people walk by and we walked by and saw that and I thought it's pretty incredible. You can pull those little leaves out and stick it in and and uh I got looking at that and I s I said, Did you make this? He goes, Yeah, I think he was telling the truth. Um And I I said, that's incredible. I said you are very gifted. I said you're an amazing artist to carve that and make that. And uh and uh before it was said and done he talked me into buying it. And But you know what this was? This was his workmanship. He wanted everybody to go by, he put this out on display, and this is basically what he was saying. This is what I'm able to produce. This is what I'm able to design and create. Everybody went by and said, wow, it's amazing. You're a very gifted man. Oh, it's a couple years ago. My wife and I were down in Florida for our 30th anniversary. And on the way back, we stopped in in Greenville, South North Carolina, Greenville, North Carolina. And we visited with our dear friends Kenton and Sandy Moyer. I mean people remember brother Mrs. Moyer. What a blessing. We were able to spend a day with them and we visited a little bit and Uh I think uh we had a meal and just had a wonderful time. They're doing great down there, beautiful home. He's got a great job, they're active in the church And when we were leaving, their their daughter, they have a daughter and son, and their daughter, Nicole, ran in the back and she said, Pastor Leatherman, before you go, I have something I'd like to give you And I'm telling you, she gave me something. I just told Kathy last night. I said, I think this is one of the most precious gifts I've ever received in my life She ran back into her room, came back out, she'd been taking art classes, and she gave me this painting that she made. She's like, how old is she? 13 maybe, Kathy? She's ten years old. And she made it's an oil painting. And that's not an easy thing to do. Now Doc's given me some over the years, but they don't mean as much to me as this does I mean they mean something to me, but And she gave and she came walking out and I wish I had a picture of her. She came out with this thing And her face was beaming. And she says, Pastor Leatherman, I made this, and I want to give this to you. I'm telling you. It hangs in our living room. I tell you, I love that painting. You know what? This was her workmanship. She came out and said, Pastor Leatherman, I want you to see, I want to show to you and want you to see what I am able to produce. What I was able to do. And I said, we said, oh Nicole, that is beautiful. That's incredible. I don't know any artist in the world that's as good as that. And um uh and uh and we praised her and we honored her for her gift and ability to be able to do that. This was her workmanship, what she put out on display and presented. to see what she was able to do. A couple years ago we took our senior citizens, we went over here to Simon Pierce, the glass blowing place. Anybody ever been in there? Well you ought to go in there. It's something else. It's free, so you know we It's free, I'll do it. And when we walked in that front door there and they're uh in the store area of it, you walk in, guess what they've got set up all over on shelves and all around there. They've got their workmanship. What they're able to do, and I mean elegant vases and glass, plates, I mean just beautiful, amazing work. And they put that out front, and this is what they're saying. This is our workmanship. This we want you to see. We want to show off, so to speak. What we are able to produce. Now, with that thought in mind, verse 10, God says this: that we, those of us that have been saved by God's grace, that He forgave us, He saved us. gave us this new life. He says this. We are his workmanship. We're his workmanship. This is what God is able to do. This is what God is able, can I use the word to produce? A person, an old sinner, saved by grace, and made a whole new person. Whole new person We are his workmanship. When God wants to show off, can't bear with me a little bit here with me this morning, would you? When God wants to show off what he is able to do, he doesn't point to the starry night. I don't know about you, but I'm fascinated by the night sky. Those stars. Did I tell you we saw the s the space station go over it? I think I've had that in every message since we've seen that. I'm just fascinated. That space station, whatever, and the stars are up there. I was watching a show on a science channel this week about a probe that we sent to Saturn. And sent back pictures from Saturn. And I was just dumbfounded the size of that thing and the and the immensity of this universe. But you know when God when God wants to show off what He's able to do Now bear with me. He doesn't point to the universe in the night sky. He doesn't say, that's my workmanship. Doesn't do that at all. When God wants to show off what his power and what he's able to do, he doesn't point to the snow covered rocky mountains. Out in the West and say, look what I'm able to do. I don't know if you've ever flown over those Rocky Mountains. You look out that window and it is just awe-inspiring. You take a trip out there. But God doesn't point to the Rocky Mountains. God doesn't point to the starry sky. God doesn't point to a beautiful rose. I don't think there's a flower more beautiful than a rose. That beautiful red rose and the design of that, God doesn't point to the red rose. When God says, you want to see what I'm able to do, You want to see what I'm able to produce? He points to an old, sorry, wretched sinner on his way to hell. And he says, there's a forgiven saint, a life that is changed, a soul that is saved, a destiny that is altered by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Listen, you and I that know Christ as Savior, we need to understand we're God's workmanship. We are what God produces. That's what He wants us to be. A testimony to this old world, what God is able to do. Hey, we see all around us Satan's workmanship, don't we? We can see Satan's workmanship all around us. Some old drunk sock laying in the street. Marks up and down his arm from shooting up. Old meth, somebody strung out on math, don't know what they're doing. Some proud self-righteous Person condemns and looked, oh Satan, Satan's masterpieces are all around us. We see the riots in the streets, we see a world in chaos, we see a world saturated with sin and perversion. We see him taking the good the one of the most pure sacred things on planet earth, the marriage, and see him twisting that and corrupting it and destroying it We see Satan's workmanship all around us. But God says, You'd have been saved. You're my workmanship. You're my workmanship. Take your Bible, if you would, keep your place here, and come over, if you would, to 1 Corinthians chapter 4. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. God took an old self-righteous Pharisee Murdering other people, throwing them in prison unjustly, condemning them unfairly simply because they were believers in Jesus Christ. And God got a hold of that old self-righteous sinner And transformed them, saved them, and made him into a humble, godly man of God. 1 Corinthians chapter 4. Look with me if you verse 9. I'm talking about the Apostle Paul And verse number 9 of 1 Corinthians 4, he makes this statement: For I think that God hath set forth us, the apostles, last. Now look, as it were appointed unto death. For we are made a what? Spectacle unto the world, and to angels, and to men. Now, what does Paul mean when he says here, we've been made a spectacle unto the world, and to angels, and to men? That word spectacle is an interesting word. It comes from the word, the same word that we get our word theater. Where somebody goes up on the stage or on the platform and they put on a show, a public show, where people watch and see what takes place. Paul was saying, I think, basically the same thing that God is saying in Ephesians chapter 2 and verse 10. We are his workmanship. We are God's spectacle We are God's public show to this old world what God is able to do with an old sinner. And transform them. When I got saved, I worked in a meat packing plant and a pretty rough crowd works in a meat packing plant. Now, if you work in a meat packing plant, I don't know what You're like places where you were. But I know where I was, it was all ex cons, and some of 'em weren't ex. They were still cons. I mean it was a rough crowd. I mean rough craft. I was right in the mix of all that, and God saved me, and as I said, he brought such a dramatic change to my life. And there was an old guy there, short, he was um, some of you old some of you folks from the 70s will remember this. He was what we called a deadhead. Anyone, you know He he was a big fan of this rock group, Grateful Dead. And uh he was like, Well man, you know, he had long hair and everything was groovy And uh, you know, I mean that's what he was. And uh nice enough guy, but he's a mess. And God saved me and just Change and then it it went like an earthquake through that place. I mean it just rattled that place. About forty guys worked there in the plant where I was at. And I mean it rattled everybody. What happened to Leatherman? And one day he came up to me, and his name slips in my mind right now, but he came up to me, Hey Leatherman. I said, Hey. And he said this. He said, man, you scare me. He said, you scare me. I said, what do you mean? He goes, I don't understand what happened to you. He said this, there's no human explanation for what happened to you. I said, you're right. Because no human did this for me. God did this to me. You know what that was? I think that was God saying, Amen. That was God saying, here's what I can do. You can't. The world can't do this. Government can't do this. Hollywood sure enough can't do this. There's nothing man can come up with can do this, change a life like that. Only I can do that. This is my workmanship I'm not trying to say I'm anything. I'm not, God forbid. I know how short I fall. But what I am saying is every one of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior God wants to be able to put us out on display and say, hey, old wicked world, hey devil. This is what I do to a life. This is what I do, an old sinner that trusts me. What does the devil do with one of these dear young people? What would the devil do to one of these dear young people if he could have his way with them? He'd destroy them. He'd ruin them. He'd get them in hell as fast as he could. That's his workmanship It's what the devil does. By the way, let me just throw this out. I thank God for a church that has a heart for bus ministry and kids and youth and all that, because there is a real devil out there trying to do his workmanship on our young people. But God in heaven wants to show wants to do a work in their life also. Show what his workmanship, what God is able to do An old drunk, an old sinner, a self-righteous, proud man or woman. They say, if they'll trust Christ as Savior, by grace put their faith in God. I can change them and make them into uh into my workmanship. So I noticed in verse ten the first part that uh Play of God's workmanship. He puts us out there. Then, second of all, real quickly, I notice the development of God's workmanship. In other words How does he get us? How does that happen? What does he do to make us something that he can put on display? Well, look at the next part of the verse. For we are his workmanship. Look at that next phrase. Created in Christ Jesus. That word created means to form, to mold, or to shape. To put together. The idea is this God is the artist. God is the artist. In Jeremiah, Jeremiah references God as the potter. God's the artist. God is the potter You and I are the materials that he molds, that he makes, that he develops, he creates into this masterpiece. And God develops us into this person. We're the materials. We're the clay. In fact, Jeremiah says that: thou art the potter! I'm just the clay. I'm just the clay. And when a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, he begins to take that clay. He begins to take those materials And uh just like the uh just like the artist did with these palm trees, he begins to, he puts them on the lathe. He begins to cut away and he adds to and he changes this and he carves that and he begins all this process of molding and working and developing Oh, sometimes he'll put uh he'll put the old clay on um what is around the what? Hotter's wheel. And I know years ago you'd step on that thing and that thing spins and even mold that thing. Sometimes God will take that new Christian. Sometimes God will take that believer and he'll just spin them in circles. Spin and I remember after I got saved, stuff was going on. I had no idea what in the world was happening to me. God was molding and making, designing. He's the potter. He's the artist. Where are the materials? Man, he pokes us here. Ah, what are you doing? Pull this part out. Ah! And he's making, he's taking those things out that are detrimental to our well-being. And he's adding things to us that make us and mold us into what into that masterpiece, that workmanship that he wants to put on here. It's not always easy. I don't know about you, but I looked at that potter's wheel spin and I looked at that clay and I thought Wonder what that clay thinks about spinning 900 miles an hour. I wonder what that old uh canvas feels like and the artist Um Doc's here, I just thought of this and I mentioned this just about every year he comes, but when we first showed up, our boys were small. Sam was about four. Dan was about two, three one or two, three, seventeen. I don't remember how old they were, but they were small. I think it was the first time he was here. I didn't know him. I just showed I'm scared to dead new church and here and his famous artist is here with us and doing this phenomenal artwork And he did the drawing, chalk drawing, amazing. And everybody's oh and oh and afterward we dismiss, we're back there. And um happened to glance up at the and the front of the auditorium is all empty here, his easel's up here, the canvas And I happened to glance up, I won't tell you which son, but it's our youngest. And um he saw him drawing that artwork. He figured, I can do that too. And he had an old black, he got a piece of chalk, and he's up here, and he's just drawing away on that chalk drawing the doc just did My wife broke down in tears. She almost passed out. I'm like, oh, I'm gonna kill that kid. He didn't know, he was just little. We loved on him a little bit and I apologize to Dr. Windsor. I apologize. He is all it's all right. I thought he was gonna kill me. And he was very gracious. And you know what he was able to do? I thought, pfft, just throw that thing away. It shot, scribbled all over. You know what he did? He took all that scribbling that our son did, and he put a little happy bush here, and he made that into a tree, and that over there was, and he took that scribbling and he He turned that thing into a piece of work. Piece of art. And you'd look at that and you'd have never known that there was a that some kid had messed that thing up. And that's what God does. Some of us got saved. Some of us have been saved and we've done some stupid things. After we get saved, we messed up. Sinned against God. God doesn't throw us away. But what he does, he takes that, he redesigns it, he works it around, he makes a masterpiece. God, listen, whether you're if you're saved, whether you know it or not, God's working in your life right now. God's bringing you say, oh, why did this happen? Oh, this is terrible. Uh it's God. God's working. There's some changes need to be made. There's some adjustments need to be made. So God the display of his workmanship, that's what the And the development of it. He begins to work and mold and make and change. He shapes and he chisels and he hammers and he cuts and he adds and he spins. We went to Simon Pierce. We stood in the lobby and we saw this incredible glasswork and just amazing. Beautiful. And a lady came out and said, Come this way for the tour. Huh? Yeah, come back here. We'll show you. We walked in the back there. Some of you all have been there We're walking that little rail, that little pathway, and we watched down, and there we saw the workmen. They had that red hot fire. And they took a little some glass, they'd pat it on the end of a rod, they'd take that glass and they'd stick it in the fire. And I heard the grap grass glass saying, Oh no, no! They come out and that glass is all red hot. They blow on it. They'd spin it. They'd stick it back in. Oh not again! I tell you, they molded and squeezed and blew and stretched and compressed. They let it cool. And there's this beautiful vase. And sometimes a person gets saved and God sticks them in the fire. And they say, wait a minute, I'm saved. Why would this happen to a Christian? Oh, I'll tell you why. Because you're being created in Christ Jesus. He's molding and making and changing. And why did God take that from me? And maybe there's something I'm involved in, and God begins convicting me and says that has to go. And you say, God, why does that have to go? It's not good for you, it's not healthy. God takes that away and he adds this and he puts us in the fire. He's molding and developing us And he puts us out and says, here's what I make. Here's what I'm able to do. You say, well, how does he do that? Let me just throw a few out to you real quick. One, he uses the Bible to change our lives. The Bible. You're sanctified through my truth, Jesus says. Every Christian, I want to get practical real quickly. Here for a minute. Every Christian ought to spend a little bit of time every day in the Word of God. You ought to just, preferably in the morning, I think Get out and spend a little time and let God speak to your heart. Let God direct you. Let God challenge you. Let God encourage you. And what you'll find happening is you're going to find that book starts addressing things that are going on in your heart and life. And you're going to find God's going to challenge you to adjust and make some adjustments and changes and claim promises and step forward. I'm telling you, that old book changed your life. Make you and I into the Christian God want us to be to put us on display. I don't know how many times I've read my Bible and God speak to my heart. God would show me something I need to address. Another way God develops us into his masterpiece is through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit The moment you and I trusted Christ as Savior, God's Holy Spirit lived inside of us. If you know Jesus Christ the Savior, the Holy Spirit of God, the Holy Spirit of God Lives inside your body and my body. What an amazing thing. Well that old Holy Spirit convict us. How many people know what I'm talking about when I say the Holy Spirit convicts us? You go to church, you didn't think about it, preacher preaches, or reads a verse, and all of a sudden the Holy Spirit's saying, Hey, he's talking about you, buddy Preacher's preaching away, I don't know what's going on in your life, and he comes down and say, ah, I'm talking about he's talking about you. That applies to your life. How many people know what I'm talking about? That's the Holy Spirit changing and molding and convicting us into God's masterpiece. He uses the church service, the indwelling Holy Spirit, the Word of God. He uses other Christians I tell you, I've been around some Christians. When I'm around them, I want to be a better Christian. You know what I'm talking about? Say, man, I'd like to have their faith. I'd like to, uh man, they challenge me to be a better Christian And so God develops us. He puts the display of his workmanship. That's what we are, Christians. Then he develops us through these ways and working in us. And last of all, I've got to end. The design of his workmanship. Alright, what's he making us into? What does God consider his workmanship? Let's look at verse 10 again. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus, unto what? Good works. Good works. God wants to change our lives in a way that we begin living in such a way that good works are part of our life. Now, let me say this quick. We're not saved by good works. The price of salvation is not good works, but the product of salvation is good works. God changes that life. And all of a sudden you have somebody that was stingy and selfish and proud. They trust Christ as Savior. They got convicted and they turned to Christ and trust Christ and God begins changing. And now that pride becomes humility. God maybe had to put him in the fire. He had to do some things. And well that pride becomes humility. And that selfishness, God changes and molds and breaks, and it becomes generosity. Somebody that was once proud and selfish now is humble and gracious and generous. They're changed unto good works. Somebody that could care less about others. I don't care. Dog eat, dog, look out for number one. They turn to Christ, they trust Christ, and God changes that. And they say, like Paul did, it's no longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. And I want to serve others. I want to be a blessing. I want to help others know Christ. And God brings that change about to make us like the Lord Jesus Christ. When I was young, uh when I was real young, my family was still together, and uh the church we were in, it was a different denomination, they went up to New York City, took a bunch of families. I just Remember this as a small child. They went up to New York City and they went to a place called the Bowery Mission. Anybody ever hear of the Bowery Mission up in New York City? Very famous, been there for many, many years. And it was right down, it was right down in the slums and ghettos of New York City. I mean rough I still remember a little child looking out the bus windows and seeing street folks sleeping on the streets, things I never saw before, not where I lived. I mean just overwhelming poverty, overwhelming drunkenness and homelessness and drugs and prostitution, everything you'd picture Right in the middle of it was the Bowery Mission. I was reading about the Bowery Mission this week. Years ago, there was an old drunk showed up at the Bowery Mission. Street, lived in the streets. He sat in the back and they sang. Somebody, or I don't know who, got up and preached the gospel of Jesus Christ. Old Joe the drunk staggered down that aisle. Somebody showed him from the Bible how Jesus could deliver him from his sin, save his soul. Job bowed at an old altar and he called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be his Savior. And they say God changed his life dramatically. Joe moved into the mission into the mission there. Drinking's gone. Old cussing language is gone. All that's gone. He's completely different. And what I read about old Joe So that those guys would come in and he just gave himself to love on those old men and women. He'd help them. He'd led many, many to Christ. And he became known as just old Joe. Old Joe. Everybody knew and loved old Joe. One day a fellow came in, preached the gospel, they gave him the invitation. This old fellow walked the aisle. One of the workers met him at the front and they said, Why'd you come forward? He says, Um, I want to I want to be like old Joe. I want to be like old Joe. I said, what do you mean? I said, I need to get saved and be like Joe. I need to get saved and be like Joe. And the counselor would made this statement. They said, well, what you mean is you want to be like Jesus. You want to get saved and be like Jesus. The old drunk said, is Jesus like Joe? And they said, Joe's like Jesus. Joe's like Jesus. They showed him from the Bible how he could be saved. And he trusts the rest. You know what old Joe was? Old Joe was God's workmanship. Because here's what I can do. World can't do this. And put this up. And he'll be so much like the Lord Jesus, they can't hardly tell the difference. See Christ in him. It's a poem. I wanted to read this real quick and then we'll quit. You're probably familiar with it. It was battered and scarred. And the auctioneer thought it was scarcely worth his while to waste time on the old violin. But he held it up with a smile and he said, What am I bidding, good folks? He cried, Who'll start the bidding for me? A dollar? A dollar? How about two? Only two? Two dollars? Who'll make it three? Three dollars once, three dollars twice, going for three, but no, in the back of the room, far back, a gray haired man came forward Picked up the bow, then wiping the dust from the old violin and tightening the loose strings, played a mu melody pure and sweet as Caroling Angel sings The music ceased, and the auctioneer with a voice that was quiet and low said, What am I bid for the old violin? And he held it up with the bow. A thousand dollars? And who'll make it two? Two thousand. Who makes it three? Three thousand warrants, three thousand place, going, going, and going, said he. The people cheered, but some of them cried. We do not understand what changed the worth. Swift came the reply. Was the touch of the master's hand And many a man with life out of tune and battered and scarred with sin is auctioned cheap to the thoughtless crowd like an old violin. A mess of pottage, a glass of wine, a game, and he travels on. He's going once, he's going twice, he's going, and almost gone. But the master comes. And the foolish crowd can never quite understand the worth of a soul and the change that is wrought by the touch of the master's hand. God can take a life that's out of tune. He can take a life that's ruined by sin and pride and self. And through faith in Jesus Christ, He can change that person. And to his workmanship created in Christ Jesus. Father, I pray that you would help those of us that know you as Savior. To yield ourselves and submit ourselves to you and allow you to mold us and make us and change us. Help us to trust you and follow your leadership As you develop in us this life of Christ, I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I'm saved. I have no doubt about it. But you'd say, preacher, I'm certainly not everything God would have me to be. And you'd say, preacher, there's areas in my life I need God to work on. And maybe God's been convicting and working there. You say, preacher, pray for me that I'll let the Lord have his way. And I'll let him mold me and create in me that person he wants me to be. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know God's work and I want him to have his way. Maybe some of us are resisting. We're kind of like that glass. We're crying, no, no, no, no. And really what we need to do is just say, yes, Lord, yes, yes. You do what you need to do. Any others say, preacher, pray for me. There's some things God's working in my life and it's hard. But I want to trust him. I want to let him have his way. How about it? Any others? God bless you. God bless you. Maybe there's some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm saved. Well, I hope I go to heaven. I think. Listen, God says we can know for sure. We don't have to hope so or think so. He wants to forgive us and save us and give us a new life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need the Lord to save me from my sin. I need Lord to give me this new life. I need them. Any at all? Any at all? Father in heaven, bless now our invitation. Pray you'd take these thoughts and challenge us as Christians in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads abound, eyes above