The Bible contains a twofold message for mankind. The first message from the Bible is this: how to be saved. God wants everybody to be saved. The Bible tells us how our sins can be forgiven. The Bible tells us how we can get to the point where God completely erases completely forgets, blots out every sin that we've ever committed against him. The Bible tells us how we can have that, how we can know that, how we can be saved, how we can spend eternity in heaven and not in hell. I am glad we don't have to hope that we're not going to hell and hope we're not going to heaven because of the Bible we can know for sure we're going to heaven. We can know for sure we're not going to hell. I've often said this, and uh it it just dumbfounds me why some Christians would teach this. But what kind of God would not tell you whether you're going to spend eternity in heaven or hell until it's too late to do anything about it. So I get out and visit and knock on doors sometimes. I'll ask folks, I said, do you know for sure if you die now you're going to heaven they'll say something like this. Oh, you can't know that until you d uh until after you die. That's crazy, my friends. Why would God wait until we can't do anything about it? Then he says, All right, you're going to hell No, no, no. We can know now. We can know here and now our sins are forgiven. We're going to heaven, not to hell. That's the message of the Bible. How to be saved. How to have eternal and abundant life here and now, how to live a life that is uh abundant here and now, and then someday go to heaven. So, the twofold message of the Bible is number one, how a man can be saved, how a person can be saved. The second Part of God's message to mankind is once we are saved, how to live for God. The Bible teaches us how to live by faith. How God will bless us if we will trust Him and obey Him, follow His instructions, heed His warnings, obey His commands. And as we do what the Bible says as a believer, once I've accepted Christ as Savior, once my I've been saved Then as I live for God as a Christian and I apply the principles of God's word and I follow his instructions, I obey his commands, I heed his warnings Then God gives me joy and peace in my life. So the twofold message of the Bible is very simply: number one, how to be saved, and number two, how to live for God once I am saved. Now, here's the point of the message this morning. Salvation gives me peace with God, but just being saved doesn't necessarily mean I have the peace of God. In my life. Now I explain what I mean. Salvation brings peace with God. If you would keep your place here. We're going to come back and look at these verses. But turn over to the book of Romans with me. Just a few pages to your left in your Bible, Romans chapter number five, salvation gives me peace with God. Peace with God Romans chapter five and verse number one Romans chapter 5 and verse 1. If you're there in Philippians, just turn to your left. Keep going till you get the book of Romans and chapter number 5. Notice verse number 1 with me. Therefore, being justified by faith. Now, just to simplify that term, when he says being justified by faith, he's simply saying we're saved, our sins forgiven, uh, we're made right with God, we're saved from our sin in hell by faith in Jesus Christ. Just simplifying the term justify. It's kind of like the idea uh if I if I break the law. Suppose um uh suppose Brother Moyer's driving down here, he's new started his new Sunday school class this morning and he's driving down, he's running a little late. And he's going 65 miles an hour in a 45 zone. And I'm just hype that he would never do that, but uh just supposing He would do that. And uh the policeman pulls him over, gets a ticket, he finds out the ticket is $150. He doesn't have $150 And uh so uh he uh he says, Preacher, I got pulled over coming to teacher Sunday school. That's 150 bucks, I don't have 150 bucks. I say, Don't worry, brother, I'll pay for it for you. And um, amen. I just realized I'm gonna get a ton of cold this week. And so I go down to court. He's there, judge says, Did you break the law? And H says, Yes, Judge, I'm guilty. And he says, $150, or you lose it. He says, I don't have $150. Take his license. I said, Well, wait a minute. I got a hundred and fifty bucks. And I go up and I pay his fine for him. He is, in a sense, justified with the law. The debt's been paid, it's been paid for him. He doesn't owe them anything. Uh he's uh just clear. He doesn't know him anything, his his it's all clear. That's the idea here, it's by faith. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior by faith, I'm justified with God My sin debt's been paid. I I don't owe God any m the wages for my sin anymore. Jesus paid that for me. Isn't that a good thing? And that's worth coming to church to be reminded of right there. But look what he says. Therefore, being justified by faith, as a result of being justified by faith, when we accept Jesus Christ my Savior, we have peace. What's the next word? With God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Salvation gives me peace with God. Um uh I want to be at peace with my fellow man. Right? How many people? I know some people they want to fight everybody. I don't want to do that. I don't like that. I have some preacher friends, they want to fight everybody. They're not happy unless there's some fight going on. I don't like that. I want to be at peace with my fellow man. I want to be at peace with my spouse. How many people want to be at peace with your spouse? Amen. I want to be at peace with my children. I want to be at peace with my fellow church members. I want to be at peace with my neighbors Uh we want to be at peace with people. Uh we want that, but I'll tell you one thing. We have to be at peace with God. I can be at peace with everybody in my life. If I'm not at peace with God, I'm in trouble. For a number of years I was able to be chaplain with the hospice program. and uh was visiting uh with folks and the arrangement was if uh somebody came on to hospice and they did not have a pastor, they weren't a church member Maybe they didn't think much about God in the Bible and didn't think much about it. But now they've been placed on a hospice program, they become very concerned, which was understandable. And so I would be given their name, I'd be able to go visit with them and try and answer any questions they have and help them uh at the end of their life and help them spiritually. I had a tremendous privilege of leading scores and scores of people to Christ before they died, just be not long before they passed away. It's a wonderful, wonderful privilege And one of the things people would say sometime when I come and I'd show up and introduce myself and they know they don't have long to live, often they would make some statement like this to me. They would say, Pastor Leatherman, I appreciate you coming by I understand I don't have long to live. I want to make my peace with God. I want to make peace with my neighbor. And I always like to hear that because the Bible tells us very clearly how we can make peace with God. How we can be saved, have our sins forgiven and dealt with. And that to me is the most important issue in life Is being at peace with God, having the sins that I've committed against the holy God, having them forgiven, erased, washed away, blotted out, and being at peace with God. What does it mean to be at war with God? Well, it simply means to be lost. It means that I'm under God's judgment. It means I'm doomed to a devil's hell. The Bible refers to being at enmity with God. And as long as I refuse to accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, as long as I reject the gospel of grace, I am at war with God. But when I accept Jesus as my Savior, when I receive Him in my heart and life as my personal Savior, my sins are forgiven and I am at peace with God. If you're here this morning And you've sincerely and genuinely trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you can say confidently, I am at peace with God. At peace with God. You're in here this morning, you've never trusted Jesus Christ the Savior. I hate to tell you this, and you may feel like you're a good person, and you feel like you're religious, you may be very religious But until you accept Jesus Christ as Savior, you are at enmity with God. And you need to accept Jesus as your personal Savior. So what I'm trying to say is this. The most important issue in life is making peace with God. And there's only one way to do that. I'm glad you're at church this morning, but going to church does not make you at peace with God. Giving, I I'm always glad when folks give to the Lord. I think that's a clear instruction in the Bible, and we preach on that sometimes. But giving money to the church does not buy peace with God. We're going to have a young man baptized here in a little bit. We had some folks last week baptized and folks on a regular basis for our Lord in baptism after they trust you as Savior. But being baptized does not make peace with God. There's only one way to find peace with God, and that is through the person, the Lord Jesus Christ. And accepting him as my own personal Savior. So peace with God. Trusting Jesus Christ as Savior gives me peace with God. Um had an interesting report this past week. We got word that last Sunday morning during the service, um I don't think I'm on here, Brother Jamie. Is that my fault? Says on. Um I'll just stay behind there there we go. Thanks. I hate to wake them up back there. I know it's I'm teething, Jamie. Uh, he'll cut me off for good, you know. What was I talking about? We had We had an amazing story this past week. Last Sunday morning while we were preaching, there was a fella out driving truck. He's out on the road. And he was listening to the sermon online. He can pick it up while he's driving down the road. God began working on his heart. He got under conviction. He pulled his truck off the side of the road. As I understood, understood this, understand the story. He pulled the truck off the side of the road. He got down on his knees, accepted Jesus Christ as personal Savior. In the middle of the sermon God was working in his heart. You know what that tells me? That tells me making sure you're saved is the highest priority in life. Amen. Even if it means stop your driving and get on the side of the road and get on your knees before God and accept Christ as Savior, it's the most important thing in life. Making peace with God Making peace with, I'll be very I'll be very honest with you. Do we want to boil it down? What is our message to the world? Our message to the world is you've got to make peace with God before you die. That's why we send missionaries out. That's why we spend uh $100,000 a year or more getting missionaries out into all the world so they can tell folks that they need to make peace with God and how to make peace with God. So it's the most important thing in the world. Peace with God. Peace with God. Now Having peace with God does not necessarily mean I have the peace of God in my heart and life. Follow what I'm saying? Salvation does not automatically bring the peace of God into my heart and life. I have peace with God. There's no more enmity. The sins have been paid for. They've blotted out. There's nothing between my God and my Savior. God accepts me in the person of Christ. I have peace with God But while I'm living this life down here, just because I've been saved doesn't mean I have peace of God. I have no doubt. I'm preaching to some folks this morning here in the auditorium, maybe through the internet or whatever, however they're listening in, that you're saved. You've genuinely trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, but you Can't honestly say this morning that you have the peace of God in your heart and life. There's turmoil there. Notice, well, come back with me if you would to Philippians chapter 4. And notice here, we touched on this a little bit as we did our scripture reading earlier, but Philippians chapter 4 and verse number 7. He says, and the peace of God shall keep uh which passeth all understanding Shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. The peace of God, which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and mind. What's he referring to here? He's not talking about the peace with God. That's what I accept Christ as Savior. I made peace with God. But he's talking about living down here and having the peace of God In my heart and life. What is that? That's a quietness in my heart. A calm and a peacefulness down in my heart and soul. A happiness, a genuine, deep-seated happiness that's Not just on my lips and a superficial thing, but down in my heart and soul, a real contentment there, tranquility. In my heart. Now I wonder how many of us can honestly say we have the peace of God. This that only God can give us. It passes understanding. There's no explanation for it other than God has put it in my heart and life. I wonder how many of us can say we we have that. We live our lives in the peace of God. The tranquility in our heart. That is so lacking in our world. That is so lacking in our churches. In our homes. This peace of God does not just automatically happen at salvation. Peace with God does. I always refer to my salvation, and you could do the same for yourself if you know Jesus as Savior, May 7, 1979. I knelt by my bed. The moment I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, that very split second moment I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I had peace with God All removed. All charges against me dropped. Anything that's separated me from God is removed. I'm at peace with God But that doesn't automatically bring peace of God. It's not necessarily their own salvation. Notice, look here again. Verse 7, the peace of God that passes all understanding shall keep your hearts and mind through Christ Jesus. Verse 7 happens when I put into practice verse number 6. Verse The word and there has the idea of therefore or as a result of. Let's read the two verses together. Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication with thankgiving, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. When I do that When I'm careful for nothing, in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, I let my request be remembered unto God. And the peace of God, as a result of that, the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds. Through Christ Jesus. So there is something, here's what I'm trying to say, there is something that I, as a Christian, as a child of God There is some practices I need to carry out. There's some principles I have to put in place in my life. If I want the peace of God, this tranquility, this contentment, this deep-seated joy, if I want that, there's some things I have to put in place Verse number six, when that is put into practice, then verse number seven becomes true. The sad fact is worry Fear, anxiety have plagued God's greatest men and women all through history. You read your Bible, I I recommend, I highly recommend that Christian at some point in their life They begin reading their Bible through from Genesis to Revelation. Now if you're a new Christian, it might be best to start out in John or Psalms somewhere and Maybe read through the New Testament something like that. But at some point after you're saved, at some point, I really believe you need to start reading the Bible through And if you do that, and if you pay careful attention, you go through the Bible, you're going to come across some pretty amazing men and women of God. Many women who exercised tremendous faith in God and God did amazing things through their lives. But if you'll pay close attention Nearly every one of them dealt with anxiety. Nearly every one of them had fears and worries and turmoil in their life. For instance, Abraham. How many people agree with me? Abraham was a great man of God. Absolutely. He's the father of the faithful. He's held up as an example of faith over and over through Scripture. God raised up a nation from his offspring. Abraham's a tremendous man of God. Do you know Abraham struggled with fear? Do you know Abraham worried? He got to the promised land where God had led him by faith, a tremendous act of faith. He left his homeland and went not knowing where, and God led him. He finally gets to where God leaves him in the promised land, and there's a famine in the land, and Rather than trusting God and just staying where God put him, he got worried, he got scared, and he went down to Egypt. He struggled with worry. He struggled with fear. He was where God wanted him to be. He was doing what God wanted to do, but he got scared. He got anxious, and he got out of the will of God. Two terrible things happened in Egypt. He got down there and he got worried about uh his wife, uh them taking his wife, so he said, She's my sister, she's not his wife. And he ended up coming back with an Egyptian, little Egyptian handmaid, Hagar, who he ended up committing adultery with. Abraham, the great man of God, struggled with doubt and fear and worry. I mean you just read through the Bible, you come across a Moses. Moses. All through as he's leading this great nation. I mean a tremendous leader in my mind, apart from the Lord Jesus Christ, the greatest leader that ever walked this planet. Moses. And yet he struggled with fear and worry, and he'd lose his temper, and he'd get upset. Peace of God. at times missing in his life. Think of Joshua. And from a human standpoint, we understand his misgivings. We understand his anxiety. Man alive, he's going to go into the Promised land. He's crossed the river. He's got these huge warriors ahead of him. God has promised victory. God has promised they're going to conquer him. God has promised success. But nevertheless, he's worried and fearful. And God has to come to Joshua over and over and over and over and say, be not afraid, be not dismayed, be strong and of good courage. Joshua struggled with fear and worry. David, David's some of the greatest songs. Were written, of course, under the inspiration of God, but were written when David was scared, when he was worried, afraid. Saul coming after him in different situations, his son Absalom rising up against him, and David was anxious and concerned and worried. And he wrote some of these great psalms praying to God Kids learn to say amen early on around here. I think she's worried about something. David, we could just go down the list. Elijah, Jezebel. Think about this. He kills four hundred uh of uh prophets of Baal, and Jezebel says, You're dead meat, and he goes, Yikes, and he goes running And he gets scared and he gets worried. Elijah. The disciples were afraid. The storms would hit. They were worried about how they're going to pay their taxes. Worried about going down to see uh uh Lazarus when that Lazarus dies. And they just they worry All through the Bible you find some of God's greatest servants struggled with anxiety, fear, and worry. Who in the world do you think who in the world do we think we are if we're not gonna if we think we're not gonna deal with it? Uh what my favorite preacher, hands down, my favorite preacher in all of history is Charles Spurgeon What an amazing man. I've read several of his biographies. I just, he's an amazing man. God used him in tremendous ways. Do you know Charles Spurgeon? Metropolitan Baptist Tabernacle, the great work in England back in the previous century, impact still to this day impacting the world for Christ. Do you know he struggled with depression? Severe depression. He would on occasions go to bed Sunday night and not get up for two, three days. Because he was so discouraged, so depressed. His wife said in one point, she goes, major part of my ministry is to support and encourage my husband and to keep his hands up. What I'm trying to say is this anxiety, worry, discouragement, all these types of things Are part of life. And even the greatest men and women of faith have struggled with these. Now, here's a question: why would a Christian struggle with worry? Why would a child of God that has such phenomenal promises in the Word of God? I have the presence of God in my life. I have this Holy Spirit of God dwelling within me. Why in the world what do we struggle with worry? Why in the world do we struggle with fear and anxiety of all people in the world? Why would God's people? Struggle with that when all that is given to us by God, all the resources we have, well, there's several reasons, I think. One is because we live in a fallen world. We live in a sinful world. We have a sinful nature. You hear this statement? I think there's been books written with this title, Bad Things Happen to Good People. Anybody ever see that to be true? Bad things happen. Somebody good, they're trying to do right, they're trying to live for God. Lo and behold, something bad happened. They lose their job or a wreck or cancer shows up Bad things happen to good people. You know what I noticed? Bad things happen to bad people too. Bad things happen to all points in between. We live in a sinful world. In my mind, and our church's position is this, there is no place for rock and roll music in the Christian life. As far as I'm concerned, as far as we're concerned. Uh having said that, there's a fella that this will date me a little bit, but there's a fella had a very popular rock singer, made millions of dollars singing about adultery and and fornication and sin. His name's Billy Joel. He sang it. He used to sing a song, Only the Good Die Young. And the whole message to that generation that he was singing to, the whole message was living in sin and disobeying God is a whole lot more fun. And you're going to live longer and you're going to have a better life if you'll disregard God and live in sin. You know what, Billy Joel is correct. Sometimes good people die young You know what I found out? There's bad people that die young too. There's good people that live a long time, and there's bad people that live a long time. The fact is, we live in a very sinful world. We live in a fallen world where bad things happen to everybody. And people of all ages die. John Wayne said, Life is hard, and it's even harder if you're stupid. I think he's he got it pretty good there. I modified his statement. This is Dennis Leatherman's version of what John Wayne said Life is hard, and it's even harder if you're sinful. Sin is hard. The way of the transgressor is hard. It's hard. Life is hard, and it's even harder if you try and live independent of God's Word. Life is hard, and it's even harder if you're disobeying what God has told us to do. And so why do Christians worry? Why would God's people struggle with worry and anxiety? Well one of the reasons is we live in a very fallen world and bad things happen and hard Things happen, and we find ourselves disobeying God and doing things we ought not to do, and not doing some of the things we should do as a Christian. And all of this makes my part, and all of this make promotes worry and anxiety So one of the reasons I put down that Christians, the child of God, would worry is because we live in a fallen world. The world's solution is this: don't worry, just be happy. I tell you what, in a world filled with sin, just don't worry, don't be happy isn't going to cut it. We need something a little more substance than that. than just putting on a facade. So one reason we struggle with worry is we live in a fallen world. I put this down, the second reason is because the future is uncertain. We don't know what tomorrow may bring. I want to know what tomorrow holds, don't you? I would like to know that. Hmm, I could prepare. I wouldn't uh uh wonder oh I wonder if this is going to happen tomorrow. Well if I could see and know then I would know whether or not. How many folks found this to be true? You w w the stuff we worry about hardly ever happens Right? In fact, me worrying makes other things happen that wouldn't have happened if I didn't worry. People pay a lot of money to go to these yardbird palm readers And try and figure out what tomorrow holds. And they'll read cards and tea leaves and lines on your hands and who knows what else they'll come with, how much hair is on your head and all these types of things I'm obsessed today with my hair. I don't know what my hair. But um they'll do all these things and they'll pay millions and millions of dollars to try and find out what's happening tomorrow. You know why? Because they're worried I'm scared. Listen, let me just give you a little advice. If these palm readers and fortune tellers knew what was going to happen tomorrow, they would be billionaires It's all scam. It's because people are worried about what's going to happen tomorrow. We do not know what the future holds. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We can anticipate, we plan, we hope this I like this. It's a cliche. It's overused, but brother, it is so true. We don't know who holds tomorrow, but we do know who holds tomorrow. We do we I didn't say that right, did I? I was worried that that would happen. We do not know what the future holds, but we know who holds the future. So why do we worry? Why do God's people worry? Why do we get so upset? Well, we live in a very sinful world and horrendous things happen in a sinful world. And that produces, that nurtures worry and anxiety We don't know what the future holds. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We don't know what somebody's going to do. We don't know what's going to happen. We don't know what the And that nurtures and that produces a worry because the future is uncertain. And I'll put a third reason down, we uh reason we worry sometimes, is because we lack control I don't know, some of us maybe are more prone to this as others, but we want to control things. If I'm in control, then I know what's going to happen. If I'm in control, then I know how things are going to turn out. And we want to control things. And the fact of the matter is we don't control things. God controls all things. I've noticed that doctors get sick. Anybody knows that? They don't have complete control of anybody. When I worked down at the um, did I ever tell you I used to work in the surgery department of a hospital? Did I ever tell you that? Yeah. I was in the surgery department. You guys aren't very impressed. I mean I wore the garb, everything. I would get on the elevator. I had all the stuff for the surgery department. I'd get on the elevator, people would say, Hi doctor, I'd say, hi. I hid the mop behind my back. I cleaned the surgery department. I was in housekeeping in the surgery department. I was a doctorate I was a doctor of garbology. But you know those doctors could do per perform amazing surgeries and do amazing things. They did brain surgery in the one room. All day they were in there doing that. You know what I found those doctors can't control their own diseases and whatnot from many of them get sick. Lawyers get sued. Policemen are murdered. We do not have the control over the events of our life we would like to believe we do. And because we don't have control in a lot of these areas, it promotes worry, it it it uh uh fosters anxiety. Take your Bible if you would. Turn back to James towards the back of your Bible. Now keep your place in Philippians because we're going to end up there. But I'd like for you to notice in the book of James and chapter number four We're going to preach on this in a few, probably a month or so, as we work preaching our way on Sunday nights through James. But verse number 13 of James chapter 4. He addresses this very subject of not knowing what the future holds and not being fully in control of everything and wanting to be and wanting to know what the future is and wanting to be in control And he says in verse 13 of James chapter 4, Go to now, ye that say, tomorrow today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. Sounds like they've got it all planned out. They've got everything under control. Look at verse 14. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. In the margin of my Bible, I put Proverbs 27. 1. Knowst not thyself with tomorrow, thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. For that ye ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. But now you rejoice and you're boasting, and all such rejoicing is evil. Says you think you've got everything under control. You think you know how this is going to play out. You think you've got all this, and the fact is you don't God's the ultimate control. God's the one that ultimately decides what is or isn't going to happen. I venture to say, I'm talking to some people this morning That you're dealing with something today, last Sunday, you had no idea you would be dealing with it today We're not as in control as we think we are. We don't know what tomorrow holds. We live in a very sinful fallen world, and all of this produces, has the potential of producing in our hearts and lives Anxiety and anxious care. Now, what's God's cure? Come back to Philippians. I believe the Lord gives us a few things here that help us if we will trust Him and obey Him in these areas We can, in the midst of a sinful world where we don't know what's going to happen tomorrow, we do not have the control we think we would like to have In spite of all of that, we can have the peace of God that passeth understanding. We can have joy. We can have something, a supernatural tranquility in our lives If we will just trust the Lord and obey Him in these matters. God's cure for anxious care. Number one, I put this down. Recognize that worry is useless. Recognize that worry is useless. Now that's easier said than done. I've asked myself this a number of times. And I wish, I meant to say this earlier in the message. I wish I could stand up here and say, listen, I have a total grasp on this, I have completely victory in this area, I never worry about anything, you just I'm telling you from me, my authority doesn't. I'm not telling you that I struggle with this as much as anybody. But I'm telling you what God says. And God has the answer. Amen. And God says to you and I, worrying is useless. Worrying is useless. Look what he says there in chapter 6 in the first part of verse or Philippians chapter 4, the first part of verse 6. Be careful for what? Nothing. The word careful there means to worry about, to be anxious about, to be troubled. Sometimes the other parts of the Bible he'll use the word fret. Fret not yourself. It's the same idea. He's not saying here, don't be careful in what you do. We should be careful And that we give great care and make sure we're doing things right and make sure things are in place. He's not talking about that. He's saying don't be anxious about it. Don't be upset. Don't be troubled. Don't worry. Notice what he says. Be careful for what Nothing. Not one single thing. So I was studying this this week, I thought, Lord, surely I can be worried about this. This, I mean, that wouldn't be right not to be anxious about that, not to be worried about it. And then I come back to the Bible, and it was like the Lord says, then you're wrong. Not even that. But Lord, what about this? No, not that either. Lord, why shouldn't I be careful for anything? Why shouldn't I be anxious about anything? Because it's useless. Over and over and over throughout Scripture, especially through the book of Psalms, we're told, fret not, fear not, it does no good. I have found that trusting God, my experience has been when I trust God, it works out a whole lot better than when I get all worked up and get out of sorts and get bent out of shape. Can I get a witness? Worrying, fretting, getting worked up and all anxious, it's useless. It doesn't accomplish anything. If anything, it makes things worse. If being anxious and worried was good for us, God would tell us to do it. If worrying solved problems and made the situation better and helped me, then God would say, worry away. But God knows it doesn't do any good. It doesn't help any situation. It doesn't solve any problem. I must recognize that worry is useless. If it was helpful, God would instruct us to do it. But God doesn't instruct us to worry. In fact, He forbids us to worry. It does no good. So, number one, if I want to have victory over worry, if I want to have this peace that passes understanding, the first thing I do is be careful for nothing. It doesn't do any good. I I I uh uh I need to recognize that. Number two, I put this down. I need to recognize that God's care is unconditional. God's care is unconditional. Worrying doesn't do any good, but I do have a God in heaven that cares about me. And that care is unconditional. You say, Brother Lutheran, I'm saved. I know I'm trusting Christ as Savior. I know my sins are forgiven. I have peace with God. But preacher, I've messed up since I've been saved, and I have some things that have taken place since I've been saved, and I know I'm still saved, I can't lose my salvation, but I just don't think that God is concerned about me like I was. I've broken his law. I've I've I've hurt him. I've done things. And I listen, I'm here to tell you, it doesn't matter what anybody has done. God's care for us is unconditional I like what Jeremiah 31, 3 says. I have loved thee with an everlasting love. God's love and concern for you and I. Is unconditional. Unconditional. It's not dependent upon my behavior. God's care for me is dependent upon his goodness and his pure holy love for me. Not on what I do or do not do. Would you take your Bible? Keep your place here in Philippians. Turn to Romans Chapter number 8, what a tremendous chapter of the Bible. Romans chapter number 8. And the last part of that chapter. If you're in Philippians, you go to the left. Chapter number eight. If you're in the habit of marking verses in your Bible, I highly recommend. Well, I recommend doing that. If you're not in the habit, I'd suggest it And if you do, these are some verses that would be great to underscore or highlight in some way in your Bible. Notice verse 32. He that spared not his own son. Now think about what's being said here. He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all. How shall he not with him always freely give us all things? Do you follow what he's saying there If God was willing to give His own Son so that I can be saved, that my sins forgiven, willing to give him on a cross and die and suffer the judgment of God. Suffer hell for me and buried and rise again. If God was willing to do that for me, surely God's going to take care of me. One of the best ways to overcome worry and anxiety is to look at the old cross of Christ. If he was willing to die and suffer hell for me, I know he's going to take care of me. Whatever that doctor may say, cancer, diabetes, heart disease, whatever that doctor may say to me, I know this. God's going to take care of me. I may lose that job, the government may shut down this industry, I may uh get laid off and all this, whatever may happen. I know one thing: God will take care of me. Because he was willing to give his own son for me, surely he'll take care of me. Recognize that God's care is unconditional. Look at verse 35. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or peril or sword? Come down to verse 37. Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us. In distress, in persecution, famine, nakedness, peril, sword, we're more than conquerors. We don't let these things destroy our peace. We don't let these things take away the peace of God. God gives us peace in the midst of all that. Look what he says. I am persuaded, verse thirty eight, that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor principalities Nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. I'm here to tell you, in the midst of our heartaches, in the midst of our difficulties, in the midst of our trials, we can have the peace of God. And the one of the ways we can have that is to be reminded that God's care for me is unconditional. He loves me. I like to say this sometimes at uh I try to remind folks sometimes at a funeral or especially if it's a younger person or it's some sort of tragedy that took the life away. I always try and remind us that God is too good to be unkind and he's too wise to make a mistake. The things that I'm facing and the difficulties I'm going through and the things that are making me worry, I need to remember God still loves me, God cares about me. This isn't some mistake. He's not being unkind. I like, I want I I really want you to turn to one other passage with me back to 1 Peter. Back towards the back of your Bible there. 1 Peter Go past Philippians working towards the back of your Bible. You get the Hebrews, James. You get the first Peter. And there's a verse here. I was reading this verse over and looking at it in 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse 7. And I guess I'd seen this before, but it never really dawned on me, I guess, the way it did this week as I was saying, and I got stirred up. Man, I had a little spell I went in and told my wife, I said, listen to what this verse is saying. 1 Peter chapter 5, verse 7. I told Kathy I feel bad for her. She hears these sermons several times during the week. I get all I'm studying, I get all stirred up. Hey, listen to this. And uh then she comes in. She is a memorized by Sunday. Look at verse 7 of 1 Peter chapter 5. Casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. How many folks ever read that verse before? How many folks ever heard that preached on? Maybe how many folks memorized that verse? Isn't that a good verse? Casting all your care on him for he careth for you. And I got going through there, looking up the words, each word, and how it's used other places in the Bible, and uh I learned something When he says, casting all your care upon him, it's the same ideas in Philippians where he says, be careful for nothing Be anxious, be worried for nothing. I'm to take that anxiety, I'm to take that worry, that fear, that turmoil, whatever it is that's causing me to be uh uh uh not have any peace in my heart, take that And cast it on him. The idea is just unload it. I've got all this down in my heart. I've got all this stuff I'm worried about. I've got all this anxiety, this worry, this care. I need to take all that care and cast it on him. Now, this is what stirred me up. For he Careth for you. And I got looking at that word for. He careth for you. And I had the idea, well I always had the idea, God cares about me. And God does care about us, right? You know what I believe he's saying here as I was studying this? I come to this conclusion. Casting all your care, your anxiety, your worry, cast on him, and he will care for you. He will care. The word for there has this idea in your place. In other words, God will worry about it. I don't have to worry about it. He'll be anxious for me. You follow what I'm saying? He'll be worried. I tell you what, I'm not worried about God worrying about something. Because God can handle it. Amen. He says, You're all worried about that? Listen, just throw that worry on me, I'll worry for you. I found out that God doesn't worry. So when I take my worry and put it on him, and he says, I'll worry for you, I'll cast all your care on me and I'll care for you, I'll care about it for you, I'll be anxious about it for you, that anxiety just dissolves because God can handle it. I I was more stirred up about it than you all are. I mean I was I had a little fire on the back porch there, I was studying out in the deck and I had a little the porch wasn't on fire, but I And I started uh hooping and I'll I just not really forget it. But anyway. In place of God does the worrying for us. Listen, there's no use two of us worrying about it, just let God worry about it. Just cast on him. You say, Brother Leatherman, that that seems kind of risky. What are you crazy? Risky to trust God All right, I'm not going to worry about it. Aren't you concerned about that? Nope, I'm not concerned at all. Why? Because God's concerned in my place for me. Are you worried about whether they're going to shut the job down? I'm not worried about it at all. God's worrying about that for me Aren't you going to worry about your home situation and this is going on and that? Aren't you going to worry about it? No, I'm not going to worry about it at all. I'm going to cast it on him. I'm going to let him worry about it for me. I'll just do what he says. I'll follow his instructions. I'm going to let him do all the worrying for me. Wow, what a way to live, huh? I just let him do it all for me. Number one, recognize worry is useless. Number two, recognize God's care is unconditional. And last of all, and this is what the message is teaching us. This passage is teaching us, understand that prayer is unfailing. The primary cure for worry is prayer. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication. Supplication is earnest prayer. Let your requests be made known unto God with thanksgiving. Earnest, consistent, specific prayer must be a high priority in the Christian life. You show me a worrying Christian, and I'll show you a Christian who's not praying like they should. You show me a Christian who is in all things making prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, letting requests be made known unto God. I'll show you someone that's not worrying. The peace of God that passes all understanding is true in their life. We have got to learn to pray. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we have got to learn to pray. Earnestly, specifically, consistently. Pray to God. Well, peace. I I'm convinced. Every week goes by, I'm convinced that Christianity is on the brink of being criminal in the United States of America. We have political leaders making those statements now. Oh, we're so worried. Oh no, what's going to happen? The sodomites, what are we going to do? And it it's an issue, it needs to be addressed, we need to prepare, but I'm telling you this: the cure for this, I believe, is God's people praying. God's people praying. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be an owner of God, and the peace of God that passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Prayer, prayer, prayer, prayer. I'm talking to some folks today, there is turmoil in your home. Your home is turmoil. You know what the solution is? Stop worrying. It's not accomplishing anything. Let God worry for you. He cares about you. He'll take care of it. And pray, pray, pray, pray, pray. Earnestly. You're worried about some kid. You're worried about your finances. You're worried about the job. You worry about someone else and what's going on with them. Worry, worry, worry, worry. The primary solution to worry is prayer. Read through the book of Psalms. David is fearful, he prays. David is anxious, he prays. David is concerned, he prays. Prayer. Prayer. When we neglect prayer, we disobey God. When we d when we neglect Prayer, we empower our anxiety. Here's the thing I found too in my life, and maybe you do better in this than I do, but I found when I get worrying, the last thing I want to do is pray I get all worried about something and I just don't want to pray. And what I need to do is discipline myself and say, no, if I'm worrying, the very primary thing I need to do is pray. And discipline myself to get with God and get on my knees and say, God, here's what I need. God help me. Prayer is not only a great privilege as a Christian, it is a great duty. My family needs my prayers. I say a word to the dads here. Our family needs daddy's prayers. God pity a daddy doesn't pray for his family. God have mercy on a husband doesn't pray for his wife. Prayer. Our families need prayer. You know why I think there's so much turmoil in some of our homes? Is there's so little prayer. So little prayer. Tell you what, you get mom and dad and the kids around, hold hands, open a Bible, read passages, psalms, get on your knees, say, all right, we're going to pray and all get together and say, God, please bless our home. God change this. God give us the peace. Anoint our home with the presence of your Holy Spirit. God, convict us of our sin. Give us victory over our sin. You get that family, mom and dad, praying together. I'm telling you, one of the most powerful things in the world is a husband and wife on their knees before God. Praying for that family as a powerful thing. Kids praying for their parents Our church needs our prayers. I'm so grateful for the men come out Saturday mornings for men's prayer breakfast. I'm telling you, our church needs that. Sunday nights we meet downstairs, the men, I challenge you, men, I wish you'd join us down there. Have a great host of men. Pray, pray, pray. For our church and the ministries and the children and the facilities and our outreach and our missionaries, our members The Wednesday night prayer service is the most important service at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church when this church gets together and we get before the throne of God asking his blessings and protection on this word. Prayer. It's powerful. We neglect it. Our church needs our prayers. Our families need our prayers. Can I say this? Our country needs our prayers. God have mercy. We should vote and we should make phone calls and we should write letters. We should do all that. Don't misunderstand. But if we're not praying, it's all in vain. We need God to do a work in our country. Amen or not. We need God to do a work in this land, in our community. Can I throw this out while I'm on this? Your pastor needs your prayers. It really does. It really does. So God's cured for anxious care. Realize? Worrying doesn't accomplish a thing. God's love and care for me is unconditional. And prayer never fails. It never fails. I want to challenge our homes here. And I thank God for Brother Moyer starting this young couples class. I want to challenge our homes here. Let's establish family altars in our homes. Sometime every day, mom and dad, the kids are still there, kids get together, and we pray, read the Bible, and pray together as a family. I want to challenge you to do that. You say, well, I'm not, you know, I'm just not uh uh uh just die to self, just listen, take listen, it's time to get serious about our Christianity Time to get serious about the con spiritual condition of our homes. Get the family together and we're going to pray every day, every night before we go to bed. We're going to read some psalms and we're going to pray about God blessing and helping us and changing things and making things right. Family altar, I want to challenge you to establish a personal prayer time. Where you get alone with God as an individual Christian and pray and tell God the things you want, the things you need. How many folks right now There's something on your heart right now you really, really, really need God to do for you. In your heart, you know there's something there. Raise your hand. How many folks? There's something I really, really need God to do. You know what you need to be doing about that? Is praying. Every day pray, pray, pray. Pray for our family, our homes, personal prayer, family prayer. I learned this in Bible college. I think I say this often, but I think every cr every young Christian ought to give at least one year to Bible college. I really do. I learned you learn so much more than book learning. You learn that there's a God in heaven About halfway through I I had a I'd have a four-year program. About halfway through, about four years into it, halfway through the four-year program. I ran out of money. And back then it wasn't expensive as it is now, but I ran out of money. It was the s the I finished up the fall semester, I paid off paid off my fall semester, took my finals, but I didn't have enough money to begin the spring semester I didn't have it. And there wasn't enough time to earn it in between. So I decided I wasn't going to tell anybody in the world. I was going to learn whether God answers prayer or not. And I didn't tell my friends, I didn't tell my dad, I didn't tell anybody. I said, God, I need I need this, I need this Time came for registration, I had the money. I had enough money to buy a bus ticket to go home back to Philly from Chattanooga I went in, I registered, I did everything except paid, and I said, I don't have the money yet. They said, well, if you go to class, then you're obligated to pay a certain percentage. If you don't go to class, you can opt out and you won't owe anything So I got home, I said, Lord, I've got to have that money before class, or I just pack I guess I'll just go home. I'll take it's not your will. The day came was either go to class or go home. I had no money. I went by the my post office. Before I was going to go down to the bus station, I was had enough bus to buy money to buy a bus ticket. I had all my stuff packed. I was going to get a bus ticket. I was going to go home, just show up to dad, say I'm home for a semester, I'll work, save the money, come back Went by a post office, got a few little things. There was a note there that said come by the registration office. Some of you have heard this before. I think I told it last month But he said come by the registration office. I went by the registration office. I said I was supposed to come by. They said what they looked, oh yeah, Dennis Leatherman. Uh we need you to assign this receipt of payment. I said, no, I didn't pay. I said, I'm going home. I paid last semester, but I have the money for this money. I haven't a mini payment. They go, no, we just need you to sign this acceptance of payment for your school bill. I said, no, you don't understand. I didn't pay it. I'm packed up, I'm going home. I just th there's some mistake here. She goes, no, there's not a mistake. We just need you to sign this to re so we can put it to your account. I said, but there's nothing put she said, just sign it for Pete's sake. I said, what am I signing? I always do what I'm told. What am I signing? She goes, somebody paid your school bill for you. Your whole spring semester's paid. It's taken care of. I said, well who did that? She goes, we don't know. Somebody came in and put payment on your payment for you. I didn't tell anybody. The only person I told was God. You know what I learned? There's a God in heaven that answers prayer. That doesn't mean everything I asked for I got. But I did learn this. God answers prayer. When God called Kathy and I later we got married and God called us to go up to Indianapolis, we had a rental truck. We had no money to buy that rental truck. We had to go up there and um we had no money to move up there. The church was waiting on us. We had to get our stuff up there. We had no money. We prayed. We decided we're just going to Pray and trust God. Make a long story short. We got on our knees and said, God, we know you've called us up there. We have the position. We have no means of getting from here to there. We need you to provide this for us. That evening Somebody comes to the door, they say, God laid us on my heart to put this much, give you this much money. I've been fussing with God for the last two, three weeks that uh I didn't want to do it, but God impressed, I need to give you this money. They gave us to the dollar the money we needed to rent that truck to go up to Indianapolis. Now I was mad. Why'd they wait two weeks? Why'd they wait until the night Good night, I have a heart attack. What I'm saying is this God answers prayer. God answers prayer. If we don't do anything else, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord you'd help us not to worry and to pray. Why worry when we can pray? Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher, I have some things to be very honest, I'm worried about? There's some situations, circumstances that have my heart upset. And this morning, by God's grace, I want to stop worrying. I want to start trusting God and start praying. And you have something very specific that is disruptive in your heart, and you say this morning, by God's grace, I want to stop worrying. I want to start praying and start trusting God. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I have a situation. It's just stealing my peace. And I want to start praying. God bless you, hands all around. How about it, others? Peace of God. It's something God has to give us. It's not something we work up. It's God. It passes all understanding. God gives it to us. But we've got to do verse 6 if we're going to have the peace of verse 7. Let your requests be made known unto God with thanksgiving. So there's someone here this morning to say, preacher, I'm not sure I have peace with God. I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell, and you say, I don't want to go to hell. Nobody in the right mind wants to go to hell. And God wants to forgive all your sin and take it away, but you've got to trust Him. You've got to accept Jesus as your personal Savior. Is there someone here this morning say, Preacher, pray for me? I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven and that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. And you say, Preacher, pray for me, that God would help me settle that in my heart, that I know that I have peace with God And that I go to heaven, not to hell when I die. Is there any at all like this? Any at all? How about it? God bless you. How about it? Once we trust Christ as Savior, there's no we're safe. We're saved. But if we've never trusted Christ as Savior, We need to settle that. How about it? Any at all? Father, bless now our invitation. We have a lot to worry about in this old sinful world. It's very easy. But we want to get beyond that and we want to pray and trust you and and rejoice in your love and care for us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed, Kathy's gonna playing a few verses of invitation as she plays whatever that is that's on your heart and soul tonight w this morning, whatever it is that's so disruptive, why don't you come and hit an old fashioned altar this morning and say, God, I'm casting this care on you. I'm going to let you worry about this for me. I'm going to let you be anxious about this for me. And bring it to the Lord and let Him have it there. And trust Him. God will help us. There can be peace in our hearts that passes understanding. There can be peace in our homes that passes understanding But we have to take it to the Lord, trust him and obey him. Let him have his way. If you've been saved but you've never followed the Lord in believers' baptism, that's a step of obedience. It's setting a precedent that I'm going to trust and obey God as a Christian. And as we do that, God blesses us and we learn that we can trust and we can grow. God gives that peace. Church attendance, membership, soul winning, Bible reading, all these are part of growing in my faith And learning to trust God and cast my care on Him. Be very specific when you pray. I want to challenge again, families, mom and dad, set up a family altar time. Do that. Get that family together and pray on a daily basis. It'll change the home, I promise you. At personal devotion time, establish that it'll change your whole perspective on everything. Now you're not even using the five years. Father in heaven, we thank you for your word. Have your way. Give us peace, Lord, as we trust you and obey you in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you