All right, we are delighted to be with you. Hope you're excited to be in God's house tonight. Hope you'd rather be here than prison. At least some of you would rather be, some of you aren't sure. I always say when I asked that and they just kinda look at you. What in the world's going on, I'm telling you. My neck is killing me. What in the world Oh man, my neck is killing me. Um, hi. Who are you looking at? Hi, hi, Rusty. How are you, buddy? Well, uh, not well. Uh uh this this is my friend Rusty, as you can tell Rusty is a rat. Um I've had my neck caught in a fruit cocktail can You you had your whole head stuffed in a fruit a large fruit cocktail can and and you couldn't get out until you hurt your neck? Yeah, and I had a horse almost run over me. A what a horse? Yeah. So you you had a rough day. I had a rough day and I'm starving. I've been all over this place looking for crumbs, but it's a Baptist church. That's true, Rusty. You're probably not gonna find any food around here, okay? No joking. Oh I'm sorry. You should have went to a different denomination if you wanted something to eat. Uh well I'm sorry your neck's hurting is there is there anything I could do to help you or I mean boy it hurts A a lot of pain. What why why was your head in the can? We you were trying to get food uh obviously, right? Yeah, there was a few scraps in there, some grapes and part of some peaches. Right, right. Wow. Sure. Well I'm so I'm sorry that your neck Your neck hurts, uh Rusty. Um is there is is there anything else in particular that you wanted because we were uh giving to have a service uh uh message time and what I could use something I am kinda hungry. Well well I uh I spiritually or physically Real lady. He he does sound like a Baptist person though, doesn't he? Uh a lot a lot of Baptists are like that. Okay. Uh we we really don't have any physical food for you. If you want to listen, there'll be some spiritual food, then maybe after church I can get you some Yeah he does. He looks just like a Baptist. Exactly. It almost reminds you perfect of that. Uh Rusty, is there anything else we could do for you though? No, I doubt it. Well uh Sure could use something. Well I'm a bribe. A bribe? Yeah. Boy, he is a bad well. Uh a bribe. Um I I I tell you what, if if you behave yourself, I I do have a Snickers left over that a fellow gave me yesterday. He gave me two, I ate one, but being a good Christian, I would share that other Snickers with you Uh i there's a stickers. What do I have to do to earn it? Uh well let's see, we got some kids here. Um what if you sang a song for us? Are you joking? Well, you know, a simple song. Oh, brother. How about a simple song that every person in this room probably knows? Um, the B-I-B-L-E You know that song, Rusty? I've heard it a time or two. Could you try to sing it? I t I tell you what, I'll even make it easier. We'll sing the song. You guys know the B IBL. Please tell me you know that. Okay. We'll sing the B IBL. We get to the end, there's a a part that you holler Bible. We will Power, we'll just let you holler it. That's all I gotta do. One word, but you have to be enthusiastic. You can't be like most Baptist congregations Okay. Okay, here we go. You ready guys? All you can do, don't say Bible again. He'll he'll yellow. Hear me, you ready? The V-I-B-L-E. Yes, that's the book for me. I stand alone on the Word of God, the V-I-B-L-E. Bible. Rusty Where's the candy bar? Rusty, I am not giving you a candy bar after that. I want my candy bar. Listen, I said holler the word Bible. You barely even said it. Oh, holler. Right. It has to be louder than that. Can you give me another chance? Okay. Uh uh another chance, another chance. Here we go. He misunderstood, he said it too low. We'll try. You promise you'll do it this time? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Alright, here we go, right? One more time, here we go. Uh B I B L E yes that's the one for me. I stand alone on the word of God, the B-I-B-L-E. Bible. How is that? Well, that's probably as good as we're gonna get. That's all I got. Jenny sounds like a Baptist, you gotta admit. Uh you know what? What I'm smelling some donuts. Uh, that was from yesterday. Whoa, I do smell a donut and my nose does not deceive me. Whoa, whoa, whoa. Rosky, are you gonna get your Okay. Anyway, like I was saying, what do you expect? He's a rat. Okay, I can't you know I can't help he's bad. So uh Rusty is a rat, so nothing I can Sorry, you know, he'll probably be back later. We'll we'll see. I do want to mention some things about our ministry about our books. We have some books on the back table if you're interested in them. uh take a look at them. There's some great books back there. Mentioned some things to the class on yesterday. Those folks that came to the class. We have several books on children's ministry. Even if you're not involved in children's ministry directly, maybe you have a friend or someone that's involved in it. There's a book by Brother Ab Thomas. Spent a long time under Dr. Lee Robertson. This one's called Teaching Children God's Wonderful Word. 200 Proven Ideas, two per week. You can plug into ministry there. We also have a new book that he just put out called Children's Church. This is a great book. I've only got, I think, three or four copies left of this one. Avail yourself to that. If you're uh interested in puppet ministry, uh again you may have a daughter, a son, a grandson that's interested in puppets. I encourage you to push that it is a great ministry it works very very well uh my family and I have worked very hard on this here uh the book and the DVD combo Uh we came up with a book puppets in ministry because there was a lack of information out there on puppets being used today. So we boiled it down and we cover a lot of things in this book. uh on Puppets in Ministry. Uh we have a two-hour DVD that goes along with it that teaches you how to come up with voices, how to come up with designing a character, things like that. Avail yourself to that as well. And we also have a book on by Brother Jerry Ross Called the Teenage Years of Jesus Christ. I believe Jesus is the ultimate pattern for what a young person should be today. Maybe you have a teenage grandson, or maybe you have a teenager in your own house I think that'd get this. We'll make them get it. Make them read it. It's important. They need to read this on what they should be as a teenager, okay? Using Jesus as our pattern. Then there's two other small booklets. They're only four dollars each. One is on biblical masculinity Uh listen, every man in here ought to read this book. I challenge you to do so, I did it. And I'm gonna be honest with you, it was for a carnal reason in the beginning Well not real carnal, but I wanted to for my sons. I thought, well, my sons need to read this. It would help them be more spiritual like their dad. Uh so I thought I'll read it first to make sure it's and the Lord really He tore me up over this book. Um, about transitioning young men into men and areas that I'd messed up in my own life He challenged me in that. There's another book called Biblical Femininity about being a young lady, what a young lady is supposed to do today. I mentioned this yesterday uh to the class. I read this before I gave it to my daughter. She'll be sixteen on Wednesday. I want her to read this about becoming a young lady. And I read it first before I gave it to her to see what all was in it and whatnot. And I noticed something in here, one of the points I really appreciate where they're all saying is we have a lot of young ladies today that are pursuing men Pursuing a husband. Can I help you with something? The only woman in the Bible that pursues a man is the strange woman in the book of Proverbs. Are you listening? What a young lady ought to do is prepare herself for the young men that God will bring to her. You say, well, that means I'd be trusting God for my mate. Exactly. That's exactly right. This book will help you. I challenge you to read it and pass along to someone else. So if you're interested in uh any of these books, uh please stop by the table after church and avail yourself to those who are. Oh, how are you born, Brother Jay? Oh hey, Norm How you doing, pal? Oh well, uh quite well uh thanks. How long's it been? Oh yeah, yesterday. Yeah. Oh man, I loved your classes, they were great. Oh good, good. Yeah, yeah. I didn't tell you I was over uh I've been over in uh Kaiser. And uh seeing my uh mom's sister, my Aunt Gertrude. Oh, over in Kaiser, West Virginia. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh yeah. She's a great prayer warrior. Oh, I love her. Man, she's been feeling ill so I stopped by the seal and everything. Right, right. And uh you know, I uh know that this church is here. You know, I didn't tell ya. I know Brother Leatherman. Oh I didn't I didn't know you do. Yes I do, I know him. How how do you I know brother Dennis and uh Kathy and the kids, the two boys you know Sam and and uh Dan. Uh yeah, how do you how do you know that? Oh they came to our church in uh Long Island. They were there. I think in uh two thousand and seven brother Dennis came. Are you sure it was Oh yeah yeah yeah, Brother Dennis came and like he preached to us in uh at my church. Oh, okay. Man, he is a fireball. Oh Even though he's broad headed, that man can really chuck some corn. He's good. He's really good, Brother Jay. You ever heard him preach? Uh yes, I I have, yes. Yeah, yeah, yeah, quite good. Quite good, yeah. I really like listening to him and everything and uh I'm uh been talking to your son uh Sam. Okay. Now Sam's quite the hunter. Right. Yeah, he's been trying to get me to uh oh boy, go hunting, you know, to book a A hunt. Well I Norm, I thought you were from New York and you've never hunted before, have you? I know I've never hunted, Brother J. I didn't say I was going. Oh Jeff Sorry. Man a line. Give me a chance. So sorry. But uh he's been trying to talk me into it, but I know it would be dangerous, you know. I'm not that good. I I don't know anything about guns and you know, ammunition and that stuff and the calibers and whatever that stuff is, I don't know. But uh anyway I'm willing to learn. What what do you want a hunt? Uh oh boy I never thought about it. I don't know. I don't know. I mean there's certain animals are you are deer hunting or Well uh they've been talking about wild boar. Wild boar? Yeah. I love ham I love ham. Have you ever had sweet and sour ham? I I actually I have, yes. Oh my soul. Brother J, the Amish over in Lancaster Wow, I'm telling you. Great, great food. Yeah, yeah, sure. Um before you get too excited about hunting wild boar, uh you being from New York and everything and you never hunted, have you ever seen footage of a wild boar hunt? Well uh no I haven't. Well boars have really long tusks. Uh and they come after What is a tusk? It it's like a long tooth that sticks out of their mouth, the three or four, sometimes five inches. Are you serious? And actually will charge you and try to kill you. Are you Uh is this the is this for true? Is this for real? Yes, I'm serious. Oh boy. I bet uh well, you know what, I uh well, I don't know about that, but uh I might be changing my mind. Maybe bunny rabbit hunting, I don't know. It's kinda scary. You know, I don't know about the I'm just saying certain animals you gotta be careful because they also hunt you. Oh you know what I am going to meet my brother Ralph over in uh Charlestown, Maryland, about uh about uh four according to my GPS, four or four and a half hours away. Okay. And so uh me and Ralph are gonna make a lawn. trip to Gnome, Alaska. Like a vacation? Yep. Uh what are you gonna do up there in Noome? Uh we're gonna um fish for salmon Okay, that's good. Are you staying in a resort or a lodge or no no no no no no no Ralphie? Wow, no, he likes to rough things. We're gonna stay in tents Uh oh I can't wait. Oh man he is so great. He this guy is the fisherman, I'm telling you. What up brother? Before you get real excited about that Uh you staying in tents. Normally where you stay and where you fish, there's other things that also are fishing at the same time. Well yeah there might be some other people on the No, no, I no I'm not talking about I'm not talking about people, I'm talking about bears Well well you all I guess uh there might be some bears in Alaska. I don't know, I imagine so. Well yeah, there's really, really, really big bears. Really? Like uh How big we talking here? Well, some of them you know can be up to eight, nine feet tall. Oh come on now. Don't be saying this, brother Jay. You're blowing my vacation here. Why are you telling me this? Well I'm I'm just trying to be honest with you. I'm just saying, listen, if you're in a tent that's not much of a protective uh you know, covering if you You're y I mean you're most people were in a cabin. If you're in a tent, well I'm just honestly they can go through that like butter. You're serious. I am serious, yes You know what? What? I may be changing the whole deal. I might just be going down to Florida to St. Pete's Beach. I don't know. This is not sounding good. Well I I don't think I made out to be a hunter, Brother Jay. Well listen, I'm not trying to ruin a vacation. You still may have a good time. I just Oh wow. Hey listen. What? My pastor, brother Pete Montoro. Yeah. You know Pete, don't you? Yes, I do, yeah. He says to tell you hi. Oh, okay. Oh yes, I'm a good thing. And uh oh yeah, he's a wonderful man. And you know his wife, Julia? Yeah. Yes, I know, yes, yeah. But you know. Now you know Julia. Her maiden name is Marshall. Yes, I know. And uh yeah, her mom and dad, John and Lee. You know, you know, her mom and dad had ten kids Right, yeah, I knew. But do you know that Julius got twelve kids? Wow, yeah, I mean I had I know I know she took Genesis while I'm telling you. God said be fruitful of multiply replacement. She's trying to replenish the whole street of Long Island, New York man alive. Okay, okay. He says hi to you though. Okay, yeah, sure. That's fine. And everything. And so uh since you just ruined all my plans and uh never go bull hunting and uh so therefore I cannot go to uh norm with my brother. Well uh well I guess uh I don't know what I'm gonna do. We'll have to plan a trip to uh listen listen um st or something service tonight here uh yeah uh oh man bullet jay I'm embarrassed. Why? Oh man I forgot my sword. Your what? My Bible. Oh, where is it? Oh man, it's out in the car. What? It's in the car. I gotta go get it. They're mine. No, no, go ahead, do what you gotta do. Yeah, I gotta go get it. Listen, don't start till I get back. Now you're preaching tonight? I am preaching. Oh, let him have it, Brother Jay. This these these guys need it. Yeah, especially Brother Leverman. You just tear him up one side and down the other. Let him have it, Brother Jay. All right, Normal. Yeah, yeah, yeah. See your voice. We'll see you later. Sorry about that folks. That's Norman. Uh he's from New York. What can I tell you? Okay. Take your Bibles if you would tonight. Turn to the book of Job. The book of Job and the Word of God. I hope you like enjoy and laugh. I hope you like being saved. I hope you like being a Christian. Um, if you can't laugh at other people, why not? I mean I do. No, it's it's good to be in God's house tonight. I hope you've asked him the Lord to do something in your heart and in your life tonight. Job chapter number one in the word of God. Job chapter number one. I mentioned this morning during the Sunday school hour that uh two ways I usually come up with different messages. One is a word study, and the other one is studying a character in the Bible. The Lord impressed me a couple years ago to look into the book of Job, and I don't know how you study God's word, how you read it. Some people go Genesis to Revelation, that's fine. Some people go Genesis to Revelation, they also include a proverb a day or a psalm a day, and that's fine as well I'm one of those people that when I read a book of the Bible, if if I feel like the Lord is pressing me to read this study, the Word of God and a certain book of the Bible, I will read that book over and over and over again until I feel like the Lord has given me what He wants to give me. Um I began reading the book of Job because one of the reasons was when I came to Job. To be honest with you, I didn't really want to read Job. I wanted to skip Job because It's a tough book. It's a lot that he goes through. But I want to understand what God was trying to show me. Have you ever realized that just because you were raised in a Christian home or maybe you were raised in church, you've been in church in a long time? You may know about a character in the Word of God, and you think you know them very, very well, and you come to find out that you didn't know them as well as you thought you did, or you thought the story that you thought you knew isn't the story you knew at all. That's not really what God had for you I began to study the book of Job, and I asked the Lord to show me something that I hadn't seen before, and God changed my entire perspective on Job. I want to talk to you about a perspective tonight. I want you to see something from God's Word. I hope you never see Job the same way again. Let me give you an example of a perspective. Suppose we have two men that they're shipwrecked on an island. No one else is there that they know of, it's just those two. They're the only ones that live. As far as they know, it's deserted. They can't find food. They can't find water. The one says, We're gonna die here. We've wrecked, we're gonna die. There's no way to live. The other one doesn't see anything. He just looks around. They try to survive for a little bit and after a while the the one hears drums in the distance and he thinks, oh great. This just went from bad to worse. Now we have cannibals on the island. Now we're really gonna die. We have cannibals we're gonna starve to death, or we're gonna be eaten by these people. The other man says, you know what? I bet no one has ever brought the gospel to this island before. We're the first people that ever get the chance to witness to this island. What is the difference between the two individuals? They both have the same circumstance, but their perspective is totally different. I want to talk to you about perspective tonight, and I want God to change your perspective. I want God to change my perspective. I want to look at the life of Job. If I was to ask a person that's been in this church any length of time, or you consider yourself a Christian that's been saved for an amount of time and you've studied the Word of God, if I asked you to tell me what the book of Job is about, or if you could define Job's life. What word would you define it with? Someone tell me. Trials, somebody else? Hardship? Somebody else? Suffering? That's how we think of Job. I want to change your perspective because if you think that's what the book of Job is about, you miss the book of Job. You missed it. The Bible says in Job chapter number 1, verse number 1, There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and issued evil. Father, I pray tonight as we look at this character in the Word of God, that each one of us would have our hearts and our minds open to your word. Bless the next few moments as we consider this man. That we would see him as he was, and more importantly, we would see you as you are. That I pray that you would change our perspective tonight. And our desire would be to be more like you. But I do pray if someone's in your midst tonight, this midst, that's never trusted you as their Savior, I pray that this will be their day of salvation. Help us to expect great things from you tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Well, in the next thirty minutes, I would like to go through the book of Job, and I'm going to do something that I rarely do. Some of you are already getting nervous. I'm going to preach on the entire book of Job in the next 30 minutes. Some of you are going. You're kidding me. It's okay, we'll skip a lot of the middle, okay, because it's hard to cover, but I want you to see something. If you notice about the book of Job, there are not many characters in the book of Job. You have Job, you have his wife. You have his family. You have three of his so-called friends. Okay. You have a fourth man that shows up and gives his opinion as well, rebuking the other three, and you have God and you have Satan. There are not many people involved, some servants here and there, but not many characters. I want to look at the life of Job tonight. The Bible starts out in verse number one. There was a man in the land of Oz whose name was Job. Understand something, this is not an allegory. This is not a picture. The Bible says there was a man. This man actually existed. Job actually existed. He actually lived. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job. Listen to what the Bible says. And that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eschewed evil. That is a lot to say about an individual, is it not? I began to study the words and why God said about him what he said. The first thing that God says is that Job is perfect. Now I have a question for you. Does that mean that Job is without sin? Yes or no? No. No person is without sin except Jesus Christ. That's it. So, what does it mean here? He was perfect. I began to study that word. It means not that he was sinless, it means he was complete. It means he was accurate. It means, listen, this is where the definition thickens. It means he was an exact fit. I began to think when he said that, an exact fit. An exact fit for what? An exact fit in God's hand For you and I both know that in this story, God sets Satan up, does he not? Remember, Satan comes before the Lord, and God sets Satan up Job is the perfect fit in God's hand. The perfect tool he can use to show Satan what Satan really is and who God himself is. It doesn't stop there. It says not only was he perfect, it says he was upright. That means he was erect. That means he was honest. That means he was just. It doesn't stop there. It says That he feared God. That means he reverenced God with all that he had. Then it says he eschewed evil. That means to turn aside from or turn away from. Whenever Job came face to face with evil, he turned away from it automatically. The Bible says in verse 2, and there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance also was seven thousand sheep, three thousand camels, five hundred yoke of oxen. five hundred she ases in a very great household. Listen what it says, so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East. Wow, the greatest. I want you to drop down to verse number eight if you would. We'll come back. Verse 7, I'm sorry. The Bible says, and the Lord said unto Satan Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro on the earth and from walking up and down in it. And the Lord said unto Satan, here it is, the setup. Are you ready? Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Now we're getting ready to see a perspective. Are you ready? I told you we're looking at perspectives tonight. We're getting ready to see a perspective. We're going to see Satan's perspective, and if Satan is right or Satan is wrong. Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Hast thou not made an hedge about him and about his house and about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands And his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thine hand now, touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. Satan's perspective is, listen, oh, I know who Job is Job is carnal. That's how Satan sees Job. Satan sees Job as a carnal person. By the way, I want you to understand something. Don't miss it. Verse number 10 says, Oh yeah, I know Job is. The Lord says, Have you seen my servant Job? Oh yeah, I've seen him. He says, I know who he is. You've made a hedge about him on every side. Now I have a question for you. How did Satan know that Job had a hedge about him all the way around? Think about it. He tried to get in. Let me say something to you, Christian. If you are one of these people that tried to be perfect upright and you stand up for the cause of Christ, you have a bullseye on you Satan will come after you. Not he might, he will. He will. Understand something. His argument, his warfare, is not against you as an individual. He doesn't care about you. His ultimate goal is to against him. And you're a picture of him. You were made in his image and his likeness. And the more you serve God, the more he will aim at you. He knew there was a hedge all about him. He says, Thou blessed the works of his hands, his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thy hand now and touch all that he hath, and it will curse thee to thy face. Satan's first accusation is He sees that Job serves and fears God for gain. He says, listen, the reason Job serves you is all the things you've given him. He's the greatest of the men of the East. You protect him on every side. No wonder he serves you. But if you take what he has, he will curse you to your face. That is Satan's perspective. Now, I brought a visual with me tonight. It's a very, very, very, very, very simple visual. This is Job. That's really Joseph from the Nativity set, but don't tell my wife. Because I'll put it back when I'm done. I'm going to put Job right here. I made him this size for a reason because for part of the message I'm going to play the Lord. And I want you to see the size difference. I want you to get perspective. This is Job. There's a hedge all the way around him. Satan cannot get to him. How do you know, preacher? Because he's tried. He's tried. His first accusation is that Job serves and fears God for gain. The Bible says that we just read it. In verse number nine all the way through. So that's what he says. He says, But if you take what he has, he will curse you to your face. Now, I need someone to represent the devil. I'm going to use Dad. Sorry, Dad. I could use the preacher, but he gave the love offering, so we'll pick you. Alright? Norman already messed up. Okay. So Dad's gonna play Satan for a second. Satan's gonna come up. He says, listen, the reason Job serves you is for gain. But if you take what he has, he will curse you to your face. Listen what God says. Don't miss it. Don't miss it. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power, only upon himself, put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. So all of a sudden, the hedge is dropped, Satan reaches in and grabs everything in Job's life and takes it away Then the Bible says Satan leaves from the presence of the Lord. All of a sudden, Job, who is a righteous man, fears God, shows evil, has nothing left God drops the hedge to prove to Satan, listen to me, to prove to Satan that he doesn't serve him and fear him just for gain Now we're looking at Satan's perspective. That is his first accusation that he serves and fears God for gain. I want to change perspective for a second. We're going to move quickly. Let's switch perspectives for a second. How does Job see himself? Does Job not see himself as a righteous man, yes or no? Yes, he does. The Bible already said he's perfect and upright that he fears God to choose evil. Job sees himself as a saved man. When we think of Job, we think of his suffering, his testimony before the Lord and man. Not what he did or what he had, but who he was before God. He was a man of God. Satan has another accusation he's going to give in just a second. But first, I want you to see Satan sees Job as carnal. Don't miss it. We talked about carnal and spiritual this morning. Satan sees Job as carnal. Job sees himself as saved. We go back to the scriptures here. You see, preacher, God dropped the hedge around Job. What happened to him? Let's look at it. Verse 13. And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. There came a messenger unto Job and said, The oxen were ploughing, and the asses feeding beside them. And the Sabians fell upon them and took them away, yea, have they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escape alone to tell thee. While he was yet speaking there came also another and said The fire of God has fallen from heaven have burned up the sheep and the servants and consumed them, and I only m escaped alone to tell thee. While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, The Chaldeans made up three bands They fell upon the camels and carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. While he was yet speaking there came also another. Are you seeing what's taking place here? Job isn't even finished taking all this in, and one after another here they come. Bad news, worse, worse, worse, worse, worse. But then a servant comes and says what Job doesn't want to hear He can handle possessions. He can handle things. You see, I already know Job is a spiritual person because things wouldn't matter to him, yes or no? Yeah. But listen to this part. While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, Thy sons and thy daughters. When those words came out of their lips, imagine what Job was feeling. Can you see the despair in his heart? Know what he's thinking before the Lord? Oh Lord, not that. Please don't don't say what I think you're gonna say. You know what I'm talking about. You've received the phone call. We're eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. Behold there came a great wind from the wilderness and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead. And I only am escaped alone to tell thee. I want you to miss this part. Don't miss it. Then Job arose and ran his mantle and shaved his head. And fell down upon the ground and asked God, why me? Is that what it says? He asked, Lord, I think you made a mistake. Is that what it says? He fell down and cursed God. Is that what it says? It says he fell down and worshiped. Now to me that's an odd word. It doesn't belong there. That's normally not what a person does when something like this takes place. But Satan's accusation is listening, he serves you and fears you for gain what you've given him. But you take it away, he'll curse you. He worships instead. I love what he says. And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And all this Job sinned not. nor charged God foolishly. I'm gonna help you with something. Is Satan's perspective changed here, yes or no? Yes, it is. His first accusation is that Job serves and fears God for gain. Look at chapter 2. This is when Satan comes before the Lord again to present himself. That's what the Bible says when the sons of God come. And verse number two: what would the Lord say? And the Lord said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan answered the Lord and said, from going to and fro on the earth and from walking up and down in it. This is exactly the same as chapter one. Exact same verbiage. Verse 3, and the Lord said unto Satan, It's now considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil, don't miss it, and still He holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movest me against him to destroy him without cause He sets him up again. He says your first accusation that he served me for gain, you were wrong. You were wrong I want you to see something I'd never seen before. Look back in chapter number one, verse number eleven. Satan said to God, put forth thy hand. That's what he says. And verse number 12: And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power, only upon himself put not forth Thine hand. So we have God's hand and we have Satan's hand. What does it say in chapter 2 there, verse number 3? It says, listen, he's still keeping his integrity. He's still holding fast his integrity, although thou movest what? Me against him. Now I'm going to say something to you, Christian. Remember he never used one Thought of this before, it's a bad thing enough to have Satan against you. Can you imagine having God and Satan in a tag team against you? Think about that for a second. You say what? That's what it says. God Almighty and Satan are both against Job here. Now nope don't accuse. Satan is against him to tear him apart. God's going to help him. God always has your best in mind. Always. But still, both of their hands are against Job. Can you think of a worst place Job could be? No. No. Satan's first accusation, Job serves and fears God for gain. Job sees himself as saved. So Satan says, Okay, I'll admit, I'm wrong. I took everything away, he still worships you. So Satan has a second accusation. Don't miss it. In verse number 4, chapter 2. And Satan answered the Lord and said, skin for skin. Yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. But put forth thine hand now and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face He says, okay, I was wrong. You took what he had. I took what he had. He didn't curse you, but skin for skin. You touch his body, he'll curse you. His second accusation is that Job loves self more than he loves God, that he loves his physical life more than eternal fellowship and service to God. Verse 6, don't miss it. Please don't miss it. And the Lord said unto Satan, behold, he is what? What's it say? He is in thine hand. Satan's up in front of the Lord. He's reporting to the Lord, him and the sons of men. All of a sudden, look what happens. God says, Oh yeah? You think he's going to curse me? Not only can you have what he had, taken. So listen, we start with Job. We start with Job with a hedge about him. All of a sudden in the story, where's Job? He's in Satan's hands. Is this getting better or worse? Worse. Worse We took the time to read verse 7. So went Satan forth from the presence of the Lord, and the Lord smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot into this crown. He took him a potter to scrape himself with all, and he sat down among the ashes. Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? First God and die But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh, what? Shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? And all this did not Job sin with his lips. This is the part of the story where Job's three friends show up. Don't you like these three friends? Anyone have friends like this? They show up to help. I want you to see the anguish that Job is in. I don't want you to miss it. When his three friends come up, it means who they are. We'll look at them later. Verse number twelve, the Bible says, and when they lifted up their eyes afar off and knew him not, they lifted up their voice and wept, and they rent everyone his mantle and sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven. So they sat down with him upon the ground. Listen, seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him, for they saw that his grief was very great Job was in such anguish when his friends saw him, they sat down and wept and didn't speak to him for a week. Not a day, a week. A week. His flesh is cursed, his wife rebukes him, his friends come to mourn and comfort, but instead They begin to judge and they condemn him. If we took the time over the next 30-some chapters, we won't. But basically, it's their philosophy on what Job has done wrong. Job has sinned, and God is bringing judgment. Let me say something here. I didn't plan on saying this in the message. Be very, very careful when you judge someone in church because they're going through cancer or sickness to saying that they're being judged by God. You don't know that. You don't know that. This man was perfect and upright, feared God and to shoot evil. We can't find anything that he had done wrong. But yet he was going through what he's going through. Satan sees Job as carnal. Job sees himself as saved. I want to change perspectives again, can we? Let's look at how God sees him. How does God see him? Why would God allow this to happen to Job? I mean, if ever there was a man that didn't deserve punishment, wouldn't you agree it would be Jehu? Wouldn't you agree that it would be him? How does God see Job? I began to study this over and over and over. It was probably my seventh time through the book of Job, and I studied, and I didn't understand completely. I still didn't understand what's going on I'm seeing what's taking place. I understand that God is setting Satan up. But why is Job suffering here? Why is he dealing with what he's dealing with His friends over the next how many chapters start telling him all the things he needs to do, all the philosophy to give him to make it better. And Job says many times, listen, go away, leave me alone, don't talk to me. I've not done anything wrong, I'm righteous. It was not until I noticed how God talked to Job that I started to understand what was going on here. I want to read some verses to you. I want you to listen to key words and key phrases, please. Genesis 26, 24, the Bible says, And the Lord appeared unto him the same night and said, I am the God of Abraham, thy father. Fear not, for I am with thee, and I will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake. Numbers 12, 7. My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine house. Numbers 14, 24. But my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereunto he went, and his seed shall possess it. Daniel 6, 16 This is when Daniel refuses. And he prays, and they cast him into the den of lions. Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel and cast him in the den of lions. Now the king spake and said unto Daniel, thy God, whom thou Service continually, he will deliver thee. Verse number 20 of the same chapter. And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voice unto Daniel, and the king spake and said to Daniel, O Daniel, Servant of the living God is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee from the lions. Chapter three of the same book, you know the story Shadrach Meshak and Abendigo, one of my favorite stories when I was a kid Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace and spake and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, ye servants of the Most High God. Come forth and come hither. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego came forth out of the midst of the fire. Philippians 1:1. Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ. I saw something that I had never seen before. I challenge you to look to the entire book of Job and find something that God calls Job other than what you're going to see. Whenever God talks about Job to someone else, he always says these words, my servant Job. He doesn't call him Job. He doesn't call him the servant Job. He calls him My servant Job. Personal pronoun. Personal pronoun. I want you to see a perspective change. See, we see God is sitting up there ruining Job's life. That's how we see it. I want you to see it different. I want you to see him standing in his holy, high and holy robe as he stands and Satan comes before him and he says, Listen, listen to the pride in his voice. Hast thou considered My servant Job, there is none like him in the earth. A perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and esheweth evil. Hast thou considered my servant Job a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God sheweth evil, and still he holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movest me against him to destroy him without cause Through the entire book, that's what he calls him. My servant Job. You know what God's perspective is? Satan sees Job as carnal. Job sees himself as a righteous, saved man. You know how God sees him? As his personal servant. Listen to be very careful, Christian. Listen, don't miss it. Listen. Job did not become God's personal servant because he suffered He suffered because he was already God's personal servant. I'm going to give you six things very quickly. This is kind of a message within a message. You want to jot these down and I'm going to cover them very, very fast. And then we're to go to the end of the book and be done. God's personal servant is single-minded. You say, preacher, I want to be God's personal servant. You have to be single-minded. You know the problem in our church is today, why we're not revived? Listen to me, Christian James, chapter number one, says we are double-minded. A double-minded man is unstable in part of his ways. A double-minded man is unstable in some of his ways. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. Job was single-minded He was God's servant. Number two, God's personal servant will sacrifice. If you look back to chapter 1, verse number 5, the Bible says And it was so when the days of their feasting were gone about that Job sent and sanctified them and rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed gods in their hearts. Listen, thus did Job Continually. You know what you find here? A person that constantly sacrifices. Guess what? You want to be God's personal servant? You're going to have sacrifice. You're going to have sacrifice. Preacher, you don't know what I'm going through. You're not going through what Job was going through. Amen. Number three, God's personal servant defeats Satan. I love this story because Satan loses He loses, and Job wins. Listen, you want to be God's servant? I want to defeat Satan. I don't know about you, but I want to. Yes. Number four, God's personal servant must suffer. We don't like this part. Preacher, I want to be God's servant. You have to suffer. Not you might suffer. You will suffer. Preacher, can you prove that? I can. Philippians 1 29. For unto you it is given on behalf of Christ not only to believe on him, but also to suffer. for his sake. 2 Timothy 3. 12, yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus might suffer persecution, shall suffer persecution. You will Number five, God's personal servant has to be selfless, not selfish, selfless. Not care about themselves. Last, God's personal servant always succeeds. Always. Always. When I came to this point of the message. As I studied, I thought I had really covered what the Lord wanted me to see. I had seen Satan's perspective changed. He saw that Job served God. He thought he served him for gain. But he was wrong. Then he thought he served him because, listen, he was protecting his flesh. He said, listen, but if you touch his flesh, he'll curse your face. His perspective was changed again. Then we see Job's perspective of himself. He's a righteous man. Then we see God's perspective of Job. Then he's God's personal servant. I thought I was done. I figured it out. Listen, that's why Job suffers. He's God's personal servant, but I forgot a perspective. How does Job see God? How does Job see God? I want you to jump to the end of the book, if you will, please. Job chapter number 39. I'll give you a little background very, very quickly. We're almost done. All this time, after chapter number three, his friends have been giving him opinions, what he should do. Finally, Job has had enough, and Job and God end up talking. Job starts talking to God. He's not charging him foolishly, but he's saying things that he thinks he can say. And all of a sudden God kind of has enough and God starts talking back. In chapter number 38, I'll read there first then jump to 39. Then the Lord answered Job, verse 1 of chapter 38. The Lord answered Job out of the whirlwind and said, Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge? Do you want me to rephrase that for you in English? Who is this person that has no idea what they're talking about? Who is this person that's talking without knowledge? Who is this dumb person talking in front of me? That's what it says. Gurn up now thy loins like a man, for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me. God seems a little bit heated here, does he not? Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? Declare if thou hast understanding. Who hath laid the measures thereof if thou knowest, or hast stretched the line upon it? You know what God says? Job, I have a question for you. Where were you when I made the world? Where were you when I carved out the earth? Where were you? Job still doesn't get it. He starts answering him, as we often do. And God continues to go back and forth with Job. Chapter number 40, Job finally starts to understand what's going on here. Moreover, the Lord answered Job and said, Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? He that reproveth God, let him answer it. Verse number three, don't miss it. Then Job answered the Lord and said, Behold, I am Vile. Now wait a minute. Chapter 1, verse 1 said he was perfect. Wait a minute, is there a mistake here? Joseph said, Behold, I am vile. What shall I answer thee? I will lay my hand upon my mouth. Job says, I can't say anything else. I can't say anything else. God's not done though. Once have I spoken, but I will not answer, yea, twice, but I will proceed no further. Then Job then answered the Lord unto Job out of the word and said, Gird up thy loins like a man. He goes again. Tells him again Chapter number 42, don't miss it. We're almost done. Chapter 42, verse number one. Then Job answered the Lord and said, Don't miss this. I know that thou canst do everything, and that no thought can be withholding from thee. Who is heeded highly counsel without knowledge? Therefore, listen, therefore have I uttered that I understood not. Things too wonderful for me which I knew not. Job said I was talking about something I had no idea I was talking about And then I want to give you the key to, I believe, the entire book of Job. This to me is the key that unlocks it. This will change your perspective on Job. Don't miss it. Verse number five. I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear. Don't miss it, Christian. But now mine eye seeth thee You know what Job says? God, I'm sorry. For the first time, I see you as you are. I see you as you are. Can I help you with something? The first perspective we looked at was Satan's perspective. He saw Job as carnal. Then we looked at Job's perspective of himself. He saw himself as righteous and sane Then we look at God's perspective. God saw Job as his personal servant. Listen, when you're God's personal servant, God can demand anything he wants of you. And then Job finally sees God, and his perspective changes. He no longer sees God as an all-powerful God. He sees God as, don't miss it, sovereign. Sovereign. Preacher, how do you know he sees him that way? Look at verse 6. Wherefore? That means for this reason. Wherefore I abhor myself and repent in dust and ashes. You know what Job said? God, after seeing you, I hate me. I hate me. And then it says something that took me by surprise. It says, and repent in dust and ashes. Now I have a question for you. I'm not the brightest bulb in the box, but I do understand this. What is he repenting of? Verse number one of chapter one said he was perfect and upright. He feared God and essued evil. He wasn't sinning. But now we find him repenting Listen, don't miss it. If Job was righteous, what's he repenting of? Listen, this is not sorrow for sin. This is sorrow for self. Listen to me. Job is not sorrowing for what he has done, but for what he is compared to God. You know what Job is saying? God, after seeing you. I'm sorry, I'm only a man. I'm sorry that's all I am. He admits that God is everything. Let me help you with something, Christian. Don't miss it. If God is everything, it means you are what? Nothing! Nothing! You know what our father is today? You know why we're not revived? Listen to me. We see ourselves as something. And we're nothing. Do you know something? If you're willing to admit to God that you're nothing, I love this. If you're willing to admit to God that you are nothing and he is everything, he will take nothing and make something. I love that. But he won't do it until you admit you're nothing. And he is everything. Job says, I'm sorry, you're sovereign. You can do whatever you want. You want to take my life? You can. Preacher, I don't understand why I have cancer. Do you? No. But I know God is sovereign. Preacher, I don't understand why I've lost my son or my daughter. Can you help me with that? No, I can't, but I know God is sovereign. Preacher, I don't understand why we're going through what we're going through financially, why we're going through problems, my son, cancer. I don't know why we're going through this, preacher. Do you know why? No, but I know God is sovereign. If you're gonna be his personal servant, you're gonna have to suffer. That's the way it is. That's the way it is Preacher, how do you know that that's what the correct answer was? Look at verse 7, don't miss it. And it was so that after the Lord had spoken these words into Job, the Lord said to Eliphaz the Temanite, that's one of his friends, My wrath is kindled against thee and against thy two friends. For ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right as what's it say? My servant Job hath. He said, You haven't said of me what he has said. He's right, you're wrong. Now don't miss this one, it says, watch it. Therefore, take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to what's it say? My servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering, and what's it say? My servant Job shall pray for you. For him will I accept, lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken to me the thing which is right like what's it say? My servant Job. Are you getting the picture here? Do you see how God sees Job? It's his personal servant. He says, Listen, you haven't spoken to me the thing that is right. Job sees me as sovereign. You don't. You tamper with my personal servant. You want to be forgiven? You go to him. He's the only one I'm going to accept. I'm not going to deal with you unless it's that your folly. That's what he says Verse 9, so Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Namothite went and did according as the Lord commanded them, and the Lord also accepted Job. This is my favorite part of the whole story. Are you ready? Don't miss it. Can I ask you a question right now? I know some of you want to go home. I'm ready to put out my seatbelt. Get ready. Are you ready? Where is Job right now? Who's got him? Satan's got him, remember? Look at verse number 10. And the Lord what? Turn the captivity of Job. I love this part. Satan has to come before the presence of the Lord again. I love this part. And he says, what? Give him back. Beat it. That's what he says. I love this part because all of a sudden, Satan, who thinks he's in charge, who thinks he's finally got God's man in his hand, guess what? His perspective has been changed. His friend's perspective has been changed. His wife's perspective has been changed. Joe's perspective has been changed. The only perspective that does not change is God Almighty's. It's still the same And guess what? Job's right back where he was, protected by God, made, by the way, much better. Much better The Bible says in verse 10, and the Lord turned the captivity of Job when he prayed for his friends. Also the Lord gave Job twice as much as he had before. In the end, Job is the winner, is he not? You think it's fun to go through suffering? It is not. Let me tell you something, Christian. You want to be God's personal servant? It has to happen. It has to happen. It has to happen Job finally sees God as the sovereign God. I want to say something to you. Don't miss this. The carnal man in our today's society, listen to me, the carnal person focuses in on what he has. Some of us as Christians have fallen into that. That's our focus, what we have. The saved man knows better. He knows it's not what we have. He focuses in on who he is That he's a saved individual. That's not good enough, though. That's where most of us stop. We say, preacher, I'm not a carnal person. I know it's not what I have that matters. I'm a saved person. It's who I am before God. That's not good enough. That's just the saved man, the spiritual man, the spiritual man. The spiritual man focuses in on God alone He doesn't even look at himself. He sees God as sovereign. Sovereign. Sovereign. He magnifies God as all powerful You see, in the end, we see that God's focus is not on Job's pain and suffering. It's not. That's where we put our focus. But on his personal servant. In the end, we see Job's focus has moved from his pain and suffering to his service and sacrifice, finally to God's sovereignty. He figures it out. If God is everything, he is nothing. Try saying that once. Try looking at yourself in the mirror in the morning and say, God is everything, I am nothing. I am nothing. You say, preacher, I can't do that. Can I help you with something? I'm not being mean to you. You'll never be God's personal servant. You won't. You must say no to self. What did the apostle Paul say? Well, preacher, the Apostle Paul was a great man. What did he say? I die daily He said, oh wretched man that I am. That's what he said. Comparing himself to Jesus Christ. You want to be God's personal servant? You have to see him as he is, as sovereign. You see, when you see him as he is, prayer, that's not a problem. When you see him as he is, giving out tracts, oh, it's not a problem. When you see him as he is, finances, not a problem. He's everything. I'm nothing. Philippians 120. According to my earnest expectation and my hope. That in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness is always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life Or by death. The Apostle Paul said, for me to live as Christ and to die is gain. I have a question for you. We're through. Listen to me carefully. Are you God's personal servant? Listen to me, Christian. Listen to me. If he walked in here and pointed to his personal servant, would he point to you? I find myself convicted. Are you God's personal servant? Preacher, I don't want to be carnal. I'm saved. But are you spiritual? Let's bow our heads together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.