Passage here this morning, John chapter five. In just a moment, when you f give you a chance to find it, we're going to read verse twenty-four together in unison. A few weeks ago, Brother Ron Coddington and I were out on Thursday night making visits and we visited Phil Sherman. How many people recognize that name? Phil Sherman's been part of this church here for many, many years. Phil lost his eyesight as a young man, uh got saved a little later in life and has been faithful, Lord. That guy knows his Bible, I'm telling you. Such a blessing to visit with him. And we were out there visiting. He has a great sense of humor, Brother Phil, if you know him. We just uh cut up and laughing and carrying on Uh when he was able to attend, he has diabetes real bad, he's not able to get out anymore. He listens in, he's probably listening in now maybe, but um when uh he was attending he'd go back We'd shake hands, you know, I mean he's blind, totally blind, and he would say to me, Preacher, you're looking good today. And I would say, Phil, coming from you, that means a lot. And he said and then he told me I think he says, No, what I meant was you're able to look really good. Uh but he's got a great we laughed and him and Ron got reminiscing a little bit about years going by, they've been friends, and um we got testifying About how got good God is to us. I tell you what, if you think you got it rough, you ought to go visit some folks. And Phil just loves the Lord. We rejoiced in the Lord. It was such a blessing. And we were going to leave. I said, Phil, let me, can I pray with you before we go? And he says, Absolutely, I want you to pray. I said, Phil, before I pray, I'd like to read some scripture with you. And I said, you got any particular passage of scripture you'd like to hear me read? And without hesitating, he said, John chapter 5, verse 24. Would you read that together with me this morning? John chapter 5, verse 24. Let's read it all together in unison. Ready? Here we go. Verily, verily, I say unto you He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. I said, Phil, that's a good verse. I said, Phil, I ought to preach on that again sometime. And again, without hesitating, he said, pretty firmly, he says, you ought to preach on that verse every single Sunday. He said, that is a great, great verse. And that stuck in my mind these last two, three weeks, however long it's been. It's in my mind, in my mind. And I just felt like, and I took that from the Lord that God would have me preach on this verse this morning. So very quickly I just want to share three thoughts from this passage. And so if you would pray with me now and then uh let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts here this morning. Father, I thank you. for the young people and and what a joy it is to see you working in their lives and as they make decisions they grow. Lord, some of the youth have uh real challenges. And but God, you're able, you're all powerful, and you can help every one of them overcome these challenges and be something for the Lord I pray, Lord, for us parents, I pray that the parents of these kids that you would give grace and enable them and stir them to raise up these kids for the Lord, good, pure, godly, happy Christian homes. And Lord, we look to you. Now as we look at this passage here, I ask you to speak to our hearts, and that you would teach us this matter of assurance of salvation. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. As I said, Phil had me read that and say the ought to preach on that every single week. I want to point out three thoughts here real quick. If you would, first thing I want us to notice from this Is that this matter of assurance of salvation, and this is the way I'm wording it, is a positive Bible doctrine. This text here that we just read, along with scores of other passages in Scripture Confirm to us that Bible salvation. Now get this statement. Bible salvation is a no-so salvation. A no-so salvation. And I want to make this statement. Bible salvation is a secure and an assured salvation. I'll explain what I mean by that here in a moment. But it is a no-so salvation. I said it's a Bible doctrine. Assurance of salvation is a Bible, positive Bible doctrine. And by positive, I mean this. It is certain. It is sure. It is absolute. When I make this statement, or any preacher makes this statement, you can know for sure That your sins are forgiven, and that when you die, you go to heaven. You can know for sure that you have eternal life. When I make that statement, I am making a Bible statement. That is supported by Scripture. It has a biblical basis. Now I want you to notice here. I'm going to read this verse again, and we're going to just quickly, as quickly as I can, we're going to dissect it a little. It says, Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life. Now look at the next statement. And shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Now I got looking at this passage after we read it with Brother Phil and got talking about it a little bit. I got back home the last couple weeks. I've been looking at it, and I noticed it's interesting Who is it that makes this statement? Who is it that's speaking here? Help me out. Who's speaking here? It's the Lord Jesus Christ speaking here And when he says, and when he makes the statement, hath everlasting life, shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. That's the Lord Jesus Christ speaking. Now I got thinking about that as I was saying. It's not the devil saying, oh, you can know for sure you're going to heaven. You will find nowhere in the Bible the devil saying, you can know for sure that your sins are forgiven, you have eternal life, and that you're going to heaven, you have eternal life, you're not condemned. You never find the devil saying that. So it's not the devil making this statement. I want to remind you, the devil is a liar. We have record of statements that Satan makes all through Scripture. We have records of statements that Satan makes. And he is a liar. If Satan came and said, oh yeah, you can have eternal life, you can know for sure Your sins are forgiven, you're fully forgiven, and that you have an eternal home guaranteed in heaven. If the devil said that, I would suspect it I would be very, very suspicious about that. I would have my doubts. But it's not the devil saying it. The devil's a liar. I got to look at that. It's not some false prophet saying this We have record throughout scripture of false prophets in both the Old and New Testament. You know what I found out? False prophets were false. in their teaching. What they taught and what they preached was not scriptural. It was not of God. It was of their own imagination. It was their own saying. And you don't find any false prophets say that he that hears the words of God and believes on him that sent Jesus hath everlasting life and shall not come into condemnation but is passed from death into life. Not one false prophet ever says that. In fact, in the book of Acts, you find Pharisees that were false teachings saying, you've got to keep the law, you've got to live this way, you've got to do that, and then hopefully, maybe You'll make it to heaven. But this is none other than the Lord Jesus Christ Himself. Somebody says, Preacher, where do you come up with this idea that you can know for sure your sins are forgiven? You're on your way to heaven. I tell you where I come up from it. Uh you tell you where I come up with it? From the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. Shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Now, this whole passage, I wish we had time. Every time I preach a message, I wish I had more time. I wish I had more time. But if you would look at verse 17 and 18, and we don't have time to do it, but if you would look at it, you would find out that Jesus Christ claimed to be equal with God. The Jews recognize that. Do you know why Jesus claimed to be equal with God? Do you know why he made that claim? You know why the Jews got the idea that Jesus claimed to be equal with God? You know why that is? Because Jesus is equal with God. Jesus shares the same honor as God Almighty, God the Father You cannot honor Jesus Christ too much. You cannot lift him too high. Oh, you better not You better not honor Jesus like you honor God the Father. He did. The Bible says we should. They are equal. And so this is coming from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Jesus Christ is God. And if God says something, then we can be positive that is secure. That is sure. So verse 17 and 18, we find that Jesus is equal with God. In verse 21, if we had time, we could look at that and we would see that Jesus Christ has power over death. Wow. You talk about authority. And for Jesus Christ to be able to just speak a word and death Must obey his word. Isn't that an amazing thing? Somebody said when Jesus raised Lazarus, they said he looked at the grave and he said, Lazarus, come forth. They said, why did he have to call out Lazarus' name? Lazarus come forth. Why didn't he just say come forth? Somebody suggested because if he said come forth, every dead body in that grave would have come back to life and came up out of there Now, whether that's the case or not, I can't say, but I do know this. Jesus has authority over death and life. And someone with that authority that has authority over death and life They are equal with God, and they make a statement, you can be positive. That statement is certain. That statement is certain. It's not the devil saying this. It's not a false prophet saying this. It's Jesus Christ co-equal with God, God in the flesh, authority over life and death. Verse 22, we find out that Jesus Christ Has been given by God the Father to be judge of all men, the judge of all the earth, Jesus Christ. Early in my Christian life, I don't know, I guess I never really thought about it, but I thought about the Great White Throne Judgment. How many people here are at least a little bit familiar with the Great White Throne Judgment The end of time, the lost end. And I always pictured that as God the Father sitting on that throne, the Creator, God the Father sitting there. I got studying my Bible, this passage along with some others. You know what I found out? It's not God the Father on that throne. It's God the Son. It's none other than Jesus Christ the man that we just read his statement in verse 24. That is who is making this statement. The judge of all the universe. Wow. I'm telling you, if he makes that statement, we can be certain. We can be positive that what he says is so. If we look at verse number 23, he is equal with God in honor, as we mentioned that again. And so when we come to this idea that we can know for sure that we have eternal life, that we have passed from death, from death unto life, that there's no longer we are no longer under condemnation The very fact that it's coming from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ gives us positive certainty, assurance that what he says is so. Now I got looking at the the individual, the person making the statement, Jesus. Oh, by the way, let me just throw this out. John Under the inspiration of God in chapter in 1 John 5, verse 11 through 13, says almost the exact same thing. Did I mention I wish I had more time? Five more time we would turn there and we would notice that John says, again, under the inspiration of God, the preserved perfect Word of God, he says, He that hath the Son hath life He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. He goes on and says, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. Doesn't say hold so, think so, maybe possible. He says, you can know. I wrote these things. The Bible is given to us so that we can know. He says almost, he makes the exact states, the exact same truth that Jesus Christ does here. This isn't just pulling one statement out of context. It's all through scripture. The Apostle Paul, under the inspiration of God, in 2 Timothy, chapter 1, and verse number 12. 1 Timothy, I'm sorry, chapter 1, verse number 12. In verse number 12, he says this. He says, I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I've committed unto him against that day. Paul had a no-so salvation. I know. He doesn't say, I hope, I hope, I think so, maybe possibly. He knows it. He knows it. So this idea of assurance of salvation, that I can know for sure my sins are forgiven, that I have eternal life here and now, and when I die I will go to heaven and not to hell uh is a positive Bible doctrine uh because of who makes this statement among others. But I got looking at the verse and the first several words, the first several statements in this verse Reassure that this is a positive, certain, absolute statement. Look what he look first of all what the Lord does not say Notice the verse does not just begin, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. How many people agree with me? If that's all the verse said, He that heareth my word, it would still be true. I feel grieved it would be important. He that heareth my word and believeth him sent me hath everlasting life. If that's all that verse said, but that's not what he said. Notice what else he doesn't say. It doesn't say, I say unto you, he that heareth my word. I believe him and sent me. Now, if it didn't have the verily, verily on the front, it just said, I say unto you, he that heareth my word, and believeth him that said me hath everlasting, it would be powerful. Look at it this way with me. If Jesus, and this would never happen, this is total fantastic imagination, but if Jesus Christ was standing here and he said this He that heareth my word and believeth in him who sent me hath everlasting life. How many people would say that's true? What if Jesus Christ was here, and he is in his word? So to speak. But if Jesus Christ was here and he said this, hey, I say unto you He that heareth my word and believeth in him that sent me. How many people would say, whoa, I better pay attention to that? Do you ever tell your kids, I'm telling you, do you ever say that to your kids? Go clean your room. They ignore you. Hey! I'm telling you, clean the room. Hmm. But that's not what the verse, that's not all it says. If Jesus said, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word believeth him and sent me hath everlasting life. The word verily is translated 51 times in the Bible. Same word is translated in other places. Amen. It's always, in that case, it's almost always used at the end of a statement. But in the beginning of a statement, it's verily. The word means it means this. When Jesus or the Bible says, verily, I say unto you, but he's saying this, I am about to tell you something that is absolutely certain. Amen. Do you ever hear do you ever go to church and a preacher says something and somebody says, Amen? Do you ever hear it? I was waiting for somebody to say Amen. Thank you. It's a sl it's a it's a l pretty slow group, Brother Heinball. Amen. What do they mean when a preacher says, Jesus comes back again? Amen. King James Bible is the word of God. Amen. What do we mean by that? Amen. What do you mean by that? That's true, that's right. I agree with that. That's absolutely right. So when Jesus or someone in the Bible begins a statement with verily He's saying, what I'm about to say is absolute. It is true. Verily. You can count on this. You can take it to the bank. You can stake your soul. And what I'm about to say. But the Lord doesn't say, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my heart. What's he say? Verily, verily. I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth in sent me hath everlasting life. It is like he is going overboard in emphasizing the certainty of what he is about to say. Now listen, I don't think we ought to doubt anything in the Bible. Every word, from in the beginning God to the Amen of Revelation Every single word is given to us by inspiration of God, and it was going to last forever. Jesus told us that. It's not going to pass away. Every jot and tittle. So we believe all the Bible, we take it. But when Jesus Christ, God Himself, the judge of all the earth, the one that has authority over life and death, and He says Verily, verily I say unto you that's authority That is certainty. That is something you and I can absolutely be positive and certain about. So the first thing I notice looking at this verse is the this assurance of salvation is a positive Bible doctrine I can know that I have eternal life. I can know that I will not come into condemnation. I can know that I am passed from death unto life. Second thing I notice that assurance of salvation has some Bible prerequisites. Now what is a prerequisite? Talk to me a little bit. What's a prerequisite? Aha. A prerequisite is something that must be in place for the next thing to be true. A prerequisite. And Jesus here says that there is a prerequisite To being able to say, I know that I have eternal life. I know that I'm no longer condemned. I know that I've passed from death and life. There's a prerequisite. In other words, this verse doesn't apply to everybody There are some conditions that must be met before I can claim what this verse is saying. I go out knocking on doors. Come to the door, I'm Pastor Letterman. I was out this past week, Pastor Letterman from Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and uh yesterday I was visiting some folks and Brother Jesse was with me. And uh I said I'm Pastor Letterman, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we get talked a little bit And um inevitably I'll give them a gospel tract and I'll make this famous I'm gonna say the same thing all the time. You go to church anywhere Well, yeah, no, whatever they say. I say I always say the same thing. Going to church is important, but more important than that is knowing for sure that when we die, our sins are forgiven, we go to heaven, not to hell. Do you ever give that any thought And almost without exception, folks will say, oh yeah, I think about that quite a bit. Every now and then someone will say, I don't ever think about that Said, all right. God bless you. But almost all the time they'll say, Yeah, I th I think about that. Sometimes they'll say, Has anything been happening in your life recently to make you think, Yeah, you know That tells me God's probably working in their life. Now I ask him this. Do you know for sure That you have eternal life, that when you die, your sins are forgiven. You go to heaven, not to hell. The most often answer I get is, I guess, I hope so. I hope so. But every now and then someone will say this. Yeah, I believe I will. Yeah. I think I would. And I always say the same thing. Really? I say, how do you know? What gives you that assurance? What makes you so certain that when you die you go to heaven? You don't go to hell. What are you basing that on? And every now and then I'll hear this. I just think I will. Uh I just I've been good. I've done this. One guy told me I keep the commandments Said really, all of 'em? Yeah. Can you name 'em? Uh I didn't go exactly that way, but But the point I'm trying to make is this. Just because someone says, oh yeah, I'm going to heaven when I die, oh yeah, I have eternal life. Oh yeah, I'm not going to hell, that doesn't mean that's the case. There has to be some things in place. There are some prerequisites that must be met before I can say honestly and truly That I am not condemned by God. My sins are forgiven. I have eternal life. I have passed from death unto life. And Jesus gives the two prerequisites there. Very little, I say unto you, he that heareth my word. So the first prerequisite is this: they must hear the word of God, or they must be exposed to the Bible teaching of salvation. Let me put it this way, and I've I've got to abbreviate what I want to say here. But the but only Bible salvation Bible salvation is the only salvation That assures me of forgiven sins and a home in heaven. Anything outside of Bible salvation, I have no basis for that. You know for sure if you die now, you go to heaven? Oh, yeah, I was baptized when I was a baby That is not a prerequisite. That that isn't that that's not Bible salvation. You know for sure you die now you go to heaven, oh yeah, I'm a member of the church. I'm good to my neighbor. I had a lady in Tennessee tell me one time, yeah, I helped my neighbor Do you know for sure you go to heaven when you die? Yeah, I know I would. How do you know? What do you base that on? Uh my neighbor's chickens got out and I helped her catch her chickens I read, I got open to my Bible looking, I couldn't find anything about chickens and salvation. So what are the correct prerequisites for being able to say I hath uh uh that uh uh I have eternal life I'm not coming to condemnation. I've passed from death and life. One is hearing the word of God. I must know what the Bible says about that. He that heareth my word. Without the Well, you get this statement. Without the Word of God, there is no salvation. Without the Word of God, there is no salvation. Now, this is a whole nother message, and I wish I had more time. But that to me is a powerful, powerful missions statement Do you mean how many millions, maybe billions of people there are around the world that do not have God's word? How can they believe on him of whom they have not heard? And how can they hear of him without a preacher? So Jesus in an indirect way is telling us here, we have a tremendous responsibility to get the word of God out to all the world because nobody's going to get saved apart from the Bible. And nobody gets saved any other way than Bible salvation. So one of the prerequisites is I must know what the Bible says about salvation. The second prerequisite he says here, he says, and believeth on him that sent me. It's one thing to hear the Word of God. It's one thing to know that God so loved the world that He gave His only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in Him should not perish but have everlasting life It's one thing to hear that. It's one thing to have that information. It's one thing to have that knowledge. It's another thing completely to trust, rely, and believe upon that. I'm telling you, there's a heap of people dying and going to hell who know the facts about salvation, but have never believed on the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a world of difference. You say, oh, I believe Jesus exists. I believe he died on the cross. I believe he rose again. That's wonderful. And that's a necessary prerequisite. But by believe here, he means to rely on, to depend on, to trust in To put my hope and trust in. In fact, he says, believeth on him that sent me. It means to completely accept all that God has declared to be true about Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the only Savior. Let me say that again. He is the only Savior. God says that. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cannot save one soul. Independent Baptist Church in Clinton, Maryland cannot save one's soul. Neighborhood Bible time youth evangelistic ministries cannot save one soul. Only Jesus Christ can save your soul That's what the Bible says. That's what God says. I must believe on him that sent me. I have to believe what the Bible says about Jesus Christ. I have to believe what the Bible says about myself. I'm telling you right now, the Bible does not paint a pretty picture about you and me morally and spiritually Now we get on our high horse and we really think we're something and we think we've got the answers and we think we know everything that's right and wrong. And we think we can set our own standards of morality, and we can set our own standards of integrity and righteousness. And I'm telling you, my Bible says that we fall short every single time. Our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. We are sinners and we fall short of God's glory. We fall short of God's standard of acceptability. And if I'm going to believe on him that sent me, I need to believe what the Bible says about myself. My stinking sin is a r is a stench in the s eyes in the in the nose of God. My self-righteousness are nasty, filthy rags. My pride is an abomination to a holy God. And you and I are sinners top to bottom. And we have no room to pro we have no room to boast. We have no room to lift ourselves up. We see ourselves as God says we are. So when he says, believeth on him that sent me, he says, you've got to believe what God says about his Savior, Jesus Christ. You've got to believe what the Bible says about yourself. You've got to believe what the Bible says about salvation God is a holy God. Jesus is the only way of finding forgiveness and acceptance for a holy God. I am a poor, sorry, wretched sinner. Under the wrath and judgment of God, deserving to go to hell, and God says salvation is only from turning from that sinful state, putting my faith and trust in Jesus Christ. and him alone and accepting the free gift of eternal life that he offers to me because of what he did on that cross for you and I and rose again. He that believeth on him that sent me believes and relies on what God says is so about Jesus, myself, and how a person is saved. Brother Matt was telling us before we were talking about faith. And Brother Matt said when he was younger, he wasn't any smaller, but uh he was younger. And I guess a youth pastor or somebody was trying to teach him what it means by faith, and the way I understood him to say it was they had him stand there and he was going to fall back and the youth pastor was going to catch him. Now I don't know, I just picture the youth pastor about five foot six, one hundred and seventy-five pounds. And um he says, you're gonna learn that this is what faith is. You just fall back and I'll catch you. And the youth pastor said to Pastor Matt, he says, do you have faith in me? And Pastor Matt said, No. I think it's close. The story's close. He was honest. Believing on him that sent on him that sent me, uh believing on the Lord Jesus Christ for my personal Savior, it means putting my faith in. In other words I am putting my clean hope, trust, confidence in Jesus Christ and Him saving me. I'm trusting the Savior to save me Jesus Christ is the Savior. He does the saving. I am not my Savior. I am the sinner in need of a Savior. And when I say I cannot save myself, there is nothing I can possibly, not of works. Of anything I do, I'm going to completely put my faith and my trust and my hope in the Lord Jesus Christ and let Him save me. He says that is how a person is saved. And when I put my faith, my trust, my hope, my confidence in Jesus Christ, in Him alone, See in myself and recognize the sorry, rotten, no-good sinner, the wickedness of my own sin, and the holiness of God. I say, Jesus, I trust you. It says, when I do that And I can know for sure my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Hey, if Jesus is the one doing the saving, we can be certain, we can know for sure, we can be assured, because Jesus never fails. He never fails. And if his responsibility is to save me when I call on him and put my faith and trust in him, then I can be assured he is going to do what he has promised to do. Verse that helped me early on in my Christian life, Romans 10, 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, listen to this, shall be saved. That might be, not can be, not hopefully will be, no, because he's the one doing the saving Listen, if it was up to me to save myself, to be good enough, to be accepted by God, it was up to me to come up with some way to get my sins forgiven. It was up to me to somehow live a good enough life so that I don't go to hell. And somebody asked me, if it was up to me, and somebody asked me, uh, Brother Latiman, do you know for sure you're going to heaven? The best I could say was, I hope so. Oh, I hope so. That's not very assuring. That's not very assuring I feel bad for folks that are mistaught and don't understand what the Bible clearly teaches. They lay their head on a pillow at night. Wonder. I would die tonight. I wake up in hell. I tell you what gets me. It's folks say to me, well, you can't know that until you get to heaven. Then you'll find out whether you're going to heaven or hell. And I always think this, what in the world kind of what kind of cruel God would say, I'm not going to tell you whether you're going to heaven or hell until you can't do anything about it? Then you find out. Oh, God says now when you have an option to trust Him or rejection, now you can settle this and you can have this assurance. I don't have to live my life in fear. I don't have to live my life in doubt. I don't have to live my life hanging by a thread over hell, wondering if I'm going to be able to hold out until I I don't know. I don't know. Now there are prerequisites. I must hear the word of God. I must believe on what God says about Jesus Christ, myself, and somebody And let me give you the last one here, real quick. Assurance of salvation is the promise of God. This is the icing, this is the meat, this is everything. Look what he says. He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me. What's that next word? Would you say it real loud with me? Hath everlasting life. That is in present tense. It means I am in possession of right now. In fact, the one definition said this, to have in hand. Half I have in hand I am in present possession of right now. Let me see what I got here. Let's see. Um where is Garrett? Not Garrett Gravit. Garrett, come on up here, would you, Garrett, real quick. I love embarrassing kids. I live for this. Come on up here, Garrett. You stand right there. I've got five dollar bill in my hand. My life savings, that's all I have. I got a $5 bill in my hand. Does he have it? No. Is he in possession of it? Right now, he is I if you would ask him, Garrett, are you going to leave here with a five dollar bill? You know what he's saying? I hope so. I think so. Maybe. I ask people, do you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die? I hope so. I think so. Maybe. I'll find out someday. That's not the Bible. He says he heareth my word and believeth him send me hath is in possession of has in hand. Garret? There you go, buddy. Does let me ask you a question, does he have the five dollar bill now? Is it his? Is he certain? Is he going to leave here with a $5 bill? Yeah, absolutely. He hath the $5 bill. That's exactly what she's saying. He believed me when I offered it to him. He accepted it. It became his. He now has a $5 bill. He's richer than me He is in possession of. He has it. And when a person accepts Jesus Christ's Savior, meets the prerequisites, meets the conditions, a sinner, I accept Jesus Christ and Savior, I am in possession. I have in hand everlasting life. Amen? Does that make sense? Now don't go too Oh well trade. Now you can have everybody. Alright, don't go far because I'm going to use it again. Just sit down there a bit. And so hat has in hand. And then it says shall not Come into condemnation. That word shall not means absolutely will not happen under no circumstances, in no way whatsoever at all. Look up the word. It means absolutely it is not going to happen A person that hears how to be saved and they believe they reply they re- they rely upon God's plan of salvation, trusting Christ when they do that. They shall not, under no circumstances at all, whatsoever, come under condemnation. This is Jesus saying that. I'm not making this up. And then look what he says. And is passed from death unto life. It means this. He has already moved from one position to another position. Now Garrett's standing, stand right there, Garrett, if you would please. He's standing down there. Is he on the platform? No, he's down there A person doesn't hear the word of God, they don't believe on him that sent Jesus, what he says about him, they don't have. They have not passed from death unto life. They're still in death. That's where they're at. That's where they're location. They're under the judgment of God. You're here this morning and you have not met God's conditions for salvation. You've not humbled yourself before God. Trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, to forgive you and cleanse you from sin. Give you eternal life. If you have not sincerely, genuinely done that, you might have said a prayer, you might have gone through motions. According to what Jesus says, you are now still in uh death, spiritually dead. If you die physically, you are separated from God for all eternity. But the person that meets the conditions has uh heard the word of God, believed on him that said me, hath passed from death until life. They've gone from one position, one condition to another. Let me ask you a question, is Garrett on the platform? Yes. He's passed from death unto life. He's passed from the floor up to the platform. And let me ask you, Garrett, are you on the platform? You know that for sure. You're certain You wonder, you hope so, maybe? You know absolutely for sure you're on the platform. Why? How do you know that? Because you were down there and you came up here, right? All right, let's give Garrett a hand. He did a good job. Thank you. There you go. But I hope do you do you understand what I'm saying? Here's a person, May 7, 1979, at 9:30 at night, I was in death If I'd have died May 7, 1979, at 1030 at night, I would be in hell right now, burning in the horrors and torments of hell. I was in death. I was under the judgment of God. I was did not have eternal life But at 10. 30 at night, I bowed my knee. And I heard, and I'd been reading what God had said to me about salvation. And I believe that Jesus was my only Savior to forgive my sin, save me from my sin. I called on him, trusting him. And that moment I passed from death unto life. Presently, now in the condition, the position of life. Listen, to me, one of the clearest teachings in Scripture is that a person can know for sure That their sins are forgiven, that they have eternal life when they die, they go to heaven, not to hell. You don't have to hope so, you don't have to think so, you don't have to wonder so. But can I say this? You do have to care. This is what gets me in this day and age. I'm seeing it more and more. People don't care. And that is mind-boggling to me that a person does not care what their standing is before God, their Creator. And more and more people don't care if I go to hell when I die. I don't care what God thinks about me. I don't care what God says about any of this. I tell you, there's not much hope. Not much hope for a person that doesn't care. Doesn't care. What a blessed assurance. Worse comes the worst. God has forgiven me. I'm no longer under condemnation. I've passed from death into life Hope that's settled with you. If not, I plead with you. Trust them today. Those of us that know them, let's share this with others. Let's get gospel tracts. Let's witness. Let's invite folks out and bring people to Christ. Because in my mind it is the most important issue in all of life. Father in heaven, help us now, Lord, in this matter to have it settled in our own hearts and minds, and then, Lord, in confidence and assurance be able to share with others. That they can know their sins are forgiven, on their way to heaven, and saved from hell. Heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Racher? I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've got that settled. I remember the day and the time. I know I've trusted Christ as my Savior. And you'd say, preacher, I know somebody that's unsaved. I'm burdened for them, and I want them to have that same assurance. Is there any like that? Preacher, I know someone that's not saved. Maybe we ought to come this morning. Ask God to help us be a witness. Ask God to help us share the gospel. These little children need that assurance. Our neighbors, our community, our world needs it. Any others, preacher, I know someone. Oh, I want them to be saved. I want them to be saved. There's some here this morning say, preacher, you know, I just struggle with doubts And sometimes I wonder and I I don't I don't know, I don't know. I just wonder. I want to urge you this morning, get that settled. We can we can't do it for you, but we can show you from the Bible how God can give you that assurance and you can have that peace. And that confidence that you are accepted by the Lord through Christ. Is there any like that? Preach or pray for me. Sometimes I struggle with these doubts. I'm not sure. And I need that settled. Is there any like that at all this morning? Preacher, I need that settled. God bless you. How about it, others? I really need that settled. God bless you. Is there some here this morning to say, preacher, I know I'm not saved? I've never trusted Christ. Maybe you didn't even care about it up till now. Maybe this morning the Holy Spirit's touched your heart. Suddenly, like never before, you really are concerned about your own soul's salvation. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this settled I've got to. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Old preacher, pray for me. I don't want to be a phony. I don't want to be a show. I want to know that this is settled in my heart and life. Any at all by the uplifted hand One last question. Saved, you know you're saved, but you have to say, preacher, I'm not living for the Lord like I should. And that's a shame that God would assure me of my salvation and I not live like I should. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. God's Holy Spirit speaking in my heart that I need to live for the Lord like I should. Maybe there's some areas that need it Any like that by the uplifted hand? Hands all around, sure. Father, bless our invitation. Stir our hearts. Help us though just to humble ourselves before you. To believe your word and take you for what you say and then live accordingly. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.