Jeremiah and I didn't put my microphone on. Jeremiah chapter thirty-three A fella went to uh his doctor for a checkup and during the process of the checkup the doctor was making conversation with the fella and he says, Well, uh, what'd you do yesterday? And the fellow said, Well, yesterday afternoon I waded across an edge of a lake. I escaped from a mountain lion in heavy brush, marched up and down a mountainside, stood in a patch of poison ivy, crawled out of quicksand, and jumped away from an aggressive rattlesnake. The doctor stood there in shock with his mouth open. He said, my so, he says, you must be an awesome outdoorsman. The fellow replied, no sir, I'm just a lousy golfer. And I dedicate that joke to Paul Sines. So uh I thought that was cute. Uh so that's the way I I don't I don't I've been golfing three times in my life and um the problem is they never cut the grass where I golf at, you know. Look at verse 3 of Jeremiah 33. And I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison. Verse 3 of Jeremiah 33. Read it with me. Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. This morning I want to give you God's telephone number Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for the service we've had. Lord, my heart's been blessed again. It's always a joy to get to church and be around your people. Lord, we're going to look into your word now, and I'm asking you, Father, to clear from our minds the issues and concerns and distractions of the weak in this world, and help us, I pray, to open up our hearts and minds to your word, and I pray that your Holy Spirit would take this truth here, this one great promise, and apply it to our lives in a very practical way. Lord, I can't do that. You have to. So I yield myself to you, my body, my all, I put in your hands. I ask you to fill me with your spirit. Speak through me, I pray, Lord, the truth. Presented here in this passage, and to help us to leave here a little more confident in your power and your ability, your willingness to help us. And I ask this in Jesus' name Name. Amen. I read where several years ago Hollywood had produced a movie, and within the movie they had an actor who was portraying God. He was like God in per personified sort of. Now, anytime any time Hollywood's going to portray God, uh, you know it's going to be blasphemous, right? Nevertheless, in this process, God, being portrayed by this actor, had a cell phone. And in one of the scenes, apparently, as I was reading this article about it, one of the scenes, it uh had God giving his cell phone number to another person. Now, as I understand it, normally Hollywood will use a series of numbers that don't connect to anything. They'll just give like 555 and it doesn't, it's not a legitimate number But for whatever reason, in this case, this article is saying that they just used legitimate numbers And people watching it wrote that number down. The number for God. The cell phone number for God. They wrote it down. And a lady in St. Petersburg, Florida started getting 20 calls an hour from folks asking for God. Now that tells me several things. That one thing in particular stands out in my mind. Hollywood doesn't have God's phone number. That's where I'd say amen. They don't have God's phone number I read again another incident where a pastor of a small church uh would have, and I believe if I understood the the story correctly, uh he would uh Sunday mornings, a small church, he would call all the children down front. The church where I was baptized at, they used to They would call all the children down front on the Sunday morning and the pastor would tell a little story to the kids and uh try and illustrate a biblical trip They went on for the service and had the message. This particular day, the pastor had brought in a telephone. And he was trying to illustrate to the children that when you talk on a telephone The person on the other end hears you, although you cannot see that other person. Nevertheless, they're still there. And he said that's the way prayer is When we talk to God, when we pray and talk to God, we don't see God, but we know He hears us. One of the little children piped up and said, Yeah, but what's his phone number? This morning, we're given God's phone number. And God's phone number is this, Jeremiah 33. 3. I thought that was clever. Jeremiah 33. That's old, people have said that many, many times. But this passage here in Jeremiah 33. 3, God is telling us that we can call him That we can get hold of God. This past summer, for the last several months, God has really been dealing with my heart, just as an individual Christian. About the absolute importance of prayer in my Christian life and the staggering power of prayer. Now here's where I think the problem is. We all know in our minds that prayer is important. Am I not correct? We all know that. If we would ask somebody, is prayer important, they would say, sure, prayer is very important. We know that in our minds. And in fact, in our minds, we're convinced, up here at least, that prayer is very, very powerful. We understand that in our heads, yes, prayer can uh accomplish uh great things, genuine prayer. Where the difficulty comes in is getting it from up here and consistently implementing it in a practical way in our lives. That's where the challenge is. That's where the breakdown is. We know prayer is important. We're convinced that God can do powerful things, our needs can be met, we can have wisdom and direction, we can find help from God in response to prayer. We know that. But then we have such a hard time implementing it and actually making it a practical part of our life And so God is challenging us here. He says, call unto me. I will answer thee. I'll show you great and mighty things which you don't even know. That's God's reassurance. That's God challenging us. God pushing us, so to speak, or urging us. To get beyond just knowing what prayer is and actually making it a part of my life. Now, as I was reading this in my devotions several days or a week or so ago, I noticed here in verse 1 a little bit of the context of this verse, the statement being given to Jeremiah. Look at verse 1 with me, if you would, again. Moreover, the word of the Lord came unto Jeremiah the second time while he was where? Hey, he's in prison. He's shut up in the court of the prison. Not a pleasant place to be. Not a place that Jeremiah, I'm convinced, would have chosen to be. Not a situation he would like to be, uh have himself in. Nevertheless, it was in prison. When God gave to Jeremiah this tremendous, tremendous promise, and I found in my own experience and in working with others, It is often in the dark and difficult times in our lives when God's word becomes very significant to us. It's when we're going through, when we're in the prisons, quote unquote, of life, that the promises of God become very real to us. When the bills are paid, the health is good, the job's going great, kids are fine, and everything's going fine, we read these promises and we think, boy, that's nice, that's wonderful, boy, what a great promise. And we really doesn't have a whole lot of significance. But I tell you, when the world's fallen down on us and everything seems to be going wrong, and we feel like we're in some type of dark prison. And we come across a verse like Jeremiah 33. 3, and suddenly it stands out in our minds. And it grips our heart. Call unto me. And I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Can you imagine What that did to Jeremiah's heart when he heard God Almighty, the voice of God, making this statement to him. Tell me that didn't stir his heart. Tell me that didn't put some hope and some vision back in his soul. He's in prison the second time. I just want to make a few statements about prayer and this passage of scripture right here. I want to encourage you, if you have a pen or a paper or margin or Bible, jot some of these down. And I think they will help us This is the first statement I have for our outline of our message this morning. Number one, prayer is not some unproven theory. It's not some man-made idea. It's not some theory that professors in Bible college and professors in seminary have concocted. Boy, you know, maybe uh, you know, here I think maybe if we would ask things from God and call on him I wonder if God wouldn't do some great and mighty things for us. You know, that's a good point, Professor. Let's discuss that. That's not what this is at all. This isn't some unproven theory. This is not some idea of man. Prayer is God's stated method for meeting man's needs. Let me make that statement again. Prayer is God's stated method for meeting man's needs. How do I prove, how does a person prove the effectiveness of prayer? How do I prove that it's that it's effective? How do we get beyond it just being some theory in our mind and being real? Well, we can't prove it on a debate floor We can't bring uh atheist in here. I mean we could, but it wouldn't prove prayer. Bring an atheist in and have uh some Bible scholar and some great Christian and have a debate back and forth as to whether prayer is effective or not. Maybe entertaining, but it doesn't prove a thing. We can't prove the effectiveness of prayer by us uh in seminary libraries and old dusty books and all that type of thing. That's not where we prove the effectiveness in prayer. In fact I cannot even prove the effectiveness of prayer from preaching behind this pulpit. The effectiveness of prayer is proven when we pray. When we come to God and we call on Him and we trust Him and we look to Him and we make requests of Him and God in response Answers our prayer. And prayer's effectiveness is proven in the prayer room before the throne of God. Effectiveness of prayer is proven by actually praying. Do you want to know what prayer can do? Pray. You want to know if prayer can change a situation, a circumstance? How do I know that prayer will change this situation? I'll tell you how. Pray. Prove it. Test it. Take God at His word. And see if God will not do exactly as He said He would do. Prayer is not some unproven theory. Prayer is not just some pie-in-the-sky idea, some mythological hope. Prayer is a reality. The effectiveness of prayer can be proven by the youngest child, can be proven by the most feeble senior uh uh elderly uh saint in a nursing home somewhere Prayer can be proven by the youngest, newest Christian that's ever been saved. A prayer is a proven fact. It's not a theory. And so my challenge to you, number one, is pray. Take God at His word. Whatever your situation is, whatever your needs, whatever the circumstances you're facing, bring that thing to God. Call on Him And trust them and see if prayer isn't exactly what God says it is. Number one, prayer is not some unproven theory. I put this down. Number two, I encourage you to jot this down Prayer is direct access to God. Direct access to God. Look at verse 3 with me, if you would. How many folks are glad you came to church today? Say amen? That's the majority. And uh praise the Lord for that. Uh look what he says here Verse 1, or verse 3, I'm sorry. The first few words. Call unto who? Me. Who's speaking? God. God is saying, hey, you can come directly to me. You have direct access to Almighty God. Call unto me. Listen to Philippians chapter 4 and verse 6. In everything, by prayer and supplication. Now what is prayer and supplication? Prayer, this is I'm going to boil it down to my most basic understanding of this Prayer is asking, supplication is pleading. I ask God, I plead with God. I make a request, I I'm begging God. So in everything, by prayer and supplication Let your requests be made known unto God. Direct access to God. Listen to Hebrews chapter 10 and verse 19. Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiness, the holiest, by the blood of Jesus Now, to fully understand that, we really should take time and study that passage out. But it's making reference back to the Old Testament, particularly the book of Leviticus. Where Israel was instructed to build a tabernacle. How many folks here are at least somewhat familiar with the tabernacle of the Old Testament? Raise your hand. Alright, that's a good number, big majority The tabernacle was des- uh the pattern was given by God to Moses, who provided leadership, and the men of Israel built this tabernacle. It was to follow the Israel around in their wanderings in the wilderness They'd take it down, move it, and put it up as God led them and directed them. The tabernacle is fascinating. In fact, a couple years ago, was it last year we went up to the tabernacle this seniors, I mean the couples. And uh you've got a replica there in Lancaster, and uh it's very educational. But anyway, the tabernacle uh was made up of of basically two parts, the inside You had the holy, that's where you would enter in, and uh that's where there was a uh a table of showbread and a candlestick. You've read about them in the Bible and the uh the labor and I think the lever's outside and then you had the um the altar of incense there and uh you had the inner part. Then there was a there was a there was a back section, so to speak, of the tabernacle That was sectioned off by a curtain, uh a veil Once a year, in the Old Testament economy, the high priest and the high priest only was instructed by God to take the sacrifice, take some blood, and he would enter what was called the holiest of holies. And he would enter into there, and he was instructed to dress a certain way and had certain procedures to go through And he would sprinkle the blood of the sacrifice once a year on the mercy seat. The Ark of the Covenant mercy seat had the cherubim around. And that was to make a covering for the sins of God's people. Now in Hebrews 19 here, in Hebrews chapter 10 verse 19, God is telling you and I as believers That because of the blood that Jesus shed, not the bulls and goats that the Old Testament saints had to operate under But the blood of the Lord Jesus Christ was applied to the mercy seat in heaven, the actual real one, not the replica, but the real one in heaven And because of the sacrifice of Christ, because of Jesus dying on the cross for your sins and my sins, that which separates us from God, our sins, Jesus dealt with them. His blood, when we accept him as our Savior, cleanses all our sin from our record, cleanses our sin from our separating us from God. And you and I get this. You and I, as individual people, according to Hebrews 10:19, can enter into the very presence of Almighty God. When we come and pray. When we kneel, maybe at an altar at an invitation And we are praying to God about whatever the Lord dealt with our hearts about. We're responding in prayer. We are literally In the very presence of Almighty God, it's as if we were in that holiest of places. We're coming right immediately. Listen, for some man in some established religion, to say that you and I as individuals cannot approach God, that we have to come through him as our quote-unquote priest. That is blasphemy of its highest order. For another man to say, you cannot approach God, but I can, you have to come to him through me, is blasphemy. And it's taking place, no doubt, even as I speak, here in our own county. God says we can have direct access to God. Prayer is direct access to God. Now think about what God can do. Let me ask you this: is anything impossible with God? No. Jesus said in a number of situations, he said, This is impossible with man, but nothing's impossible with God. He said, The rich can't it's easier to put a camel through the eye of a needle than a rich man to enter heaven. The disciple says, Who then can be saved? Jesus said, with man it's impossible, with God all things are possible. Now think about that in this matter of prayer. I have, and if you know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you have direct access to God. He says, Call unto me, not the priest. Amen. Not the preacher, not the church, not some great spiritual guru. You come directly to me. Call unto me And I will answer you. Prayer is direct access to God. No need for human priests When uh my parent grandparents were alive, they're with the Lord now and just godly, uh I've no doubt they were saved, just godly uh Christians and uh Tremendous testimony. And we visited their house and they always for years, I remember in the two places I remember them living, the farm, and then later they moved into town, they always had a plaque on the wall in the living room. And it said this: prayer changes things. And that's a tremendous statement, and um I agree with that to an extent But I would like to amend that a little bit. It is actually God in response to prayer that changes things Prayer just in and of itself has no power. I can go and talk to a law and make requests of the law. It's not going to do anything for me. Just you follow what I'm saying? Just praying in itself has no power. Just praying. Hey, these folks that go up in the mountains and sit there and home And uh meditate and do their prayers. Uh there's no power in that. I mean they might get psyched out a little bit, but there ain't no power. Right? Hey, uh I'm not trying to be unkind, I'm trying to be honest. He spokes that kneel at a statue of Mary and pray to Mary, that prayer has no power. Prayer in and of itself has no power. It is prayer to God where the power is. God is the all-powerful one. Call unto me. He doesn't say just call, and you'll have answered and seen it. He says, call unto me. Look to me. God is the one that changes our situations. God is the one that meets our needs. God is the one that heals our bodies. God is the one that gives us wisdom and leadership and direction in light. God is the one that enables us and strengthens us to deal with the afflictions and trials and difficulties in life. It is God. And when I pray, I have direct access to God. So number one, prayer is not some unproven theory. Prayer works. Prayer's been tried. It's been proven. It's not some theory. Prayer is direct access to God. I put this statement down. The power of prayer is only limited by the promises and the will of God. Now think about that. Might you say, oh, this request is too big. God could not meet this. The only prayer that God cannot or will not answer is one that is not according to his promises I cannot claim, I can't, God's not going to give me something that is contrary to his promises. You follow what I'm saying? So the only limitation to my prayers are the promises of God. And I tell you, if you'll study the promises of God in the Word of God, they're pretty broad. You listen to the Lord Jesus. I mean, this staggers me. In fact, sometimes even hesitate to preach it. But Jesus said, if you will ask anything In my name I will do it. Whatsoever you ask in my name. You know? That's what Jesus said. So direct access to God. My prayer is, the power of prayer is only limited by the promises of God. If my sincere prayer is not according to the will of God, or it's not within the promises of God, God will change my prayer. You catch what I'm trying to say? If I cut I'm sincere, I I have trust in Christ, I've Surrendered to him, my heart is right, and I come to God and I pray and I pray and I pray and I pray directly to God Himself. I have his ear, I have his attention And I'm praying and praying and praying. And it is not, my request is not within the will or the promises of God. You know what God will do? God will change my heart so that my prayer fits his promises and his will. You say, where do you come up with that? A neat place, the Bible. In uh 2 Corinthians chapter 12 Now we don't have time to go there. We can do a whole series on this. Paul had what he called a thorn in his flesh. I don't know about you, but I've had thorns in my flesh before. They don't feel good And uh they fester. So Paul says uh he had a thorn in the flesh. Now preachers and Christians like to use that as a as a um uh What's the word I want to uh they'll say? Uh what? Analogy kind of type thing. They'll say, uh, people that throw words out when I'm preaching are a thorn analogy. my flesh. And uh no, I'm peasing Chester. You follow what I'm saying? That guy's a thorn in my flesh Paul, I think, when Paul says that he had this thorn in his flesh, it was actually physical pain. I think it was some physical ailment that was hurting him severely. And actually weakened him physically. And he says in 2 Corinthians chapter 12, he says, I besought the Lord. He went directly to God In prayer. I besought the Lord three times. Now I don't think it was, he made prayer requests, three different services I think what he's saying is he went through three periods of time where he was seeking God, praying, praying, praying. Take away this thorn, take away this thorn. God, please remove this from my body. God, take this sickness away. God, take this. From my body. Three, I believe, extended periods of time, he besought the Lord and besought the Lord and besought the Lord that God would take this away from him You know what the Lord's response was? The Lord said, My grace is sufficient for you. When you're weak physically, then I become strong. For me to remove this from your body would not be good for you or the cause of Christ. Do you know what I'm going to do for you, Paul? I'm going to change your I'm going to answer your prayer, but I'm going to change your prayer to most gladly, therefore, will I glory in my infirmity. When I'm weak, he's strong. So you say, preacher, how do I know if this request is according to the will of God? I have direct access to God, I can come right to Him He says he'll answer, call unto me, he'll show me great and mighty things which I can't even imagine. How do I know that? This is according to the will of God. I'd say just keep on praying, keep on praying, keep on praying. And if it is not God's will He will change your whole thought thinking about it. Follow what I'm saying? I found. Now can I give a little testimony here? I found that in many of my prayers, I'm tempted to say most, but in many of my prayers, the answer wasn't so much giving me what I want, but changing me. I found many of my prayers, it was I was the one that ended up being changed, not necessarily the circumstances or even the need. I have an idea that when he says here, call it to me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things, that last phrase which thou knowest not We think he's going to do what we want him to do even beyond we ever dreamed that he would do it the way we want it to do. You know what I think that might mean? I'm going to do it in ways that you might not anticipate Lord, I have a great debt. Lord, I've got to pay this debt off. Lord, answer me, I need $10,000 Well, he said he'd answer me and show me great and mighty things when I know not. Great and mighty things what I know. You know what? I'll bet he's going to give me $20,000. In fact, since I'm thinking of that, it'll be even more than that. You know what may end up turning? God may not give you anything. He may change your lifestyle. Follow what I'm saying? He may meet that need, not through a check in the mail, but a change in my desires So I have direct access to God. Prayer is not some unproven theory. Prayer is direct access to God. Let me give you number three. Prayer is effective in every area of life. In every area of life. Whatever affects our well-being is a subject for prayer. Don't ever get the idea that prayer is only for spiritual issues. Prayer is for physical issues and spiritual issues Prayer is for the temporal things just as much as for the eternal things. Now, in the long run The spiritual, the eternal things are more significant. But the physical things, the temporal things of life, have a powerful role in our lives. How many people here found that the physical world affects you? Pulling the covers back in the morning. The temporal physical world we live in is a very significant factor in our well-being. And God is as concerned about our physical well-being, our temporal issues we deal with, as He is the spiritual. Now, as I said, in the long term, the spiritual has more significance, it's eternal. But brother, don't think that God's not concerned about the temporal, physical issues we deal with. God is just as concerned about them as we are, if not more so. Prayer is not just for the church house. Prayer is also for the workhouse. Prayer is for the home, the marketplace, at the bank. God, I hope this card works When I use it, Lord, please let that court. Can I get a witness? The hospital. Prayer is relevant in every area of life. Not just church. Well, I'm going to pray, but I wait until Sunday church we'll pray. Listen, you ought to be praying on the job You ought to be praying at home. You say, oh, we don't pray the lawnmower's broke down. You're having a hard time fixing it. Well, you pray and ask God to help you. Say God help me with a long mower. Yeah. Yeah. Uh the plumbing doesn't work, and uh you're trying to fix it. Oh, I'll call Brian. No, call God Brian's saying, Amen there, brother, amen there. You say God would help me with my plumbing? Yeah Pray and ask them. Prayer is not just for the spiritual aspects of life, it's for the literal, the temporal, the physical aspects of life. I read this statement. It convicted me. I jotted it down. He who does not pray about temporal matters cannot pray with confidence about spiritual matters. In fact, the the idea behind that is if you're not praying over the physical things of life, chances are you ain't praying over the spiritual things of life. If you haven't learned to pray for your daily bread, as the Lord instructs us to, then chances are you're not praying for the Lord's kingdom, Lord's will to be done on earth as it is in heaven. Follow what I'm saying? Prayer, prayer is effective in every area of life. It's interesting. I want to challenge you this coming year. I I I want to challenge you several ones, several areas. Number one, I want to challenge you to read your Bible through this coming year. January 1st, starting Genesis 1, we have a number of various different Bible reading schedules we give out, varying levels of difficulty. I want to challenge you this coming year to read your Bible, Genesis of Revelation. on one schedule or another. Now here's challenge based on that. If you do that, and I really hope you will You pay attention. When you're reading through the Bible, you pay attention to what people in the Bible prayed for. Watch very closely. What they're well, they're just praying for great spiritual things. You're finding them praying for every area of life. Let me list a few Abraham prayed for Sodom to be delivered from destruction. Abraham's servant prayed for direction in finding a wife for Isaac. Let me stop Stop there just for a second. Anytime uh a single person is uh inv is uh uh uh uh thinking about getting married, anytime the issue of marriage is for a single person Person, that issue ought to be saturated in prayer. God's leadership, God's direction. Abraham's servant prayed for direction in finding a wife for Isaac. In fact, you know what his prayer consists? Listen to this. He said, when I show up at the well, whoever it is you want to be the wife of my master's son, Isaac, have her offer me water and water for my camels. You talk about physical situation. He's laying it out. Lo and behold, he shows up and Rachel comes by and she goes, oh, you need some water? You want some water for your camels? You know what the servant did immediately? He stopped and thanked God. He prayed, Lord, you've answered my prayer. You've heard me. Now I don't recommend going standing by the drinking fountain at Walmart, fellas I'll pray a girl come by and offer me a drink of water from this water or the Coke machine. She'll buy me a Coke and all my buddies Don't stand down at sheets by the gas station. I pray a girl come by and fill my car and my four-wheeler too. That'll be the one of it. Now if you're there and a girl fills your car and your four-wheeler, you might want to consider her. That's pretty good But you follow what I'm saying? He's putting leadership in finding his boss's son a wife. Hannah prayed for a child. Elijah prayed that the weather would change twice. Hezekiah prayed for physical healing. Jacob prayed, and his angry brother's anger was calmed down. You know what the Lord told us to pray? Give us this day our daily. Is that physical and temporal? Sure it is. You say pray over food? Yeah. Say, well, times are tight, money's tight, I've got to be real frugal at the store. Yeah, why don't you pray and ask God to find you good deals Let me just uh I'm just curious, how many folks have ever done that? You've prayed, asked God to help you with a good deal financially, and God came through and answered that prayer, just as a testimony. Look at that, look all around Don't tell me God doesn't answer prayers concerning temporal issue, physical things. Sure he does. It's prayer. Give us this day our daily bread. Peter was in prison. What was the church doing? They were calling their legislatures. They were writing letters to the editor. Now I'm all for calling your legislat uh your calling your legislatures your The people in government. I'm all for writing letters to the editor. But you know what the church did? They Prayed. God, let Peter get out of prison. God, get him out of there. Lord, please intervene. Lord, don't they kill James? Don't let him kill Peter. And they're praying all night long. Now I would like to think if I was in county jail that our deacons would be here praying all night long for me, but I'm not so sure that would I'm teasing. They would be praying all right. Keep on No. I just want everybody to feel sorry for me. But they're praying and praying and praying. And I think it's comical. God answers their prayer. Angel comes in, smites Peter by the side. What? Get up, Peter, let's get out of here. Okay. Walks through, the door's just open. They go walking out, close behind them. And uh Peter shows up at the house where they're praying. And um uh little girl was it Rhonda? Uh Rhoda comes to the door. Who is it? That's Peter. Huh? Peter triumphed! This is what the Bible says. She goes running back. Peter's here! You know what their response is? Oh, don't be ridiculous. We're praying he gets loose. He's in jail. He can't be here. Doesn't sound like their faith was real strong. But here's the point. They called unto the Lord, and the Lord answered them. Even in the matter of John, in uh I think it's 3rd John, writes, and he prays that a fellow by the name of God He prays that he would be as prosperous in his business and finances and be as healthy as he is He's saying, I pray that you will prosper and be in health even as you are spiritually. You know what he was saying? He was saying I'm apparently this Gaius was a good, strong Christian. And he's saying, just as God has blessed you spiritually, I'm praying he blesses you physically God's concerned for our physical well-being. God's concerned about the temporal areas. God is concerned about every detail of our life. Bible's very clear. So let's pray. Let's pray. What do you need? What do you want God to do? What situation do you want changed? What decision needs to be made that you need some insight and wisdom for? Ask God. Call unto him. J. H. Jewitt, who was a great one uh one of my favorite preachers of many years ago back in England, he said, uh, I would rather teach one man to pray than to teach ten men to preach. One man to pray rather than ten men to preach. A. J. Gordon, another great preacher of years gone by, he said this: when we work, we get what we can do. When we pray, we get what God can do. John R. Rice said this All our failures are prayer failures. Much prayer. He said this. He said, little prayer, little power, little success. Much prayer, much power. Much success. No prayer. No power. No success. I wonder, and again, I'm I'm not going to seat on this. You know me But I just wonder how many hospital beds would be empty today if people would pray. I wonder how many marriages would still be together. People would pray. I wonder how many bank accounts would still be solvent. People would pray. We know it in our heads. We know it. But it is so hard Hard for some reason to consistently implement it in our lives. And actually pray and trust and look to God. To meet our needs. Someone said three secrets to success. Number one, pray. Number two, pray. Three, pray. Pray. When I first got saved, I showed up at church and I've told you the story many times, I think just recently about the bell bottoms and the silk shirts and all that stuff. It was It was groovy, man. But God had saved my soul. And God was working in my life. And I mentioned, I think, again, just recently, the two fellas, not on staff, they weren't pastors, they weren't on staff of the church in any way, just two guys in the church, made me Their project. They came over and visited me. I showed up at church, you know, the whole shebang. They showed up at my door that week and they said, uh, talk to me a little bit and they asked me about my salvation, and I told the story. You know how I got saved Monday night after Laverne and Shirley told him the whole deal. And um they said this. They said, We would like to meet with you. Weekly or bi-weekly with a Bible study that would help you grow as a discipleship program and just teach you about the basics of the Christian life, what it means to be a Christian. I said, yeah, that'd be great And so it was a long time. It was probably three, four, five months. We met on a weekly or bi-weekly weekly basis. One day, one of the fellows' name was Terry Wilcox. He invited me over to his house and I don't remember all it was. He was married. He had a couple little kids And he was out, we weren't out, we ended up out working on his car. He had the hood up and he's working away on stuff. And my role generally on working on cars is here's the wrench, here's the flyers or whatever. And anyway, we're working away together there. And I don't remember what it was, but he dropped a bolt or some little p piece of the car had dropped down into the engines. Somewhere. And we looked and looked and looked, crawled underneath. We could not find that thing. And here it is, 31 years later. probably. I don't remember the date, I don't remember anything, but I remember this as clear as a bell. God taught me a powerful lesson. He said, Dennis Let's pray and ask God to show us where that bolt is. So you serious? He goes, yeah. Bowed his head. He said, Lord, I really need this thing. God, you know where it is. I can't find it. Will you please let us find this bolt so I can get this car running? I said, that's cute. We fiddle around there a little bit. He says, Oh, here it is. Put that thing on. And God burned in my heart and mind that I can pray even over a missing bolt. God is concerned. God Almighty I can come right into his very presence and say, God, I can't find this bolt. Can you show me where it's at? That's I know what it is. Isn't that amazing? How many times I've lost my keys? Lord, I cannot. God, you know where those keys are. Please lead me to where they are. I remember in Indianapolis. I was used past my office. Lord, I cannot find these keys. Please show me. And I didn't even say, I hardly said amen. Not five seconds. I turned around and there they were on the shelf, on my bookshelf. I just searched everywhere and God opened my eyes. Don't tell me God doesn't answer prayer stuff like that. And why don't we pray? Why don't we do that? What is it you need? What is it you want? What is the situation? Ask God. Call unto Him. Father in Heaven. The disciples said that. Teach us to pray. I don't know why we don't. I don't know why it's so difficult for us to consistently do this I ask Holy Spirit, you would help us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many this morning would say, Preacher, while you're preaching, there is a situation, a circumstance, a need in my life that is just glaring in mind That I need God to help. I need to pray about. And you'd say, preacher, it's there, very specific. I know what it is the whole time you're preaching, it's right there in my mind And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me pray over this situation. I would trust him and wait on him and see what he does Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? A very specific situation is on my heart and mind as you're praying, as you're preaching. And it's on my mind. It's something to pray. God bless you, hands all around. Now listen, let's bring that to God. Let's start right this morning. Bring that to God. Say, God, here's my request. I am calling on you for this situation, this need. And then just pray and pray and pray. And if God in his wisdom sees it best not to do what we're asked to do, he will change us. It will change the circumstances. He'll make it so it's right. Some of us have been struggling with some what we consider little things and God can give us victory. God can solve that just like that if we just ask it. Now, having said all that, let me end with this. And then we'll give the imitat and we'll have the invitation. None of this applies if you're here This morning, and you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior. Until the blood of Christ cleanses our sins, until we accept Jesus Christ our personal Savior, and we are that separation from God, we are reunited with him through faith in Jesus Christ. We don't have access to God. We don't have his ears. Our sins have separate us. If you're here this morning, you've never trusted Christ as Savior, you can't claim any of these promises until you trust Christ. How many this morning. Would say, preacher, I don't know that I'm saved. I've never trusted Christ as my Savior. I need Jesus Christ to come in my life, forgive me, and save me from my sins so I can have access and fellowship with God. Father, a lot of hands raised. We've got a lot of needs. Lord, it just seems like we struggle through life, just wrestling with it, leaning on our own our same Doing all this when we have such a tremendous resource. Help us to pray. Teach us to pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer