Kings read from this a few moments ago, Second Kings chapter eighteen, and um we ask sometimes we just mention and uh encourage folks to if you have a cell phone or an iPod or a Palm Pilot or a baby, turn them off and um My wife says unplug the phones and plug up the babies. And uh so I think the monitors are a little bit loud up here, Dan. And um so but uh we encourage you to do that. One of the church members had an ingenious idea. for the cell phone so that they don't have to turn it off during church. And what they did was they recorded them coughing into the phone. Then when the phone rings, instead of it ringing or music, it's coughing. And that way nobody knows the phone's ringing. They just go like this And then they can take care of the phone. So if you see someone's purse and there's coughing sounds coming out of the purse, it is not a midget in the curve. First, it is their phone. I do not recommend everybody do that. I thought I was thinking this morning about that. It would be a great idea just to say amen into it. Amen And then the phone rings just be Amen. But that could be bad. That might be at a wrong time or something. So probably best just to go ahead and turn them off 2 Kings chapter 18, if you would notice with me verse 5. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel. This is speaking of Hezekiah. So that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him. I've entitled the message this morning, God's Maverick. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for the word of God. And I Thank you, Lord, for a good service we've had already this morning. You've blessed my heart has been blessed from the singing and the fellowship together has been a joy. And so Lord, we rejoice in your goodness to us. Father, I'm grateful for the folks visiting, out of town, some local folk. Lord, we're grateful and honored to have folks here visiting with us. I'm grateful for the young men, their testimony. Lord, as we look into your word now, I ask, dear God, that you would speak to our hearts. Open our hearts and minds to receive what you have for us from your word. Lord, I yield my will to your will. I present my body anew. With all my heart, God, I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit. That you would speak through me, that I would simply be a channel, use my gestures, my mouth, the words, my thinking. I pray, Father, you'd bless this hour. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. If you notice in verse number five, it says, as we pointed out, that Hezekiah trusted the Lord. So that after him was none among uh there was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him. Now in our last election, we had in the last political election We had candidates who liked to identify themselves as mavericks Running for president if you remember, if you followed that at all. And they said we're a maverick. And uh was a popular term during that time and When someone described when these when this these candidates were describing themselves as mavericks, what they were saying was this, we refuse to just go along with the crowd I looked up the word maverick, trying to get an idea of a little bit of the definition and all that. And the word maverick is used to identify A uh someone that is some a horse that is not branded. So a horse that was born grew up and it's not part of anyone's brand. If you're familiar with the Western terminology and the cowboy terminology. So when someone describes themselves as a maverick, what they're wanting to, the image they're wanting to portray is the fact that hey I'm a standalone God. I don't go with the crowd. I'm not writing for anyone's brand. I'm my own person I was reading this portion of scripture in my devotions some time ago. And I read here how Hezekiah, there was none like him before, neither were there any like him after. And I thought Hezekiah is a maverick. He wasn't writing for anyone's brand. He refused to go along with the world. He refused to be branded. By the world. He refused to be conformed to the world. He said, I'm not going to be like that. No one like him before, no one like him after. Um, God's Maverick. You read the life of Hezekiah, and with an exception at the very end of his life You see that he was determined he was going to trust God. He was going to obey God regardless of what the rest of the world did do or didn't do. God give us some of these types of mavericks. We need some churches in our land who are determined we're not going to imitate the world, we're not going to be conformed to the world, we're going to obey God even if no one else does. Sometimes I'll get advertising in the mail or I'll have someone contact me. We get calls. You'd be amazed at how a church gets so many salesmen put marketing things specifically for the church. Videos and programs and all of this and they'll say something like this all the other churches are using it. Well I don't know about you but when I hear that I usually think that's a good reason not to use it maybe Maverick. Not being different just for the sake of being different, but determining to be what God wants me to be, regardless of what others do or don't do. Now it's interesting as you read here in verse number 4, something Hezekiah did that made him stand out as a maverick. Look at verse 4. It says, he removed the high places, and notice this next statement. And break the images, and cut down the groves, and break in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made For unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it, and he called it Nehushtan. Now, as James read these names and different things, uh Pronunciation. I'm not sure on the pronunciation on some of these words, but since I'm the pastor and I'm behind the pulpit, we'll do it the way I say them. Amen. He called it Nahushtam. Now if you would keep your place here, I'd like you to turn with me to the second book of the Old Testament, Ezekiel. I mean XCOM The second book of the Old Testament, Exodus. My wife wrote my notes and I have a hard time reading what she had there. Exodus chapter 20. Exodus chapter 20 should be a familiar passage of scripture for Christians. Exodus chapter 20. If you have an old Schofield, it's page 95. And notice verse number one of Exodus chapter 20. And God spake all these words, saying, I am the Lord thy God. Which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage. Now look at the very first commandment that God gave: Thou shalt have no other gods before thee. And verse 4, the second commandment. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, nor any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God. God's very first command The very top priority in God's demands from His creation Is that mankind recognizes that there is one God and one God only, and man is to worship nothing else other than the true God. God says the number one thing that I expect from mankind, that I that my standard of holiness demands from mankind is that you recognize and worship me and me alone as God. And of course that's because God is the only God. There is no God but Jehovah. And so God makes that very, very clear. Of his ten commandments, as we recognize them, number one is thou shalt have no other gods before me. Now, with that being number one in God's list, and they're all important, but I would say that's pretty important. We better have that down. God's number one concern is that now get this, this is where it brings it home to us. God's number one concern is that there be nothing Before him in the heart and mind of mankind. Nothing else, no other gods, nothing else is of higher value Nothing else takes the place that God is to have in my heart and mind. Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Now notice the second command. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, nor any likeness. If anything that is in heaven above, there's earth beneath, or is in the water under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God Now that phrase where he says, Thou shalt not make it thee any graven image, it has the idea of carving out a type of thing, like we would picture a statue Or something, carving it out of stone or into some type of image, or making it out of pottery, or that type of thing. And the phrase lightness is speaking about any type of representation of God. Now let me say, I do not believe, in studying the scriptures, I do not believe God is saying it is wrong to have a picture of a mountain scene or something like that on the wall. That's not what he's saying. He is saying that you and I are not to come up with any type of representation, no type of likeness representing him. Now, why would that be a problem? Why would God have a problem with mankind coming up with some type of statue or picture or something to represent him? or to be an image of God. I'll tell you why it'd be a problem with God, because God is so far above and beyond anything of creation It is an insult. It is blasphemous to take this image and say this represents God when God is so far beyond that and so far above that. God is saying there is nothing you can come up with that comes even close to adequately representing my holiness and my power and my goodness And so God forbids it. And God takes these things seriously. It is an insult to the awesomeness of God to try and represent Him with any image. Of any type. God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. Not through physical representations. So therefore, we don't have statues. That we bow down to and pray to. Amen? This verse expressly forbids that There are certain denominations that take this verse out of the Bible and they break up the second verse and therefore come up with Ten Commandments, and it's completely removed. Because they use statutes, they use images as an assistance in worship, and God forbids it. Now we come back to 2 Kings. Here we find that Israel, over a period of years, actually they struggled their whole existence with this. But in 2 Kings chapter 18, Israel has gotten to the point where they have gotten so far from God. As a nation, they had gotten so far from God in their heart. That things had replaced God stuff Took the place of God in their lives. Material things. And I'll tell you, I think one of the great dangers, one of the great One of the downfalls of our country has been our prosperity. And one of the dangers we no longer face, one of the dangers we are now in, is a love of things and a worship of pleasure and stuff has taken the place of God. In our lives and in our churches, things. Israel got to that point. Israel got to the point where they were worshiping images Groves, trees, outdoors. They had gotten to the point where even the good things that God had given them had replaced God in their lives. Notice he says at the end of the verse 4, he says he break that Hezekiah broke in pieces the brazen serpent that Moses had made. How many people remember the story of the brazen serpent? Remember the little serpents were biting Israel, they had uh disobeyed God and people were dying and God told Moses, Make a serpent out of brass, put it up on a stick and hold it up, and then when they look to the brazen serpent, they will live. We get our song, Look and Live, my brother, live I won't sing it because these guys would be embarrassed they heard how good I sang. And um but uh uh how many people remember that story? Moses the brazen serpent. Half the crowd remembers it Well that brazen serpent, question, was that a good thing? Yeah, God told him to do it That was God's instruction to put that brazen serpent, hold it up. It was a picture, it was an object lesson of the coming Savior, Jesus Christ, who would be hung on a tree for our sins. We look to Christ, we find salvation. But Israel had gotten so far from God. That brazen serpent no longer was a picture of the coming Savior. It became a God in and of itself to them. They began burning incense to it. They began worshiping it. And so, Israel had so completely forsaken their worship and commitment to the true God. That now they loved and served things. They loved and served the creation more than the creator. And I'm telling you, we live in a society today where stuff, pleasures, cars, houses, credit cards, Enjoyment, pleasures have taken the place of God. Now listen, I I I love the outdoors as much as anybody. And Sam's in, and it's good to have Sam in for the week. We were out in the woods this past week, spent hours out just doing things together and um putting up a hunting stand. It's a secret place. I'm not gonna tell anybody where it is And um hey I'm that's all that's fine and good if it is in the proper perspective. But we've gotten to the point, not just in our country, but in our churches. Where fun and stuff has completely replaced God. Wife came in yesterday and she had the ladies had their prayer luncheon and she came back and she said, I have never seen so many people. In the fields down here by the high school, she said there was thousands and thousands of people throwing balls and kicking and playing games and all of that. Now listen, there's nothing in the world wrong with that. But when that becomes, when we're more committed to sports than we are to our Savior, something's wrong. Come on, am I right or wrong? Something's wrong. And so that's the state of Israel. A lot like America. Things, stuff. The good things God gave became more important to them than the things of God. Hey, let me just can I just get down and dirty a little bit When we're spending more money on fun and things than we are to get the gospel around the world through faith promise, something's wrong. When missionaries have to beg, please, just a little bit a month. Help me to get to Kazakhstan, help me to get to Mongolia. And yet we can spend thousands on stuff. Something's out of whack. Something's not right. That's the state of Israel. And Hezekiah shows up. And Hezekiah says, I'm not going along with the craft. Hezekiah refused to take the crowd's brand One thing in my mind stands out about Hezekiah. One thing that I see here in this portion of scripture That especially made Hezekiah a maverick, and that is this. He trusted God when others did not. Look with me if you would at verse 5. He, Hezekiah, trusted in the Lord God of Israel. So that there was after him none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him, for he claimed to the Lord, and departed not from following him. but kept his commandments which the Lord commanded Moses. And the Lord was with them, and he prospered whithersoever he went forth, and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and served him not. A maverick. The rest of Israel, the rest of the world is living for themselves. They're setting up their own gods. They're establishing their own form of worship and Hezekiah says I'm not going along with that I'm going to worship God the way he said he is to be worshipped. I'm going to trust and obey God regardless of what any others do. He's God's maverick. Trusted. That word trusted there in verse 5 means to have confidence in. To be secure in. I like this definition. To be careless and at ease. He trusted in the Lord. He had put away all care and concern about what the consequences would be, and he said, I'm just doing what God says. I'm going to obey God. I don't care what the consequences are. I'm going to do obey God. Now here's the way your average Christian in America is. What do I get out of it? What's it going to do for me? Am I going to enjoy it? Is it going to bring pleasure to me? Am I going to be blessed by it? Hezekiah says, I don't care about that. Trusting God means being careless about Caring less about all of that. I'm just going to do right. I'm just going to obey God. He was a maverick. One thing stood out about Hezekiah, he trusted God when no others did. This word trusted means to take God at his word regardless of what others do or don't do. It means to do what God says, regardless of the consequences. When all the world did evil in the sight of God, Hezekiah trusted God and did right. I would like for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to be a Maverick church as far as average Christianity goes. We're not trying to get a name for ourselves, we're not trying to impress anybody, and we're certainly not in a popularity contest. But my concern as pastor, and I believe the concern of the church as a whole, is that we please God regardless of what others do. Am I right or wrong? Pleasing God. Pleasing God. Now, thank God there are many, many other churches feel the same way. We're not saying we're the only one. But I am saying this, we ought to do right regardless of what others do. Let me give you a few thoughts and we'll shut her down. Number one, genuine trust in God is what that's what made Hezekiah a maverick. Genuine trust in God produces dynamic, a dynamic personal relationship with God. Genuine trust in God. I'm trusting God. I'm putting my life in His hands. I don't care what the consequences are. God said that this is His will for my life. I'm trusting Him with that. I'll do what he says. That will produce a dynamic personal relationship with God. You know what Israel had? Israel had an external religion. They simply went through a show. They did what they wanted, and then they set up their own form of worship, and they went through these external ceremonies, and you know what I found? That never meets the need of a soul. Simply going through the motions. So an ad in a newspaper, this is a number of years ago, a local paper here. And they said, fulfill your religious obligations Saturday night at 7 o'clock or whatever. Listen. If your Christianity is simply a matter of fulfilling obligations, I know something about you. You've got an awfully empty soul. Just fulfilling my obligations is not genuinely trusting God. And when all we have is an external religion When all we have is a facade Christianity, there is an emptiness in the soul that all the stuff in the world cannot fill. That all the material things and all the pleasures that this world has to offer cannot fill that emptiness and a soul that does not have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And so what you find happens is that emptiness leads to frustration. I've tried this, I've tried this, I've tried this. And still there's no purpose in my life. I've done this, I've bought that, I've experienced this, I've climbed that mountain, I've done this, I've bought that And still, there's an emptiness in my soul, and there's a frustration that begins to build. And after a while, frustration leads to what? Anger! And nothing seems to work, and nobody meets my needs, and nobody is able to be what I want and what I need, and there's nothing in this life can meet my needs And we are at a state in the United States of America where anger is taking over everything. Talk to some evangelists that come through. Thank you, Shirley. Talking to some evangelists that have come through and I said, What is you sh what you see, what is a problem that needs to be dealt with it within our fundamental independent Baptist circles? And I had several Uh evangelists of their own without me feeding up and separately they said we see so much anger. People are so angry. You know what that's from? Empty That has produced a frustration, that has produced anger, and the emptiness is an indication that there's no real dynamic personal relationship with Christ. When I trust God genuinely, sincerely, I'm trusting God. That relationship that is established with God Meets a need in my heart and soul that nothing in this world can meet. So, Hezekiah trusted God. Boy, what a lively, dynamic relationship he had with his God and his Savior. It didn't matter what the others thought, didn't matter what the others said, didn't matter what was going on around him. That was not a factor. His heart Soul needs were met because of his relationship with the Lord. By the way, simply acknowledging historical facts Is never going to meet the needs of my soul. Now I've said this before, and I think I need to explain it so you don't misunderstand. But you know there's going to be a lot of people who die and go to hell believing that Jesus died on the cross. It's going to be a lot of people that die and go to hell believing John 3. 16, oh yeah, God so loved the world he gave his only begotten Son, whosoever believes in him shall not perish have everlasting life. Oh yeah, that's true. I believe that fact And die and go to hell. Because salvation is not simply acknowledging some historical facts. Salvation is a personal decision to trust what Jesus Christ did, trust the one who those facts relate to as my own personal Savior, and establishing a relationship with Jesus Christ. Do you know what I'm talking about? It has to get to the point where it's not for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believed in him should not perish and ever have ever have ever have everlasting life. It has to get to the point where God so loved me personally as an individual that if I I do believe in his son Jesus Christ. And God, through that faith, gives me everlasting life. And I'll not perish because of that faith. It's a world of difference between acknowledging historical facts and having a personal trust and faith in those person that those facts relate to. So Hezekiah trusted God. Genuinely. And it produced a dynamic personal relationship. We say this so often. But Christianity is not a religion. Christianity is not rituals. Christianity is a very real relationship between me and a living Savior. We communicate with each other and he walks with me and he talks with me and he gives me life and he works on my behalf. And he answers my prayers and he gives me direction in my life and I love him and he loves me. We have a relationship. Let me ask you a question. What does your Christianity consist of? Just fulfilling obligations? Uh, gotta do Or is it a personal relationship with a living Savior? That comes through genuine trust. Trusting what God says is so. Trusting that what God says applies to me and receiving that. Hezekiah trusted God and it produced a dynamic personal relationship. So to succeed in life, Hezekiah determined he was going to trust and obey God. He determined he was going to please God with his life. And it began with trusting God. For a number of years I had the opportunity to be chaplain for hospice, and we had a unique setup And didn't have to be involved in any kind of ecumenical program or anything. I was able to visit with folks that had six months, that were diagnosed with six months or less to live. And I was particularly given the names of people who had no church of any type, had no religious, had no pastor, no type of spiritual instruction, was their definition. And so each week I would be given a list of names, and I said, this person here is six months or less to live, this person here is six months or less to live. We'd like you to go visit them, try and meet their spiritual needs. Man, what an opportunity And I'd visit with folks. Folks who in many cases were elderly people and had lived their whole life. Just for things. Live their whole life without any real relationship with Christ, not knowing Christ as Savior. And I tell you, some of those times were just so sad to come to the end of life and say, my life has been of no eternal spiritual value. There's nothing there. I thank God I had the joy to note many times Sometimes days, a few cases, hours before they passed away, to introduce them to a living Savior, Jesus Christ. And to salvage at least their soul from a devil's hell. What kind of relationship do you have? What does your Christianity consist of? Is it a living dynamic relationship with the Savior? Or is it just a facade? Just an obligation you go through. Hezekiah, he had a genuine trust in God. Second thing I notice here quickly, he had a not only a genuine trust in God produced a dynamic relationship, but his genuine trust in God produced a dynamic public testimony for God. Here's the thing about genuine Christianity. God has no secret service agents. And we've said this often, Christianity is much like a marriage in the sense that it is very intensely personal. How many people agree to that? Marriage is very personal. It's between my wife and I. Right. Mormons are wrong. It's not between my wives and I. Amen? Imagine that. I got thinking this week. Solomon must have had huge wheat fields if he had three hundred concubines, you know, to harvest the wheat, the concubines and uh forget it. Anyway, I thought it was funnier than that. Marriage is a intensely personal relationship, but it is also very public. That's why you wear a ring. Publicly identify yourself as someone married. It's not a secret. We're married, but we don't want anyone to know Doesn't work that way, does it? Imagine, fellas, you got down the you're gonna get married and say, let's just do it secretly so no one knows. How do you think that would have gone over, fellas? And that's the way is our relationship with God. It's intensely personal. I and my Lord have a relationship. That I have with no one else. It's personal. But God expects it to be very public. And Hezekiah came out and he wasn't ashamed. He said, hey, I trust God. God said this is what we should do. God said this is how we should live. God said, this is what is true, and you must believe this. God said, this is what I expect from you. I believe that what God says is true. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to do it the way he says I should do it. I'm going to do it the way he says I should do it. I'm going I'm not to obey God. And I am not going to hide that fact. I'm going to be public about it. I'm not going to brag on it or blow a trumpet. I'm simply not ashamed of my God and what he tells me to do. And I will. Obey him and God blessed him. It was clear Immediately to all of Israel that Hezekiah's religion was for real. No doubt in anybody's mind, Hezekiah feared the Lord. No question in anybody's mind, Hezekiah was trusting God. And you know what happened? It wasn't long until Israel started trusting God also. It wasn't long till that genuine Faith in God, unashamed, genuine, sincere trust in God began to influence others. And soon the nations turning back to God. You know what America needs? Not bigger Christian rock bands God have mercy on us. We don't need bigger programs or even bigger budgets. You know what America needs? Some genuine Christians who say, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to be real in my Christian life. I'm not going to be ashamed of my Savior. I'll be a maverick for God. And you know what will happen? That will influence others. Hezekiah's genuine trusting God produced a dynamic relationship he had with the Lord. Read his life, it's amazing. It also produced a dynamic public testimony for the Lord that influenced an entire nation. I'll tell you what's sad. We've got the world influencing Christians more than Christians influencing the world. We've got churches taking on the values and pleasures and entertainment of the world rather than the church saying we're gonna do right, we're gonna trust God and influencing the world. You know Billy Sunday used to have revival meetings when he left town, bars were shut down Churches were filled. Entire communities were affected by the presence and power of God in the lives of Christians, individuals who had a genuine faith and trust in God. Number three, and last of all, genuine trust in God produces the praise and blessings of God. Look with me again at verse 7. The Lord was with him. And he prospered whithersoever he went forth, and he rebelled against the king of Assyria and served him not. God blessed them. God said, Here is a man, and at this point he's a young man, early twenties. God says, here is a man that loves me and trusts me and he obeys what I expect of him. And when I tell him to do something, he doesn't. When I tell him not to do this, he doesn't do it. He has a genuine, sincere trust in me, and I will bless him. And I'll meet his needs, and I'll take care of him, and I'll protect him. Now, I'm not here to tell you, and the Bible does not teach. That if you obey God, you will be rich. But it does say that if you obey God, God will bless you. And there's a difference between being blessed and being rich. We read in the paper, you see it on TV all the time, these rich million billionaires, and they're miserable. But yet I can take you to humble little homes that are anything but rich, but the blessings of God are on that place. Hezekiah believed God, trusted him, obeyed God, and God blessed him. God praised him. I believe, now you can disagree with me if you want, and that's fine. It's a free country. People can be wrong if they want to. But I believe the most significant event in every one of our lives has not yet happened. The most significant event in every one of our lives is this moment. When we stand before God. To give an account of our lives. Whether as a Christian at the judgment seat of Christ, or if a person dies, God forbid, someone here You die in your sins, you die unsaved, and you find yourself someday at the great white throne judgment. I believe that event, when we are judged of God, is the most significant event in our lives. You say, well, what about salvation? Salvation prepares me for that judgment. Salvation is part of my saying, hey, someday As an unsafe person, I've never trusted Christ. I don't know that my sins are forgiven. And if I die in that condition, I will someday Answer to God for why I did not trust Christ, and the Bible is very clear. I will be cast in the lake of fire to burn forever and ever and ever and ever. And if you're here this morning and you don't have that matter settled, if you're here this morning and you don't know for sure based on scriptural truth. That God has forgiven your sins, that He has saved your soul from judgment. I'm here to tell you that you must do that, because that day is coming. The judgment of God. I'm telling you, you're gonna hear very few guys on TV preach about the judgment of God. You're gonna buy buy very few books down at the Christian bookstore on the judgment of God. But I'm telling you, the Bible still teaches it. It is s Still the most significant effect that mankind faces when we stand before God and give an account of ourselves to God. Now, if you're here this morning, you've already trusted Christ. Say, preacher, I got saved such and such a time, such as I know for sure God's forgiven me based on scripture. He's giving me new life. I have assurance in my heart and soul that I die, I'm going to heaven. Hey, you and I someday will stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Not to determine our salvation that settled, praise the Lord. But determine how I lived as a Christian Did I trust God as a Christian? Did I do what God said? Did I take things into my own hands? Did I determine this, that, and the other, or did I trust God? Hezekiah trusted God. Was a maverick. No one else did. But he was going to. And God says, I'll bless him. And God praises him. I can't even imagine. I cannot even imagine standing before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ And hearing Jesus praise me. Isn't that incredible? I'm afraid. Paul said, knowing the terror of the Lord. I'm afraid the sad fact is for so many of us, we're gonna fall on our face and say, God, oh God, oh God. Be ashamed. Huh? I wish I was a better Christian than what I am. But back on August 25th, nineteen eighty-five, I've been saved for six years. And I was sitting in a Sunday night service, a large church. And God had been dealing with my heart about what direction my life was going to go. I had various opportunities this way. God had been dealing with my heart about going this way. That whole summer, God had been working me over, working me over. Oh, I was out soul winning, leading people, Lord, I was preaching, traveling, Bible time, different things. But God was working on my heart, working on my heart. Which direction is my life going to go? 25 years old. Which way am I going to go? Which way am I going to go? And that night it came to a head I say, God, I'm not fighting this thing anymore. This is what you want me to do, God. I will trust you. That this is best. I see other options. God, you're leading me this way. I'm going to trust you that this is fast. I came to an old-fashioned order. I knelt down, still conceited in my mind. So on this side of the big auditorium, I said, God, I trust you. And I yield my life to you. Careless. Whatever the consequence or however this thing ends up, Lord, I'm trusting you and I'm doing what you say. I tell you, I wouldn't take that back for $10 billion. Have I lived up to God's expectation? I wish I could say I did. But the sad fact is I failed him so many times. But I'm so glad I trusted God that night. Say, Lord, I'll trust you. I'll go this way. God called me into ministry. A few months later, He called me to preach, and here I am now How about you? How about you? Are you a maverick? Or are you wearing the world's brand? I want to fit in, man. I want to fit in with the guys at work. I don't want to be any different than those ladies at the office. I don't want them to think I'm weird. You're riding the world's brand then God give us some mavericks. I'm going to trust God no matter what anybody else does. Father in heaven, bless our invitation, I ask. Help us to trust your dear God. Help us to obey you. So that your will be done in our lives so you can bless us and we stand someday at the judgment and know that we did the right thing. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed,