The Lord is finally giving me a green light on this message. Be turning in your Bibles to Luke chapter number 22. Luke chapter number 22. And please, if you haven't stopped by our table yet, go back there. You can see some of the slides on the PowerPoint and our daughter's books are back there. I hope this won't be a distraction while I'm preaching. We've had many requests. Um, I'm just gonna set it back here. Behave yourself But we go to a lot of churches and and there's so many small churches, not like Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Sometimes we double their attendance by being there. Sometimes we more than double it. Uh but God doesn't call everybody to have a huge church. Praise the Lord when people do get on board and And come and everything. But God expects people just to be faithful. For you to be in your place. Just think if you weren't faithful tonight, if you weren't in your place, there'd be a lot less people here tonight And uh God just wants people to be faithful. And I want to preach a message tonight on God's faithful rooster. Uh God's faithful rooster. My granddaddy, when I was growing up, he uh when he was uh a young man, he he had a record album. Uh some of the younger people might not know what those are. I think they're coming back a little bit now. You see turntables at Walmart and places But uh he had a record when he was little and he'd play it and it had a lot of different poems. It didn't have music on it, it just had poems on there that were funny. And uh that's what he did for entertainment. He'd listen to that record album when he wasn't in the fields working. And uh there was one uh poem on there about a chicken, about a rooster And it went something like this. Behind the hen house the other night, I thought I heard a chicken sneeze, but it was only a rooster saying his prayers, handing out the hymns to the hens upstairs I bet you didn't for a hundred years expect to hear that at church tonight. Amen. But uh uh it wa it was, you know, chickens are nasty, foul creatures. Any of you that have ever clean chickens, you know that they're just they're nasty. I love eating chicken when I don't have to think about it Uh and uh eating eggs. We love to eat eggs and everything, but they but God can use anything for his honor and for his glory to get his message across Uh he used a raven to feed Elijah when he was uh down by the brook whenever he was down and And uh he needed something to eat. He the ravens fed him with meat and bread and and he drank water from the brook. And then he went in the strength of that for forty days Uh it's just amazing. God used a raven. Uh he he's uh used a well to swallow Jonah to get his point across, to get Jonah where he was supposed to be and back on track with God and preaching uh uh Nineveh the way he should. He used a donkey. He used Balaam's donkey to speak to him. God can use anything and he he just expects his creatures and his people to be faithful. Amen I I think of other things that he used. He used a dove to let Noah that there was dry ground, that it was almost time to leave the ark. Uh he used uh uh a rooster to stir up our FBN charathon from time to time uh to get uh people calling in But he did use this rooster in the life of Peter. Uh Luke chapter number twenty two. I'm going to read a few verses there Verse uh number thirty-one uh through thirty-four, the Bible says, And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you that he may sift you as wheat But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not. And when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. And he said to him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both into prison and to death And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me. That is an eye opener right there, that God uh knew what was going to happen and that before uh Jesus said before uh uh this night before the cock crows, you're gonna thrice deny that you even know me, Peter. And uh then we read in verses 54 and following the Bible says, Then took they him and led him and brought him into the high priest house, and Peter followed afar off Uh see, Peter's already slipping. He he used to be right there beside Jesus. He he even took a sword out and cut off Malchus's ear and Jesus healed it. He picked it up and healed it, restored it there. And uh but now Peter is already following afar off after that boast that he made, that I'm ready to go with you to prison and to death if need be Now he's falling afar off. Verse 55 says, And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall and were set down together, Peter sat down among them. But a certain maid beheld him As he sat by the fire and earnestly looked upon him and said, This man was also with him. And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not. And after a little while another saw him and said, Thou art also of them, and Peter said, Man, I am not And about the space of one hour after another confidently affirmed, saying of the truth, this fella also was with them, for he is a Galilean. And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest, and immediately while he yet spake the cock crew. And the Lord turned and looked up upon Peter, and Peter remembered the word of the Lord how he had said unto him, Before the cockrow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And Peter went out and wept bitterly. Let's pray. Father, I pray, Lord, you'll take your word As we go through this, looking uh not only at Peter and and him getting right with you and repenting and we weeping bitterly, but also uh that uh about this rooster, this cock that crew Lord, I pray that you'll take it as simple as it is, Lord, and just speak to our hearts and help us to apply our lives and our hearts to the wisdom that we hear from it tonight. And Father, we'll be careful to thank you and give you the honor and glory. Lord, we pray that if there's anyone here that's not saved, that you'll save them tonight before it's too late. Lord, we love you and we'll thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. No, in the Bible he he's used many creatures, as we said before. He uh whenever someone was uh lazy. We can look into Proverbs and it says, Consider the ant, thou sluggard. And and it shows us, you know, they don't have a leader, they don't have someone over them, but they work. They they provide the meat for uh for their colony and everything that they so uh so uh God can use anything but he can also use anybody. And I the one point if you miss everything else tonight I want you to remember just be faithful to God Uh just be faithful to him. Be in your place every time the doors are open. Um Back your pastor. Pray for him. Pray for one another. Pray for the assistant pastor here. Pray for one another I mentioned that this morning, but it is so important in the days that we're living in to pray with one another. I'm seeing too often so many people falling into sin or jumping into sin sometimes, but it's people that you'd never think of and it hurts. Uh God wants us to be found faithful. Uh so uh I want to uh do a message on this rooster over here. That now this one's a little bit different. He's clothed and in his right mind and and he's behaving. uh tonight. Uh but uh one thing about the rooster, he did what he could. The rooster did what he could. He couldn't preach, but he did what he could. He wasn't a preacher, but God used him to bring a message to Peter. And Peter realized, you know, the Lord had just told me about this earlier in the evening, and now it was prophecy, and it has come to pass. He did he couldn't preach, but he did what he could. He was a bird, but he didn't sing like a canary or coo like a dove. He was a bird. God only holds us accountable for what we can do tonight. He's not looking for ability. He's looking uh uh for only for availability. If we'll make ourselves available to him, then he'll give us the ability we need to be the Christians that he wants us to be And to carry out the Word of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ, to a lost and dying world. Um he was a bird, but he didn't sing like a canary or coo like a dove You know, there is a big difference between uh some of the birds and and the chickens. When I get up in the morning I love springtime, early spring Uh it's like every bird uh in the world is is converged uh around their house and and they wake me up in the morning. It's so beautiful here in the High pitched sounds of some of 'em and and uh some the cooin of the doves, I love that. They put me to sleep at in the evening sometime. It's just uh such a beautiful sound I think about the dove and and their sound, I'll see if I can do it. Isn't that a wonderful sound? Isn't that just calming and soothing? It's a whole lot better than I mean there's a big difference. I I had an eye injury a few years ago and and uh one time I forgot to put my safety glasses on when I went weed eating And I uh got a piece of the wheat eater cord that hit me in the eye and I went blind in my right eye for a while. And uh I thought I had lost my eye and everything, and I had to lay completely still And my my nephew had chickens. He had just gotten some and and uh they're uh they didn't know when it was daytime or when it was nighttime. When they didn't know when to crow, but they picked two o'clock in the morning. And um Having to lay there perfectly still for several weeks, uh only to get up uh every now and then Uh, you know, sometimes my schedule got off. I was sleeping some during the day, so it didn't take much to wake me up at night. And and that chicken did. I mean it didn't cool like a dove It didn't sound like uh uh some of these finches that we have and and everything. But but this rooster right here, he was faithful in what he could do The way God made him, God used him as a wake-up call. First Corinthians chapter number twelve. And verse starting in verse number 13, I want to read some verses there. 1 Corinthians 12. I think I'm at the right place here. Yeah, 13 And I want to make application to us here tonight, too. 1 Corinthians 12 13, the Bible says, For by one Spirit Are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free, and have been all made to drink into one spirit? For the body is not one member, but many. If the foot shall say, Because I'm not the hand, I'm not of the body, is it therefore not of the body? And if the ears shall say, Because I'm not the eye, I am not of the body. Is it therefore not of the body? If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling? But now hath God set the members, every one of them in the body as it hath pleased him. We don't all have the same talents. We don't all have the same gifts, but God can use each and every one. He's given you uh what you need to get through this life and take some people with you to heaven uh when this life is over. He just asked for you to be faithful And use your ability, whatever ability, uh that He will give you for His honor and glory. If you can pray, pray. We need prayer warriors today. Uh that's one way FBN has stayed on the air. Uh we were Uh uh I was telling, I may have told y'all this morning, I don't know, I can't remember sometimes what I've said and what I haven't. Uh but uh 230 countries and territories have tuned in, and just a few weeks ago somebody from the Vatican tuned in Uh we added a couple more island nations to those that were tuned in. Uh we were at uh Canton, Ohio, I mentioned that about that girl that uh had never heard of Jesus Christ, but there was a Uh I don't think I mentioned, but there were over 200 people got saved that week. Uh that at the God Bless America uh crusade. The one that sticks out in my mind the most was on the last night, a 82-year-old woman uh walk the aisle and receive Jesus Christ and and she was so happy, she had such joy in her heart, uh, and uh she's wanting to listen to FBN but but the thing that got me two days before that she had tried to take her life. But it didn't work. She said, I thank God now that it did not work. She said, if I could, I'd be running around this place tonight. She was so happy that the Lord had saved her, that Jesus had died, was buried, rose again, and ascended into heaven just for her. And uh so we get to hear those, but if people weren't faithful, if if uh Brother Byron Fox had said, hey, uh I'm I'm gonna quit going around these places and have these God bless America rallies Uh uh I'm just gonna quit doing those. Hey, it takes everybody working together. Uh just like the body right here. Uh the church is different people. We're all different. We come from all different walks of life But God wants us to be faithful in what He's called us to do, what He wants us to do. Um I can't save anybody FBN has never saved one soul. But it's the power of the gospel that's preached on there. The gospel is what God rides on. That's where he sends the power through. Whenever somebody's given the gospel uh and and has prayed and and has to be filled with the Spirit and and gone out and trying to win somebody to the Lord, everybody's not going to get saved Uh but somebody will. Uh just keep being faithful, keep going, and and keep telling people that old, old story. That rooster right there, he was there to give a wake-up call. And I think it's high time that we started giving wake up calls in America. And telling people, hey, there's people in America that's never heard the name of Jesus Christ. Hey, there's people possibly in Oakland, Maryland. I don't know. I mean y'all knock on everybody's door ever so often But there's probably somebody in Oakland, Maryland that needs the gospel. The harvest uh is white. The harvest is whitened the harvest. Ready, and there they just need somebody to be faithful and come by and give them the gospel. They'll receive him 1 Corinthians 10. 32 says, Whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. Just be faithful tonight. Ecclesiastes 9. 10 says, Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might. Be faithful to God tonight. Be faithful to him. First of all, we see number one, he did what he could He didn't sound he definitely didn't sound like a canary or two like a dove. But he did what he could. He did what God created him to do. Number two, he wasn't ashamed. He wasn't ashamed. Matthew 5. 16 says, Let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. He wasn't ashamed Just like Romans 1:16, Paul says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first And also to the Greek. Yes, I loved using that verse. It may end up being my life verse. I don't know, but I love that verse of scripture. We shouldn't be ashamed. We're on the women's side tonight. We're on the women's side of the cross We have the victory tonight. We need to be faithful to that one that gave his life for us. He wasn't ashamed. He crowed the message loud and clear. Peter was the one that ended up ashamed. And went out and wept bitterly from hearing the message and then seeing the eyes of Jesus as he looked at him. He went out. He remembered, he went out and he wept bitterly. That rooster was confrontational. Have you ever seen a confrontational rooster before? Oh boy, we used to have one growing up. He was one of those big white roosters that stood real tall. He had spurs We couldn't go out the door without him coming around. I mean we were i if ISIS had something like that. Oh boy We'd be in trouble. And I I didn't want to go outside because every time I go out there he'd come around the corner of the house, he'd see me and he'd drop that wing down to his side and he'd start going Sideways at me I knew what was coming. He was going to take the flight and those claws coming right at me. Oh boy Uh sometimes when I went out there I had to give him a tick to get him out of the way and everything. My uncle came to see us one time and he was terrified of him and he was I guess he was in his thirties, forties, something like that. Uh but he said he called us, said he was coming, and we were waiting and waiting and never heard a knock on the door. The doorbell never rang, but then we heard somebody saying Help And and we went outside and he was up on top of my dad's car. And and and Marvin was down there pacing. Yeah, his name was Marvin. He was pacing back and forth, just waiting for him to come down. Whatever happened to Marvin? Well, Dad said we need to put him on the chopping block. We couldn't catch him. We ended up having to shoot him And that and we ended up having to throw him away. That that we tried cooking and cooking and cooking and cooking. He was the toughest bird. Um so uh he met uh he he he met the end right there But he was confrontational. And you know, nobody likes confrontation. But Christianity is confrontational. Whenever we go and knock on a door and hand a Bible track in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ, that's a confrontation. We're saying we're right. We've got the truth, the truth of God's Word And if you're not saved, then you're wrong. It's confrontational. We have to do that, or nobody's going to get saved. But it's the way we do it uh that makes the difference. We can do it with a heart of love and saying, hey, Jesus loves you. Uh God loves you so much that He sent His only begotten Son to this world to die for you on the cross so that you wouldn't have to die and go to an awful place called hell uh that your sins uh that you won't have to uh suffer for eternity for the sins that you committed, but Jesus took them upon himself on the cross And uh we have we have that opportunity uh to receive him. So it is confrontational. That rooster was confrontational. He was He was right in there and he crowed. And he uh by the time Peter had had uh denied Jesus Christ three times and then he cut loose And the message was simple. It was uh uh I don't know how many times he crowed, but he crowed. And he got the message across. He crowed the message loud and clear. Many will look upon Jesus just as Peter did and be ashamed one of these days. Mark 8. 38 says, Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me, and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, of him also shall the Son of Man be ashamed. When he cometh in his glory in the glory of his father with the holy angels. Number one, he did what he could. Number two, he wasn't ashamed. Number three, he was faithful. He is faithful. We can't stress faithfulness enough. People are sliding away. If if somebody gets away from the Lord just a little bit, then it's easier to do it the next time, the next time, and before long you're completely out of church. And then the world starts creeping in and saying, hey, we'll give you something to replace church. They want to do that. The devil would do anything that he could in his power to get you, render you useless as a Christian tonight We got to be faithful. He was faithful. The weather didn't hinder him. It was a cold night. You say, how do you know it's cold? Well Peter went and warmed himself by the fire. It was a cold night And so uh he wa uh the weather didn't hinder him. He he had his feathers, he went out there and he did what he was called to do He was punctual. He was right on time. We see many times we say, Lord, we need our prayer answered, and we want it answered right now. But God's never late. He's always right on time. This rooster right here, he was right on time. He was punctual. He could be counted on. He doesn't know, that rooster doesn't know when his fate's going to come, when he's going to have his head on the chopping block, but he he was faithful. He he said, I I'm gonna I'm just gonna do it. That's what God has called me to do, I'm gonna crow Not knowing if if tomorrow I'll lose my head, if somebody's gonna wring my neck or take me to the chopping block. And that didn't bother him. He did what he was called to do The Bible tells us the same thing, occupy till I come. Occupy till I come. Where do we get the word occupation from? Work till Jesus comes, the M says. He was where he was supposed to be. Somewhere else, Peter wouldn't have hurt him. If he hadn't been where he was supposed to be. He was that rooster that night, he was right in the center of God's will. For him. Amen. Now we know chickens don't have a soul. We know animals don't have a soul. But God used him in the faithfulness. It was no accident that we're here to right here, right tonight. Being faithful. Matthew 25, 21 says, His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. That's what each Christian desires to hear one of these days. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. We won't hear those words if we're not faithful. We'll not hear those words. You know, it looks like the closer we get to the coming of the Lord, uh the worse things get out in the world. It ought to make us more and more excited, more on fire for the Lord Instead of people going away, it's the day we're living in, many people have said, but God hasn't changed. He still wants us faithful to him. Number four, he crowed when he was on the top roof or on the bottom roof. It didn't matter. He crowed. He did what he could Uh crowing, uh his crowing was not affected by his circumstances. Where if he was up high or where if he was down low, he just crowed. It didn't matter if he was in the roost up in a tree or down on the ground, wherever he was at that night he crowed, he was not affected by his circumstances. And many times how many times do we let our circumstances affect our spirituality? Some mornings I wake up and I don't feel too good. Who finds out first? My family, my wife, my family finds out You know, we we shouldn't let our circumstances affect us so many times if we're not Staying in the Word of God, being faithful to reading His Word, let Him speak to us through His Word, and then having a prayer life and praying to Him and And uh not just praying so we can say we can mark it off the list for the day, but but doing the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man. It availeth much whenever we pray, uh pray believing. I was in a church not too long ago and they had a banner up and it said push. Pray until something happens. And that's pretty good. I mean, pray until something happens. But we need to pray expecting God to move Pray, expecting him to do something on our behalf. Praying that somebody will be saved. Praying that uh that the need will be met, praying that that God will move mightily in our midst in the day we're living in He's done that over and over in our family. The vehicle we're uh we're driving out there is because of prayer. So many answer prayers taking care of us while we're on the road, keeping us safe. Those are answers to prayer He crowed when it was on the top or the bottom roost. His crowd was not affected by his circumstances. He crowed. When there was good times and he pro and he crowed in the bad times. It didn't affect the rooster. He was going to do the same thing every day. My dad's got Some roots. He's got a little bandy now, it's about the last one he's got left. He he used to have one had one feather sticking up. One tail feather. He called him Tonto. I don't know why I just thought of that, but But he crowed in the good times and in the bad times. He just cried he did what God called him to do, what God made him to do. He he crowed during cutbacks. You know, the Bible tells us many things. Whenever we pray, pray in uh in secret, and the Lord, uh when we pray in secret, the Lord will uh reward us openly. Um all these different things that he told us to do in secret, uh God will take care of those things. Whenever we're going through a tough time. Whenever we may have a loss of a job, whenever we may uh have a family member sick and we don't know what's going to take place with them. Does everybody uh around you see the pain in your face or do they see you still serving God during those times? Yeah, some things do hurt, uh especially the the sickness of a loved one Or the death of a loved one or a sick child or something. Those do hurt, but people need to see us still serving God during those times. I heard about a a preacher. He was on his way to preach at a camp meeting. And uh had somebody driving for him and and they were coming up in the interstate and uh it wasn't a rest area. This it had to been years ago because Y you all remember when they just had a picnic table on the side of the road and you just pull off there and you have a picnic lunch with your family and then you get back in the car and go off. There's no facilities or anything like that. There's a picnic table right there Well, God in in uh s worked in his heart and said, Pull over. Need to pull over here. And he he didn't understand why. You know, sometimes the Lord does urge us we need to listen to the Lord. We need to be so close to him that we can hear him. When he speaks in that still small voice said, pull over, and he gets out of his vehicle there at that picnic table and says, now preach. Well Lord, there's nobody here. Just my driver right here. There's nobody here. And uh the Lord impressed upon his heart to preach. He said, so he started preaching. He preached the gospel And he he let it go and everything and he looks around. There's still nobody there. He gets back in the vehicle. They go on to the camp meeting. He he preaches there that week and people are getting saved here and there. And then um They were coming back through and he saw that picnic tail and he went over there and and felt impressed to just get out and walk around just a little bit and and uh just think about the week that was behind and And from behind the tree a lady stepped out and uh said, uh, I didn't know if you'd ever come back through here or not. Said, I live down in the holler down there, and and uh One day you got out of your vehicle and you preached the gospel and I and I got saved. I was behind it, I was too ashamed to come out and tell you uh that I I was out there listening, I I was hiding from you, but but the Lord smoke my heart and put conviction on me and I got saved that day Listen to the Lord when he speaks to your heart about something. How many opportunities have we missed because we didn't obey the Lord what he was impressing on our heart? We need to be faithful to him. That rooster crowed when he was on the top or the bottom roost. He didn't let circumstances get in his way. He crowed in the good times and in the bad times. Number five, he crowed even when it disturbed others. I can imagine sometimes during charathon when somebody puts me up to crow and it's like 10 o'clock at night, I'm sure it disturbs somebody. Uh maybe this dear lady that's uh listening with her earbuds, I don't know, so uh listening to the end at night might blow them out of her ears, I don't know But the message of Jesus Christ is disturbing. It does disturb people. He was faithful in disturbing He said, even even when others talk about how loud he crowed, he just crowed anyway. How long or what he's crowing about, still he crows. Everybody else there probably didn't get it. They probably just uh brushed him off, heard the crowing and everything, but Peter knew what it was about. He got the message loud and clear The Bible tells us tonight, and every preacher, and I believe it goes the same for his children, cry aloud and spare not. Tell people. You know, this is serious work that we're that God has called us into. It's a matter of eternity in an awful place called hell where people will burn and roast and sizzle, paying uh the condemnation price for their sins for all eternity. It never lets up. It never gets any better. Or an or a place in heaven where we're worshiping the Lord and praising him He crowed even when it disturbed others. Number six, he crowed even when nobody seemed to be listening. The rest of them probably didn't hear Peter heard. The rooster didn't know Peter or or what he had done. He just crowed. We need to live and witness for God. People are watching us. You may not know it, but people are watching you. They're saying, hey, there's something different about them. They they go to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Some of them may know that, some of them may not, but they know that there's something different about you because you got a smile on your face And there's hope in your eyes. Uh not as those that have no hope. You don't mourn like that, but you but you have that light of Jesus Christ because he's lit in you. He lit you when he when he saved you. We need to live and witness for God. People are watching Noah preach for 125 years. Only his family got saved. Only his family was saved. Out of all the world. Just be faithful. Be faithful tonight. And then finally, number seven, he did his job well. He did, he completed the task that God had called him to do. You know, we shouldn't live a defeated Christian life. We are on the victory side of the cross tonight. We've got something to tell. We've got a story to tell. Uh don't live a defeated Christian life. We've got a simple message to give people. It's not difficult. The gospel is so simple. It brought conviction. That cockadoodle-doo that he he led out there in the night, it brought conviction to Peter, especially when he looked upon the eyes of Jesus Christ. It was a simple cocka-doodle-doo, but that's all it takes, and the gospel is a simple message that we have to give to this lost world. It brought conviction to him. You can't do any works to be saved. We can't save anybody. It's the power of the gospel that we tell people that the Lord works through. Jesus said simply, believe on me. Thou shalt be saved. Just believe he is who he said he was. Believe that he did what he said he did. And believe he's coming back for his own. Give you one final A couple of verses of scripture, 1 Corinthians chapter number 15. Verses three and four says, For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins. according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day, according to the scriptures. That's the gospel right there. That's enough. If people will believe that, they can be saved. And change their address from hell to heaven one day. Father, I pray, Lord, that you'll take your word now, that you'll sear it in our hearts. Help us to be obedient, but help us to be faithful to you. Lord, as Pastor Matt comes forward, Lord, I pray that you'll have your way in this in this invitation time, the rest of this service. Lord, I pray that there's one here lost that's struggling, Lord, that they'll make that right they will not reject Jesus Christ and his gift of salvation for them. Lord, do your work that I cannot do now. Lord, we'll give you the honor and glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen.