But um Yeah, I'm always glad when it gets cold in Florida. All right. First Samuel chapter sixteen, we're looking at the life of David. And we're going to use our Bibles a lot tonight, so you want to keep them handy. I'm going to hopefully get to a lot of verses. And um try and get through this. If it's too long I'll just quit. We'll pick it up next week. But um I turned on Dave, I don't think I um Things falling apart on me. Excuse me Alright, 1 Samuel 16. I want to begin reading in verse number 6. And I know we've read this before. I want to look at this section here one more time. 1 Samuel 16, verse 6, it says, And it came to pass when they were come that he looked on Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. Now we all understand what's happening here, right? King Saul's been put aside, he's gotten proud, rebelled against the Lord, God's rejected him. Samuel is now following God's instructions, and he's going through this process of choosing a new king for Israel. And this is God making the choice, but he's directing Samuel. So here he is with Jesse and they're bringing Jesse's boys by. God's narrowed it down to this family. So that's what's happening here. And in verse 7, verse 6, it says, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. So they thought, Oh, this is the guy. But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance nor on the height of his stature, because here's this this statement is tremendous. I have refused him, for the Lord seeth not as man seeth. For man looketh on the what outward appearance. But the Lord looketh on what? The heart. Then Jesse called Abinad and made him pass before Samuel. So I can hear Jesse thinking, all right, if it's not if it's not Elijah, then it has to be a Benedict. And he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. Then Jesse made Shema pass by. Neither hath the Lord chosen this. And again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel, and Samuel said unto Jesse, The Lord hath not chosen these. Did you notice the emphasis here? On the Lord hath not chosen. The Lord, the Lord, the Lord. God is the one making the choice this time And Samuel said unto Jesse, verse 11, Are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest. Behold, he keepeth the sheep. And kind of sensed that in his statement. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him, for we will not sit down till he come hither. And he sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and with all of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look on And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he. And Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brethren. And the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up and went to Ramah. God's choice. God's choice. I want to look at this from uh, and we touched on this a little bit earlier, but I'm going to look at it again on God choosing David and the people, the person that God chooses to use. So let's pray, ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven Lord, I'm grateful for the testimony of David and how you preserved it here for us. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would take some of these observations about David and your choice of him And Lord, help us to apply. I pray your Holy Spirit would apply to our lives some of these characteristics, they would be true in us, so that you could use us and we could have an impact on this old sinful world for the gospel. So please fill me with your spirit. Help me, Lord, to be faithful to your word. I pray that you would teach through me as I yield my body and my will to you, Lord, again, in Jesus' name. Amen. America loves greatness, don't we? I mean we're the greatest at everything. Everything we do is the greatest. In fact, the motto of our current administration is what? Make America Great again. We love greatness. I like boxing. And one of the uh he was really, whatever you think of him, he was a tremendous boxer, Muhammad Ali. You know, he was very good. But what was his statement? I am the greatest. You know, nothing humble about the guy at all But America loves greatness. We have we talk about this guy's the greatest athlete. He's the greatest running back. He's the greatest pitcher. We talk about great musicians. We talk about great preachers. Oh, he's a great preacher And I guess there's nothing wrong with that in and of itself, but what I'm trying to get at is this. What God considers greatness and what man considers greatness are two very different things. When God looks at someone and says that person is great, generally it's not someone that the world would consider be somebody great. So God's criteria for greatness and the world's criteria for greatness are not the same. God does not operate by man's criteria. If you would, and I said we're going to look at a lot of verses because I want to bring the scriptures all into this, if you would, come over to Isaiah chapter 55. Go way beyond Psalms, Proverbs. You get over into Isaiah. In chapter 55, there's two verses here that have always captured my attention. And I think it applies to what we're looking at here, God choosing David. As opposed to some of these others that no doubt Jesse thought should be chosen. Samuel thought should be chosen, but God chose someone different. Look at Isaiah 55, and look with me at verse number 8. Isaiah fifty five verse eight. In fact, I'd recommend you highlight this somehow in your Bible. I've got it underlined in red and bracketed Now this is the Lord speaking. He says this, for my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. Now look at this next. He elaborates a little bit He says, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. I think those that those two verses capture the idea that God's criteria and man's criteria are two very different things. I got studying this a little bit, and I noted that the word thoughts there, and you might want to write this in the margin or something, but the word thoughts there means plans and purposes. So God says, my plans for you and my purposes for you are not what yours are. In fact, as the heavens are higher than the earth, mine are higher than yours. So God's plans and purposes for your life and my life may be very, very different than what we envision our lives being. Then the word ways there. I like this. He says, For my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways. Anybody want to take a guess? What does he mean by that term ways? Your ways are not as my ways. My ways are higher than yours. What do you think he's talking about there? Uh our lifestyle it would fall into that maybe. Okay, the way we act, our behavior maybe How we go about it. I think he's catching on here. It actually part of the definition of this mode of operation Or manner of operation, the way I do things is not the way man does things. God operates differently than man does. Anybody ever notice that? So he's saying, my thoughts, my plans, my purposes for David, for the nation of Israel, it's not what you had in mind And my mode of operation, the way I accomplish things, is not the way you would think. I was reading my wife and I in our devotions are reading through the Kings. We're in uh I think 2 Kings now where Elijah called down fire on the on the altar. Remember that? And he killed all the prophets. And then Jezebel comes after him and he runs. Good idea. And uh he takes off And um anyway, he's out in the wilderness, he's all discouraged. Anybody remember that story? And he says, Whoa, I'm the only one left, and they want to kill me and And uh he stands at the mouth of the cave, and several things, God let several things happen. Does anybody remember what those are? Alright, before that, you have this great storm, this strong wind, but God wasn't in that. Then there's an earthquake, and God wasn't in that. And then there's a still small voice. And there's a classic illustration that God does not operate the way we think. We would think, God, you know, this is God. Kaboom! God says, no, it's not my ways are not your ways. And so, and then notice he says here, for as the heavens are higher than the earth, That phrase higher there, that word hire has this idea. On another level, on a whole nother plane. In other words, this is always saying to us as you boil it down, God does not operate the way man operates. God does not see things the way you and I see things. Now what is our tendency Our tendency is choose something according to its appearance. Right? Boy, that looks good. Um Sometimes anybody here ever buy a car? It looked really good. Man, that's a nice car. That thing looks good. You got it, and it's a piece of junk. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That is our tendency to do that. Now, hopefully, from experience, we get beyond that, and we realize you know, there's more to things than simply appearance. But that's man's tendency. We tend to go by outward appearances. We tend to go by if somebody's very have a lot of abilities. How many people recognize the name Tom Landry? Great coach of the of the uh of that that team down in Texas, that that yucky That that that team down there. But um Tom Landry, as far as I know, was a tremendous Christian He had a testimony being a tremendous Christian. I read an article one time. They were interviewing him and he was talking about how he would choose players And he says, of course we want men that are very talented. We want men that are very gifted, are very good at that. He says, but before I ever get to that characteristic, I want to know what their character is like. Do they have integrity? What's beyond the surface? What are they made of? What are they? And our tendency is to go by, well, they're very gifted, they look good, then therefore they must be good And God gets beyond that. I was reading about Napoleon. And um Napoleon, according to this record here, at the height of his career, is reported To give this answer, somebody asked him if God was on his side. Asked Napoleon, is God on your side? This was Napoleon's answer. He said, God is on the side that has the heaviest artillery. In other words, whoever has the strongest army, that's whose side God is on. However, then he fought the Battle of Waterloo. Napoleon lost both the battle and his entire empire. And years later he was exiled on the island of St. Helena and he was humbled And there he quoted a church father from before, he quoted this quote. He said, Man purposes, man proposes, but God disposes In other words, he recognized it wasn't the strength of the artillery, it wasn't the appearance, it wasn't the talent, it wasn't the natural strengths. God looks beyond all of that. And God's ways are not our ways. Sometimes a fellow will, maybe a fellow, and this goes both ways, a fellow will see a girl, and boy, she's pretty, and uh, boy, you know, she's got all the external, and he marries her Then he finds out there was no discipline there, there's no character there, and the rest of his life he has a heartache. Or reversed. Boy, this is a good-looking guy, and he's boy he can do this and he's very talented, but there's no character, there's no integrity there And she regrets it the rest of her life. And so we have a tendency to look on the external. We have a tendency to look at the abilities and the gifts and all of that And we fail to see what what the character of the person is, what they're made up of. And God looks beyond that. I believe television, uh who was I, was that you and I, Brian, talking about television's effect Sunday night? But I believe television has had a profound effect upon our elections in our country. And I think that came out in the debates with uh JFK and Nixon. And they said one of the reasons Nixon lost the debate wasn't because the content of his of his positions, it wasn't because of that, but JFK looked better on television than Nixon did. He had a five o'clock shadow and he didn't look that great. And television changed the character in a lot of ways of our elections in that now the appearance of the candidate has become a significant factor, not just on their character or their position on things. And so what I'm trying to say is this: when we come back to David and the selection of David, Jesse, Samuel, none of them would have chosen David. They're looking on his brothers and they think, man, these guys are gifted. These guys are very talented. They're good-looking guys. And David was apparently a pretty good-looking guy, the way they say. But God looks beyond all of that. God overlooks the outward. God overlooks what man values, and he chooses by internal qualities. There's a, come back to Genesis chapter 49, second last chapter of the book of Genesis And Jacob is coming to the end of his life, and he gathers his boys together, and he's going through and he's kind of blessing them like they did back in the days, the old patriarchs, and he's kind of giving a summary of their character. And Reuben is uh his firstborn And uh Reuben is a strong young man. He's good looking. He's very gifted. He's very talented. Genesis 49. And verse number two. And this is Jacob's assessment of his firstborn son. He says this, Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might Okay, he's a strong man. The beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and excellency of power. So you want to boil that down, he's saying this. He's saying, Reuben, you're a very strong man. You're gifted. You're very talented. But look what he says in verse number four. Unstable as water, thou shalt what? Not excel. He says, Reuben, you're not going to succeed in life. It's not because you don't look good. It's not because you're not gifted. It's not because you don't have abilities. He says because you're unstable. You're lacking in discipline. You're lacking in character. And because of that, though he was very gifted, though he was very uh very uh uh uh attractive, no doubt Yet he lacked discipline and he lacked character. And I want to suggest to you that a lack of character is a greater hindrance in life than lack of talent. You can have in the world of athletes, a person can be very, very talented athletically, but if they are not disciplined, if they don't have some integrity about them, they're not going to succeed. They're not going to succeed And so God looks beyond all of that. God looks beyond the appearance. He even looks beyond necessarily the abilities of the individual, and he looks on their heart. I want you to go with me to another passage, and before we get back to Samuel. And if you would, come with me to 1 Corinthians. I like this passage because I think I can qualify. For this here. In 1 Corinthians, he's describing to us, Paul is describing to the church at Corinth, the kind of person that God chooses to use. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, look with me at verse 26. Are you there? Notice what it says. For you see your calling, brethren. All right. Our subject is God's call of David. So here he says, your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh Not many mighty, not many noble are called, but God hath chosen the foolish things. But he doesn't stop there. He qualifies his statement, the foolish things of what? Of the world, to confound the wise, and by implication of the world. And God had chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty in the world. the base things of the world. In other words, the thing that the thing the the characteristics that the world might say are foolish, are weak, are base Those are the ones God hath chosen. Yea, the things which are not, to bring to naught the things that are. Verse 29 tells us why. That no flesh should what? Glory in his presence. And I get reading that and I thought, well, I can be foolish as far as the world's concerned. We don't want to be foolish in God's eyes. But you know, if you live for God, if you're out visiting, talking to people about the Lord Jesus Christ, what's the world's assessment of that? That's foolish. That's nonsense uh give our lives to take the gospel to some to the world or teach a Sunday school class. A lot of times in the world that's foolish. So when God chooses someone to impact Other people for Christ, he chooses ordinary people that have some very specific qualities. Now that brings us back to our text, if you would come on back here. And God's choice of David And 1 Samuel. Actually, go to 1 Samuel chapter 13. And he makes a statement in 1 Samuel chapter 13. He's talking to Samuel. And he makes a statement here that applies to David. 1 Samuel chapter 13 and verse number 14. But now, speaking to not family, speaking to Saul, speaking to Saul, he says this, but now thy kingdom shall not continue. Why not? For the Lord hath sought him a man after his own heart. And that tells us, and we touched on this before, but that gives us a clue onto why God chose David. And I think it's interesting, he says he has chosen a man, just an ordinary person. It's an ordinary human being. Doesn't say I've chosen a superman. Doesn't say I've chosen an angel. Just a guy. Just a guy. But a guy that has a heart for God. God says, that's the one that I can use. That's the one that I can impact an entire nation and turn that thing around and get it on track for God. So we see these qualities in David. Let me give you, I want to encourage you to jot these down, three qualities I see in David. Now I touched on this a little bit in our introduction, but I want to look at them now. three qualities in the life of David that you and I can seek to make true in our lives so that God can use us. Number one, this is the first one I noticed is holiness. Holiness In 1 Samuel 13, 14, we just read here that God's looking for a man after his God's own heart. In Acts chapter 13, 22, he says again about David, he was a man after mine own heart. Now, the key word there, I think, is a man after my own heart. And that has this idea to have the same composition as. Or to have the same characteristics as. And God said, when I looked down and I was looking for a man I was looking for a man that I could use to turn this nation around, to get Israel back on track I was looking for a man that had the heart that was of the same composition as my heart, that had the same characteristics as my heart. So you could take that. God used David to turn Israel around, get them on track for the Lord. You can take that and apply it, maybe turn a home around. Maybe turn a church around, turn a community around, turn your world of influence around and turn that, have a profound impact. And God says, first of all, I need a man that has a man after my own heart. And I'm suggesting you that is holiness. Holiness. God's chief characteristic all through Scripture is that He is holy. Holy. Isaiah chapter 6, when Isaiah saw the Lord high and lifted up, and uh the his train filled the temple. And uh Seraphim or or whatever it was there, they cried out and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. They didn't say loving, loving, loving. They didn't say omnipresent, omnipresent, omnipresent. God is all of that. But the chief characteristic, what he wanted to first and foremost be identified as, is a God that is holy. And when God says, I'm looking for a man after my own heart that has the same characteristics as my heart, has the same burden and composition as my heart. That man's going to be holy. He's going to be holy. Now, what does it mean for you and I to be holy? I just, I may be oversimplifying it But this is what my thoughts are. If my if if I'm going to be a man after God's own heart, that means I'm going to love what God loves. Would that not be the characteristic would that not be part of being holy? Loving what God loves, hating what God hates? A man that thinks the way God thinks. In other words, he sees things from God's perspective, not from a human perspective. He understands things from God's view, God's holy view. He sees things rather than the world's view. I found that in the world, I found that the world thinks things that are okay that God condemns. I found that God exalts things and loves things that the world has no interest in And so a man after God's own heart is going to see things, is going to value things, is going to have a perspective from God's perspective, and that is holiness. And that is holiness. So what was it about David that prompted God to choose him? Well, he was after God's own heart. That means he was holy. He thought the thoughts that God has. He viewed things the way God views them. And I want to suggest to you that word holy there from his heart means that his um uh his spirituality, his love for God, his walk with God was not superficial. It was not just a show he put on. I tell you, one of the dangers in Christianity is that of hypocrisy. Remember when we were going through the Sermon on the Mount, how many times Jesus warned his disciples? Don't be as the Pharisees, hypocrites. How many times he warned, don't just be superficial, don't just be external. But it has to be from the heart. And that is what God is looking for. God will use anybody. They may not be that gifted, they may not be that good looking. Now it's nothing, it doesn't mean if well if I'm good looking then God can't use me. I mean You know, uh no, I'm sorry. The next characteristic is humility, so I just knocked myself off the block there. But God wants somebody that's for real. He wants somebody that's not superficial, that they're genuine. I I've mentioned this before, but when we lived in Colorado, I would get up into Wyoming and preach a fair bit uh out in Pinedale and up in Cheyenne and then up into Montana a little bit. And um when you're driving up there, one time I was driving up there through eastern Wyoming and it's just these rolling hills and antelope everywhere by the thousands everywhere. And we came across, there was a one of the Bible time evangelists with me, and we came across this knoll and we looked down, there was this like this big Kind of a valley went out between these big rolling hills. If you've ever been out there, you can pit kind of picture it. And down in there off from the interstate was this little town like Except there wasn't anybody around, and we got asking about it, and we found out that there was an old movie set, that they had shot some Western movie out there, and they said none of those buildings are real They look great. It looks just like the old West, but all they were was just the fronts. There was nothing behind. They said if you look behind them, there's boards holding the fronts up And it was just superficial. It was just a front. There was nothing real to it. And I'm telling you, if your Christianity and my Christianity, if our walk with God is just a show we put on, If it's just an image we present out there, God says that's not somebody after my own heart. He says, I want somebody that has a heart for what I have, that loves that which I love, that hates that which I hate. So David was characterized by holiness, and he was someone his heart was genuine, his heart was in tune with the Lord. Write this one down. I have a second characteristic I see of David, and that is humility. I believe God chose David because his heart was holy. He saw things the way God saw. He thought things the way God thinks about it. He had God's perspective on life and the issues of life. But David was also very humble. In Psalm 78, and for sake of time we won't turn to all these, but Psalms 78 and verse 70, and Psalms 89 and verse 20, these are written by, these were penned, I should say, by a fellow by the name of Asaph. These are not songs that David wrote, but he is writing under the inspiration of God about David. And he makes this statement about David, and it gives us tremendous insight onto what may have been true about David that appealed to God so much. And he says, David, my servant. And then in Psalms 89, 20, he says, David, my servant. And over and over and over through scriptures, you find David referred to by God as his servant. Servant. Servant. Nowhere can I find in Scripture where God refers to David as David, my leader. I can't find anywhere where he refers to David as David, this great, tremendous person. He always refers to him as David, my servant. If you study the life of Moses, you find the same thing. Moses, my servant, my servant, my servant. Moses is one of the most honored men in the Bible. In fact, he's the only man in the Bible I can find that Jesus is compared to him. That's an amazing thing. But Moses is always referred to by God as my servant. My servant. Never my leader. Moses was a tremendous leader. But God never that's not a title of honor. God's greatest title of honor is a servant. A servant. So nobody call me no servant. Maybe you can't be used by God too much. Because God uses people who are humble. How did Paul refer to himself repeatedly as he wrote those epistles? A servant of Christ. In fact, sometimes he would say, I'm a bond servant. And that was somebody that is bound for life. Paul, Paul's view of him, would you agree with me? God used Paul in a tremendous way to impact the world? Absolutely. You know how Paul referred to himself? He referred to himself as I'm really somebody. I'm the greatest of the apostles. Look how God is using me. No, he never referred to himself that way. He said, I am the least. He says, I'm the chief of sinners. He says, in me, there is my flesh there dwells no good thing. I tell you, as soon as you and I start thinking we know more than other people or we're better or we're somehow greater in some way or another. As soon as we do that, we are disqualifying ourselves from God to use us. We are losing being a man after God's own heart. God looks for humility. God's highest title of honor all through Scripture is that of a servant. To God, perhaps the most attractive characteristic in the life of a person. That one thing that God finds most attractive in a person, I believe. Is humility. Humility. I think that God, the most usable characteristic that God sees in the heart and life of a person is that of humility. Saul, I don't have the reference here, I don't believe. Yes, in 1 Samuel chapter 15, verse 17, and again, for sake of time, we won't turn there. But he rebuked Saul and he says, When you were little in your own eyes, now I'm putting in my own words, but he says, Saul, when you were little in your own eyes, I could use you greatly. But now you think too highly of yourself. Now I'm not quoting that exact, so don't hold me to it, but that's the import of uh of that passage. When Saul viewed himself as just somebody who desperately needed God, that in and of myself I have little or nothing to offer, boy, God used him in a great way. But as soon as Saul started thinking he was somebody, And God said, I can't use you anymore. Can't use you anymore. I like Luke chapter 14 and verse 11. He, for whosoever exalteth himself shall be what? Abased. But he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. I say this all the time, and I see it all through Scripture. One thing, and I don't mean to be irreverent, but one thing God cannot resist, it appears to me, is humility. Every time somebody humbles themselves before the Lord, God responds. God acts to that. God looks for humility in the lives of his people, in my heart and your heart. God saw in the heart of David something that nobody else saw. Jesse didn't see it, or if he did, he didn't value it. Samuel even, if if he saw it, he didn't value it. And that was here was a young man. Who had a humble heart. Who had a humble heart. He didn't come running out and say, ooh, ooh, pick me, pick me. He was out doing his job, doing his thing. God saw in the heart of David something that no one else did, and that was humility. By the way, humility is not thinking lowly of yourself. All right? Well what does it mean to be humble? Oh, I'm just nothing. And oh I'm no good and oh I can't do anything and oh I'm just Poor little old me, nothing me. That's not humility. In fact, I want to suggest to you we get that thinking, that is actually a characteristic of pride. Why? Because what am I thinking of? Thinking of me Now, there's two ways pride displays itself. One is thinking too highly of myself, or the other may be thinking too lowly of myself, but it's this: thinking of myself. That's where pride comes in. So humility is not thinking lowly of myself and just running myself in the ground, oh I'm nothing. There was a fellow I'm thinking of now years ago. Oh, I'm just nothing. I'm just nothing. And he always had to pump him up, always had to pump him up, and he was obsessed with himself I think sometimes when people do that, they just want to hear you tell them that they're great. What is humility? Humility is not thinking of myself at all. It's the Lord. It's the Lord. It's not my abilities. It's not me. It's all that. It's the Lord who does all this. And so God saw a man after his own heart. That means David had a heart that was holy. Holiness. Number two, humility. And number three, I put this one down. Honesty. Honesty. Now I do want you to turn with me to Psalms chapter 78. And again, this is back what we referenced earlier, but I believe it's Asaph is the penman here, and he is speaking of David, Psalm 78. And verse number 71, all the way at the end of the chapter, Psalm 78, verse 71 and 72. You're by chance to find it there. Psalm 78. Look with me at verse 71. Well, verse 70. He chose David also his what? servant, took him from the sheepfolds, from following the ewes, great with young, he brought him to feed Jacob his people and Israel his inheritance. Now look at this So he fed them according to the what? Integrity of his heart God saw in that young boy when they're bringing him in front of Samuel, he saw here is a young boy that's after my own heart. He's holy. He sees things the way I see them. He views he uh he uh values things the way I value them. He's holy, he's humble. And he said he saw in the heart of David, he saw honesty, integrity of heart. Integrity. What does it mean if someone has integrity? What does that mean? Honesty, that's the word I'm using. But it encompasses more than just being honest. It's that, but it encompasses more. If you ever uh if you have sometimes you have inspectors and they'll come and they'll look at bridges And they'll judge the bridge and they'll test it and they'll say this bridge has integrity. Or maybe there's been an earthquake, and they'll say the integrity of this building has been compromised. What does that mean? It's not useful, and the reason it's not useful is you cannot trust it. You cannot rely on it. And God said about David, here is a man that has integrity of heart. He is honest, but it encompasses the whole idea. Now think about this. This boggles my mind. God says, I can trust Him. I can trust Him There is no spiritual success without genuine integrity. Now we have to ask ourselves this: can God trust me? Can God rely on me? He's given me a responsibility. He's given me instructions. God has told me to have faith in him and trust him. God says, all right, I'm looking for people I can Trust, people with integrity. Can you think of anyone else in the Bible? And there's no doubt many, but anybody stand out in your mind, somebody that God trusted All right, Daniel was good. Joseph trustworthy, but somebody that God displayed obvious trust, Job. That was who came to my mind. And so my wife is always right, so she is right when she said Job. But uh that's who came to my mind. Think about this on Job. God and Satan have an argument, so to speak, over Job. And if you look at Job chapter one and two very carefully, You find that who instigated that whole debate? God did. If you read it, Satan came to present himself before the Lord. Now, I don't know what all that entails. But God says to Satan, have you considered my servant Job? And so he lets Satan have at it, and Job kills all his family, takes all his possessions, his wife turns on him, and Satan comes before him again. He says, Have You consider my servant Job who retained his integrity even though thou movest me against him. And Satan says, Oh yeah, flesh for flesh, and all that a man hath, uh uh and he ba basically says, Touch his body, he'll curse you to your face. And God says, go ahead. And God is basically saying this: go ahead, Satan. You can do all you want, just don't take his life. And I have confidence that Job is going to stay faithful. Job was a man of integrity. God could trust him even to put him to the test with Satan. Man, I read that and I look at myself. Am I that trustworthy? It's my integrity at the level that God could say, all right, Satan, you beat him up and see if he stays faithful to you or not. Wow. That I believe is part of being a man after God's own heart, a woman after God's own heart. My heart is holy. I see the world. I view things from God's perspective. I value things by God's value. Humble. I humble myself before the Lord. And then integrity, being honest. You say, wait a minute, if David was such a man of integrity, how comes he's sinning? Integrity doesn't necessarily mean being sinless. Job was not sinless. Daniel was not sinless. Jacob was not sinless. And David was not sinless. But his integrity is displayed in how he responds to his failure. When David is confronted with his sin, He doesn't blame other people. He doesn't justify it. He doesn't excuse it. I wish we had time to go to Psalm 51. That is the confession of a man of integrity. That views his sin, agrees with God, assesses it the way God assesses it, and he says against thee And thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. And he owns up to his sin. He says, My iniquity, my sin. And so David was chosen of God, not because he was more talented than the other guys, and he no doubt was very talented. Not because he was great looking and he apparently was a good-looking kid. But God chose David to have a profound impact on his world. Because David, I believe, was holy. Because he was humble. And because he was honest. He had integrity. And I need those things in my life. And I'm telling you, if Garrett County, if America, if our world is going to be impacted. It's going to be impacted by many women who are holy, who are humble, and who are honest and are the real deal. Does that make sense? So I look at David, a man after God's own heart. And here's another great thing about those three characteristics. Here's a great thing about holiness, humility, and honesty. I don't have to have a certain level of intellect to be able to have those characteristics in my life. Well, preacher, I'm just that smart. I'm not that smart. I'm not that educated. I'm with you. I'm I'm on the same page with you. But I don't have to be very, very, I don't have to have this high intellect to be humble before God. In fact, the Bible says knowledge puffeth up. Sometimes maybe we get too big for our britches. Um so I don't have to have a certain level of intellect. I tell you, I've met some folks that had that lived in back collars, different places, that knew God a whole lot better than some of my professors in Bible college did. Very humble before the Lord, very holy. I don't have to have a certain level of income To be honest, to have integrity, to be humble and be holy. The poorest person on planet earth can be humble, can be holy, can be honest. And so every one of us can be used of God if we'll simply let Him change our hearts and incorporate these characteristics in us. us. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I thank you for David again and these these truths here. And I pray that you would help me, and I pray that your Holy Spirit would help each of us. To be very, very careful and examine ourselves. And Lord, if these are lacking in some way, I ask that your Holy Spirit would stir us, that they would be developed in our lives. And we want you to use us. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Pastor, these three characteristics, they're ideals, there's no doubt about it. But you'd say, preacher, some of these I can see where I need to develop. And whatever specifics are, that's between you and the Lord. But you'd say, preacher, pray for me. Maybe this matter of holiness, maybe this matter of humility, maybe pride has got such a grip on our heart, and we need to confess it. Maybe honesty, integrity, maybe our integrity is lacking in some way. We need to shore that up. Is there any like that? Say, preacher, pray for me. I know there's at least One area where God spoke to my heart, and I need that area of attention. Any up like that at all? Praise hand, God bless you. A bunch of hands around. Let's ask the Lord to help us. I don't know. Some of these, I think, in and of ourselves to develop them, we need the Lord's help. We need God to do for us what we can't do. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed. We got a piano.