Preaching our way through the book of James. Brian, I have my own hymn history tonight. You're gonna like this one. There was an old farmer And um he and his wife were faithful members of a good church out in the country. Well, he had to go into the big city for business one time, and while he was in the city Um Dave, I don't know if this one's going to work. I don't think it was working this morning. Oh, sure enough, lo and behold. He had to go into the city for some business over a weekend, and so he went to the big city church And um his wife was home and at their church and gets back home and this they were talking a little bit and she says, by the way, uh how was how was that big city church you went to And the farmer said, well, it was good, but they did something different than what we're used to out here. And she said, uh she said, what's that? He says, um, they didn't sing hymns, they sang praise choruses. And by the way, let me just inject here, our church is sticking with the hymns. And uh we're very deliberately we have a reason. So anyway, he says they didn't sing hymns, they sang praise choruses And his wife said, Praise choruses, what in the world? What are praise choruses? He says, well, they're okay. They're sort of like hymns, only a little bit different. And his wife's all confused, and she said, what's the difference? He says, well, let me explain it to you this way. If I were to say to you, Martha, the cows are in the corn. That would be a hymn. He said, but if I, on the other hand, if I were to say to you, Martha, Martha, Martha, oh Martha, Martha, Martha, Martha The Cows. The big cows, the brown cows, the black cows, the white cows, the black and white cows, the cows, cows, cows are in the corn. Are in the corn, are in the corn, are in the corn. The corn, corn, corn, corn. Oh, the cows. It's true, the whole herd is in the awesome corn. It's true. The whole herd is also me, awesome corn. Alleluia. That would be a praise chorus. And uh I think the guy nailed it a little bit there. And I like the hymns. And uh thank God I one thing my Daddy always said he liked coming down here. Uh he likes the hymns that we sing. And uh we've had a number of comments. I tell you what, these old hymns, Brother Brian gives us a history They have God's hand on them in an unusual way. God's used them. I believe they're anointed of the Lord in a real special way. Not inspired as Scripture is But definitely proven and uh been a blessing. So uh I thought you would enjoy that farmer's rendition of what praise is. James chapter number one I want to look at verse number 18. We're preaching our way through the book of James. I'm enjoying this. You end up preaching and teaching on things that you might not if you just kind of pick and choose. And we're down to verse 18. The Bible says this of his own will Begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. I want to talk about this verse and particularly the firstfruits that are mentioned here So uh let's pray together. Father in heaven, we ask, Lord, your blessing on our study of your word. I'm grateful for the book of James. I've been challenged. Lord, we're grateful for little babies in church, too, Lord. We're glad to have folks here. And so bless now as we look into this portion of Scripture. Fill me with all my heart, ask, Lord, you fill me with your Holy Spirit. That you would speak through me. God, we don't want you to speak to our heads, just our understanding. God, we want you to speak to our hearts and change us. Make us more like Christ. Help us to grow And um so I yield myself to you with that in mind, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. I believe it's important as we look at this verse and actually the whole book, keep in mind that this is written To believers. Look at verse number one with me. He says, James, a servant of God of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes that are scattered abroad. Greeting, verse two is what I'm actually getting at. My what's the second word there? Brethren. He's writing to Christians. He's writing to folks who are saved. This is not a letter that is addressed to unsaved people. This is to Christians. And that's important to keep in mind, especially as we get a little later on in the book and we begin addressing, he addresses some issues. So he's writing to saved people, the children of God. uh uh believers. So I want to get right into this. Roman numeral one, my first point this morning this evening in this looking at this passage is I want us to notice the free will of God The free will of God. Look at verse 18. Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth. Of his own will. In other words, deliberately on purpose, God did what is addressed here Um our salvation, now that's what he's talking about here, of his own will begat he us with the word of uh truth. Uh our salvation from the wrath of God Our salvation from eternity in hell is the result, now get this, is the result of the deliberate and free-will decision of God to show mercy to mankind. God of his own will, of his free will, decided I am going to provide salvation for mankind. God could have and would have been perfectly just. Had he just poured out his wrath on mankind, if he would have just brought his judgment down upon mankind immediately and sent all of mankind to hell, he would have been perfectly just In other words, you and I have no claim to salvation. I have nothing I can say to God. God, I deserve to be saved. We have no merits to offer Christ, hey God, I deserve to go to heaven. I don't deserve to go to hell. In our soul winning uh training and as I share the gospel with people, depending a little bit on the situation. Uh many times I did it this past week or the previous week at the fair when I was sharing the gospel with folks. Sometimes I'll get down as we go through the plan of salvation, I'll get down to the point where the wages of sin is death and That's separation from God for all eternity in hell. Sometimes I'll ask the person again, depending on the situation, I'll ask him Do you see that you deserve to go to hell? Or I'll ask, what do we deserve according to this verse? What do we deserve because of our sin? And I like to hear the person say, you know, I deserve to go to hell. Now I don't relish the fact that we deserve to go to hell, but I like that because then I realize they are understanding That we do not deserve heaven. We don't deserve it. And if anybody, if the very fact that anybody's making it to heaven is because God, in his free will, deliberately decided that he would provide salvation to mankind. Everything about our salvation belongs to God choosing to make mercy available and make salvation possible. It's not that man was down here and boy he came so good that God was obligated to save him. One that way at all. God's free will. Everything about the new birth When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm born again. And we're going to reference that here. It's all because God deliberately chose to make salvation possible. Everything about eternal life. King David understood that. You read through the Psalms and you'll hear statements like this over and over again. The salvation of the Lord You'll read of David saying, addressing God, he'll say, thy salvation. He'll make statements like this: salvation belongeth to the Lord. In fact, John 3. 16. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in should not perish, but have everlasting life. What does that verse begin with? What's it begin with? God loving the world. It begins with God. Salvation begins with God. For God so loved the world. So this verse tells us here, Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth. There is absolutely Now I know, as I was preparing this, I was thinking, Lord, you know, every the folks here, they know this. And um, but you know, I think it's good for us to be reminded. I do not deserve to be saved. People today, oh, I want what I deserve. Well, we better be careful about that. We got what we deserved. We'd be in hot water. There's nothing you and I in you and I that obligates God to save us other than the promises He gives to those who call on Him. Keep your place here. It's not far away. Turn over to Titus. Would you do that? Turn over to Titus chapter number three Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth that we might be of kind of firstfruits of his preachers. Of his own will, God's free will. He made deliberately made the decision. I am going to make salvation available to mankind. I am going to make it possible for man to find forgiveness of sins. to have eternal life and eventually live and be the kind of people I originally intended them to be. What amazing thing. Titus chapter 3, verse number 3. For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures. Living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. That sounds like tonight's news, doesn't it? You think about mankind I think about what's going on in the Middle East. Is that not horrendous? God would be perfectly just God would have been perfectly just in saying, no, no salvation available, judgment. But He loves us. He so loves us that he made the decision of his own free will, he made the decision, I'm going to suffer the judgment of their sin. I'll suffer it myself in the person of Christ. I'll suffer, I'll give my son and pay that price for them. so that mankind can have free salvation, so mankind can escape the judgment of God and have eternal life. Look at this For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice, envy, hateful hating one another. But look at this. But after that the kindness and love of God our Savior toward man appeared. Of his own free will. God says, look at verse 5, not by works of righteousness which we have done, according to his mercy. He saved us by the washing of regeneration and the renewing of the Holy Ghost. That's the new life he gives us, which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior. That being justified by His grace We should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. The free will of God, the only motive that God had in making salvation available for you and I was his unconditional love. It has to be the only motive because there is nothing in you and I that we can appeal to a holy God that would prompt him to love us. You know, when we we love we we we use this terminology, we fall in love with someone. The reason we do that is because there's something desirable in them There's something about them that makes us happy, that brings pleasure to our life, that we enjoy. But God loves us while we're sinners, while there's absolutely nothing in us. That is good or pure or right or just, not by his standard, and yet of his own free will God makes the decision I love them unconditionally, not because of anything I get out of them, but because I am love. And I love them unconditionally. And God, of his own free will, makes that decision. The only motive that God had to make salvation for you and I possible is his incomprehensible love for us. That phrase, I was studying this, I got thinking. That phrase, of his own will, that ought to humble every one of us. God, you saved me not because I'm worth saving or I'm anything deserved to be saved. You love me and of your own will you chose to make salvation a possibility. Well that's just I just thought that ought to humble us. And that ought to bring us to the point where we want to do nothing but exalt the Lord Jesus Christ. If we're not careful, here's something, and this is a little aside, but if we're not careful, we see God start doing things in our life And the closer we get to him and the more we trust him and let him have his way in our life, and God begins doing things, if we're not careful, we'll want to take credit ourselves for what God is doing through us. We need to watch out for that. Anything good that comes out of our life, anything that God chooses to do through us, He is the one that gets the glory for it. And sometimes it's easy to confuse and in our minds get the idea that, wow, I'm doing this, or this is because of me, or I'm really something amazing. And we're not something amazing. Our God is amazing. I made this statement recently. I've been kind of quoting it a little bit recently as the Lord's just impressing on my heart. The older I get The more disappointed I become with myself, and the more amazed I am at the grace and mercy of God in my life. And of his own will, he begat us. His own conditional, unconditional, incomprehensible love. That should humble us before God. God, why would you love me? After all I've done and how sinful I've been, why would you choose to make salvation available to me? Now, I want to put a word of caution here. This verse does not negate the free will of man. And sometimes the Calvinists like to use this verse and they'll say, see? Uh we're saved by God's will. It's his own will that saves us and it's his will that some people aren't saved. God he's the one that decides of his own free will. God decides who goes to heaven And God decides who goes to hell, and God elects some to go to heaven, and God chooses for some to go to hell. That is as unscriptural as you can get. God's not willing that any should perish So man, we have a free will. We can choose. God has allowed us the privilege and responsibility I can choose. to accept that salvation that he of his own free will has made available to me, or I can choose to reject it The fact is, our free will is a testimony to the fact that we've been created in the image of a God that has a free will. God is not a robot. He's not some predestined, pre-programmed God that just operates and has no free will and is in his uh in his makeup, and he's created us in his image, and thus we're not robots. God has given us the free will to choose to accept what He's made available to us, or we can choose to reject it. But God, of his own will, made it possible that sinners can be born again That lost people that have sinned against God and broken his law can find full forgiveness and be born in the family of God and have eternal life. God, of his own will, made that possible. made that freely available to whosoever will believe it. So I look at this verse and the very first words Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth. I see the free will of God. Second thing here, I put this down, I see the instrument of the new birth First is the free will of God. He freely chose to make salvation available. Then the instrument of the new birth. That phrase there of his own will, begat he. That word begat has the idea to bring forth. It's actually very similar to the words up there when we were talking about the stages of sin. To bring uh every man who's tempted, the one who is lost lust, uh then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth Same from the same root word. It says again, bringeth forth death. It means to give birth. Like they like to say over in West Virginia, he born us. Right, Rob? Oh, they don't say that over that time. And that's really it's terrible English, but it's a very good literal definition of what that is. He born us Of his own will. Of his own will, God is the one that brought us. But look how the look at the instrument God uses to bring salvation into the heart of the one that believes. Of his own will beg he us with what? The word of truth. What in the world is the word of truth? You're holding it right in your hands. It's nothing else than the word of God. The Bible is truth. The unbelievers, the mockers, the liberals, the modernists, they can say what they want, but this book is God's word. It has proven itself over and over and over again. It is truth We don't have to apologize for that. We don't even have to defend the truth. We simply declare the truth. Because it's true. Whether I can defend it or not. And that word of truth, the word of God, the Bible, is the instrument that God uses to bring salvation, the new birth, into a person's life. Now that phrase he begat us, as I said, means he born us, he he he birthed us uh into his kingdom, into eternal life. Uh that tells me salvation is more than just fire insurance. Amen. You know what I mean by that? Well, I got saved. I'm not going to hell. All right, everything's done. Now, now. It's a whole lot more than that. Amen? I'm glad when you get saved, I don't have to worry about going to hell. It's more than that. I was down, well, shortly after we moved here, um, probably within a couple years, I was down at Sheets waiting in line for something. And um I don't remember, but uh probably a hot dog, but um waiting in line there and the guy ahead of me and we'd run a bunch of ads about the church and we're trying to stir things up in the newspaper, and uh a guy ahead of me kept looking back at me and looking back at me And um finally he says, I know you from somewhere. He says, uh uh he says, don't tell me, let me guess. He says, I've seen your picture in the paper. You sell insurance. I and at first I said uh I I started to say, no, not r and I thought, well kind of. I said I have fire insurance. And he said, What? I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman out at the Baptist church. Fire insurance, I'll tell you how to be saved. And he got cracked up over that. And to this day he sees me fire insurance. And the old guy never got saved. I've given him scores of tracts over the year and talked to him a little bit. But salvation is more than just getting fire insurance It's more than just escaping hell. Being born, it is a whole new life. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, there's a whole new life born into me. It's spiritual life. When a person accepts Jesus Christ the Savior, I was told down the meeting one of the little bus kids came, a little Blake. accepted Jesus as his savior. I like little Blake. Sometimes I want to choke him, but most of the time I just love that little kid to death. He comes in on the bus. Fire red hair. Fire personality And he accepted, you know what? I think he, I have no doubt he meant business. You know what that tells me? He was born spiritually. God's given him a new life. He's become a child of God. Now everyone here, those every one of us have accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, think about that. That moment I accepted Jesus as my Savior, I was born into the family of God, just like the little baby I was born in the family of God. I am a child of God now. He's my father. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior. And God, of his own free will, made that possible that we can be born in the family of God. A new birth, a new life implies a new nature, different than the old life. When you think of a pig, what do you think of? What comes to mind? Bacon. Skip the food, all right. Now I can't think about nothing but bacon. You know they have bacon milkshakes That's going too far. That's too far. Alright. Humor me a little. You see a you have a pig, what comes to mind? Mud. Stinky. Dirty. Yuck. Right? I worked on a farm when I was twelve for uh my dad's nephew, uh, Danny. And he had some pigs there. And uh I used to have to take the old rotten milk and uh the different yuck fra uh scraps and stuff and and I mean you just go out there and they'd knock you over and they were rude And selfish and stinky. Kind of reminded me of of the youth group I was involved in. But um uh sorry, not not this group But suppose we had a pig and he's stinky and he's rude and he's loud and he's obnoxious and lazy and um suppose We could perform a miracle. And that pig would be born again as a sheep. Would you agree with me? It would behave differently. Right? It has a whole new nature. Now, it would still have that old piggishness about it, and I would imagine sometimes that old mudhole might look Good. But it'll be like, ah, yeah, I want to go back to that. I'm a sheep now. I have a whole new nature. I have a whole new character made up. And so when a person is, when God begets someone, a sinner, God begets them, they're born anew. They're born with a new life, a new nature, a new character. Now that old remnant nature is still there. Sometimes that old flesh draws back to the old life. But I have a new nature now. I have a new character. I'm a child of God. I have the Holy Spirit. There's new desires, new motives, new New priorities, new principles I live by. And that's what is implied in this word of his own will, begatti us. Now, how does he do that? What's the instrument that God, his free will chose to make this possible Now, what's the instrument that he uses to bring about that new birth? It tells us right there, of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, the word of God. Turn with me if you would. We're going to look at a verse or two here, and then we're going to quit here in a moment. 1 Peter chapter 1. And this is a good verse. I know many of you memorized it in our scripture memory challenge. 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 23. But if you're not familiar with this verse, this is a good one to underscore and eventually commit to memory. Look what he says, 1 Peter 1. 23. Being born again, there it is, begat, same word. Being born again, 1 Peter 1. 23, not of corruptible seed. but of incorruptible. So this new life, I am born again, and the seed that was used, the instrument that brought about this birth It's not corruptible, it's incorruptible. In other words, this is life that is not going to ever corrupt, it's going to last forever. It is eternal life. Now look at the rest of the verse. By the word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. In other words, God saves man. According to the conditions set down in the Word of God. It is the Bible that brings about this new birth The Bible clearly teaches us what we have to do to be saved. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. We see ourselves as sinners. This whole process of repentance is seeing myself as a sinner under the judgment of God. I want God to forgive me and save me. I am turning to him, trusting in him to forgive me and give me new life. And God uses the Word of God to bring that about. It is the incorruptible seed of the Word of God. In other words, if I don't have Bible salvation, I don't have salvation. You can go to ten different churches in Garrett County, hear ten different ways to be saved, but the only way that saves a soul is the Bible way. It's not the Baptist way, it's not the Methodist way, it's not the Brethren way, it's not the Mennonite way, it's not the Catholic way, it's the Bible way. And if I don't have Bibles, you say, well, I think I'm saved this way. Doesn't matter what you think, doesn't matter what I think. It's Bible salvation. By the word of God, by the word of truth. God's word, it is God's word that saves. Hey, by the way, let me say a word to our folks that are witnessing to others and you're sharing the gospel with others. Keep in mind, it's not the comments we make about God's word that saves people, it's God's word. You say, well, I don't know if I really know how to explain it. Well you give them the word of God. The word of God is pretty powerful. The Word of God can get the job done. Whether I have witty comments about it or not. It's not my great illustrations. I was soul winning with another preacher years ago. And that guy had more illustrations, and I mean they were amazing illustrations. But his whole presentation of the gospel was all these illustrations and hardly any word of God. And I thought, man, I don't even know if these people are getting enough word of God to get saved. It's not my witty illustrations. It can be the sorriest illustration ever was. If I got the word of God, the word of God is what produces salvation. So it's not how witty I am, it's not all these my great understanding of the Word of God. It's not even uh and by the way, we share gospel with other people, we share gospel with folks. I'm sharing truths that I don't fully understand myself. Follow me? And I'm sharing God, man, there are depths to the gospel that none of us have grasped till eternity. But yet we share that word of God with people, and God's word is quick and powerful. It is sharper than any two-edged sword. Pierces to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit. It is a powerful thing. Bring a person to realize the dire situation they're in under the judgment of God. It'll help it'll open the mind of that person to understand that Jesus Christ suffered their judgment for them. rose again that he can come in their heart and life and forgive them and cleanse them and save them and give them new life. The word of God can do that. Of his own will, begagi us with the word of truth. We can make God's word known, can't we? We can do that. God uses the word of God. We can give the word of God out. We can communicate the word of God. I just, my heart got stirred preparing us. We need to saturate our world with the Word of God. I believe every single language that man speaks on planet earth ought to have the word of God in that language Every language on planet Earth ought to have some preachers preaching in that language to those people the Word of God. Because that's how God brings, that's how b the word of that's how uh eternal life comes about. We need to saturate our world with the word of God. Two factors about every person's salvation. Number one, God's word was involved. Or you didn't get saved. I want to add a second one to it. Some other person was involved. They brought the Word of God to you One way or another, they left that track on the windshield, they translated that Bible into your language, they made it possible one way or another. God uses his word and people to bring salvation to others Let me give you my third thought real quick. Number one, the free will of God. Number two, the instrument and the new birth. Number three, the purpose of God. And this is where it gets to. That we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures, that we should be a kind of first fruits. That word that has the idea for the purpose of so that God made the decision to make salvation available that man could be born again. He uses the word of God to bring about that birth. When we believe and accept What God's Word says, we're born in the family of God, we're saved for all eternity, we have new life, and so that we can be a kind of first fruits Now you need to understand first fruits and I wanted to spend more time on this and maybe we'll do another message, I doubt it. But the first fruits, let me just summarize it. The first fruits were instructed by God in Deuteronomy chapter 26. God instructed Israel that when they when it comes harvest time, before they harvested that whole field, they were to go through and the very first crops that became um uh mature, that were ready for harvest, the very first ones, they were to take them. They were not to eat them. They were not to sell them They were to take those first fruits that became mature, gather them up, not the whole field, just the first ones Gather them up, and they were to bring them to the temple, and they were to present them to God as a type of sacrifice. It was simply a recognition, first of all, that God had been good to them, that they were dependent on God and He had provided this. And number two, that this really, everything I have is really God's in the first place. We as Christians, according to this verse and other teachings throughout the New Testament, we as believers in Jesus Christ, we are a kind of first fruits for God. Of God's creatures. And that word creatures there simply means all of creation. It's just a term referring to all of creation. So he says, all right, I made a dis let me simplify, oversimplify this. God makes the decision. I'm not going to destroy mankind. I'm going to save them. I'm going to make salvation pass. I'll take their sins upon myself and as my son Jesus Christ, take their sins upon him, suffer the judgment of God for their sins, make salvation available. They'll believe my word. As I give them my word, explaining how they believe my word, they'll be born new. They'll have new life. And my whole purpose for that is so that they can be first fruits of all of my creation. Now I got thinking about that. What does that mean? God saved me, May 7, 1979, and now I'm a kind of first fruits of all of God's creation. I'm kind of those first gleanings they took out of the harvest and brought to God That's what I am? I think it means several things. I put this down. Number one, it means we're not our own. We're the Lord's. When God saved us, we became God's possession. We're God's property. Those first fruits were not the owners of that field. They were not to be sold. They were not to be eaten. They were not to be stored up for next year's harvest. They were to they were that was God's It was his possession. When you and I, whether we liked it or not, whether we were aware of it or not, when we accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, we're no longer our own. We were bought with a price. We're his possession. And so that first fruits there tells me that I am God's property. I am set apart to the Lord. I'm not my own anymore. Second thing it tells me that as God's first fruits, as his property, I am to conduct myself in such a way. That it clearly communicates that I am not of the world, but I am now of the Lord. You follow what I'm saying? Those first fruits were not mixed in with the rest of the harvest. That was the Lord's. It was very clearly set apart for the Lord, for his worship, to recognize his authority, his grace, and his goodness. As a believer, when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I am now set apart from the world. And my behavior and how I live my life is to clearly communicate that I am the Lord's first fruits. I'm not part of all of that. I am clearly distinct and separate from the world. Every aspect of our lives as believers is to reflect the fact that we are gods and we are no longer of the world. Now that is a teaching that is absolutely washed out in most churches, but it is absolute Bible teaching that I am no longer of the world. I am no longer to reflect the world's values and priorities and sinfulness. I am the Lord's. And everything about my life is to communicate to this world. No I am not part of this system. I am part of God's kingdom. Every aspect of my being, every part of my behavior. I am the first fruits of the Lord's And God saves us so that we can reflect that fact. We are not of this world. Number three, I put this down. This captures my imagination. That we, as first fruits, now follow this, are the first stage Of a process of God making all creation new. Now, this is what I mean by that. That farmer would take those first fruits, he'd glean them out from that harvest. And he'd bring that to the Lord. That was a testimony of the fact that there was a whole lot of changes going to be taking place in that field. There was a whole lot more harvest. And when God saved you and I, from the moment that Christ rose again, stood at the right hand of the Father, God has been taking these first fruits, the people that got saved. And that is a testimony, a first stage, I should say. Of the process that one day God is going to make all of creation brand new. I don't know if I'm communicating what I'm trying to say here. This world And everything in it is going to be burned up, and God is going to create a new heaven, new earth. And it's going to be according to his design. It's going to be according to his standards, the way it's supposed to be. And you and I, when we accept Jesus Christ, we are the first fruits. We are the first stage of this incredible change that God is going to bring about. where he's going to make all things new, where old things are going to be completely passed away and everything's going to be new. You and I are part are the first stages Of what is ultimately going to be a new heaven and a new earth that we can have a hard time even comprehending You follow what I'm saying? Am I communicating that? And what an exciting thing that is for me to think. I am right now, October 10th, October, August 10th 2014, I am right now a part of that new heaven and earth that God is going to create. I'm the first stages of it. Now there's a lot to take place. The rapture, the tribulation, the second coming, the millennial reign, all the judgments in between. There's a lot of stuff between now and then, but we are the first fruits. We are the first stages Of all that taking place. Everything before the cross was leading up to that. The cross, the gospel, now. It's all beginning to fall into place, all taking place. Souls getting saved. People added the kingdom, born in the family of God, and eventually down the road That rapture will take place, the tribulation period, the second coming, the millennial reign out after that, and beyond that, uh the great white throne judgment of God, and then the heaven and earth pass away ferment heat And a new heaven and a new earth. We are the first stages of that. God saved us. Isn't that an exciting thing? Whenever that tribulation period takes place, hey, we're still going to have eternal life. We're in that millennial reign. We'll still have the life God has given to us now that we have now, eternal life. After the new heaven, new earth, we'll still have the eternal life. We're the first fruits. I'm telling you, that makes salvation exciting. That we are the first stages of that. The desire of every Christian, if we understand these truths in this verse, the desire of every Christian should be to exalt our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. I fail, God the Lord knows, and even my own desire fails many times. But down inside my heart, just like many of you, I have a desire. I want Jesus Christ to be exalted in my life. I really do. And many of you I know are the same way. That is part of being born in the family of God. And the second thing ought to be true of every sincere Christian, I want to extend the kingdom of God. I want other people to be born again. I want to make sure every one of our teenagers is genuinely born again. I know Grant shares that I want to make sure every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, it's not just words, but it's genuine new birth in the family of God. I want to make, I'd love for all our neighbors to be saved. I love for every person that lives in Oakland city limits to be saved. Now let's make it Garrett County. Now let's make it mid-Atlantic. Let's just, how about the whole world get saved? That's not going to happen. We know that. But boy, it sure is a desire in the heart of the child of God to see as many people get saved as possible. Amen. So let's understand. God of his own free will decided to love us and make salvation possible. He's given it to us through his word, the truth of it, and we believe that and accept that for ourselves. We're born into his family and his kingdom. We have a whole new nature about us. And he intends for us to be a testimony of this old world that I'm the Lord's. Not part of this anymore. This is a dying world. This is a world headed for judgment and the wrath of God. I'm part of a new world. That's coming. We're the first fruits. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd stir our hearts tonight. Help us have a renewed understanding, appreciation.