There, 2nd Kings chapter 6. These uh hymn histories are great education and uh learning a lot and I think we'll appreciate the songs much more. 2 Kings chapter 6. I'm going to read verses 8. I'm just going to read down through verse 12. 2 Kings 6, down, beginning of verse 8, down through verse 12. Notice the Bible says the king of Syria warred against Israel and took counsel with his servants, say, In such and such a place shall be my camp. And a man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware thou pass not such a place, for thither the Syrians are come down. And the king of Israel sent to the place where the man of God told him and warned him of, and saved himself there, not once or twice. Therefore the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled for this thing. And he called his servants and said unto them, Will ye not show will ye not show me which of us is for the king of Israel? What's he saying there? He all right, somebody's spying. Somebody's ha somebody is a covert agent. For the king of Israel. Listen, don't tell me the Bible's boring. There's covert agents, there's spies There's betrayal. What else, Kathy? What else did you tell me to say? Um uh espionage. So look what happens here Will you not show me which of us is for the king of Israel? When are you all spying on me? And one of the servants said, None, my lord, O King. But Elisha, the prophet, that is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bedchamber. Now, the original message for all of this is spies and espionage, and I just did that to make it dramatic. But what I'm going to talk about tonight is God's awareness And God's warnings. Now those two go together. Let's have a word of prayer and I'll share we'll we'll see what this has for us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the word of God. Thank you for a good day. And God, my heart is stirred. Just excited about what you're doing in our lives and in people's lives around us, our church. Lord, we rejoice in soul saved God, we rejoice in these good hymns that uh we have and can appreciate more, understand uh how you brought them about. Now, Lord, as we look into your word and we look at these events that are recorded for us and the uh drama that takes place here. God, I pray your Holy Spirit would take this more than just a fascinating story, but Lord, I pray that you would take the principles and apply them to our hearts and lives, that we would live our lives as faithful Christians. Your blessing be upon us we could have victory And our spiritual warfare we're evolved in. Lord, I yield myself to you. I present my body anew. I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit and empower me, Lord, to preach tonight. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. We talked last week about the separation of church and state. You know, we don't want the state running the church. We don't want the church running the state. But we did point out that it's very important that God's people be involved in the affairs of society and everything going on there. We are to vote and uh get in get in positions of leadership and have an influence. Well Elisha found himself In the middle of a war between two nations. He was involved, whether he chose to or not, it's God's plan for him, he was involved in politics. And politics of probably the most difficult kind in that of time of warfare. And so he has a role to play in this, and I believe, and this is what I was trying to say last week I believe scripture is very clear that Christians have a role, we have a place in the political uh arena, not just uh you know inside the church walls. Alright? Is everybody with me? We've got that across. At the very least we ought to vote. And uh more than that, we ought to be involved as much as we can. And uh Elisha was Uh tables had turned. Before that, you know, they're building buildings for the prophet school. And now there's war. We also pointed out one thing that was interesting, and this stood out in my mind as I was preparing this The absence of Naaman in all of this. And remember, he was the he was the the uh chief of Syrian the Syrian host. He was the um what would be the equivalent in America day um the the general or the secretary of war or or not secretary secretary of defense would probably be the equivalent, I would guess, something like that So anyway, if the if Syria's going to war, Naaman certainly would be involved in this somebody, but he's con uh he's uh strangely absent. He's not mentioned at all. I suggested that perhaps his salvation, his commitment to the true God, Jehovah May have been a factor, may have been a factor in this war erupting. The king of Syria may have felt threatened by his commanders of his armies, his commitment to the God of their enemy. May have been a factor in prompting that. My wife suggested, today we were talking about it this afternoon, she suggested maybe Naaman got fired Now, I don't think so for the m main fact that she came up with that idea. But um no, that's a very real possibility. We don't know. But I think it's interesting to note that he's not there. Now, here's the situation. I think we all understand what's happening here. Israel's minding their own business for the most part. Syria gets stirred up again, and they want to come and invade Israel. They always come across the east, above north of the country, and then they come down from the north. That's just the way they always do it And so they're coming in and uh they're moving in and beginning to advance on Israel. Now here's the problem. And this, boy, I just thought of this. Maybe the fact that the king is commanding the army may support the theory that Naaman was fired. Huh? Or May Mabin withdrew himself and that's why the king so I don't think he was fired, I think he withdrew himself. But anyway. I already had my pork chops today, so I'm not worried about it So anyway, the king in top secret meetings with his commanders, top secret. It's saying, alright, here's our strategy. We're gonna go down there, we'll camp here. They're looking at the map, you know, they're all staying around it. We're gonna camp here, and from there, then we'll spread out and do this. Lo and behold, when they get there, the Israeli army is already there. Also, how'd they know we were going there? Alright? That didn't work out. The next this is a couple nights later. Alright, we're gonna tomorrow we're gonna move over here. We're gonna go a little farther to the west. And um uh we're gonna camp there in this valley. They won't know we're going. Nobody tell anyone. Don't tell your soldiers where don't tell anything. We're just going to go there and we'll make base there. They go marching over. Lo and behold, guess who's there? Israeli's army's there. And they do this repeatedly. Finally the king comes to no other conclusion. Somebody in here is for the other team. Now, Naaman's not involved. I wonder if he didn't, I wonder if Naaman doesn't have some converts working in here. Somebody is for the king of Israel. The problem is nobody was for the king of Israel. The problem was the king of Israel had a God in heaven that knows everything. That was the king of Syria's problem. And that's my first point tonight. There's only two. My first point is this. I want us to consider the awareness of God. The awareness of God. Look here with me, verse 9. And the man of God sent to the king of Israel, saying, Beware that thou pass not such a place, for thither the Syrians are come down. And um And uh verse 12, and one of his servants said, now this is interesting, the servant of the king of Syria was more aware of what was happening than the king was. One of his servants said, No, my none, my lord, O king, but Elisha the prophet that is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bedchamber Now here we have the awareness of God. There are we're studying in Bible Institute the fact that God has certain attributes. Another word for attributes would be God has certain characteristics that are true about him. Now we break them down. Do you have everybody's attention up here? We break them down into two categories. Alright, so bear with me. And uh she'll get over here a little bit. There we go. Thank you, Stu. Um We break those attributes down into two categories. One is what we call the moral attributes of God. The moral attributes are things like holy, good, faithful, just true. They're moral aspects of God's existence. And they're perfect, of course. There's another characteristic, another category of God's characteristics or attributes, and that would be what we call natural attributes And the natural attributes are things like this. He's all powerful. He's omnipresent. What do we mean by omnipresent? He's Everywhere, all the time. He's omnipresent. He's omniscient. He's immutable. He doesn't change. These are natural characteristics. They're not moral or immoral in and of themselves. They're not of a moral nature. They're more of a natural nature, whereas the moral characteristics. So I said all that to say this There are two attributes of God, natural attributes that are outstanding, that stand above all others. And those two attributes are these. Number one, his omnipotence. What do we mean by the omnipotence of God? He is all powerful. God has all power. Now that is one of the leading, or you could say primary, perhaps primary attributes. Natural attributes of God is the fact that He is all-powerful. And you read all through the Bible, power belongeth unto the Lord. Power our God is a powerful God, God Almighty. Has all might. There's another attribute of God that stands up there with God's omnipotence, and that is this: God's omniscience. Now, by God's omniscience, we mean what? He knows everything. God never learns anything. He doesn't have to. Here he knows everything. If you have all knowledge, you don't learn things. You already have all the knowledge. God um God never is surprised by anything. He knows everything. He knows things. We were talking about this in Bible Institute the other week. He knows things without effort. Um sometimes you know you have a mathematical figure and you gotta uh oh okay. God doesn't have to do that. He just He knows it instantly without effort. Isn't that amazing thing? I mean, just any, any information that any and all information that exists. In the farthest reaches of the universe, God knows it instantly without effort. And so, for God to be able to reveal to Elisha Where the king of Syria is setting up camp tomorrow night was cake. Right? That's not difficult for God to do it all. God is all knowing. Let me give you a Let's run down through some verses here real quick. You got we got your Bibles with you. I saw them. So get your Bibles out. Let's let's use them here a little bit. Go with me, if you would, to First Chronicles Chapter 28. Now these are great verses. This is why I want you to go to them and see them. 1 Chronicles 28. These are good underlining verses. If you got a new Bible at Christmas and you don't have it underlined all yet Here's a good place to start doing this. 1 Chronicles 28, and look with me, if you would, at verse number 9. David is speaking to his son and advising him here a little bit. And notice in verse 9, 1 Chronicles 28, and thou Solomon, my son. Know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind. Good advice, huh Amen? That's good advice? Everybody there? I think any daddy, that would be a good thing to teach our sons. To know God and to serve him with a perfect heart and a willing mind. Why should he do that? Look what he says. For the Lord searcheth all hearts. Look at this. And understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts. Wow. You know, God knows what you're thinking in your brain right now. I know what some of y'all are thinking. If we go at this rate, we'll be here all night But God knows the thoughts of our minds. Now think about that. If there is anything we are convinced that we can hide from people, it would be our thoughts. But God knows the imaginations of our mind. He knows the thoughts. Isn't that incredible? That is humbling. And to think that I'm going to have to stand before Almighty God and give an account of myself to God, and part of that accountability is going to be my thoughts. Boy, what a fearful thing that is. God knows our thoughts. Come with me, if you would, to the next one we want is Psalm 139. What a great chapter, Psalm 139 is. Psalm 139, page 667 in your Schofield Bible, if you got it. Psalm 139, uh verse 1. Psalm 139, verse 1. O Lord, thou hast searched me and what? Known me. God knows you. Thou knowest my downsetting and mine uprising. Thou underst look at this. Thou understandest my thought afar off I think, what does he mean by my thought afar off? I think he means what I'm daydreaming. Your thoughts are out there in outer space. God knows your thoughts. When they're out there. Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and are acquainted with all my ways. There's nothing I do that God is not aware of. For there is not a word in my tongue, O Lord, but thou knowest it altogether. Now notice, he says, There is not a word in my tongue. Now think with me for a moment. If we well how would we express if somebody says a word, they say something, we would say it came off of his or her what? Their tongue were their lips. You know? Boy, did you hear what came out of her lips? I couldn't believe it. Um Everybody know what I'm talking about? But he says he understands the words in my tongue. I'm going to suggest to you, he's saying he knows the words we don't even speak. How many people ever here said, boy, I had to bite my tongue. Anybody here ever say that? Now that's a good thing sometimes. But the fact of the matter is, God knows what I would have said if I could have gotten away with it It's why we're biting our tongue because we we want to say it, but good night it's not worth a hassle if I say that So God knows our thoughts. He even knows the words that we would say if we could. I'm trying to say this: God knows everything about us. Go with me if you would to Proverbs chapter 15. Proverbs chapter 15. And verse number 3. But if this doesn't put the fear of God in somebody, I don't know what would. The eyes of the Lord Are in every place. Question, does God actually have literal eyeballs? No God the Father, Jesus of course, was took on flesh. God the Father doesn't have literal eyeballs. If God was dependent upon literal eyeballs to see, then his sight would be limited, correct? Just be wherever those eyeballs were pointing. That's all we'll be able to see. So when the Bible makes reference to the eyes of the Lord, it's not talking about literal eyeballs. God is the Spirit. It's talking about his awareness The eyes of the Lord, the awareness of God. Look what it says. The eyes of the Lord are where? In every place. You mean under the mattress? Yeah. You mean on that hidden file on the computer? Yeah. Uh you mean in the closet and the little secret shelf in the back of the closet? Yeah. God's awareness is everywhere. Turn with me, if you would, to Isaiah chapter 46. Isaiah forty six, and verse number nine Isaiah forty-six verse nine Uh Remember the former things of old, for I am God. And there is none else. I am God, and there is none like me. We talked about that this morning. Now look at verse 10. Declaring the end from the beginning. And from ancient times, the things that are not yet done, my counsel shall stand, and I will do all my precing. Do you understand what this verse is saying? God knows everything that's already happened. We can grasp that, right? God knows everything that's going to happen. And we can grasp that to some degree. But I want to suggest to you: God is not only aware of what has happened, what's going to happen, God is aware of what could happen Or what would happen had we made other choices. How many people here ever thought this? Boy, I wonder where I'd be now if I'd have made this other choice rather than this choice back when I was twenty-two years old. So anybody ever say so I wonder where I'd be now? You know, fact is God knows where you'd be now if you know where that. He knows the end of all options. He knows what I would be doing now had I made other decisions. So he knows not only what already happened, he not only knows what's going to happen. He knows what would have happened had I made other choices, or what will happen if wouldn't happen if I make other choices in the future. How many people believe that? Say amen. That's what the Bible teaches. That's God. Now don't you think, if that being true and us believing it, don't you think it would be wise to pay attention to what God tells us If he knows. God knows if I take this road or if I take this road, he knows where those roads are going to lead in my life five years down the road. I'd be a stupid idiot, excuse me. I would be dumb. My wife says I shouldn't say that, but I don't pay attention to her. I would be uh, let me put it a little nicer, I would be a numskul If I would disregard what God said and say, I don't care what God says, I'm going down this way. Now God knows where they both lead. God says Don't go down that road. Go down this road. You go down that road, you're gonna have disaster, you're gonna have heartache, you're gonna have problems, you're gonna have a rough time, then you're gonna have to answer to me at the end of it. Don't go down that road, go down this road And we say, pfft, I ain't listen to what he says. I'm gonna do what I want. Would would you agree with me that Numskl's a good name for doing that? Numsk's God knows. This is a powerful verse here. He declares the end from the beginning. He knows whenever you're starting out, he knows where it leads. The awareness of God, the omniscience of God, boy, we won't take time, we can go to Hebrews 4. 13, where it says all of creation, I'm not quoting this exactly correct, says all of creation is open, naked. Before the eyes of Him with whom we have to do. There's nothing hidden to God Why do we act? Why do we live? Why do we talk? Why do we do things as if God can't see it or God doesn't know about it? Why do we do that? We're not real smart. If somehow there would be an open window in the spirit world, the sky, all the time above us, and we see uh God looking down at us, how many Think here we'd behave a little differently. The fact is that's the way it is. He sees everything. I'll turn the lights out. Darkness is light for God. Think about this, and this kind of captured my imagination. How many people here believe that our country and the CIA and All those agencies. How many people believe our country has some super secret things going on that people don't know about? How many people believe that? You know what? God knows all of it Triple top secret. God says, I know what that is. It's not secret. There's nothing hidden from God. And Elisha had firsthand experience with that. King of Assyria is doing all this top secret stuff. Elisha says, hey, King of Israel, calls him up on the hot line. He says, boy, don't go over there. King Syria's gonna be there. Are you sure? Yeah, how do you know? Trust me. Okay. Sure enough. God is not merely up in heaven. God reigns on earth. And He is aware and He is active in the affairs of mankind. The most top secret plans on earth are fully known to God. And the Syrian. The Syrians, their strategy was pretty good strategy. Really? I mean they're they're not they're not novices at this. They've been very successful at warfare for a long, long time. They knew how to beat Israel. That wasn't the problem. They had great strategies. They had great plans. They could execute the plans they had flawlessly. They were one of, if not the, most powerful army on the planet at that time. They could do what they needed to do, but they had a problem. There was a God in heaven that knew everything. And he foiled their plans every time. Now we're not going to take time to get to the warnings that God gives. I'll just give you a little teaser. Come back next week. But because God knew everything, there were some things he told Israel not to do, and some places he told them don't go there. Don't you go there. The enemy's going to be there. If you go there, you're going to get whooped. God tells you and I, there are some places where not to go. The enemy's there. If you go there, you're going to be defeated. You're going to get hurt. That warnings from God, the warnings from God are based upon his awareness. God knows. So we can't hide anything from Him. We can't pull anything over on God. I think lying to other people is destructive. It hurts people. You may think you're helping folks, but if you're lying, you're hurting people. Amen. Lying to yourself is destructive. Boy, you know, you can fool other people, they see through it. But when you lie to yourself and believe your own lies, you're ruining your own life. Right? But if you lie to God You're dumb. You're not pulling anything over on God. He knows everything. He sees everything. He knows what's in our house. He knows what's under the seat of the car. He knows what's in the locker at work. He knows what's in the back to the bottom door of the desk. He knows the plans you've got in your heart and mind that no one knows, and you've got planned for the future, and I'm gonna do this, that, and these little secret things, I'm gonna do all this, and nobody's gonna know. You're an idiot. God knows. And what do you think? What do you think? God's just going to stand back and let one of his children do something that's harmful and he's not going to intervene? Think God's not going to step would you do that to your kids? No. We try and hide something from God. We try and do something that is contrary to God's will for us, what's best for us. We go ahead and think we get away with it, God's gonna step in. It isn't gonna work. And so we just hurt ourselves. Bring God's chastisement on. And here's the bad thing. We don't listen to God, who knows everything. We go ahead and make decisions sometimes, decisions that are irreversible Can't undo them. And now here we are, ten five, ten years later, and I'm stuck in this situation. And I wonder how many of us here, if we were one-on-one in my office, I wonder how many of us here in confidentiality would say something like this. Boy, I wish I'd have listened. to God. Huh? Boy, I'd wish I'd have listened to God. Now let's just determine from here on out we're going to listen to God. Amen. He knows everything. He knows where it's leading. He knows where it's going. Let's just trust him and do what he says. All right. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to trust you. Lord, help us to understand who you are, what you are. God, help us to believe that you love us. And Lord, when you direct us, when you warn us, help us to take it to heart. And then follow your leadership so we can have your blessing and do that which is best for our lives, for our families, for the cause of Christ.