New Testament, towards the end of the New Testament, 1 John. Mark that. Hold on to that. Put something in there. We're going to get to that a little later in the message. When you get that, if you would come back to Isaiah, chapter number one, where Brother Mark read from here. a few moments ago. I don't see Mary here this morning, but this is for Mary. What kind of exercise do lazy people do? What kind of exercise do lazy people do? Anybody know? Diddly squat is what lazy people do. So uh make sure she gets that, Tom. Yeah. Um how do uh th this week uh we have the eclipse. This week I guess it's tomorrow, right? Um how do astronomers organize a party? They plan it. Alright, one more. Anyone who knows what shortbread is? Anybody here, a couple folks know what shortbread. I went to the bakery downtown. I wanted to get some shortbread and they said they don't make it any longer. And so But so don't blame me, those are for Mary, those are all Mary's full. Let me say a word about Before we get to our message, I do want to say a word about our the eclipse uh tomorrow. In the last couple of weeks I've had several people come to me and say, Pastor, is this anything significant for us as a Christian? Is this something significant, you know, as far as God doing something is this a sign uh for the return of Christ. And I'll just tell you my take on it. Uh and I'm not uh an uh let's see it would be an astronomer Correct? I'm not an astronomer by any stretch of the imagination, but as I understand it, the eclipse is a natural event that's been taking place since the creation of the world. It's just rare. It doesn't happen often. But it's just as natural as the rotation of the Earth. We have night and day, night and day. We have eclipses on a regular basis. And so Um you know, I don't see this as anything significant as far as God doing something unusual or an indicator uh of the time times we're living in or anything like that Um, I think so what would be our response as a Christian? Our response as a Christian to something like this is give God the glory. The Bible says the heavens declare the glory of God, the firmament showeth his handiwork, and we ought to say, what an amazing God we serve that we see and experience things like this and what amazes me is that this this world, this universe, creation is so finely tuned and such so designed, incredibly designed, that we can anticipate to the minute, hundreds of years in advance, when these types of things are going to take place. Don't tell me we live in a world of or uh disorder and chaos. We live in a world of incredible design, an incredible purpose, and incredible uh um detailed and uh very, very complex. And uh to uh to imagine that this would just be the result of chaos and this is just the result of happenstance uh boggles my mind. And I think what I'm trying to say is this, it takes a lot of faith to be an atheist. You know, blind faith to believe that somehow all this just out of nothing chaos happened. Uh no, no, no. There's a God behind all of it. That there that's clear. And we give him the glory. So uh maybe the Lord will come back You know, tomorrow. We don't know. We don't know when he's coming. We ought to be prepared. But I don't think uh we give any more significance to this than we do the sun going down at night. Alright, uh Isaiah chapter 1 is where we're going to start. Later on the Message, we're going to get back to 1 John, so keep that available there. But look with me if you would at verse 18, and I would like for us to read together in unison. Verse number 18. Isaiah chapter 1 and verse number 18. Everybody has it there. Here we go. Read it with me if you would. Here we go. Come now and let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. I'd like to speak this morning on God's great invitation God's great invitation. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. I thank you, Lord, for everybody that's gotten up this morning, assembled together here in your house, in your name. And we ask that your presence would be here, Lord, in a very evident way. And I pray that you would take your word and speak through me to each of our hearts and lives and apply your word as you know we have need, as you see fit. Father, I know in and of myself, my own reasoning, my own mind, I have nothing of any spiritual, eternal value to offer. Only thing I can give is your word. So with that in mind, I present my body anew to you, Lord. I yield my will to yours. And I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and you speak through me. And please, Lord, I ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. There are some teachings in Scripture, there are some truths in Scripture that need to be stated over and over and over and over. We have some men in our church that are carpenters, a number of them. They pretty good, pretty pretty uh gifted carpenters. And a carpenter, now modern days, I guess you have the air guns, right? And it's just ka punk, ka punk, ka-punk. That's cheating. Old school, you know, real men use a hammer and a nail. And when you're hammering a nail in, when a carpenter has a hammering a nail in, he wants to secure a piece of wood to a frame, or he's going to frame a house up or whatever, and he wants that wood securely attached. He wants to make sure it's in place, it's going to stay, it's going to secure. So he takes that nail and he hits that nail. He takes a hammer, he hits that nail, not just once or twice But he hits it over and over and over and over again until that thing is securely in place and it's holding that frame together. It's secure. Well, as I said, there are some truths in scripture that a preacher, Bible teacher, Christians, we need to state them over and over and over and over and over again. Until they're firmly secured in the hearts and minds of God's people. Isaiah is a book similar to that. He has a message that he gives through the book of Isaiah, and he states it over and over and over and over again. And that message is the message of salvation. That man can be forgiven of his sins, be accepted by God, have eternal life, and dwell forever with God in heaven and not in hell. Twenty-six times the term uh salvation is used in the book of Isaiah. Over and over, like that Carpenter with the hammer, pounding on that nail, the same nail, over and over and over, driving that nail into the wood, Isaiah is pounding over and over and over again to mankind. You must be saved. You can be saved. God will save you from sin in hell if you'll just trust him. That is the message of Isaiah. Now, Isaiah is an incredibly important book. It is one of, we divide the, uh, we categorize the books of the Bible. We have historical books, we have poetic books. You have the Pentateuch, the first five books. This is, you know, theological terms, Bible study things. And then you have the prophetic books. The prophetic books are divided up into two segments. You have what are called the minor prophets, not because they're insignificant, but they're shorter in length. Their message is just as important as any other book of the Bible, and they're just as significant as any other book of the Bible, but they're shorter in length, so they're referred to as the minor prophets, and you have what we refer to as the major prophets And same thing is they're just larger. And Isaiah is one of the uh major prophets, one of the uh larger books, and I believe it's one of the greatest books in the Bible, if you can even say that about various books in the Bible. Isaiah, of course, is the penman of the book. God is the author, but God used Isaiah to record down the book of Isaiah. Isaiah was a tremendous prophet. And for sake of time, I'll not go into his background. But his name means this: the Lord is salvation. Or sometimes it's a shorter definition, you'll find it, the Lord saves. Jehovah saves. The Lord is salvation. The book itself was written during the time of Israel's history that reminds me a lot of the condition America is in today. It was a time of unrest. It was a time of turmoil. It was a time of disruption within the society of Israel itself. It was a turbulent time in Israel's history. And I think we all agree the United States of America is in a turbulent time. And Isaiah's message to Israel, and by the way, it was also a time when Israel was facing threats externally Other nations were rattling their swords, so to speak. They were threatening the security of the nation of Israel. And so they had internal turmoil, unrest. They had external threats coming in. It was a desperate time in the in the nation of Israel. And again, like I said, America is in desperate times. I never dreamed in my lifetime that I would see some of the things take place that we are seeing on a regular basis in the streets of our cities. The unrest, the turmoil, the hatred, the anger, the violence within. I think it was Abraham Lincoln who said, America will never be conquered from without. America will corrupt and die from within. And I hate to even think that that's what we're observing. So Isaiah is ministering, he's preaching. To a nation in a terrible condition in dire straits, internal turmoil, external threats, very much like we face today And I want to suggest to you God's remedy for Israel's problems, God's remedy for Israel's condition, is the same remedy That America needs. And that is this. We need the Lord. We need God to move. We need souls saved. I like what Lester Rawls said. He says, if you want to see America saved, you better get Americans saved. And so Isaiah is writing under the inspiration of God, he's preaching God's people. He says, You need the Lord, you need to turn to Christ. You need to turn from your sin. You need to humble yourselves. His message was this. The military does not have the solution for Israel's problems. Now I firmly believe we ought to have a strong military. I am I am all for that. I believe peace comes through strength, not through weakness. We ought to have a strong military, but our military bombs and jets and planes and Submarines cannot do for America what America desperately needs is to get right with God. Government is God's idea. God ordained government so that there would not be anarchy. There needs to be some organization to society. There needs to be some oversight in society. It's a necessary fact of life But government cannot do for America and could not do for Israel what only God can do, and that is bring peace and tranquility of heart and mind and right with God. So the book of Isaiah is a very important book in the history of Israel, and I want to suggest to you it's a very important book for you and I today in our country. Salvation is of the Lord. Salvation is of the Lord. The message to Israel, through Isaiah's message to Israel, was this: their only hope is in the Lord. Their only hope is in the Lord. More than any other Old Testament prophet, Isaiah wrote of salvation, national salvation and personal. Salvation. Like that carpenter pounding that nail over and over and over, Isaiah is saying you need to be saved You need Jesus Christ. You need the Lord. You need to humble yourself before God. You need to submit to the Lord. You need to trust the coming Messiah. Over and over and over, he pounded that to the nation of Israel. And as I said, I believe that's what our country needs today. Needs today. Um a year or so ago, um Brother Derek and I visited we went on a Thursday night we visited over in um Terrold and I don't know how we ended up at this guy's house, but we knocked on his door, he came out. I think you were with me And uh we talked to him a little bit and uh I asked him, I said, Do you know for sure that when you die you go to heaven, not to hell? Do you know for sure that God has forgiven your sins, you have eternal life And he said something to the effect, no, not much. I said, do you ever think about that? He goes, yeah, sometimes. I think about it a lot. So he allowed me to take my Bible, open my Bible, and uh we stood there on his front porch. Were you with me? Do you remember that? He had a cat, yes he did have a cat. I tell you, I'm getting concerned about our church. Brother Mark has cats. Now we bring in an assistant. Pastor Brett has cats and now Derek's falling in love with cats. I don't know about this. Oh that's right, yeah, good. I didn't remember the cat, but nevertheless So he said, sure. So on his front porch I took my Bible and I went to the book of Romans and I showed him from the Bible how that we're all sinners. For all sin that comes for the Word of God. We've broken God's law. We're guilty before a holy God. And I explained that to him, and I went back and showed them some of the Ten Commandments. And I asked him this question: if you stood before a holy God, And God said, Have you kept my commandments? Are you worthy of entering heaven by keeping my commandments? Could you say, what would God say? He said, I'd be guilty. I've broken God's law. I'm guilty, I'm a sinner. I said, well, that's what the Bible says. I said, there's a consequence for sin. I went to Romans 6. 23 and I pointed out to him that the wages, the consequence, the payment of our sin is death. And I tried to explain to him that the phrase death there is not talking about physical death, although it includes that, but what God is referring to there is spiritual death. You and I are spiritual beings. I always like to point out we don't have a soul. We are a soul and we have a body. We indwell this body, but we are spiritual beings. We are a soul. And I said, the wages of sin is death. That death is spiritual death. In that because of our sin, we are separated from God. Our God is a holy God. And he cannot look on sin, he cannot accept sin. His holiness repels it And because of that, because of our sin, the consequence of sinning is we are separated from God. And if we physically die in that condition, we're separated from God for all eternity. Jesus described it as hell. A horrific place. And he understood that and he says, yes, according to the Bible, if I die now, I'd go to hell. I said, you don't want to go to hell. He goes, no, I don't. Nobody in their right mind wants to die in their sins and go to hell separated from God for all eternity. And I say God doesn't want you to go to hell either. He loves you dearly. And he's done everything he possibly can to keep you out of hell. And I went to Romans 5. 8, but God commendeth or proved his love toward us while we are yet sinners. Christ died for us. As our substitute, he took the judgment of our sin in our place, and Jesus Christ suffered hell for me, for you, for the world. And I explained to this young man. He said, I believe that. I believe that's true. I believe Jesus Christ died for me personally, was buried, and rose again, is alive forevermore. I believe that's true. I pointed out to him that just because Jesus died on the cross, was buried, rose again, just because he suffered hell for all mankind doesn't mean all mankind's going to heaven. God made us f beings with free will. And we can choose to accept or reject the truth. And we can accept or reject This gift of eternal life, this gift of forgiveness, this gift of salvation, I can accept it and receive it for myself, or I can reject it. I have a free will. And I said, the Bible tells us how we can accept this gift. And it is a gift. We can't earn it. We certainly can't buy. How do you buy heaven? How do you buy forgiveness? It's a gift that we just received, and I showed them from Romans 10, 13, how to receive that gift, how to accept this gift of eternal life. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. And uh he says, I believe that. And I said to him, I said, Jesus Christ, when he died on that cross suffered hell, he he he did it for you and I just as we are, just the way we are. Our sins and everything. He paid for all that. I said, but would you be willing to call on him and trust him as your Savior? And on his ports, the young man bowed his head and called on the Lord Jesus to be his personal Savior Isn't that a wonderful thing? The message of salvation pounding it over and over on our streets, on the doorsteps, in our churches, in our Sunday school classes, on the bus routes. over the radio station in the newspapers, hammering that nail till it's fixed in every heart and mind. That man needs to be saved. Man can be saved. Jesus Christ has provided salvation for us. And all we need to do is by faith turn to Him, trust Him, accept Him as our Savior. Forgive us, cleanse our sin, give us eternal life. That a wonderful thing. Isaiah is pounding that over and over. I went back a couple weeks later, and uh Derek wasn't with me this time. I went back and the fellow wasn't home. I left a little note. And while I was there, I thought I'll knock on some other doors around, just try and talk to some other people. So I went to the next door and and uh knocked on the door. A guy came, a little short little guy, and uh he could look at him, you could tell he was military just looking at him And I said, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mount Lake Baptist Church. We talked a little bit, and uh he was uh uh Marine, he had been a Marine, he was home and disabled, I think, and we talked a little bit, and uh he said, I've heard about you. I don't know about you, but anytime a Marine points at me and says, I've heard about you, uh my hair falls out. Now I have no idea where this conversation is going. I don't know what's gonna happen. And and you know he kinda had that look in his eye. You know how Marines are. Bill Barron's look, yeah And I said, okay. And uh he says, I've heard about your church. I said, what have you heard? He says, my friends have told me that if you go out to that Mountain Lake Baptist Church, they're going to preach the Bible at you and they're going to try and get you saved and get you baptized. I said, well that about sums it up. That's you heard right. You heard right. You say, why is that? Why would why would I tell you why, because there's some truths that need to be hammered over and over and over and over. That man needs to be saved. Individuals need to be saved. We can be saved. God will save us. If we'll meet his conditions, come to him by faith. Turning from our sin to him, trusting him as our personal Savior. The Bible says God will forgive us. Forgive us of our sin. And freely give us eternal life. And when we die, we go to heaven, not to hell. Isn't that a wonderful message? More than any other Old Testament prophet, Isaiah hammered that and hammered that and hammered that. Now I want us to look at verse 18. This is A key verse in the book. And it kind of sets the tone in a lot of ways for the rest of the book of Isaiah. And the thing I want us to notice here, number one, is the call of God. The call of God. Notice what it says. Come now. Let us reason together. This is God speaking to individual mankind. Individual people. Come now. It's an invitation. It's a call of God. And that phrase, I got looking up that phrase, come now, and how it's used and the the Hebrew that it comes from and uh sorry, what is what is it what is he saying when he says come now? And it's simply means what you'd think you it would mean when he says come now. It has this idea to move from one position to another. It's like God is saying, hey, wherever you're at Whatever your condition is, whatever your situation is, whatever it is you're involved in, I want you to stop and come over here for a minute. Uh those that are parents, particularly if you had boys, you ever your boys are doing something, you say, uh, hey boys, come here a second, I need to address something. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And what do you expect to happen? When you said that, do you expect the the boys to come over there That's what the Lord is saying. Come now. You're going about your life, you're riding in your streets, you're living your life, you're doing your thing, you're uh you're making a mess of everything. Hey, come now Come now. It has the idea of moving from one position to another. But more specifically, I think in the context here, it has this idea to move my attention Off of one thing onto something else. And I think God is saying to you and I, and to the nation of Israel here in this context, He is saying to us, Come now, he's saying, hey, I want you to stop and pay attention to what I have to say. I want you to stop, get your focus, whatever you're focused on, turn and look at me. Did you ever talk to your kids and you ever say this to them? Look at me. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Look here. Hey. Shh. Here. It's kind of what God is saying. Come down. Hey, listen to what I have to say. Pay attention here. It is God's call, God's invitation. I believe one of the most foolish things a person can do is ignore God. One of the most foolish things a person can do is neglect or ignore my relationship with my Creator. And God is our Creator. God is. God does exist. By the way, He is present here now. We can't see Him, we can't hear Him, we can't smell Him, but He is here now. Now! God created all this. And God, how foolish it is for man, the creation of God, to ignore God, just push him aside. How foolish it is for a person to ignore their spiritual well-being and their standing before their creator God. Uh, we get out and talk to people often and every now and then I'll come across someone. I'll talk to him like I illustrated with that fellow in Laugh Lynn. A little bit ago I'll and I'll ask them, uh do you know for sure you're going to heaven? Well, I don't know, do you ever think about it? And every now and then I'll have somebody say, Nah, I don't think about that stuff I don't even think about it. Now I would never say this to them personally, but I walk away and I think, how foolish to ignore God. To not even consider my spiritual well-being and my standing before the God I'm going to have to face someday. And God's saying, hey, come now. Give me your attention. Don't be foolish. Don't ignore me. Don't push me aside. It is incredibly important. Your eternal destiny. Your spiritual well-being, you better pay attention to what God is doing in your life. He says, come now, come now, come now. Foolish it is to ignore my eternal destiny. Or even some folks simply assume that everything's fine. That's a dangerous thing. I learned a long time it's foolish to just assume stuff. Anybody here ever get burned? You assumed something was going to happen and it didn't. Anybody know what I'm talking about? How much more foolish it is to just assume, well, I don't know, I there is I assume everything will work out, I'm sure. That's crazy God says, don't do that. Pay attention. Listen to me. The whole message of the Bible is God calling man back to himself. We don't have time, but we go back to the book of Genesis. And God created Adam and Eve. He gave the world for them to live in. He created them to live and to reproduce and inhabit this world and be in fellowship and i i it was a tremendous perfect plan and design. But God created man with a free will. God doesn't want robots. I don't want my wife to love me and trust me simply because she has no other options. She's just pre-programmed into her. I love Dennis. I trust him. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I want her of her own free will to decide that she loves me. I want her own free will to try to decide that she trusts me. And when God created mankind, he made it the same way. You don't want a race of robots. He wanted mankind to choose to trust him. And so he gave him the option to live as God designed it, and as man was designed to live and within live within the parameters of the holiness and will and love of God. Or they could choose to step outside that. Of course, Satan come along, and we know that what happened. They chose to not trust God and stepped outside of that, and that introduced sin into the world. And the wages of sin is, and death came into the world. And so it didn't catch God by surprise, he, knowing all things, knowing the end from the beginning, he knew how this was going to play out Of course, he had a plan in place. But the thing I want to point out is this. I'm trying to emphasize the fact that the whole message of the Bible is God calling sinful man back to himself And the moment that Adam and Eve sinned, the moment that they broke that fellowship with God, the moment they stepped outside of the will of God, the very first thing God did was he came down and he said, Adam, where art thou? And it was almost, and I don't think I'm stretching it, it was almost like God was saying, Adam, come down. Hey, we need to fix this. We need to make this right. Don't ignore me. Don't push me aside. Adam, come now, listen to me. We need to reason together here. We need to make this right. We need to fix this. And the very first thing God did when man sinned against them, God stepped in and began the process of repairing and restoring that relationship. It's all through the Bible, all through the Bible. John 3. 16, for God so loved the world That he gave his only begotten son. That whosoever believeth in him, again, it's God's initiation. God loves the world. He steps down and says, here's my son. He'll pay the price for your sin. Whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. In Matthew, he says, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden. Hey, listen, pay attention over here. Here's the solution, here's the answer. It's a call, it's an invitation from God, the sinful man. And by the way, in Revelation 22, the very last book of the Bible, very last chapter of the book of the Bible One of the last verses of the last chapter of the last book of the Bible, verse 17, it says, the Spirit says, Come, come. I guess what I'm trying to say is this. I'm talking to somebody, I have no doubt in my mind, I'm talking to some people right now, through the have under the sound of my voice, that God has been working in your life. Events have been happening. Your thoughts have been directed to the things of God. God is working, God is intervening, God is calling. And what I'm saying is this: don't ignore that. Don't push it aside. We had a little kid when I was in Chattanooga, we had a bus route. We went to the inner city project of Chattanooga. And these kids, I mean this is a compliment. They were naughty. I'm complimenting 'em. That was bad. It was that bad. It was worse. It was so bad. These kids were naughty. There was one kid, I forget his name, I want to say it was LeBron, and he was naughty. He was he was the naughtyest of the naughties. And these kids, you know, they come from broken homes, it was horrendous. So we loved them to death. And one time LeBron was doing something, I don't know what he's doing, but I I got on a tear. And I'm ripping into him. You need to do right, God loves you, you're gonna mess your whole life up. You better start and I'm laying into him he went like this. Don't I didn't do that. But what I'm saying is this, God is calling, listen when God's working in your life. God's trying to get your attention. God's saying, look, focus, listen to what I'm saying. Listen to what I'm trying to do in your life. Listen, I want to solve your problems. I want to give you a new life. Don't ignore me I think it's one of the reasons people play music so loud is so they can't hear the Spirit of God working in their life. You agree with me? We live in a noisy world. Chester was going, I said, Chester, how was it? He said it was he went up he was a white were we Ohio or somewhere? West Virginia. And uh I said, how was it? He said it was quiet. I said, I like quiet. The older I get, the more I like quiet. And sometimes we just need to stop and be quiet and say, all right, Lord, what are you saying to me? God says, come now, focus your attention, listen to what I'm saying. I'm working in your life, I'm doing things I'm trying to get your attention before it's too late. He says, come and this is interesting, come now and let us reason together. That word now means exactly what you think it is. Now don't push it off. Don't put it off. Oh I know, I know I need I know I need to give some thought to my spiritual condition. I know I need to give some thought to where I'm going to spend eternity. I know I need to give some thought to my standing before God. But not now God says, no, now. Now. Don't push that off. Corinthians says, today is the day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. Proverbs 27:1 says. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. One of the young people came to me and I have no I don't know anything about the family, but they said, Please pray for the family of a fifteen year old boy died of a heart attack. Died of a tort attack just recently. Listen, don't boast yourself of tomorrow. Don't say I've got plenty of time. You don't know that. Don't don't gamble with your soul's destiny. Uh years ago, and I've told this a number of times, I wasn't here long as pastor, it was back nine probably the winter of ninety-three in that range, ninety four, somewhere around there, right when we first got here. One of the folks in the church said, um, there's a fella that had a massive heart attack. He's in the ICU down at the in Kaiser at the uh old hospital that used to be there. I don't think it's there anymore. Just a little hospital down there. And he said, Would you please go down? He's lost. He's unsaved. Would you please go down and visit him? I said, I'll do it right away. I went down there to see him. They let me in the back. He was in ICU, and as a pastor, they let me in there He was alert, he was awake, he had all the stuff on him. He's probably in his 60s, I would guess, mid-sixties maybe I introduced myself and he knew of me and had Ken in the church here and I talked to him a little bit and I said, well let me ask you an important question. I said, you're in bad shape. Do you know where you're born when you die? Well, I don't know. I hope I hope I go to heaven. I said, well the Bible tells you you can know for sure you don't have to hope so. That's risky. I said, well you let me show you from the Bible how you can settle that and get that taken care of. And he said, sure, and so I took my Bible just like the other fellow and I went through the told him what I went through here a little bit ago I said, would you be willing to call on the Lord? I'll help you call on the Lord and trust him as your Savior. Here's a 60-some-year-old fellow. His heart is total failure. He's machines keeping him alive. And he goes, I'm not ready yet. I said, you gotta be kidding me. He goes, not yet. And so I went back through. I thought maybe he misunderstood. I said, I'm not talking about joining the church. I'm not talking about baptism. I'm not talking about any of that. I'm talking about a decision of your will by faith. Putting your faith and trust in Jesus Christ, what he did for you, suffering hell for you, trusting him to come in your life, forgive you, go to heaven, not to hell when you die. He said, Do you understand that? He goes, Yes. And I said, Well, let's call and let's get this settled. He goes, Not yet. I'm not ready. What do you have to do to get ready? That old boy never would. As far as I know, he passed away, went out into eternity. Knowing that he needed to be saved, but pushing it off, pushing it off, pushing it off. The Lord says, come now. I'm working in your life. I'm trying to get your attention. Now is the time to deal with this. Now is the time to pay attention. Now is the time to decide for Christ. So I notice the call of God here. Let me quickly point something else out in this verse. Notice the counsel of God. He says, come now, let us reason together. That phrase reason is a legal term. Now, when I was first reading this and over the years I read this passage, my I had in my mind, I really probably didn't give it a whole lot of thought, but I had in my mind, it has the idea of sitting down Bill and I sitting down and we're going to reason together and I'll t give my side and he'll give his side and we kind of banter back and forth and we just kind of reason together. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's kind of That's kind of my impression of what the Lord was saying. But I got looking at it, that's not what he's saying at all. When the Lord said, come now, let us reason together, as I said, it is a legal term. And it has this idea, like the prosecutor in a court will take out all the evidence and he puts it all on the table and he says, here is all the evidence, here are all the facts I want to present them to you, presenting my case. And God is saying, He makes this call. Come now, give me your attention. Come over here. Let's look. Listen, here's the facts. I'm going to reason together. I'm going to sit you down. I'm going to lay it all out here and you see things as they really are. It's not inviting us to come and simply discuss our sins. Well, how do you feel about your sins? Well, Lord, I was when I was little, my parents hardly ever gave me ice cream, and I just got that really affected me, and that's why I'm such a demented person now Well how do you feel about how do you feel about all those lies you've told? Well, you know, everybody's just mean to me and I just That's not what he's saying He's coming saying, here is my law. I am God. I am a holy God. I created you. I designed you to function within a in righteousness and and in purity and godliness and you have lived outside of that and I'm laying out the law. Here are my commands And you've broken these, you've lied, you've taken my name in vain, you've stolen, you've committed adultery, you've dishonored your parents These are the facts. And God is laying out to mankind the simple fact, undeniable facts, that we are sinners We've broken God's law. We've sinned against our holy, loving God God has every right to confront our sin. God has every right to lay out the conditions. For him to accept us. He's God for Pete's sake. He created us. We didn't say He made us. We're His. Look at verse number two there. He says, O hear, O heavens, and give earth. Chapter 1, O earth, for the Lord has spoken. I have nourished him, brought you, brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. God has every reason to confront our sins. He lays out the facts that we've broken his law, we've sinned against him, we're guilty. By the way, it's God's love. It's God's love that motivates him to confront my sin. He he he says, listen, that sin is destroying you. You're trying to live independent of me. You're trying to live your own life. I you have a God-shaped vacuum in your life. You're empty. You're struggling with purpose in life. He says, Listen to me. Here's the facts. You're a sinner. You need forgiveness. You need me to intervene in your life. And God loves us. That's why he intervenes. How many people agree with me? If my boy uh if I if I say when the boys are small and they're playing out in the front yard, uh the the road here, Broadford Road, the speed limit's twenty-five, that means they drive a minimum of fifty-five sixty And they go screaming up and down here. And the boys are playing in the front yard and I uh would you agree with me? It would be love for my boys that says, boys don't play out in the road If I didn't care about him, if I had no love for him at all, I'd say, sure, whatever, play in the middle of the street, here's a ball, here's some toys, sit up there. But I love him And if they go out in the street, it's dangerous for them. And because I say, boss, son, get back here. What are you doing? You're gonna get hit, you're gonna get hurt, you're gonna get killed maybe. That's what God says. We need to reason together. Listen to me, you're a sinner You've broken my law, you're under the judgment of my holiness. This needs to be addressed. And it's because God loves us. We have a family doctor. We've had him for years. I'm very, very grateful for him. He's a good man. I believe that our family doctor, I believe my doctor cares for my physical well-being. I'm convinced of that. He's displayed that to me. And one of the things I appreciate about our family doctor is he'll he'll say that he'll he'll call me Pastor Lederman when I sit in the office, and if there's something wrong, he'll say, Pastor Letherman, listen, this is not right. This needs to be addressed. He used to say it doesn't as much as he anymore, but he used to say to me, uh, Pastor Letterman, you need to lose weight. I'd say, mind your own stinking businesses Why did he tell me that? How many people how many people think, oh yeah, I love to hear that? I can't wait to go to the doctor. He's gonna tell me I'm fat. I didn't like to hear that. And there was a part of me that bristled. Oh yeah? But I knew He knew what was best for me. And he was concerned for my health. And so he told me how it was. He reasoned with me. Look, you're 50 some years old, you're 5 foot 11 inches, this is your frame, you ought to weigh this much, you weigh this much, that's putting pressure on your heart, it's making your sugar high, you need to lose that weight Why would he tell me? He's reasoning with me. He says, uh, Pastor Lethem, your blood pressure is so high, this needs to be addressed. You need more exercise. I'm going to put you on this medicine. You've got to take it. What's he doing? He's reasoning with me. He's telling me what it is. Why? Because I believe he genuinely is concerned about my physical well being. Plus he gets paid. But um Right? And that's what God is doing. And when God confronts us about our sin, and when you hear a preacher preaching about my sin or the radio or something and it comes and I'm and I'm being aware of my sin. Don't ignore that. Don't pretend that's God reasoning with us. For five months before I was saved, January of 1979, New Year's, I made a New Year's resolution. I'm going to turn my life around. I've got to straighten this up. I do not want to be this man I'm becoming Man, I'm messing things up bad. And I began reading my Bible and trying, you know, asking God to help me. And the more I read my Bible, the more time I won, the more God kept showing me how dark my heart really was. He started showing me how ugly my sin really was. By the time I got to the point where I was willing to humble myself and trust him as my personal savior, God convinced me I was a uh deceitful and desperately wicked. That there was nothing good in me That's God reasoning. Reasoning. So we have the call of God, we have the counsel of God, and then last of all I notice the commitment of God. He makes a promise. Come now, let us reason together, saith the Lord. Look at this. Though your sins be as scarlet, that's what he's been reasoning. He's been showing them they're sinners. Read back to the early part of the chapter. He's saying your sin. You need to deal with this. And he says, if you will deal with it, if you will f trust me and follow my instructions, though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be what? White as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Now there's two words in there that stand out in my mind. Shall be. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be white as snow. Not might be, not may be But if you will trust me, if you will follow my instructions, if you will respond to what I'm telling you, your sins are horrendous. But they shall be, I promise you, I give you, I give you my commitment as God. They shall be white as snow. They shall be as wool. I don't have to hope that God will forgive my sin. I don't have to wonder if God is going to forgive my sin. I talk to people often Say, do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? Oh yeah, I go to heaven. How do you know? Well, I think I'll get up there and I just think God will work things out. And I just hope that He'll say everything's alright. I'll say, listen, that's not good enough. We don't have to hope God forgive our sin. We don't have to wonder if God will forgive our sins. We can know for sure that our sin is forgiven. that our sins, regardless of how wretched, how scarlet they are, that God can and will make us white as snow. Take your Bible if you would. I had you find 1 John chapter 1. I want to read two passages, make a statement, I'm done. 1 John chapter 1. So all the way back. If you got it there, I'm going to begin reading in verse number 7. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. Now let me just throw this out for sake of the message, in the context of the message, let me suggest this. When he says, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, I want to suggest to you that we accept his counsel. This is the light he's given. I say, all right, Lord, yes, I accept that counsel. You're right, I'm a sinner. I need to be saved. I've paid attention. You've been working in my life. You've got my attention. You said that I need certain things need to be true. I need to deal with my sin. I'm in that light. Follow what I'm saying, what I'm suggesting And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, look at this next statement, cleanseth us from all sin. How much sin? All sin. Say, preacher, you don't know what I've done. Doesn't matter, God does. God says that he'll cleanse us from all sin. If we'll receive his counsel for listen to what he says and follow his instructions. He'll cleanse us from all sin. Look down the next verse. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. The truth is not in us. But if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from All unrighteousness. Come to chapter five, if you would have a problem. I want to begin reading in verse 11. Listen very carefully to what God is saying in His Word. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life. And this life is in his son. He that hath the Son hath life. And he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. Look at this. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. And that you may believe in the name of the Son of God. I don't have to hope I'm saved. I don't have to hope God has forgiven me. I don't have to wonder if God's forgiven my sin. I can stand before you today and before anybody in this world and say, I know for sure that God has forgiven me and cleansed me of all my sin. And I'm accepting all my way to him. You say, you're awfully arrogant. Who do you think you are? It's God's free. I I'm just an old wretched wicked sinner But God promised that whoever calls on him, trusts him, follow his instructions, put his trust in him, accepts Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, that he will forgive all my sins. And I believe God keeps his word. It's faith. Faith. Faith. I was for four years I was chaplain with the hospice program. We had a very good setup and it worked beautifully. They respected my convictions and different things. They said there's a fella out by the lake, he's dying. This was years ago. He doesn't have a pastor. He's had no spiritual background, but he only has a few months to live, and he's very concerned about his spiritual well-being. Pastor Loman, would you go visit him? I said, I'd be more than glad to Went out and introduced myself, the family of their beautiful home. They lived somewhere else and he wanted to come and die by the lake So we entered in and I sat down and talked to him a little bit and told him who I was and kind of got the ball rolling, talking, and kind of introduced some spiritual things there. And he says, hold it. He called everybody who was in the house there. He says, y'all go outside. I need to talk to the Reverend alone. So they ran everybody out and I sat down. He began to sob. He was a veteran from World War II. He was in North Africa. He had served North African part of the war. And he told me, he said I'd done some horrendous things. And he told me what he did, and it was terrible. And he's sobbing and he said, God can never ever forgive me for what I've done I said, sir, with all due respect, you're wrong. God can and God will forgive you if you will just let him. If you'll just let him trust them. And I took them to John, 1 John 1. 7. The blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. For all sin. I told him when Jesus died on that cross, he was shedding his blood, he was suffering hell for you, sir, and for me, and for every sin that's ever been committed. Jesus Christ already paid that price. He said, will God forgive me? I said, yes. That old man, grizzled, hard. With tears in his eyes, bowed his head, and he called on the Lord Jesus Christ to come in his heart and life and forgive and cleanse him from all sin. And he looked up with a smile. He said, did God really forgive me? I said, unless God's a liar, that's exactly what happened. He said, well, God ain't no liar. I said, God ain't no liar. God ain't no liar. It was only a week or so later. He passed away. Took his body downstate, did a ceremony. I never had any contact with the family again. But I'm glad to know. That we can come to God and He can reason with us and He can take our sin, even if it's scarlet, and He can make it white as snow. Amen. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us and help us to trust you. Lord, perhaps there's someone hearing this message that you've been working in their heart, you've been calling them. You've been trying to get their attention, their focus on you to consider their spiritual well-being. And Lord, you're reasoning, you're pointing out that they need you desperately as Savior. And I pray that today they would respond in faith and trust you and allow you to come in their heart and life and forgive all their sin, that they can receive eternal life, have a home in heaven Wonder with our heads bow and eyes closed to say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. I did that. I trusted Christ as Savior. And he did exactly what he promised. He forgave me and saved me. I know I have that assurance from God's word in my heart. that God has saved me and forgiven me a sin. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I know that. That's settled. I've trusted him. God bless you. Hands all around. Now for one reason or another, some folks couldn't raise their hand And here's my invitation to you. You say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. God's been working in my heart. He has my attention. And you say, preacher, I'd appreciate if you pray for me that God would help me settle that That I can know for sure my sins are forgiven, that when I die I'm on my way to heaven, not to hell. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher? I'd appreciate if you'd pray for me that God would help me settle that. How about it? Any at all? God bless you. How about it? Any others? God's working in your heart and life. God's trying to get your attention. Don't ignore it. Don't ignore it. How about it? Any others? How many would say, preacher, I know someone, I'm so concerned for them. I'm not trying to be judgmental. They don't know Christ. I know that. You say, preacher, I'm very burdened for them. I'd like for them to come to know Christ. And you'd say, pray with me that I'll be a good witness, that I'll be a good testimony as a Christian. That they could see Christ in me and see their need. How many like that say I know someone that needs Christ and I need to be a good witness, need a good God bless you, hands all around. Now maybe once you're maybe you're saved, maybe I told somebody that saved And God's working in your life, and there's some things that are not right as a Christian that need to be addressed. You're not living for the Lord as a believer as you ought to, and God's been dealing with that, and God's been working in your life, and I say don't ignore that. Let the Lord have his way. How many people would say, preacher, that's me? I know there's some areas in my life that need attention, and God's been working on any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Hands all around. Now the old-fashioned altar is a good place to business with God. For hundreds of years, people have been responding to messages like this in old-fashioned altar and doing business with God, praying and acknowledging things and responding in faith. So Father, I ask you to bless our invitation now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation song