John fifteen. And uh we're just gonna look at verse number two. In fact, I'd like for us to read first two together in unison while you're finding your place there again. You know you can't um you know men always complain that they never really understand women. Can I get a witness? You guys are afraid to say amen because your wife is right beside you. But there is a way you can uh you can uh tell you there's a way you can learn about a woman by looking at her hands. If her hands are around your neck, it means she's upset with you. And so that's one way to be able to tell what Alright, John chapter fifteen. Verse number two, I'd like, as I said, I'd like for us to read this here together in unison. John fifteen two. Ready? Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Um I'm tired of the message, God's pruning. Or you could have a subtitle on why bad things happen to good people sometimes. God's pruning or why bad things sometimes happen to good people. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, thank you for the Word of God. Lord, I'm grateful for the fellowship we've had this morning. The singing's been a blessing, and Lord, it's just been a joy thus far to be in the house of God. Lord, I just sent your presence here today in a special way. And I pray that you'd stir our hearts now. Help us to understand you, dear Lord, a little better. God help us to leave here today knowing a little bit more and comprehending a little bit more what you're like, what your plan is for our lives, what you're doing in our lives, and what you expect from us. And uh Lord, to do that, for us to have that happen, we need your Holy Spirit to open our hearts and minds and teach us. So God, with that in mind, I yield my will to yours. I present my body as a conduit for your spirit to work through me. And help us, we pray. Don't leave us alone, dear Lord. Don't let us just go on. God stir us. intervene in our lives and change us and mold us, convict us, and uh make us the people you'd have us to be, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. John fifteen is a fascinating chapter in Scripture. In fact It's impossible. You can't put certain portions of Scripture and say they're more important than others. But I believe John chapter 15 is an extremely significant chapter in the Bible. It helps us to understand a little bit what the context here is in the these words that are spoken. Of course, this is the Lord Jesus Christ speaking throughout the chapter. The historical context of when this done, it was these were these words were spoken by our Lord on the night that Judas betrayed him. This was spoken just prior to when they uh got up into the uh Garden of Gethsemane there. The garden where uh Jesus prayed, remember he says, Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, thy will be done. Judas come in there just before you know Judas comes in then and betrays him and he's taken away. This is spoken just before that uh event took place. It is just after Jesus instituted the Lord's Supper in the upper room. He had the disciples around. Of course, Judas uh uh he says he uh he says Jesus said, one of you guys is going to betray me, and uh all the disciples said what Is it I, Lord, am I gonna betray you? What? And so he said it's the one that dips uh his bread in the sop, and of course Judas did and slipped out and um Jesus institutes the Lord's Supper. Some have suggested, and I tend to uh agree with this, though there's really no way of knowing, have suggested that this was spoken en route to the Garden of Gethsemane. This was um uh after they had left the upper room, they were walking along, one um commentator was Raiden, he suggested that maybe uh Jesus saw some grapevines off on the side, some vineyards, and he used that to prompt this uh this dialogue here. Whatever the case Chapter 15 is a powerful, powerful portion of Scripture. In this chapter, if you would take time and just study it and really give yourself to it, you'd find some of the most profound teaching in all of the Gospels. In John chapter 15, we are given principles for successful living. And by successful living, I mean in the eyes of God. I think we all understand being a success in God's eyes is a world of difference than being success in the world's eyes What the world considers success and what God considers success are two uh very different things. And so when I come to John chapter 15, and if I digest this chapter and and study it out, I find here are principles on how I can live my life from a young person to my senior years till the Lord calls me home, how I can live my life and God is pleased with my life. John 15 tells us how that happens In this chapter, we're told what the purpose and meaning for life is. Man, just so many people just go through life and really don't have any purpose. Really don't have any meaning. They're just going from one event to another. There's no direction. There's no foundation I was talking to a fellow yesterday, a young fella, and I was just asking about his life, and I gave my testimony, and I made a statement. I said, you know, I was becoming a man I didn't want to be And I said, I needed help and I could not change myself. I needed God to help me. I said, when God when I trusted Jesus Christ my Savior, Christ came in my life and he gave me purpose and direction in my life. I said, can you say that you have purpose and direction in your life? His answer was, well, no, I can't really say that. It's just whatever. John 15 tells us that we can have purpose, we can have real meaning, direction in life. Living for something. It's a great chapter. In John chapter 15, we find out how to have joy in life. He talks about that a little bit later on. How I can have genuine joy in my life. I tell you, there's a lot of laughter in the world, but there's not much joy, is there Yeah, everybody's laughing, everybody's joking, and I'm all for it. I like to have a good time, joke around, and horse around and stuff, I like all that. But uh it's possible to uh have laughter without joy And by the way, it's possible when the situation doesn't draw out laughter, but to still have joy in my heart, even when I'm not laughing. And so we find that in John chapter fifteen, and we could spend uh great periods of time on that. In John fifteen, we find the key to answered prayer. Boy, Brother Chip made some great statements in Sunday school this morning about prayer, about getting answered to prayer. John chapter 15 gives us the key. How we can pray and anticipate God answering our prayers. And in John chapter 15, he gives us some principles that help us understand the purpose of trials. When God brings heartaches and difficulties in our lives. I tell you, one thing I've learned pastoring over 19 years now, preaching since 1985. There's something I've learned. No matter the size of your crowd or no matter what the the type of people sitting under you, you're always speaking to somebody that's going through trials They're always speaking of somebody that has a heartache, disappointment, difficulty. And John chapter 15, listen, if you're going through a tough time, if you're in a period, in a valley in your life, you're in a tough time in your life, John 15 would be a good place to spend a good bit of time. You'll find some answers. You'll get some direction. Particularly verse number two. Now James read it, then we read it together in unison. I want to read it again. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit He taketh away. And every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Now before we break this verse down, and I've got a couple of thoughts, I've kind of outlined this verse here, but before we do that, I think if we're going to really understand what the Lord is telling us here We need to understand a few other things. First of all, this verse is written to believers. An unsaved person cannot claim this verse. Jesus is not talking to lost people in John 15 and verse number two. In fact, basically the whole chapter is written to believers. Notice the first couple words in verse number two he says, in me. In me. He's talking about saved people. Folks are in Christ. If you're here this morning, you've never accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you are not in Christ, you are outside of Christ. In fact, the Bible says to be unsaved means to be without God, without hope in the world. He said, Preacher, I've never accepted Jesus as my Savior, but man, I still have God in my life Not if you don't have Jesus Christ. You are separated from God, the Bible says. You can be religious, you can have religious feelings and emotions, but if you don't have Jesus, you don't have God. Because Jesus is the mediator between man and God. And that's the only access I have to God is through the Lord Jesus Christ. So this is written to believers, those that are in me. A saved person is in a unique situation. Once, how many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen. Amen. That's great. That's the vast majority. If that's true, if I know Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, I am in Christ, as I said, but I'm in the family of God. And as a child of God, as a as part of the family of God, God has given me new principles to live by. You hear preachers say often, you've heard me say this often, a Christian should be different than the world. Did anybody ever hear that? Want to be different than the world. And I don't just mean look different. Um, you know, at that comes out often, but it doesn't necessarily have to be look different just to be different. They're all wearing green. I'm gonna wear blue because I'm a Christian. You know, that's not what we're talking about. We are different in the sense that as a believer we live by bit different values than the world does. Follow what I'm saying? What the world considers important, the Christian considers something different important. Follow what I'm saying? Uh what the world lives by, the morals and principles and values of the world are a whole different set for the world than it is for the Christian And so, as a person in Christ, I'm in the family of God, I'm in Christ. That means I have different principles to live by, but it also means I have different resources available to me. You and I have resources available to us that the unsaved person does not have. We touched on already, but answered prayer. Listen to me, the unsaved, they can come and ask God to have mercy and save their soul, but an unsaved person does not have access to the throne of grace that the saved person does We have resources. As a believer, we have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling in our bodies. I have not gotten over that yet. That God's Holy Spirit lives within me. God! The one that created all this, just spoke it, this all-powerful, he lives inside me. That's an amazing thing. For I got saved, I was struggling, you know my testimony, I was struggling with sins and and uh destructive life and just garbage and wickedness, sex and drugs and rock and roll and all that garbage And I want to, as I said, I did not want to be the person I was. I did not, I saw what I was becoming, and I tried so hard. I used all my resources to change that And stopped the direction I was going. And I was a failure. Finally, I started seeking God. You've heard the story I read my Bible? I realized I needed Christ, needed Christ. My daddy, of course, been praying for me, witnessing me. And one night I got on my knees. I cried out to God, Jesus Christ, I need you. Come in my life, forgive my sins, save me from sin in hell And I got up, you know what? I had a resource now I didn't have before. You know what I found out my life was changing. God was given victory. Now I had a something I didn't have the for. I had a new life by the presence of the Holy Spirit And so this is written to believers, people who live by different principles, people who have different resources available. Now, another thing we need to understand this verse before we break it down is the meaning of the term fruit. Let me read it again. Maybe we'll have this memorized by the end of the service, under the message. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away Right, here you've got a Christian, saved person, have different principles, different values, different resources in the world. They're in Christ, they're saved, but there's no fruit being born. So the Lord says he takes that branch away, that Christian away. Then he goes on, he says, but every branch of me, and every branch that beareth fruit. He purgeth it. Why? That it may bring forth warm fruit. So over here, you have a a different Christian. In Christ, same as the other branch was, a new principle, a new uh new values lives by, uh re greater resources than the unsafe have, all that. And this Christian's bearing fruit. And Jesus said, God comes and God's the husbandman. Here he comes and he purges that Christian, so he brings forth more fruit. So the question is, what is the fruit that these Christians are supposed to be bearing? What is the fruit that this guy is not bearing, and what is the fruit that this guy is bearing that the Lord purges them? So he brings forth more fruit. Well we need to understand that. And we could go through and uh different things. In fact, notice here that I thought this was an interesting progression. Look at verse two Every branch of me that beareth not fruit, I circled that. You've got the stage in life or a period a situation in Christian life where there's no fruit being born Then you go on and uh he says every branch that beareth fruit, all right, you've got fruit. Then he says he purges that guy, so he brings forth more fruit. So I circled the two words not fruit, then I circled the word fruit, then I circled the word more fruit. Then come down to verse number five. I in the vine, ye the branches, he that abideth me, and I in him the same bringeth forth Much fruit. So you go from no fruit to fruit to uh more fruit to much fruit. This is a fruity concept. I'm sorry, that just came to my mind. So there's a progress. So what in the world is this fruit? That God's trying to get more and more and more out of us. What is this truth? Is it money? Is God trying to get more and more money out of us? No. It's not hard. You don't have to go far in scripture to disprove that. Um is it uh uh what is it? Uh is it um uh more fruit, much uh look no fruit, fruit, more fruit, much fruit? What exactly is it? Let me uh to abbreviate for sake of time, I'm going to bring this down. And uh whatever this fruit is, God wants it. Would you agree with me on that? How many folks are awake? Say amen. How many folks are asleep? Say amen. Nobody's asleep. Praise the Lord. Whatever this fruit is, God wants more and more and more of it. If you are bearing this fruit, God wants you to bear more of that fruit. If you're not bearing any fruit, God wants you to start bearing. So, what in the world is this that God wants so much of? That He goes to such lengths to get us to produce it. I put this is my definition. I think it's scriptural. If you take it and look at the this is it. Fruit. You could write this in a margin Bible and and it would be a good thing. This is it. Fruit A positive spiritual influence on others. That's what the fruit is. Having a positive spiritual influence. on my world, on people around me, those I come in contact with. That's the fruit. God wants every one of us as Christians. A few moments ago I asked, how many if you know you're saved and you know it I ask you to say amen. Most people said amen. Maybe everybody did. I couldn't tell. If that's the case, then God wants you and I to have a positive spiritual influence on the people around us, on our world. And he wants that influence, that positive spiritual influence, to increase and increase and increase and increase And if we start having, if we are having a positive spiritual influence on people around us, if we really are making a difference for the gospel in people's lives. Then God will be active in our life, molding and changing and rearranging things so that I have a greater spiritual influence on people around me. You follow what I'm saying? That's what the fruit is. The fruit is that because of how I'm living my life, because of the person what I am, people around me, their faith in God is getting stronger. People around me who are unsaved, they are understanding that they need Christ, just like I needed Christ. Through the how I talk, what I say, the efforts I put, how I live my life, what I invest myself in, it has a positive spiritual influence on people. Now let me say this: all of us have influence on others. Whether you want to acknowledge it or not, you do have an influence. I do have an influence. It's either positive or negative. And so God wants a positive fruit for God is his people having an influence on others. The people are becoming more aware of the gospel of Jesus Christ, people are becoming more aware of the of the power of God, the love of God, and and uh their faith in God. Those who are believers, their faith in God is getting stronger. So that's what the fruit is. Um bringing others to salvation, strengthening other people's faith, and getting them to understand more of God's love and God's plan for their lives because of how I live and how I talk and all of that. So here's the verse. Every branch in me that bears not fruit takes it away Every branch in me that is bearing fruit, that is really actually influencing other people for the Lord in a positive way, he purges it. So that they can have greater influence, greater positive effect on others. So here's the outline. That's what the verse is saying Now let's try and apply it to our lives. Number one, I see here the reality of trials and hurts in life. The reality of trials and hurts in life. He says every branch that beareth fruit is going to be perched. Would you agree with me? Purging has a painful connotation. Would you agree with me on that? That is uh ouch. Uh we uh with a lot of trees and stuff down. I was cutting some branches over here trying to clean up the yard a little bit, and every time I'd cut that, that tree would go, ow! And um not really. But uh it it's it has a negative connotation. It is impossible to go through life without trials. It's impossible. It is impossible to go through life without tears. Nobody's going to get off this planet without having shed some tears at some point in time. Am I right or wrong? Um nobody's going to get through life without some hurts. Uh without going through some valleys. The reality of trials, well regardless of whether you're a good Christian, poor Christian You say, Well, preacher, I got saved. I'm trying to live for God. Why am I having such a hard time? Well, there's several reasons. That people have difficulties and heartaches. Some, uh just touch on these briefly, some trials are a result of our own bad decisions. Huh? Sometimes somebody just makes a stupid decision and there's painful consequences And there's a lot and we don't have to go far in the Bible to find people that made bad decisions and suffered for it. Samson being a classic example Uh any number, you don't have to get far in the Bible. You find out uh bad decisions. Uh by the way, don't blame God for the consequences of your decisions I hear that all the time. Why did God let this happen to me? You knucklehead because you disobeyed him back here. Don't blame God. Why did God put me so far in debt? Might be because you chose to have 25 max out 25 credit cards. Don't blame God for the bad decisions you and I have the consequences of the bad decisions you and I have made. Sometimes people are hurting, sometimes people are crying, sometimes people are in difficult trials. Because of stupid decisions they've made. Sometimes people face trials and difficulties, not necessarily because they made a bad decision, but maybe because someone else made a bad decision There is no such thing as victimless sin. Don't buy into that. There is no such thing as safe sin. Our world, our school systems like to talk about safe sex. Listen, any physical involvement between the sexes that is outside the principles of Scripture is not safe. Excuse me. Say, well, this is just uh uh the fact is sin affects others, and a lot of time it affects innocent people. I may be talking to some folks this morning, maybe over the internet or here in this auditorium, that uh you're hurting today because somebody else did something stupid. And it's crushed you. It's broken you. It's a fact of life. Some fellow decides to go to a bar and get drunk. And on top of his stupidity, he decides he's going to drive home. He plows into an innocent family coming home from a revival meeting at church. The kids killed and mom's paralyzed. And they suffer, they're hurt. Because of the stupid decision someone else made. It's a fact of life. Sin hurts people. Say, well, it's just my life. It is your life, but guess what? You affect others. Parents' decision affects the kids. Am I right or wrong? Hey, children's decisions can affect the parents. Hey, kids, you can break your parents' heart. Yes, you can. Goes both ways. So some trials are result of my own stupid decisions. And to some degree we've all been there, huh? Maybe I'm the only one, huh? Let me try that again. We've all been there, right? Oh, you make me feel better. I thought, man, this is the most amazing crowd I've ever been in my life. They m never made this Some of us are hurt because of other decisions people made. But this is where this verse caught my attention. What about folks that are doing right? And they're living for God, their life is pure, and man, they're just a blessing to people and Others are understanding more about the Lord. Maybe people are getting saved. They're witnessing. And you know, they're just a help to people. And man, they go through it. What is that? Um, you read I like to read biographies. You I like to read biographies of great Christians and preachers. And you read these people, and you know what I found? Some of the people that God used the most Have gone through the darkest valleys that you can possibly imagine. Some of the most sweetest, godly Christians I've ever met, when you find their story. You find there was hurt, there was pain, there was disappointment, there was tears. Why does God do that? Why would God hurt or allow to be hurt those who seem to love them the most and are most fruitful in their life? This verse gives us the answer. But the fact of the matter is, all of us go through trials The reality of trials. Second thing I noticed in this verse, first of all, was the reality of trials and heart heartaches and tears. Second thing I noticed was the removal of the fruitless. Now we'll come back to that question I asked. Why does God let that happen? in a moment. But let's look at the first part of this verse here in our second thought. He says, Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. Every person, this is a saved person, fancy in me, is a saved person. They have very little or no spiritual influence on others They never share the gospel, they have no testimony for the Lord, nobody learns anything about God from them They are no witness whatsoever. They have no influence for the gospel whatsoever. And the Bible says God removes them. Takes them away. Now, some folks are going to try to tell you, maybe some preachers or whatever Christians are going to try and tell you that this verse is teaching that they lose their salvation. That is wrong. And that's not difficult to show that that is not wrong. Let me give you three ways to correctly interpret scripture. Number one, look up the meanings of the words. A lot of times that clarifies it. You say, well, I'm not sure what this means. Look up the meaning of the word. A lot of times, oh, I see what he's saying. So that helps. But there's something else you'll do. You ought to look at the context. That it's being read. Read the verses before and after. Find out what all this is about. That helps you understand. Then the third thing you need to always do is compare scripture with scripture Alright, is this teaching you can lose your salvation? Well, let's look at other passages of scripture that talk about salvation and what do they say about a person losing their salvation? So when we look up the words, we look at the context, we compare it with other scripture. We come to the conclusion this is not teaching us that a person loses their salvation. Now let's look at this The word taketh away. Look what it says. Every branch of me that beareth not fruit, he's not having a witness, he taketh away. Well, I got Mike Strong's incordnets out, got looking upwards. It's interesting. It's very similar to the way it's expressed there, but it has the idea to put out of the way. And there's an aspect to this of lifting up, lifting up and putting out of the way. You have something in your living room and you take it away. You lift it up, in the definition of the word here, you lift it up and you put it out of the way. See if you're on the same wavelength with me. What does that sound like you're doing with it? Ah, putting it in storage. See if this is a phrase that rings a bell. Putting it on a shelf. Did you ever hear that? A preacher say? Did you ever hear a preacher say, Boy, I want to live for God. I don't want God to put me on a shelf. What does that mean God puts them on a shelf? That means God doesn't use them. They're just in the way. They're hindering. They're hurting the cause. And he doesn't send them to hell. He picks them up and puts them away. He takes them away. He removes them from the process. This is not a believer losing their salvation. This is actually what I believe a term referencing God's chastisement. I may be talking to someone this morning. You don't never witness to anybody. You don't ever talk to anybody about Christ. You don't pray for folks to be saved. You don't live a life, a testimony that has any positive influence on people around you. In fact, they might even not even know you're a Christian. No witness, no influence. And my Bible says that guy is encumbering the tree. He's hurting the fruits that are the branches that are fruitful. He's stealing sunlight from them. He's hindering them being able to grow and develop. I'm going to put him up out of the way. It's a form of chastisement. The best example that I can find of this in the Bible is, and we're all familiar with the story of Jonah. Question. In chapter 1 of Jonah, for those that are familiar, was Jonah bearing fruit? Yes or no? No! God wanted him to. God became active in his life. I want you to go over to Nineveh, and I want you to preach my message to them. But Jonah did not bear fruit. He didn't do what God said. He didn't, it wasn't a witness. He didn't go and have any positive influence there. He said, I'm going the opposite direction. So God took him away. Where did he put him? The belly of a whale. You talk about a shelf life. I just thought of that. That's pretty good. He is, you're not, you're hurting the cause. There's people dying and going to hell. You have no positive influence whatsoever. You're not an example to the other believers to obey me and go do that. In fact, you're a bad example. Because you're not obeying me, because you're not doing that, people are dying going to hell. My own people are seeing you. And they're thinking, well, if he doesn't have to obey God, I don't have to obey God. And so God says, Whoop, here's a nice whale-belly shelf, I'll stick you in there. Now here's the nice thing about being taken away in the context here, the idea of being put on the shelf, is that if I will start bearing fruit, God will bring me back off the shelf. Jonah got in the whale of the valley and he got right with God. You read chapter 2, he got thoroughly right with God. You say, man, that's a powerful prayer. And so God gets him back off the shelf. He hits the vomit button. Jonah's back out. He cleans himself off and he goes, and lo and behold, he starts bearing fruit. And the whole city gets saved. So the removal here, when he says, the branch in me that beareth not fruit, he taketh away. God's not sending them to hell God's simply saying, I'm going to put you out of the way. And if you decide to start bearing fruit again, you decide to start having a positive influence, you get confess your sin and disobedience, make it right, you can bear fruit again But for the time being, I'm setting you aside. When we live for self, we are unfruitful for the Lord When we are unfruitful for the Lord, we hinder the cause of Christ, and God takes them away. I already mentioned this, but a baron, and I imagine Brother Brian being a um an orchardologist Um, I guess that's what you'd call it. Uh but he could tell you though one of the reasons you cut those barren fruits off is so that the fruitful or the barren branches off is so that the fruitful branches can develop. Right? And so they have more room. They have more access to the sun. More of the nutrient coming up from the ground is available to them. Uh the the bar the fruitless branch is not encumbering and sapping up resources that uh fruitful branches could have, and so God says, I'll just take you off and put you aside and uh put you away. So you have number one the reality of trials. We're all going through trials Some of us go through trials sometimes because we make stupid decisions and we bring bad consequences. We work through that, maybe get things right, start making the right decisions, we work out that. Sometimes other people make bad decisions hurt us. And so that's another subject. The Bible deals with it, but respond properly to other people hurting me, decisions they make that hurts me, affects me. I gotta deal properly with that so I can be fruitful And then some people go through trials because they're very fruitful. They're doing what God says. And they're having an influence. And God says, I want you to have more of an influence. I want to expand your outreach. And so thus he brings purging. So that's point number three. The refinement of the fruitful. Every branch in me that beareth fruit, he purgeth it. The word purge is very simple. Uh meaning it's the idea of pruning, as I said. It has the idea of cleansing. Uh the one definition I was reading said the idea of removing that which is not helpful And so God takes things away. Contrary to a lot of the TV preachers, you get right with God, start exercising faith in God, start living for God, rather than God adding to you, He may take some stuff away. Huh? It's possible you get right thoroughly right with God and God starts using you, you might have to live in a smaller house than you did before you were living for God. Huh? You might not drive as nice a car. There was a preacher on TV not long ago. Somebody else pointed this out to me. I didn't see it. Somebody I think it was during a sword conference. One of the guys was saying, well, it might have been Sam Davison. And the guy was chewing his people out because they don't all drive Mercedes. You know what? I'd far rather have a congregation that drives Chevy Chevets Amen, Ed. GM. We used to have a Chevette. You had to shove it to get it going. But I just called it our bet. Yeah, well that's my bet. But I'd rather have people driving Chevettes that are thoroughly obedient to God and have a powerful influence in the world than everybody driving Mercedes and has no witness. Follow what I'm saying? There's nothing wrong with driving nice cars and all that. Don't misunderstand. Some of y'all are glaring at me. Don't misunderstand What I'm saying is sometimes God takes stuff away so that we bear more fruit. Mike Stubler. I miss that guy. Almost brings tears to my eyes just to hear his name. His birthday was just a few days ago. He'd have been 50. He'd have been 49. He was diagnosed, remember he had the cancer, he went in the hospital, thought he had the flu, sinus infection, they said there's a tumor there, and just like that I went to see him in the hospital. It was a Wednesday night. I got the call after church when we went up there. He said, Pastor, they told me I got a tumor that they have to take it out right away I said, Mike, I'm sorry we were talking. You know what he said to me? He said, I think God's opening doors for I can be a witness to people that I could never witness to if this hadn't happened. That's almost verbatim what he told me. You know what I think God was doing? Your witness, your testimony is going to be far greater. with you in this condition than if you'd be fine and healthy. Don't question God. Amen? That's purging. That's purging. That's purging. I'd venture to say a lot of us are better Christians because of Mike's testimony through his purging than we were before. I know he's had an influence on me So, the refinement. What's God doing in your life? What is God taking away? What is God breaking? What is God doing that hurts? Stop and think. God's trying to change me. God's trying to make me a more effective Christian. Well, I want this and I need that and this has to be uh no no no God's not trying to necessarily change your circumstances, God's trying to change you Make you what he wants you to be. So the refinement, purging, purging is painful, purging is loss, purging is ugly. Do you ever see a tree after they trimmed it all back? Say, good night, that's the ugliest thing I've ever seen in my life. Just But boy, next spring, those branches come out and those new little shoots out there, and that thing's just full and beautiful. You may stand there and say, God, what are you doing to me? Oh, give God time, trust him, obey him, yield to him, do what he says, let him have his way. Lo and behold, become a fruitful Christian. The refinement, the refinement. I thought of examples in the scripture. I thought of Joseph. Remember Joseph? You talk about a guy that was purged. Man, his family's taken away, his freedom's taken away, his finances are taken away. I mean it's just a downward spiral. God says, I'm going to use you, and he gives them this dream, and people are going to come and you're going to be an influence on uh multitudes of people. And his brothers say, What are you, an idiot? We're not bowing down to you. And his dad says, Ah, you're just uh uh you're crazy, son. And Then then what happens is they throw him in a pit. Then they sell they're gonna kill him. Then they sell him to a as a slave. And he's just going cutting down and cutting down and finally you get him down in a prison falsely accused of rape in a prison in in Egypt, forgotten by everybody, and you say, man, what ugly circumstances. God has cut him down Ah, but then springtime comes. And then Pharaoh has a dream. Joseph says, I can tell you what that dream is. And next thing you know, the whole world is influenced because of a man named Joseph, who God purged and purged and purged and purged. I don't know what God's doing in your life, but I do know this. He wants you to have a more effective influence on this world. And he knows what needs to be taken away. He need knows what needs to be cut off. And it may look awfully ugly. If we'll trust him and submit to him, God can make something powerful. Powerful witness. More fruit. Much fruit. Daniel lost his family, lost his homes, taken as a slave God goes through and starts purging. Says, you know, you know, there was some, when Daniel was taken to Babylon from Egypt during the captivity, there were some Jews that were left back in Egypt. Joseph, or Daniel, could have been left back in Egypt. You know how much fruit he would have borne there? Probably nothing. You don't read much of anything about the Jews that were left back in Egypt. But here's a young man. God cuts off his family, cuts off his country. He's got a couple buddies with him, tries to do right, tries to live for God, prays faithfully, uh has character and integrity, refuses to disobey God. He gets thrown in a lion's den. But brother, he comes out of that lion's den, and everyone in the nation knows that there's a God in heaven that took care of Daniel. And his influence was multiplied. His fruit became much fruit. So the refinement of the fruitful, we have the reality of trials. They're going to come. Various things bring them back. Sometimes uh often it's God trying to make us more effective. Uh you have the removal of the fruitless. All right, you're not going to live for me, you're not going to do right, you're not going to live. Alright, I'll just set you aside Uh then you say, here's somebody that's really sincerely trying to do right and live with God. God says, alright, I'm going to start cutting away. And then last of all, we have the results of the purging. I already touched on it, but more fruit. More fruit. The word more there has a twofold meaning. I thought this was interesting. I looked it up. It says it had the idea of being more in quantity. That's what we think of. Instead of ten apples on the tree, there's uh a thousand apples on the tree. But it also is more in quality. Not only is there a whole lot more of them, they're a whole lot better. Quality And God says, you know, uh you're living for me and you're having an influence for the Lord and for the gospel. I'm going to purge away here so that you have Extended influence, but also your influence is more powerful. It's a higher quality. Lives are being changed more effectively because of your witness. When God purges us and takes things away. I think of Jeah Adams. What a testimony. That guy has been purged and purged and purged. He obeyed God. He did what God called him to do. Drug his family all across the country, trying to raise support. Gets to the country God calls him to. And man, just everything, one thing after another after another after another. His wife is sick. Can't get visas and apartments. It's just your average Christian would have said, philly on this If you and I, if if most Christians would have had to go through what Jew went through to have a ministry where God has called him, if we had to go through that to teach a Sunday school class, we'd have dropped that class years ago So I'm not doing all this just to break some people for the if I had to do all that to have a bus round, what? He goes through all that because he's obeying God's call. You know what God's doing? God's purging, purging, purging, purging. Jerry and I were talking the other week, I think it was Jerry and I, and uh you know what may be happening? God may be elevating Brother Jua among the uh in the eyes of the Christians of that country where God has called him You know what I'm thinking is happening? His fruit is becoming a higher quality. Rather than just some American showing up going to tell us what to do. Now he's in the mix with them. He suffered with them. He's been purged right along with them. And I sense his uh his his the quality of his influence. is far greater than if anything would have gone just fine when he showed up. Follow what I'm saying? What's God doing in your life? What is God cutting away? What's God trying to accomplish so that you can be more effective in the cause of Christ? Hey, listen, someday we're all going to stand before the judgment seat of Christ. You know what we're going to give account of? Our fruits What hey, stubble? Stubble? Or gold, uh, silver, quality. God purges us, God purges us. I want us to ask ourselves this morning: Am I fruitless? Do I have any testimony at all, or am I fruitful? The question isn't, are you doctrinally sound? You say, Brother Lemon, I am a fundamental independent Baptist, cross the T's and dot the I's Baptist. Well that's great. That's important, but are you bearing any fruit? Are you influencing anybody for the gospel? Well, preacher, I dress modest and I keep my hair completely shaved off my head and um Uh preacher, I I'm the most modest. Great, wonderful. I think Lord knows or Christians could use more modesty. That's not the question. Are you enemy influence? Are you bearing fruit? Well, preacher, I uh uh I'm a Bible scholar, and I can quote the books of the Bible, and um I can do all this, and I know all these words in the Bible. Wonderful. That's important. Are you influencing anyone for Christ? Are you bearing fruit? That's the question. Robert Murray McShane. Anyone recognize that name? Robert Murray McShane. He was a great preacher back in the early 1800s in Scotland. And he had a fella that was under him, was called to be a missionary, and they were doing an ordination service. So the guy's name was Dan Edwards. They were doing an ordination service for uh Dan Edwards to go off to the mission field, and I don't know what mission field he was going to. But Robert Murray McShane made this statement Now listen carefully. He said, in a great measure, it is according to the purity and the perfection of the instrument that will be the success. Now, bear with me. Then he said this: it is not great talents that God blesses so much as a great likeness to Jesus Christ. A holy Christian is a powerful weapon in the hand of God. Follow what he said? It's not your talents. You may be the most talented in the world. You can have all this wonderful knowledge and all this stuff. But if you're not holy, if your life isn't pure and good and right with God, you have no fruit. And what God wants to do is purify, purge, make us pure and good and holy, and surrender to Him so that we can have a powerful influence. And see people saved. God is working in your life. Mark it down. So I don't see anything. That's because you're blind to what God's trying to do. I'm telling you, God's working in your life God's trying to get you and I to be the people so that we can have an influence. And when we recognize that, then he starts purging. And we do it. Father in heaven, please bless and help us. Help us to see your hand. Lord, I don't feel like I've communicated this message the way I felt you stirred my heart about. But I pray, dear God, that we would be submissive, that we would be yielded to you, that you could have your way and take away, Lord, and cut out and change and do whatever you need to do. So that we would be those instruments in your hands that you can use in a powerful way to influence this world with the gospel.