Coming up, coming up. And uh it was obvious something was bothering this little boy. And the teacher said, uh uh Sonny, is there something bothering you? Do you have a question to ask? What would you like to know? He said, Yeah. He says, I'd like to know where does God fit in in all of this They had all the outward trimmings, but they left God out of it. My question is, where does God fit in your life? Is he just something on the side that I just use him when I need him? Is he just something that gets me out of trouble? Or is he Lord of your life? That's what this prayer is, God. We want things to be right. We want you back in position and us in the right position. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord. To first of all realize that we're powerless in and of ourselves to be what you designed us to be. God, help us put in our hearts a desire for things to be changed, things to be made right. God, we need you. And then, Lord, put assurance in our heart that you will act on our behalf, that you will step in, you will help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How he would say, Preacher, And this is between you and God. This is very personal. I just want to pray with you. That's all I want to do. Would you say, preacher, you know there's some areas of my life that I know are not right with God. And you've got to begin by acknowledging that. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Between God and myself, there's some areas that I know are not right with God. I've taken things in my own hands. I've leaned on my own understanding. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. Hands all around. That's the Holy Spirit of God dealing with us. No doubt about it. Now, how many of us would say, preacher, I'm not satisfied where I'm at? God, I don't want to s I don't want to be this way. Maybe there's nothing overtly wicked in your life, but you say, I'm not satisfied where I'm at in my Christian life, I'm not satisfied with my effectiveness of my witness. I'm not satisfied with the purity of my life. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me. I really, really, really want God to step in and change things. More than just acknowledging it. I want God to change it and make it right. Is there any like that? Let the uplift hand. I really, really want God to make it right. How about that? Now here's my answer. Ask him. Trust him. Do what he says. And he'll make things right. One last question. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven? You say, I don't want to go to hell, and I'm telling you, you don't. God doesn't want you to go to hell. You say, preacher, I'm concerned about my soul salvation. I really want that to be settled. I want God to help me settle that. That I can know I'm going to heaven. You'd say, Preacher, pray with me also. When you pray for those others in a minute, pray for me also. Would you slip your hand up? Is there any like that, Preacher? I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know my sins are forgiven, that when I die, I'm going to heaven You say, I appreciate you praying that God would help me about it. Any at all? Father, you saw a lot of hands. I saw a lot of hands, God. You know all our hearts. And help us, Lord, to come with full faith, full assurance. We confess our need of you, our sins, our failures, our dependence on you, and we look to you to change us and do what's necessary in our life. God, we full assurance that you will do that. And you will help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.