They heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. Would you read verse 9 together with me, all of us together read verse 9? Ready? Here we go. And the Lord God called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? There is so much in this passage here that is of tremendous significance, tremendous importance. And I want to try to, in the time we have, just draw out one thought, one observation. I'll touch on a few others, but I want to focus on how God responds To man's sin. When sin entered the world, when man first disobeyed God in sin, I want us to notice how God responds to that. And it teaches us a lot about God. And his attitude towards us. So let's pray, and I'll share what I've put together here for this morning. Trust the Lord to use it. Pray with me if you would, please. Father in heaven, we bow in your presence now with our Bibles open before us. And Lord, I believe I speak for the majority, surely, of us here. And we want you to speak to us. We want you to confront us where we are spiritually, Lord. Challenge us. And I pray that you would give each of us a genuine concern about our spiritual well-being and our eternal destiny. Help us to understand a little bit more about you, Lord, and how you respond to us as sinners. And Lord, help us to respond accordingly. I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit as I present my body anew and yield my will. Pray that you would speak your word through me to each of our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen As I mentioned, Genesis chapter 2 and chapter 3 in particular is one of the greatest and most significant passages in all of Scripture. Now we understand all scripture is given by inspiration of God, and all scripture is profitable for doctrine, reproof, for correction, instruction, and righteousness. We understand that. But there are some passages that are just filled with vital significant truth that's important for us to understand. In Genesis chapter three, I believe is one of those, as I said, significant passages. Here in Genesis 2 and 3, we have an inspired literal account of Satan's first interaction with mankind. As far as we can tell, God has created man, and we have a record. And by the way, this is not the creation story. It's not just a story. This is a literal, actual, Holy Ghost-inspired record of God's creation of man. And so we have Satan's first interaction with mankind, and uh I think it's interesting to note, and I just want to touch on this uh in passing is how Satan first confronts man. Look with me, if you would, at chapter 2. And notice verse number 17. Now, this is God, and we're going to look at this here in a moment, this passage, but God is giving some instructions to Adam and Eve. Verse 17, he says, But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt what? Not eat of it. How many people agree with me? That's a clear statement. Thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Now, I want you to take notice what is the punctuation at the end of that sentence? It is a what? It's a period. God made a very clear statement. He made a very distinct statement. The day you eat thereof, thou shalt surely die. Period. Now come over to chapter 3. And uh verse number one. Now the serpent was more subtle than any beast of the field, and the Lord God hath made. Look at this. Here's the first record. Of Satan's interaction with mankind, and he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden? What does that sentence end with? A question mark. A question mark. Do you catch Satan's tactic here? Satan is putting a question mark where God put a period. And that has been a very effective tactic of Satan all through the history of mankind to get mankind to question the Word of God, to get mankind to undermine what God has clearly said. It's amazing to me how we are able to come up with excuses and reasoning and be able to try and explain away what God has clearly said. Nevertheless, the word of God shall stand. And so, Satan, we have a record here of Satan's very first interaction with mankind. Here we have a record, chapter 3 in particular, is uh a record of the fall of mankind. Now, in my mind, this is the most pivotal event in all of human history. The most pivotal event. This changes everything. After Adam and Eve disobey God and sin it clearly, deliberately, knowingly sin against God, nothing is the same afterward. It changes absolutely everything. I believe this is the darkest day in all of history When man sins against God. Romans chapter 5, verse 12 says this: For by one man sin entered into the world. And death by sin, so that death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. Now it's an interesting statement there. He says, For by one man sin entered the world. That gives me this impression. This is the picture I see in my mind. Adam and Eve's disobedience to God, Adam and Eve's sin against God, opened the door, allowed sin in all its forms. The most hideous, the most blasphemous, the most vile acts and thoughts of mankind. Were enabled. That door was opened when Adam and Eve sinned against God. Every sin since then is spawned by this one act of disobedience. Every vile, uh perverse, wicked sin of the hearts and minds and hands of mankind began with this one event right here. If you watch the news or listened or read the news at all in the last twenty four hours. We've heard of this horrendous killing up in Pittsburgh, not just in our back door, really. And as as vile as that is, and as horrific and unthinkable as that is to walk into a House of worship and just mow people down. All that was spawned. When Adam and Eve disobeyed God. And sin entered the world. Every crime, uh, sickness, deformity Grief, heartache, pain, disease, every tear that's been shed, death. Are all spawned, are all began, are all brought into the uh exit the experience of mankind by this one act of disobedience on the part of Adam and Eve. Again, I say I believe this is one of the most pivotal, if not the most pivotal events in all of the history of mankind. After this one dreadful day, nothing is the same Here we have a record. This here we have a record of man's creation by God. It is not a story. It is not an allegory. It is an actual, real, literal account of God's creation of mankind. And we see that man is created directly by God on the sixth day of creation. Man is not self-created. You listen to some scientists, you get the idea that we somehow created ourselves. We are not self-created. We are not the product of ape-like creatures. That is a figment of man's imagination. We are not the product of a mindless, chaotic series of events over millions and millions, and sometimes they'll say billions of years. We are not any of that. We are a direct creation of God. To me, this idea of evolution and this theory, and that's all it is, is a theory of evolution, is the most ludicrous, obvious, untrue thing that has ever been taught by mankind. In no other area of human experience do we suggest that organization and detail and design came about by chance and happenstance and c and uh chaos. There's not one person in the world sees a building uh uh of any size, of of any quality, a building, and suggest that that is just the result of chance and happenstance. Everybody says somebody built that thing. It has design, it has structure, it has form, it has purpose. You think of any other area of life in a business world Successful businesses do not just happen. There's purpose, there's plan, there's design to make that thing succeed. But yet, in our origin Man suggests that we just came from nothing. It just somehow by chance happened. I say this often Uh we as Bible believers are not afraid of the scientist's telescope or their microscope. We're not afraid of the archaeologist's spade and And brush as they dig in the ground and find out. In fact, the more that science discovers, the more it confirms what the Word of God says: that we are uniquely and intelligently designed for a purpose. And so we have here a little accurate inspired record of man's creation directly by God on the sixth day of creation. Here we have, we find that we are created in the image of God. We are given a free will. We have the choice to trust and obey God Or we have the choice to lean on our own understanding and disobey God. God has created us with a free will, with the ability to sin. Now somebody asked, we were talking in Bible Institute the other week, if God knew that man would sin, why would he create man with a free will? Why didn't just God create us so that we could not sin, that we had no choice but to love Him, we had no choice but to trust Him, we had no other option but to live for Him and obey Him And the answer to that, at least in my mind, is I don't believe that God would want to be loved by someone that has no other option. That is not genuine love. That is not sincere love. Suppose uh uh, you know, suppose they would invent some way That I could have my wife implanted into her brain some sort of computerized chip that she would have no other choice. But to l adore me and love me and and obey my every command. Huh Now we joke about that, but in reality I wouldn't want my wife to love me because she has no other option. I wouldn't want my wife to love me as some sort of robot that has no other choice. I want my wife to love me because she chooses to love me. Because of her own free will, she says, I want that man. I love that man. I want to commit myself to him. I tell you, that is sincere love. That is genuine love. And God wanted to be loved as he loved. And God of his own free will. uh made the decision to create man and to love man, and he created man in his image with that same free will, where he could love God back, to love and be loved. Um, I want when uh back when my wife and I first met, and I want her to, of her own free will, say, boy, that's a good looking guy. I want her of her own free will. That guy is intelligent. Boy, he's handsome and he's smart and he's very gifted. And uh and uh and she did. She was very observant and very clear and and she made that decision. But God created man directly on the sixth day by God. He formed man from the dust of the earth and he breathed into man his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. And he gave man that free will that I could choose to love and trust and obey God as Creator, or he had the option. He had the ability to sin. And he could choose to say, no, I'm going to do my own thing. I'm going to go my own way. It's interesting, after God creates man, he clearly explains What his expectations are for mankind. He creates man, creates woman, then he very clearly explains What he expects from them, why they are created, what their responsibilities are. In fact, I notice, first of all, he gives him very specific responsibilities. Look at chapter 2 and verse number 15. The Bible says, and the Lord God took the man and put him into the Garden of Eden to do two things. Number one, to what? To dress it and to what? Keep it. The word dress there comes from a word that means this: to work in it, to labor in it. So God gave man, he created man, puts him in the garden of Eden. He says, All right, here's your responsibility. Your responsibility is to dress this garden. In other words, work in it, labor in it. Then he says, to keep it. The word keep there means to observe, to watch over, has the idea of protecting it. So God created man with a very clear, very specific responsibility He is to care for the earth, to provide and and uh to dress and keep this earth that God created. Now I want to be careful not to get off on rabbit trails, there's so many here you could But that implies to me that this world was designed to need mankind to work in it, to maintain it, and to oversee and have dominion over it. We have this mentality in society today that, oh, this world would be better off without mankind. This world would be better off if a man wasn't here. I'm telling you, I believe that is a lie of the devil God created this world to be man to have dominion over it, for man to keep it, for man to dress it. And to maintain it. Of course sin came in and uh like uh like everything else, sin messes stuff up, but that was the original intention So God designed earth to be managed by mankind. So he gives them a very clear responsibility. Then in verse number 16, I notice God gives to man the opportunity for refreshment. Look at verse 16. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest what? Freely eat. Boy, I like that statement I got looking at that and got thinking about that, and that implies this. So God created the garden, He's got the world, He's created the Garden, He puts man in it, says, You dress and keep it, that's your responsibility. Now, all the fruit. Of everything grown in this garden, you can freely eat. Now that implies this: that wherever they found it, they're walking around, they're on a journey or whatever, and they find fruit, they can eat it. They don't have to worry about private property. We can't eat those apples. Uh that's uh Mr. Scrooge the neighbor. He'll shoot you with a BB gun if you go in there and eat. Uh they'd go wherever they wanted They could eat wherever they wanted. They could uh eat however much they desired. Freely eat however much you want to eat. Whenever they desired to eat it. Whatever fruit they chose to eat, they could eat. Oh, what a blessed thought. To be able to eat in the middle of the night and it'd be just fine, eat s well, I guess it'd be fruit, but I was thinking of big ham sandwiches and stuff And all of that, you can freely eat of it whenever you want, wherever you want, however much you want, wherever you find it, no limits, no negative consequences. Boy, wouldn't that be a blessing? I don't know about you. I just look at food and I gain weight. But here you could freely eat of it. Freely eat of it. So he gives them some responsibilities. He gives them refreshment, all they want. Then I noticed in verse 17, the first part, he gives them one restriction. How many restrictions? One restriction. Just one. Look what he says. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it. I said this a moment ago, but let me ask it again. How many people agree with me? Pretty clear. Pretty clear. No question what God's saying here. There's no uh man is not ignorant about that tree of the knowledge of good and evil. God's made this very, very clear That they are forbidden to eat of that one tree. No misunderstanding, no ignorance. And so when Adam and Eve eventually do eat, of that tree of the knowledge of good and evil, they know exactly what they're doing It's not a mistake. Oops, oh no, we ate the wrong one. It's not ignorance. Oh, I didn't know. Listen, sin is a deliberate act on the part of mankind to disobey God. There was no question here. He made it very, very clear, the one restriction. And then I notice fourthly, God gives the results of disobedience. Look again at verse number 17. Thou shalt not eat of it, look at this, for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die He made it very clear. He said, first of all, you cannot eat of that one tree. You cannot eat of it. And if you do, this will be the results. This is the consequences. I think we have here, and let me just throw this out there, I think we have here a good pattern for a parent raising their children. Particularly in the area of discipline. I notice that God, first of all, makes very, very clear what the responsibilities are. I think a parent ought to make very clear to their children What is expected of them? Don't assume your children can read your mind Don't assume your children just somehow automatically know what is expected of them. I believe a parent needs to make it very, very clear to the child, this is what it expected of you, this is what your chores are. This is what your liberties are. This is what your freedom. And make it very, very clear. God made it very, very clear what the restriction was. You cannot eat of this tree. Here's the problem sometimes I think in child rearing is folks never really tell the kids what they can or can't do, and then when they do something they weren't supposed to do, uh they get the daylights beaten out of them, and they didn't even know it was never told them they shouldn't do that. I think every child ought to understand ahead of time, this is the restriction, this is what I can and cannot do. And if a child does disobey It ought to be made clear that they understand what they did wrong. Adam and Eve understood exactly what they did wrong. And then it was made very clear ahead of time what the consequences would be. And I think that's good advice for the parent with children is make clear what the restrictions are, make clear what the requ what the expectations are, and make very clear what the consequences are If those restrictions are violated. Do you make sense? So this is what God did with Adam and Eve. He said right up front, hey, this is your responsibility. Here's your refreshment. You can do all these types of things. Here's one restriction. And this is the result of that restriction if you do that. And so, what was the result of that? He says, the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Now the word die has this idea to have life removed by sinning against God. Adam and Eve would be forfeiting their spiritual life, their relationship, their interaction with God, and eventually would be forfeiting their physical life. They would die spiritually, and I believe that happened the moment they sinned, and they would die eventually physically, which we see that to be true. Now let me stop here for a moment and clear up any misunderstandings what death is. Death does not mean the end of existence. You follow what I'm saying? When someone dies does not necessarily mean that does not mean that they cease to exist. Death is not the existence, the non-existence. Death is a condition of existence. Am I making sense? Everybody with me? Everybody follow what I'm saying here? This past Sunday, early, this past Monday morning, late Sunday night, early Sunday morning, many of you remember Uncle David and Aunt Beth This past Sunday morning, Aunt Bev passed away in her sleep. And we had mentioned that before, some might not have been aware of that. But she passed away. She died. In her sleep. Does that mean that Aunt Bev ceased to exist? No. She exists now just as much as she existed last Sunday this time It's just a condition of existence. She is separated from her physical body. She is no longer in this tabernacle, temporary physical tabernacle here under She is now just as alive, just as real, just as existing, but she's in the presence of God. Now what happens when somebody who is unsaved If they die physically and they're all and they're never been born spiritually and never had spiritual life, they die in their sins, they still exist. They do not cease to exist But they simply are in a condition of separation from God. And that separation lasts for all eternity, now in hell, eventually in the lake of fire. And so there are some cults out there, there are some variations of Christianity that teach that death is the ceasing to exist, and that is not scriptural So when God said to Adam and Eve, The day you eat thereof, thou shalt surely die, he was not saying you're going to cease to exist. He is saying your condition of life will be altered. Your condition of life will be changed. Death is separation. And so, spiritually, you will be separated from God. Physically, you will be separated from your physical body. And so, God lays this out very, very clearly. And we know what happens. We just read it. Adam and Eve, of their own free will, disobey God, and they sin against God. Now I said all that to get to this. How does God respond? To that sin of Adam and Eve. And I'll tell you, when we study God's response to Adam and Eve's sin, we learn volumes about what God is like. And God's view and valuation of his creation, mankind. And so I want us to notice a few things very, very carefully, how God responds to man's sin. First of all, this is my three thoughts this morning. First of all, he pursues after them. Look with me again, if you would, at chapter three, and we read this now a couple, three times. I want to read it again. And verse number eight. Adam and Eve have sinned. Satan has interacted. He's got them to sin. They of their own free will disobey God. Look at verse 8. And they heard the voice of God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife. hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. And the Lord God called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? Now let me point out right to begin with. When God asked Adam, Where art thou? He wasn't seeking information. You understand that, right? When God asks questions, it's not because God is ignorant of the answer. When God asks questions, he's not trying to gain information. The Bible clearly teaches us that our God, the God that created everything that is, the invisible, eternal, ever-present God, who's here right now with us. He doesn't need more information. He is all-knowing. He knows everything about you. He knows everything about me. He knows where we are, physically, spiritually, mentally. We cannot hide anything from God, amen or not. Now we can hide it from our spouse. We can hide it from our kids, we can hide it from our parents, we can hide it from our teachers, we can hide it from our friends, we can hide it from the preacher, we can hide it from the chur Church, but there is nothing that we can hide from God And so when he is asking, where art thou, it's not because God's, wow, where did Adam get to? I can't find him. Well, not at all. God was pursuing Adam. I think it's a tremendous thing to realize that God did not abandon Adam and Eve when they sinned against him. God could have said, Fooie, I'm not coming down there. They're separated from me. I am not going to pursue it. He could have just abandoned them. and let man to go on and live without him without God and without hope in the world, he could have left man to his own ways? And just left them alone. But I'm glad God doesn't leave us alone. By the way, the worst thing that can happen to a person, one of the worst things that can happen to a person, is for God just to leave them alone. God, just to leave them alone. I might be speaking to someone this morning and you're lost. You're unsaved. You know you are. You've never trusted Christ. You're still in your sins. And God's been working in your heart, and God's been working in your heart, and you've been convicted, and it keeps coming to mind. And maybe you'd be tempted to say, I wish God would just leave me alone. Trust me, you don't want God to leave you alone. You don't want God to give up on you. Before I got saved, I was under conviction from January to the 7th of May. I was under such conviction of my sin. I knew I needed to be saved. And I I many times I just try and push it out of my mind and And uh I was fighting God and fighting God for whatever reason. And I would and then and then I would get scared. And I would pray late at night, I prayed this prayer so many times in those five months, I'd pray, God, please don't give up on me I was fighting his conviction on one hand, but the other hand I was saying, God don't give up on me. God don't give up on me. And it would scare me to death. To think that God would just leave me alone. God just leave me alone. I'm glad God didn't leave Adam and Eve alone. I'm glad God didn't leave mankind alone. He came and he pursued them. I notice it's interesting to notice God did not destroy them on the spot. You would have every right. God is holy. And his holiness and his justice cannot tolerate sin, cannot endorse sin. But God loved mankind. And he says, I'm not going to destroy them on the spot. I'm going to pursue. I think one of the greatest acts of love On the part of God, as expressed in Scripture, one of the greatest acts of God is when man sinned against God. The very first thing God did, the very first thing God did, he came down and sought to restore. That relationship that was going, I'm telling you, God loves mankind. In general, and God loves you and I, every one of us, very dearly. As individuals. And it was one of, as I said, one of, I believe, the greatest expressions of love recorded in Scripture when God came down to that garden and he said, Adam, where art thou? He's pursuing. He's pursuing mankind. God loves his creation. God loves mankind Adam and Eve are withdrawing themselves. Adam and Eve are hiding themselves from God. Adam and Eve are trying to cover themselves. They're fleeing from God. They're avoiding his presence. But God does not give up, and he pursues, and he pursues, and he pursues, and he pursues. It's a very real possibility. I'm talking to someone this morning, and you're running from God. You're trying to push God out. You're trying to hide your sin. You're trying to hide your unbelief. You're trying to hide your disobedience from God. And you're just trying to get away from God and get away from God and get away from God. I'm here to tell you You cannot outrun God. You cannot hide from God. Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. If you're not saved, if you've not trusted Christ, God will not leave you alone till you till there's a possibility, by the way I'm a little ahead of myself here, but it is possible to cross a line and say no to God, no to God, no to God, to the point where finally God says, okay, I'll let you alone. In Genesis chapter 6, the Bible says the Spirit of God will not always strive with man. Tell you what, it's a dangerous thing to fight God. It's a dangerous thing to resist God. It's a dangerous thing to say no to God. Now God is very patient. We're going to see this. God's pursuing. But it is possible to bring get to the end of God's patience. You read Romans chapter 1, and it says that man had given himself unto such vile, abominable sins persistently Ongoing that God says, all right, I'm going to give them over to their own lusts. I'm going to give them over to their own ways. I tell you what, that's a dangerous place to be. That is a dangerous place to be. God is pursuing mankind. God is pursuing. While Adam and Eve were withdrawing themselves and hiding themselves and Trying to cover themselves, God was pursuing. By the way, God is the one that initiates salvation God is the one that initiates restoration. And what we simply do is we respond in faith to what God initiates. John 3, 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. That's the initiation. That's the pursuit. That whosoever believeth in him, that's the response, shall not perish, but have everlasting life God initiates it, man responds, either in faith to receive, or in unbelief to reject But it's up to us. God initiates it. John 14, 1 John 4, 19, I'm sorry, says this: we love him because what? He first loved us. He first loved us. God pursues. I noticed something about God. When Adam and Eve sinned and disobeyed God, and they tried to flee from God's presence and they tried to hide themselves from God. God didn't leave him alone. God came after him. God came after him. God came after him. He's after him. He's out. Where are you? Where are you? He came down. He's Walking in the garden Any today, as I said, you're on Satan. I'm telling you, God's working in your life. How many times we go out and we knock on doors and we talk to folks at their door about uh the Lord and we and we try to share the gospel with them. How many times I've said something like this to somebody at their door, I said, I'll say this, has God been working in your life lately To make you think about eternity and heaven and the Bible and those types of things, I'm telling you, 99 times out of 100, folks will say this: yes, you know what he has. God has been working in my life, and this has happened recently, and I thought of this lately, and this has been in my heart lately. You know what that tells me? God's pursuing. God's pursuing. God's pursuing. He does not leave us alone. He comes after us. Now, what about the person that has trusted Christ as Savior? What about the person that has been saved? And they go off and live in sin. And they disobey God. And they get in a backslidden state. They get in a carnal condition, as the Bible refers to it. Does God leave them alone? Does God abandon them? Does he just walk away from them? No. God pursues the backslidden Christian also. And it's called conviction. How many people here, you're saved and you know it. Say amen. How many people here? Now, we'll just keep it within us. We won't tell anyone. But how many folks, since you've been saved, you got a little out of sorts with God, and God came and convicted you about something as a Christian, and God dealt with you. Anyone know what I'm talking about? You know what that is? That's God pursuing us. He doesn't leave us alone. He comes after us. He works on us. I'll tell you, thank God He does that. Thank God He doesn't leave us alone. Thank God for the convicting work of the Holy Spirit of God in the heart and life of the believer. I tell you, that is what these old-fashioned altars are about. We come to church and God speaks to our heart and there's something that's out of whack with the Lord, something that's not in tune with the Lord, and God speaks to us, and we respond to that in faith and say, Lord, yes, Lord, I'll trust you, I'll make that adjustment, I'll deal with this area of my life. So God pursues him. What a great God we have. A God that loves me enough to not let me go my own way. The Bible says in Proverbs: a child left to himself. Brings his mother to shame. And I think there's a principle there that God displays when he doesn't leave us to ourselves. He works in our lives. He pursues us. He comes after us. God is pursuing the unsaved. I believe every time that sun rises in the morning is God pursuing after the unsaved. Every sunset at night is God speaking, declaring his glory to the unsaved, uh revealing himself to them, trying to draw them to believe in him. Every night sky. Did you notice uh last week was it, that big full moon? Anybody get out? And the sky was so clear. I was walking the dog. The dog was walking me. And um uh out the road here, and that it was like a spotlight in the sky, that moon and the stars were brilliant And I thought, what an amazing God we have. And you know what that was? That was God declaring down to mankind: here's my glory. Trust me, see me, put your faith in me. God calling, God pursuing, God pursuing. I think every every Christian, thank God, listen. If you're here, you're unsaved. If somebody understanded my voice, you're not saved, you're still in your sins, and you've got a Christian mother praying for you. And working on your heart and inviting you out to church, you ought to thank God for that because that is God working through that dear godly mother trying to draw you back to himself. You've got a Christian friend giving you gospel tracts and hounding you and bugging you about you need to come to church, read this guy. You ought to thank God for that. That's God pursuing you. Getting you to come to Christ. We had the funeral Thursday night for Aunt Bev. And in the service, it was a very good service. And they had a lady come up and give testimony. And she said that Aunt Bev, uh, she had hired Aunt Bev every other Monday to come and clean her house for you. Aunt Bev did that for a number of houses. And the lady said, she says, I didn't go to church, I was unsaved, I was not interested in God or anything like that. She goes, but every other Monday, Aunt Bev would show up and she'd give me a gospel tracker, she'd tell me she's praying for me. She would invite me out to church and say, you need to come to church. And she said that went on for year after year after year. Every Monday, Aunt Bev would be talking to me, trying to get me to come to church, trying to get me saved. She said, till finally out of the blue, I just said, all right already. I'll go to church. And she said, I sat there in that search service, and she said, I wept like a baby as God dealt with my heart about my sin. And the judgment of God that was upon me and the love of God to die for my sin and rise again. And she goes, finally I gave in. I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And she says, I'm a saved woman on my way to heaven, active in church now, because God used one dear lady To bring her to Christ. You know what that is? That was God pursuing that dear lady. That was God working through ant bread to draw her to herself. God is working. God is working. Um uh uh I remember I've told this before, but I was back home and spent time with my family at the funeral and then We spent uh got to spend a little bit of time with my family, first time in decades that my whole family was together. And uh we had a wonderful time, and I drove by the old church That my dad uh got baptized in and attended for years. It's very contemporary now and liberal and it's just gone. But back in the day, that was a powerhouse for the gospel. And I remember one Sunday night, a month or two in that range before I got saved, and we used to on Friday nights and Saturday nights, we'd go over to Jersey drinking and carrying on, living in debauchery and sin, and just ashamed. And one Sunday afternoon a couple of guys said, hey, let's go over to Jersey drinking. And um said, All right, whatever. And we started driving over. And the way to get over there, we had to drive right up Past old uh route old Route 309 up past through Sellersville, Pennsylvania, past the Faith Baptist Church And it was a Sunday night, it was a winter time, it was early spring, late winter, and um it was dark about five thirty, six o'clock, and we're driving up there heading over. Church was at six uh at the church then And we drove by in the dark, we drove up by by that church, and all the lights were on. And the parking lot was filled. And I'm sitting in the back seat of the car, we're heading over to Jersey and just wickedness. And I looked out and I saw that church where my daddy was sitting in that service. Those lights on and that parking lot filled. And I'm telling you what, the Spirit of God came down on me and brought such conviction on my heart. You sorry, wretched sinner living in rebellion against God under the wrath of God, destroying your life, and right there's your answer. Right there in that place is what you need, the gospel of Jesus Christ. I got so convicted, just driving by the church. The presence and power of God was so mighty on that place. Just driving by it, I came under conviction. We got down the road a mile or two, and finally I just said, hey guys, you know what I don't feel like going over I'd rather go back home. And miracle of miracles. Every one of the other guys said, yeah, we don't feel like it either. We turned around, went home. You know what that was? That was God pursuing Dennis Leatherman, a sorry, wretched sinner. God speaking to my heart, drawing me to Christ, drawing me. I'm glad we have a God that pursues sinners. I'm glad we have a God that cares and is actively pursuing after the unsaved. God pursues the backslidden Christian, as I said. Maybe I'm talking to someone here this morning and you're not right with God. Maybe you're saved, but you're living in sin. And you've got it hidden from everybody, and in your mind you've got it all justified But I'm telling you, there's a holy God in heaven that knows exactly where you're at spiritually, and He will not leave you alone. And maybe even as I'm speaking, the Holy Spirit of God is convicting your heart about your sin, convicting your heart about your disobedience. And that is the love of God, not allowing you to just go on, not allowing you to fool yourself, not allowing you to destroy your testimony, but working and working and working in your heart, drawing you back into fellowship with Him. Despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, for whom the Lord loveth He chasteneth. God loves you too much. God loves me too much to let us go on in sin He loves us too much to allow us to fool ourselves and justify our disobedience to God. He convicts us and works on us. And so I see here Adam and Eve disobeyed God, and the very first thing God does, he comes down and he pursues man to restore that relationship, to make it back the way it ought to be. The second thing I noticed, and I'm going to have to just give this out very, very quickly, not only did he pursue mankind, but he was very patient with Adam and Eve. Very patient. Look with me at verse number 8, if you would. And he makes an interesting statement here. Verse 8, and they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden. What's that next phrase say? In the what? In the cool of the day. I got thinking, what in the world is the cool of the day? What's he talking about? And I got looking it up and how it's used different places. And I found this. It has this idea as the day was cooling down As the day was cooling down. I don't know how hot it got back before sin and at this point in the world's history. I don't know how hot it got out. But I do know what part of the day it starts cooling down. That would be what? Of the evening. Of the evening God waited till the evening. He gave man all day long. Now I don't know, we're not told, so we have no idea what part of the day Adam and Eve disobeyed God. Was it first thing in the morning? Was it noon? We don't know. But we do know this: that God waited till the evening before he came and confronted man. Now he didn't leave us alone. He didn't leave man alone. He didn't just destroy them. He pursued and initiated efforts to restore man to his Creator. But he's very, very patient about that. Why would God wait till the cool of the evening? Why would God wait until the day is cooling down before he would confront man? What was he doing? This is what I believe. I believe he was given Adam and Eve opportunity to come clean with God. I believe he was given them opportunity rather than to hide from God, rather than to cover their sin rather than avoid God's presence. I am absolutely convinced in studying scripture that God was giving Adam and Eve the opportunity to say, come over God We did messed up. God, we sinned. You told us not to. We knew it was wrong, but we did it. Oh God, have mercy. Oh God, forgive us. There's no doubt in my mind, God would have forgiven them right on the spot. He was giving them opportunity. I'm glad that God didn't shut things down the first time I refused his invitation to trust him. I'm glad God came again and again and again. Very few people get saved the first time they hear the gospel. But God gives us opportunity after opportunity after opportunity. To get saved. I'm so glad for that. I believe a person ought to get saved as early in life as they possibly can. I think every child, that's why we invest a lot of time and money and effort into reaching children for the gospel for the Lord Jesus Christ. Because they ought to get saved as a young child and avoid all that sin and all the garbage that comes with it, and live a life of purity, and godliness, and happiness, and fulfillment for the Lord Jesus. But I'm telling you what, our God is so patient that even if someone doesn't get saved when they're a child, he'll save them later in life. In fact, when I worked with hospice for a little while as a volunteer chaplain, I was able to lead many, many people, Lord. In one case, the night before he died. He called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be his Savior. And you know what that is? That is a God that's awfully patient. That's a God that's awfully patient. And work with us and work with us. Now let me throw a word of caution out. Surely nobody under the sound of my voice is so foolish. To think that, well, I'll wait till just before I die, then I'll get saved. I'm telling you, if you're thinking that way, you are an absolute fool Because not one of us knows what tomorrow holds. Not one of us knows when that day comes So we need to get saved as early in life as possible. If you're here this morning and you do not know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die you go to heaven and not to hell, I'm pleading with you, you need to settle that today. Today is this day of salvation. Now is the accepted time. But God is very, very patient. He's very patient He gave Achan Achan when Achan disobeyed God and hid the gold and the silver and a Babylonian garment under his tent. God went through this elaborate process till finally he was exposed. I'm convinced, those of you that know the story, Achan could have at any moment come clean and said, hey, I sinned I did wrong. I believe he could have been forgiven. He could have been forgiven. God is so patient. 2 Peter 3. 9 says, God is long-suffering to us. We're not willing that any should perish. But that all should come to repentance. God was patient with the world in Noah's day. God was patient with the world with Sodom and Gomorrah. He was patient with Achan. God is slow to anger, and he's very patient with us. There's a limit to God's patience. As I said, the Spirit's not always going to strive with man, come to the point where he'll give man over to his sin. But God's awfully patient. And last of all, and I end with this, God provided their salvation for them. Look with me, if you would, at verse 21 of chapter 3. Unto Adam also and to his wife did the Lord God make coats of skins and clothed them. Coats of skins. And clothed them. There was nothing Adam could do at this point. He had disobeyed God. The line had been crossed. Sin had now entered the world and death by sin. Adam could do nothing to correct the situation. Adam could do nothing to change his circumstances. He's totally at the mercy of God. And God in love and mercy comes down and he takes what I believe, and it doesn't say it here, I can't prove it, but I believe scripture implies this. He took a lamb. He killed that lamb and took its skin and he covered Adam as a picture of the shed blood of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, who gave his life to take away the sin of the world. And he clothed them in that lambskin, implying from 2 Corinthians 5, where God clothed us with his righteousness. And it made Adam acceptable to God again. And God did for Adam what he could not do. He provided a substitute to die in his place. So that he could live. Adam could do one of two things. He could accept that skin as that act of faith that a lamb of God would come, or he could reject it. And Adam accepted it and took that, and the relationship was restored. I think this is one of the most beautiful pictures of what the Lord Jesus Christ did for you and I when on that old cross You and I as sinners against God, under the wrath and judgment of God, Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God, says, I'll die in their place. And provide that righteousness in the eyes of God that is necessary to be accepted by God. God provided for their salvation. The biggest thing I take away from God's response to man's sin is that the very first thing God does, he comes down and he starts the process of restoring. Man's relationship with him. He loves us. He wants it to be right. Out in California, I think it was 1981. There was a car stolen. How many people agree with me? Big deal. Cars get stolen in California all the time. But this was unique. The car was stolen and the per the police began staging an intense search for this particular vehicle and the driver. As I said, cars get stolen all the time and they deal with it and address it. But this was different. Every police in the department was out looking for that car They had to find that guy driving that stolen car, the fellow that stole it, they had to find it. This was not an effort to arrest and condemn the thief It was an effort to save his life because on the front seat of that stolen car was some crackers, a box of crackers that were laced with deadly rat poison The owner of the car was heading home. He had the rat problem. He was going to put these poison crackers out for the rats to kill the rats. But this fellow stole his car. And they were scared to death that the thief would eat some of those crackers and he would die. And the pursuit of the police after this guilty thief, he was guilty, was not so much to arrest them as it was to rescue them. And I'm telling you in that same vein, God is pursuing you and I not to condemn us. We're condemned already. We're guilty. There's nothing we can do. But he's pursuing us to give us eternal life, to save us from sin and hell. Eternal separation from God. We can do what Adam initially did. We can try and hide ourselves from God. We can try and cover. We can try and ignore God. I don't want to hear it Or we can respond and say, Lord, I want forgiveness. I want to be forgiven. I want to be right with you. I want my relationship, my fellowship with my Creator to be what it's supposed to be. And we can respond in faith. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us this morning. I thank you for loving us enough not to leave us alone. I thank you for loving Adam and Eve on that first day of sin that came into the world, that you immediately dealt with it. You immediately sought to restore that. Lord, I pray you would help us in our day, first of all, to know that we've accepted your salvation by faith and have that settled in, Lord, and to respond in your chastening and your love for us and submission. And faith and trusting you. So please help us. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know that God I've accepted Christ as Savior My sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. But you would say, preacher, I know there's some areas of my life that are not what they ought to be. God's been dealing with me. God's been convicting me. Maybe this morning you'd say, I'm not going to hide it anymore. I'm not trying to avoid it anymore. I'm going to accept what the Lord is trying to do in my life, and I'm going to yield myself as a believer. Let that thing get that thing made right. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's areas where God is dealing with my heart. God bless you. Hands all around. How about it, others? The Holy Spirit of God's been convicting you. The Holy Spirit of God's been dealing with you. Don't hide that anymore. Don't run from that anymore. Say, yes, Lord. Not my will, but your will be done Is there some here this morning say, preacher, I'm saved, I know I'm saved, but there's somebody I know that's unsaved, a family member, a friend, a neighbor, co-worker. And I'm burdened for them, and I believe God is working in their life. And you say, I want to be a good faithful witness to them. I want God to use me To bring them to Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, I'm so burdened for someone, unsafe friend or family member, whatever. God bless you, hands all around. Let's let the Lord use us. Let's be that faithful witness. Let's have that good testimony. And is there someone here this morning that say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven? Say, I don't want to go to hell. I don't want to die in my sin. I want to know for sure that God has forgiven me. I want to know for sure that God has saved me. You're concerned about that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I don't want to go to hell when I die. I want to know I'm going to heaven About it. Any at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me settle that. Any at all? Anybody? About it? God's work in your heart. Any at all? A Father in heaven, bless our invitation, I ask. Have your way in our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. Jennifer