I'll take that over drum set and all that any day, you know. That is good stuff. Genesis chapter six, verse eighteen, one verse and one word out of that verse We're looking at we're back to Noah again. How many people remember Noah? We were studying him before. And uh we're getting back to him. He's been working on the ark the whole time we were gone Chapter 6 of Genesis and uh verse number 18. I'm just going to read this one verse and I'm going to say a few words about it, and then I'm going to zero in on one word, then we're going to pray and go home. How's that sound? We're going to take an offering before, in between there somewhere. Look at verse 18. But with thee will I establish my covenant. And thou shalt come into the ark, and thou and thy sons and thy wife and thy su and thy sons' wives with thee. God says, But with thee will I establish my covenant. want to talk just briefly about God's covenant with Noah. Let's pray. Father, bless now our study in your word. Lord, it's been a busy day, at least for many of us. And now we just finish out the day on your word and we pray that you would uh help us, instruct us, strengthen us, and uh give us something to take into this week. Pray, Lord, that we can be stronger in our faith, more effective in our witness. Our lives will be a little more pure and godly, Christlike. And so uh we need your Holy Spirit to do this Lord fill me I pray I give you my body anew and and my will I yield and just speak through me I ask in Jesus' name amen We've been looking through this passage several months ago, and we notice that God has given to Noah here what I'm calling an overwhelming responsibility. He is given the job. Now think about this, and we've touched on this previously. God has given to Noah the responsibility of building this monstrous ark, this boat And through that, he's going to save all of life on planet Earth. Now, I don't know about you, but that to me sounds like a little bit of pressure. You know. Alright, you've got to build this ark and this is how I'm going to save all of planet Earth. And God's given him these details uh on how to build this ark and what it's going to involve, the type of wood and and all this stuff God's pouring out on 'em. And as we looked at this, and if you'll remember from our messages in the spring, this is going to require a staggering amount of work on Noah's part He's got him and his three boys and their families, and uh it is just it's overwhelming the amount of work that's going to be involved in this, the amount of time that this is going to consume. Of Noah's life to build this ark so that the mankind has an opportunity to be saved from judgment. Incredible amount of work, incredible amount of time. Noah's ministry. And that's really what it was. Building this ark was his ministry was going to consume his tremendous amounts of times, tremendous amounts of energy for over 100 years. This wasn't a four-week revival meeting where I've got to change my schedule, you know, and go to church for an hour and a half four nights in a row. It wasn't a Thursday night soul winning where I've got to shuffle things around so I can get out and do my ministry It was something like this. We're talking 120 years of tremendous amounts of effort, tremendous amount of time, no doubt a tremendous amount of financial investment In Noah's part, on Noah's part. So he's giving, he's giving, he's working, he's working, he's investing time This responsibility could crush Noah. And it's interesting as I was reviewing my message this afternoon. It ties in, I didn't see it notice this previously, but it ties in with this morning's message. Noah could fate with the overwhelming responsibility given here. It could crush him physically. Just the amount of effort and time put into this thing, it could have just wore him out. It could have crushed him emotionally. Now you think about this. Your ministry, the entire world, salvation from judgment, is responsible for your effect of building this boat. I don't know what the that would play on your emotions, but uh I tell you, if you guys have ever stood here, any of you fellows that have stood here and preached or did things like this, you preach your message, Spirit of God working through you, it is emotionally draining. It's a powerful thing. And so Moses or Moses, Noah is involved in this physically, emotionally, mentally, trying to put this thing together. the spiritual warfare that must be going on. Just imagine. How many folks here have ever now this may get a little spooky, I don't know, but how many folks here you've ever been witnessing to somebody or been involved in in and uh serving the Lord in some way, and you could sense a spiritual conflict going on. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? You're witnessing to somebody, and you can just see the devil interfering. You can just sense the demonic forces trying to keep that person lost. You know what I'm talking about? Now think about Noah This is God providing salvation for the entire world. Imagine those demonic forces trying to discourage him and defeat him and get him off track. And so he's got all of this on him. And in the midst of all of this, now I'm just trying to put myself in Noah's shoes here, just as a man, and all this that's coming down on him And then you get to verse 18, and look what God says. But, now let's read verse 17, just get the context here. And behold, I even I do bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh. Now stop. Well let's read on. Wherein is the breath of life from under heaven? How many folks here can see in your mind, you could see Noah immediately thinking of some people that were close to him? Some people he worked with, people he grew up with, neighbors. Maybe teachers he had, maybe political leaders. And God says, I'm gonna kill everybody, and right away he thinks of those people. They're gonna God's gonna kill them Everything that is in the earth shall die. That's devastating But then he says verse 18, but with thee will I establish my covenant. Now this is what I take from this. In the midst of all these overwhelming responsibilities and instructions, all these details God's given Noah, God stops for just a moment and he says, Noah, I have a covenant I'm making with you. I have a promise I want to give you. I have some assurance for you. I have something positive to say in all of this nightmarish scenario. I believe. Here we have Noah putting out and putting out and putting out physically for the Lord, financially for the Lord. He's giving, there's no doubt about it. He's working hard. He's investing tremendous amounts of time. He is putting out and giving out and giving out and giving out and giving out for years on end And God says, wait a minute, Noah, you need to take in a little bit. You need to receive from me some sustenance, some strength, some re-encouragement, some positive promises from me. You're going to be putting out, you have been putting out, you need to take a little bit in It is as important that we take in spiritually as much as is as we give out spiritually. How many people here believe a Christian ought to be a witness? How many people believe, if I I mean, and I'm not saying we're living up to it, all of us got room to grow, but how many people believe that the issue of people being saved is of such importance it ought to be something very earnest. and uh urgent in our lives. You agree with me on that? Now I'd say none of us would say we're there yet. But we understand that But it is just as equally important, as important it is to give out the gospel and to serve the Lord and give out to others, it is equally important that we be able to get with God and take in from God. You follow what I'm saying? I think that's what God is doing for Noah here. He's saying, Noah, you're going to have to expend a lot of energy. Let me give a little something to you. I've got a promise for you. Now the interesting thing is God doesn't tell him what that promise consists of, that covenant consists of until you get over to chapter 9. But here he says, look what he says. He says, But with thee will I establish my covenant. I don't know what that is, but he says, no, I've got some good things. I've got some promises for you. I want you to know in the midst of all of this, God balances his commands with his promises. God says, I want you to do this, and I want you to do this, and I want you to do this, and I want you to do this, and God has lists of things he wants us to do. But on the other hand, he also gives us great lists of promises of what he'll do for us, of how he'll help us. I thought of Matthew chapter 28. verse 19 through 20, 18, 19, and 20, where we have the Great Commission. And he says, all power is given unto me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Ghost. Would you agree with me? That is a job God has given us to do Right? We're to go and teach all nations, baptize them, teach them to deserve what's over it. That's that's our equivalent of God telling Moses or Moses I keep saying Moses built the ark. Everyone knows Noah was on Mount Sinai. But um he tells nuts that's our equivalent of God telling Noah to build the ark And he's given us the responsibility of taking the gospel to all the world. Good night. But what's the next verse say? And lo, I am what? with you always. He balances the command to give out with the promise of God putting in. We give out, we give in. I learned something in Bible college, and James can no doubt verify this. If he's smart, he will. I found out in Bible college you can backslide just as easy, if not easier, in Bible college than you can anywhere else. Huh? You give out, and you give out, and you give out, and you give out, and you're giving, giving, giving. If you don't learn to stop and get alone with God and take in, you're headed for a train wreck. And what's true in a major sense in Bible college is also true in a very active church. Now I I don't necessarily see it that way. I guess I do a little bit, but people say that our church is very busy. I don't I don't know. But um if you knew what I wanted to do, you would say we don't hardly do anything. But uh we stay pretty busy. But there's an inherent danger in that And that is equating busyness with spirituality. I'm building that art, building that art, building that art, building that art. God says, wait a minute, you need to stop and hear from me for a change. He just, all right, yeah, build the ark. People ain't going to have an opportunity if you don't build the ark. But you need to hear some promises from me. You need to understand. You have to be able to take in for yourself. And I believe that's what's taken care of. God balances his commands with his promises. God balances his rebukes with his exhortations. How many people here have ever been rebuked by God? Do you know what I'm talking about? Oh man, you get a sermon, you hear a sermon, it's just ow! I remember, I remember years ago I preached something, I don't remember what was, but Joy walked out, I remember this, this is the only quote of Joy I remember. She walked out and said, we got spanked today Do you remember saying that? I re uh something. I she got convicted about something, obviously. And sometimes you read a verse or you hear a sermon or or whatever and God uses it and man he just oh you know what I'm talking about? But you know if you'll pay attention, God balances those out with some times where he just kind of looked. lifts us up. It kind of gives us a hug, so to speak. God balances these things. And so he's given Noah this tremendous responsibility. Work, work, work, work, work, work, work, work, work. Wait a minute. Hey, I got a good Promise for you. I got something to give to you. He balances uh uh uh exhortation with rebuke. Now look at chapter 6, verse 18, but with thee will I establish my covenant That's a good word. That's an encouraging word. That's God saying, it's not all you putting out, Noah. I've got something to put into you I've got just I don't have just have commands for you. I've got promises for you too. The word covenant itself, this is the first time it's used in the Bible in this verse. here. Read all the previous verses, you'll not find the word covenant. You'll find it often after this. So this is the third use of the term covenant in the Bible. There are a number of covenants in the Bible. If you have a Schofield Bible, you will find that Schofield tells us, from his perspective, there are eight covenants in Scripture. And he lists them. He has what's called the Edenic covenant from the Garden of Eden. The word covenant's not used, but it's a promise that God gives. in the Garden of Eden. There it and that's in Genesis 128. Uh Schofield mentions the Adamic covenant. Who would that be to Very good. Adam. In Genesis 3. 15. There's the Noahic covenant, which we'll find here in chapter 9, a little in another message. We have the Abrahamic covenant in Genesis 15. We have the Mosaic Covenant in Exodus 19. We have the Palestinian covenant in Deuteronomy 30. What do you think the Palestinian covenant would have to do with? The land. I thought somebody was going to say the Palestinians. No, it's the land. Has to do with Israel and the land. The Davidic covenant, and that's the promise to the lineage of the Lord Jesus Christ. and the kingship of Israel. Then in Hebrews chapter 8, you have what Schofield notes as the eighth covenant, the new, or the messianic covenant. And so he sees eight coming into the Bible. You get another Bible theologian, and they'll say there's ten. You'll talk to another one, and they'll say there's seven. And so there's different perspectives on this, but nevertheless, God gives some very significant and powerful promises, covenants throughout Scripture. In fact, your Bible is divided into two major sections. What are those two major sections? You have the Old Testament. You know what the word testament means? The old covenant. The New Testament. The New Covenant. So you have uh Promises of God. Now, let's consider for a moment the word covenant here. Has an interesting meaning. In fact, it has a very baffling meaning on the surface The word covenant in itself means this. I mean literal, the most literal, strict definition of the word means this. To cut something in half. To carve something in half. You say, what in the world? God says I have something to carve in half for you, Noah? What does that mean? It comes from what we understand, it comes from the cult the custom of whenever a Covenant was made. Whenever a pledge was made or a promise was made between two people or two nations, the custom was to take a sacrificial animal They would sacrifice the animal, then they would cut that animal in half. And the party or the parties involved in that covenant would walk down between the two halves of that oxen or whatever it was they had divided. And so they would walk through there, depending on the context the content, I should say, of the covenant who walked through there. If it was a conditional covenant, and by that I mean if it was conditional upon both parties behavior on the both parties, then they would both walk through there If it was an unconditional covenant, in other words, if God was saying to, say, Noah or Abraham, I am going to do this for you, regardless of what you do. There's no conditions on your part. I am coveting with you that I will do this. Then just the one person making the covenant would walk down between that carved-in half animal. If they were both involved, if there were conditions involved, then they would both walk through. Take your Bible, keep your mark here, but turn over real quick to Genesis 15. We have a picture of this I'm curious how many folks when I was explaining that you thought of this instance in Genesis 15? I thought maybe several would. Come over to Genesis 15, verse number 9. Here we have a perfect example of it where God is giving Abraham the Abrahamic covenant. And he says in verse 9, and this is God speaking to Abraham, he said unto him, Take me a heifer of three years old. And a she-goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtle dove, and a young pigeon. And he took unto him all these and divided them in the midst. In other words, what did he do? Cut them all in half. And laid each piece one against the other, but the birds he divided not. And when the fowls came down upon the carcasses, Abraham drove them away. And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abraham, and lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him. And he, God, said unto Abram, no of a surety. Boy, when God says no of a surety, you can bank on it Know of assurity that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them 400 years. What's God talking about? Egypt, Israel, down in Egypt. And also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge. And afterwards shall they come out with great substance. And thou shalt go to thy father in peace, thou shalt be buried in a good old age, but in the fourth generation they shall come forth, they shall come hither again, for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full All right? What is God making with Abraham? He's making a covenant. He's promising something to Abraham. Is there any requirement on Abraham's part? Has God said, if you do this, that, or the other? No, God said it's going to happen Regardless of what you do, Abraham, this is going to happen. Now look, look at this. This is what I'm getting to. Verse 17. And it came to pass that when the sun went down and it was dark, behold, a smoking furnace and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces. Who was that going between those divided animals? That is God Almighty. He didn't take Abraham with him, went through by himself. God said, this covenant is on my responsibility. And so when God comes to Noah, let's come back here, God is using this word covenant. He's introducing it. Now we don't have animals split in half here But that is the select that is the what's the word solemnity? Is that the right word? How solemn this promise is that he uses that word. It is a very solemn promise, a very solemn pledge. Now what is the difference between a covenant and a contract? A contract, and let me see it if you agree with me, and if you don't, don't tell me. Just talk about it later with your spouse But a contract, as I see it, is something that is based upon distrust. You have management and union. They come up with contracts. Why do they do that? They don't trust each other. You better do this or we're not gonna do that. And if you don't do that, then we're not gonna do this. And we're gonna go on strike and oh yeah, well if you do that, we're not gonna pay you. And they negotiate that thing. Why? Because they don't trust each other and they want it in writing what that person's going to do. That's not a covenant. A covenant is different than a contract. A contract is based upon distrust. A covenant is based upon the trustworthiness of the one making it. A covenant is only as good as the integrity of the one making it The covenant. Follow what I'm saying? And so God comes to Noah, and he says, look what he says, but with thee will I establish my covenant. Very serious thing. It is based upon my integrity. Now, I want us to notice, and we're going to race down through these. Notice the author of this covenant. Who is the one making the covenant? Is it Noah or is it God? It's God. This promise to Noah is grounded upon the character and the integrity of God. Now, there's a bunch of promises we could go to. We could preach a whole series just on that one thought. Every promise that God makes to you and I Is based, if God makes that promise, it is based upon his character, his integrity. And I'm telling you, if the promise of God is based on the integrity of God, then we can be very confident that promise is sure. That promise is it's guaranteed. If God promises me something, then I know one thing, that's good for me. It's going to be good for me. If God promised, if God is the one making the promise, I know this, it's going to be fair. I hesitate to say this because I don't want to offend anybody, but sometimes you go to a used car dealer and None of the used car dealers in here would ever do that. But uh some of that and there's a little fine print there. Actually I bought almost all my cars, so Connie and I are we're We're good, right? We're good. But some, right? Some, there'll be little fine print there. Oh yeah, this, that, the other, that. And then you come back and they say, oh, you didn't read that microscopic little line down there. God's not that way. If God says it, it's exactly the way He says it. Exactly the way. So it's fair. There's no fine print. There's no deception. And you say, well, what about those covenants God makes where there's conditions on my part? Let me ask you a question. Does God promise to save everybody? Think about it. Does God promise to save everybody? God doesn't promise to save everybody. God promises He'll save anybody. But there is a condition for salvation. We don't believe in universalism, right? There is a conditional man's part. The conditional man's part is we do what? We believe on him. We trust him. We receive him as our Savior. It's simply an it's basically we must allow him to save us. But there is a role that we play. And so God's promise, God doesn't promise to save everybody. God promises he will save anybody that calls on him. For whosoever shall what call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now that's a conditional promise, right? Conditioned on us repenting of our sin, trusting Christ. But if God is the one making conditions, I can be sure of this. Those conditions will benefit me. I'm better off that promise is better for me with conditions than it would be if there wasn't conditions. You follow what I'm saying? The conditions God puts on some of his promises enhance the blessing of that promise. Question: If Jesus died on the cross just automatically saved everybody. Whether they believed or not, whether they were aware of it or not, they just, whatever, you know. Would the cross be very significant to people? It'd be meaningless. But because I need to personally see my own sin and repent from it and trust Christ, now suddenly, when I read that portion of Christ on a cross, it has tremendous significance. When we have Lord's Supper and we remember the shed blood and broken body, it has tremendous significance. I get tremendous blessing from that. So the conditions that God puts on some of his promises, because it is God promising it, that condition enhances the blessing. of the promise. Makes it even more precious. So the author of the covenant is God Himself. The assurance of the covenant, he says, I, but with the will I establish it. There's no doubt about it. What God is going to promise Noah, it's going to happen. What God promises, God fulfills. Now contrast that with the promises of sin. Now stop and think with me for a minute. What does sin promise the suckers that fall for it? I should say us suckers that fall for it. What does sin promise? Well, that's what it produces, but what does sin promise? Oh yeah, pleasure, yeah, but big time. You don't need Read the book of Proverbs, you know. Oh yeah, get out there. Don't listen to mom and daddy, don't you listen to that preacher. It'll be great. You'll be happier without those rules. You'll be uh you don't need God, you'll be happy That's what it promises. Can sin produce that? No, it produces death. Here's the thing. But what God promises, God produces. He says, you seek me first, my righteousness, I'll I'll take care of every need. And so, the assurance of this covenant. Number three, I put, notice the heir of this covenant. Who it's to? It's to Noah. With thee. Noah, would you agree with me? Noah trusted God. He's built an ark for a flood. They never had rain. They never saw a flood. We have every reason to believe Noah probably never built a boat before. And so God tells them to do this. It doesn't make any sense, but okay, God, I'll do it. And God says, all right, if you trust me I have a special blessing for you. And I'm telling you, God has special blessings for those who are faithful You say, well, what does it pay? Read my Bible and go to church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night, and give out gospel tracts and do right and do all this. What does it pay? I'm telling you, God blesses those who are faithful. God bless I've been around long enough to know, and some of you have been around a lot longer than I have been, and um uh I've seen it. God blesses those who are faithful And so God has a special promise here for Noah. And then last of all, I put this down. Notice the summary of the covenant. Now you have to go to chapter 9, verse 13 and 15. I'm going to save the substance of the covenant for another message. But just basically, in chapter 9, verse 13 through 15, and I'm not even going to go there, the substance of the covenant, the summary of it, is this. There's going to be no more worldwide floods God promises Noah that. Now think about this. Noah gets off that ark. Everything is devastated. Everything's different. Mountains, valley, everything's different. The continents probably shifted. Now there's probably such a thing as snow, which most likely was not true before. And Noah comes out and says, good night. What are we in for? And God says, I want you to be sure of one thing: I'm never going to do this again. I'm never going to give a worldwide flood again. Question: Did God promise it will never flood again? No, he said, I will never flood the world again. And a second aspect of the covenant was: I'm going to put a rainbow in the sky. And every time you see that rainbow, whenever it starts raining or whatever, it finishes raining, I want to remind you, Noah, that I'm never going to do this again. I'm never going to do this again. again. Now here's the thing. There's never going to be a worldwide flood ever again. But there is coming a worldwide judgment again. And Peter tells us it's not going to be with water, but it's going to be with what? Fire. Now we don't have an ark to build And our friends up in Frostburg are probably very sincere, but I'm telling you, they're misguided. Our responsibility is not build orcs. Our responsibility is preach the gospel. Which is just as needed by this world as the Ark was in Noah's day. Now we ought to work hard at that I'm preaching it myself. We ought to work hard at that. That ought to invest our time and effort. It ought to be a super high priority in our lives. But if we're not careful, We just get so caught up in busy, busy work, work, work, and we never stop and let the Lord feed our soul. Let the Lord give us some strength, give us some spiritual reassurance. We're going to mess up. And so let's stop. Let's take our time. Catch our breath. We were talking about it earlier. Let's spend a little time in God's Word every day. So let the Lord give us promises. Let the Lord give us some direction. Strengthen our heart and soul. And then let's be busy for the Lord. Amen? Let's work hard Let's invest our time and effort. Let's be faithful. But let's let the Lord strengthen our hearts and give God some time to feed us. Father in heaven, please bless us up. I pray. And help us, Lord, to claim your promises, to hold on to them. Pray, Lord, you just help us stop and hear your word enough to hear what you have to say and what you have to do. do for us. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, this kind of has developed into the theme this evening. But I wonder how many would say, preacher, this week, I'm just going to make an extra effort to spend a little time each day with God. Maybe it's reading Psalms, just something a little extra, and let the Lord speak to my heart. Is there any like that, preacher, this week? I'm going to especially want to give God the opportunity to speak to my heart and feed my soul. God bless you. Bless you hands all around. We need that. We need that. Now let me get the