Well, I wanted to Jane have James preach the last Sunday before he goes back to school, but as the schedule worked out, Brother Schindler's going to be with us next week and so I've asked James to preach tonight. So let's get our Bibles out, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Alright, turn your Bibles to me to John chapter number three. John chapter number three. I'm gonna turn this on. Sorry, Ron. You'd ask the galaxy. seven thirty it's past that already. So I can go as long as I want, right? Yeah I need some ways. Okay, now it won't be long. I see I see the time. The more I say that the the harder it is for me to get, but As Bulletin states, it does not lie. I w I've been wanting for a long time to preach a passage from John three sixteen. I had a friend that uh I've really wanted to do it just for the last year or so. I have not been able to do take the time to do it. But tonight it seemed like a good night. And I thank the Lord for that and for this opportunity. John chapter number three, I'm gonna read verses fourteen through eighteen to get us started. It says, And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of Man be lifted up. That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Can you say verse sixteen with me? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life For God sent not his son into the world to condemn the world, but that the world through him might be saved. He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. So I want to preach a message that I've entitled God's Great Love. God's Great Love. Let's go ahead and open our prayer. Father in heaven, Lord, I thank you so much for this opportunity again, Lord, to share your word. And Father, Lord, I pray that you fill me with your Holy Spirit's power. Father, I pray that you help me get this message across. Lord, it's such a great truth in people's lives today that we can use. But Lord, I pray that you make it real in our lives. Lord, I ask that you bless this time. Lord, help us to be attentive, and we'll give you the praise for all. In Christ's name. Amen. I forgot to thank Pastor for this opportunity. I really appreciate the opportunity I get to speak the word of God. John 3. 16 is a well-known verse. I mean you go up to a lot of teenagers. In fact, for our Bible time, when we go out and do our survey or we search for teenagers, one of the things we search for is a teen who usually can quote John 3. 16 It's not an uncommon thing for teenagers to know it. In fact, we're working on memorizing verses downstairs with the teenagers. This is the easiest one for them. The one they got down pat. A verse that is so common, but yet a verse that is so well overlooked. To the unsaved, it's just the verse. They don't know its meaning, the good truth that's behind it. And you look at the Sayyid, many of them just turn it and put it aside. Yes, they know it. They could recite it off the top of their head, but they look over such a wonderful truth that is found in this passage. Many avoid this passage because it's too familiar. But we don't want to avoid it because it's familiar. It's such a good truth that we need to dive into, that we need to make true in our lives. We use it for soul winning. We can use it in our lives as well. So let's look at this verse, John 3. 16, and see God's wonderful and great love The first truth I want us to look at, this fact that we can figure out, is God is a God of love. God is a God of love. Look at me if you would verse. In fact, you might even be able to think it if you know the verse so well. It says, For God. That's how it starts out. Now who is this God? To the ungodly, who is this God? To the saved person, who is this God? The God of the Bible, the one who created everything. God. There is only one God, Isaiah tells us. You know, we hear in our world today of all these other so-called gods of Buddha or even Hinduism and all this stuff. Many people make their own idols for their lives. They put other things as a priority. I think of the idea of money. People want that to be their God. But there is only one true God, the God of the Israelites, the God of the Christians today, the God of the Bible The Lord Jehovah. He's the only God. He's the great three-in-one. He's self-existent. Nobody created him. He is on his own. And he created us. This holy, this righteous, this merciful, gracious, truth, perfect God created us. And he has a love for us. We see this God's love demonstrated in this passage. Who is God? God is a God of love. Not only is he a God of love, but he is a God of genuine love. A God of genuine love. Look at me, if you would, at that passage again. For God so loved the world. That word love there, I'm sure you've heard it before, is the idea of the word agape love. Let me just give you with you, from what I learned, this is what four years of Bible college will do for you. But let me go into detail about what this love is. Sure we get this idea of love. But uh before I get into what it is, let's look at what it's not. You know, the world has an idea of what love is, a lustful idea of what love is That's not the love of our God. Not just the world, but maybe the unsaved. You know, we have this idea of a conditional love. You know, we'll love this person if they meet certain requirements, or we'll love somebody as long as the circumstances are right. That's not the love of our God. A true, genuine love. Now let me go over what this love is. The idea of this word is to have affection for, to cherish, to show the greatest solitude for. Prove or show it the love. Long for value, hold in high esteem. God loved the world. He cherished it. He valued it. Now, a greater way to describe this love, if you would, turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter number 13. 1 Corinthians chapter number 13. I think many of you know this passage. We learned it in college as the love chapter. But in 1 Corinthians chapter number 13, Paul describes this love. Here it's translated as charity, but it's the same type of love. And Paul goes on, I think he does a great job describing this love that applies to our God. Look with me, if you would, starting in verse number eight. Or I'm sorry, let's back up for a minute, verse number four. It says, Charity suffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity wanteth not itself. Is not puffed up, doth not behave itself unseemly. Seeketh not her home, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity But rejoiceth in the truth, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. Charity never faileth You look down through that and see what kind of charity it is. You don't see the love of the world. You don't see a conditional love, but you see the love of our God. A God that truly loves us. If that does not describe the love of God enough, go back to John chapter number 3, verse 16, or think of it in your mind with me, for God so loved the world. You know, if it wasn't enough just to express that one word in the Greek, they added the other one to describe so loved. What's John doing here? He wants to get across this world that our God loves you, that God loves me. This God, who he is, has a genuine love I keep saying he has a genuine love for us, but what do I mean by us? That's the third fact. Not only is this God a God of love, and not only is a God a God of genuine love, but this God Oh, this God loves mankind. Won't take time to turn there, but if you look back in Genesis chapter number one and you look through Genesis chapter number two, you see where God started it, where God created man Created him perfect and a perfect world. Then not too long after that, back in chapter number three, we see the follow man. Man messed up. And we think that's the end, but no, it's not the end. God steps in. God's love steps in. In fact, John 3, 6, or Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, we see as What we call a proto-evangelical or the first gospel, we see God telling them away that the Savior will come to take away their sin. God's a God of love. God loves mankind. Think of what mankind has done. Mankind has sinned against God, yet God still loves them. Romans chapter 5, verse number 8. If you have your Bibles, go ahead and turn it there. Or maybe you already know this verse. Romans 5. 8 Romans chapter 5, verse number 8 states this, but God commendeth his love toward us. Now get this next phrase. In that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Christ didn't die for us when we were perfect, when we were doing our good works. Christ died for us while we were yet sinners. That's the love of God. You know, before that verse, if you look back, Paul says, you know, for a righteous man, someone rarely died for a righteous man. You know, okay, this person is a good man, I will die for him. You know, I could most of us in here can think of somebody we would maybe die for. But what about somebody who hated you completely? Somebody who despised you, didn't care about you. Would you die for that individual? God said, while we were yet sinners, while we have done him wrong, God died for us. That's the love of our God. God so loved us that He sent His Son, Jesus Christ, to die for our God, which is the fourth fact. God loves man, but God showed that love. to mankind. What a sacrifice. Think about it with me. Jesus Christ, what he had in heaven. A perfect home. Everything he could have wanted. But yet he left that all for you and for me He left it all to become f the dwell in flesh. To give that all up, to become like we were, to become tired, to eat. To give that all up to eventually die a horrible, painful suffering on the cross. And he did that for you. He did that for me. I like how Oliver B. Green put it, God did not hold back his crown jewel to save mankind. That's God's love. Gave his best for you. Turn with me if you went to Philippians chapter number two. Philippians chapter number two. Philippians chapter number two, Paul writing here. And Paul describes what Christ did for us. He says, let this mind be in you. Verse number 5 of Philippians chapter number 2, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Now here's the mindset he wants us to have, but he's describing what Christ did. Who being for in the form of God thought not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. Here it is. and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of man, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. and became obedient unto death, even at the death of the cross. Just a sign of what a humility God wants us to have in our minds. The humility of Christ. He became humble and obedient under death, even the death of the cross. That was what Christ did for you and for me. We see that God is a God of love. God's love is genuine. We see that God loves mankind and that God showed his love through Jesus Christ. Now, what are the blessings of this love? Go ahead and turn back to John chapter number three, verse number sixteen. John chapter number three, verse sixteen. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. First of all, I see a condition here for this blessing. It says that whosoever believeth. You know, this blessing is offered to all, that whosoever. What a great word. You know it didn't say the godly, it didn't say the Jews, it didn't say the Gentiles. It says whosoever. It's offered to all. Anybody can take freely of this. You know, I've come across people as I go out soul winning that say, you know what? I would I want to be saved. I want to go to heaven, but I don't think I can be forgiven of my sins. That's not what God said. God says, anybody, this gift is for all who want it. That's the condition. But the condition is we have to simply believe in him We don't have to do good works. We don't have to be baptized. We don't have to go to church. Simply believe in Him What a great truth. Believe in him, and then we see the blessings. Should not perish, but have everlasting life. I see, number one, we are saved from a devil's hell. It's discussing with the teenagers not too long ago the reality of hell. And you look at it from Christ's perspective You know, when we see hell in the Bible, we think of the flames, we think of the torment. But I'd like to see it from those disciples' perspective. You know, when he spoke of hell, he spoke of a place known as Gehenna. I'm sure you've heard of that before. But when those disciples heard that word, they knew of that horrible place. It's described back in the Old Testament, usually in the book of Isaiah or Jeremiah, a place known as Tophet or the Valley of Gudhenna. In this valley, they would sacrifice children to this God known as Molech. You can imagine the torture and the screaming of these children as they were thrown on there. We were told that they would play drums to drown out the crying. That was their idea of this hell. That's what God was telling them. You know, when people perish, this is a place. Think of that place. That's the horrors of it. It's also described in Isaiah, a verse that Christ quoted, a place where the fire is not quenched, and the worm does not die A horrible place. It painted a vivid picture in these disciples' mind. That was this hell. Now let's apply it to our context. You put your faith and trust in Jesus Christ. That's not for you. You don't have to worry about that. You never have to even think for one moment that you're going to be there. Christ says it's all taken care of. Because you believed on me. So we're not going to hell. But number two, I see here, not only that, but we have everlasting life. You know, first of all, we have that everlasting life in that kingdom God has promised. One day we are going to get to spend eternity with this God. That loves you and that loves me. We're one day going to be able to spend eternity with that God. We know we think about eternity. We can't comprehend that. We always think of something with an eternity End. But this life has no end. We get to be with our God forever. Not just with him, but in a wonderful, perfect place. That's the blessing of this verse. But we often think of that eternal life as something that is future, you know, our eternal life. But God has given us a life for Him now. Ephesians chapter number two in your Bibles, Ephesians chapter number two. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 8 and 9 are familiar verses for us. It says, For by grace are ye saved through faith, in that not of yourself, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Many times we would quote that, we use that on soul winning. But it does not stop there. Paul goes on to say this: you are saved by grace, but you don't just get saved. There's so much more to it. He says in verse number 10, For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. What is Paul saying? When you are saved, when you are put in Jesus Christ, you know, you are there now to do good works unto me. You know, I've planned for you to do these good works. You know, I think of the Corinthians that tells us, you know, we're a new creature. God has a new life for you. That many people today actually view that as something that is A downfall. You know, we got work for our Christ. Christ says it's not a downfall, it's a blessing. It's a gift I've given to you, a new life for me. That's what Christ has for you God's great love. What is the conclusion we can get out of all this? We've seen five facts here. Who God is. We've seen his genuine love. We see that genuine love showed to us. We've also seen that it's a blessing to have this love. What can we conclude from this? Don't just disregard Regard such a verse as something so simple. When we come to our Bibles, we quote it in our mind and we move on. But I think it's something I don't think God has known well known just for that purpose. God wants us to know this verse in our lives in our hearts. The unsaved, if you're here and you do not know Christ, this verse is for you. God has demonstrated his love. He has shown his love to you. There's no greater way he could have done it And he wants you to believe on his Son Jesus Christ as your Savior. If you are saved here tonight, this verse is for you just as well. God wants you to see his great love. God wants you to comprehend his great love and what he's done for us. I think back in Corinthians also, where Paul tells us about when we take the Lord's Supper, how seriously we are to take it At the end of each one, though, he told us why. In remembrance of me. You know, Christ wants us to remember what he has done for us on the cross. You know a good way to do that? We got the verse in our hearts. We got the verse in our minds. So why don't we think about it? Why don't we dwell upon it? Why don't we understand? Why don't we comprehend his great love? So not only should we remember his great love, but lastly we should act upon that great love. Another verse I've used with the teenagers. Romans chapter number twelve or twelve one. wholly acceptable unto God, and that's something we overlook so much, which is your reasonable service. You know, we see it as a gift to God, and it is. But you know what, Paul, I can almost imagine him thinking, you know, this is just something that is expected of us. To live a life for God. Look at what He's done for you. Look at His love. You know, as I remember when I looked over what that love was, an unconditional love, showing and demonstrating love. Why don't we demonstrate our love for God? coming year. Why don't we show it? Sure we say it. Oh yes, I love God. I'm a true believer. I love the Lord Jesus Christ. This year why don't we show it? Why don't we demonstrate it? Just as Christ has demonstrated his love for us, why don't we obey him and demonstrate that great love so others can see it, that they can see the true love of Jesus Christ. I challenge you that you would show God's great love with somebody this year. Let's close in prayer Father, I thank you so much for this message, Lord. I thank you so much for your great love. Lord, we could spend forever on it, but I thank you so much that you can just you made it so simple that we can understand it And Lord, I pray that you we would take it and apply it to our lives. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I'm not going to embarrass anybody tonight, but Just curious, how many of you say, you know what, James? I think I've overlooked the love of God. I've taken it for granted. But this year, 2011 Every time I hear John 3. 16, I'm going to remember God's love for me. I'm going to remember what He's done for me. If that's you, and you're here this night, and you're going to say, every time I hear that verse. Every time I hear something referencing to Christ, I'm going to remember his love for me. If that's you, would you raise your hand? Would you make that commitment? Yes. Of course we would. Before I close, always at every invitation I go with, I never want to go by without asking this question. If you're not here and you do not know you're on your way to heaven, You have not experienced God's great love. There's no greater way to show God that you love him than accept that free gift he has given you. If you're here and you do not know Jesus Christ as your Savior, would you raise your hand and say, you know what, I want to be included in that closing prayer. I want to be included. Would you pray for me that I can get that settled? Anybody here like that? That anybody at all Father in heaven, Lord, we do love you. Father, I pray that you help us keep our commitment. Lord, we want to remember your sacrifice, what you have done through your Son Jesus Christ Lord, I pray that you'd use this verse in our lives. I pray that it wouldn't just be something that we go over so quickly, but we would remember the great love of God. Lord, we thank you so much. We ask for your blessings on the invitation. Chin Christine, Amen