I want to bring a message from Psalms 119 on the subject, God's wonderful book, Divine. The songwriter wrote, What a light is that shining so brightly for me! That gives me such courage, the right way to see. What hope for my trusting soul ever shall be God's wonderful book divine? What hope for the traveler when strength's almost gone? That makes him determined to keep plodding on. What sweet consolation from heaven's white throne, God's wonderful book divine. What chart can you trust as a guide for your soul? What tempest would stand on you on some treacherous shore? What compass will point you to heaven's bright door, God's wonderful book divine I love the old Bible, the old King James Bible. Light on my pathway to shine. It keeps me so happy. Always so happy God's wonderful but divine. Let's bow our hearts together in a word of prayer. Father, we thank you today for thy precious word. The privilege that you have given to us to gather together here in this place. And I pray, Father, that thy word would go forth in power and in demonstration of the Spirit of God May you accomplish what you purpose to do in and through this meeting. And we thank you that your word will not return to thee void. We thank you for the good fellowship that we're able to enjoy. And I pray, Father, that you would save the lost and encourage and bless your children, and we'll give you praise and thanks for it all, because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. In Psalms one hundred and nineteen, and you know that this psalm is a psalm about the Word of God From verse number one to the very last verse of Psalm 119, the psalmist is talking about the Bible, the precious word of God. And in verse number 97, the psalmist declares, Oh, how I love thy law. It is my meditation all the day. God shows us in this Psalm, Psalm 119, how important His Word is to you and how important His Word is to me. He identifies, when you read the Bible, he identifies his word as the law. He identifies the Bible as his commandments. He identifies the Bible as his statues. He identifies his Bible as judgments And so when you read through Psalms and other portions of Scripture and it's talking about the law of God or it's talking about the commandment of God Or it's talking about the judgments of God. He's talking about the entirety of the Word of God. All sixty-six books of the Bible. In Psalm nineteen The psalmist declares that his word is perfect. That simply means that there's no heirs in the Bible. Okay, we're right on schedule with that. When we talk about a Bible being perfect It means there are no heirs, and in its substance, from beginning to end, is truth. Nothing but the truth. Not only does the psalmist declare the word as being perfect, he declares the word as being sure. That simply means that It's faithful and trustworthy, and you can rely upon what God has given to you in His Word. The psalmist goes on not only to declare the Bible As being perfect and the Bible as being sure. But he declares the Bible as being right. Everything from Genesis to Revelation is right. That simply means that on every subject Recorded in the Bible, it's right. You say, but what if the scientist disagrees with the Bible? The Bible's right, the scientist is wrong. Now say amen to that You say, but what about the physician? If he says something that does not line up with the Bible, who's right or who's wrong? The Bible is right. The physician is wrong. The politician says something uh that doesn't sound right and doesn't line up with the Bible. Who's right? The Bible is right and the politician is wrong, and believe me, well I won't go there. So God's word is perfect. God's word is sure. God's word is right. And he says that his word Is pure, it's clean, it's true. He he even goes as far as to say that the word of God is righteous and sweeter than honey. Now I like honey I like a good biscuit. I better leave now. I like a good biscuit With honey on it? Lots of honey on it? I go into Bob Evans and and uh they have good biscuits there. And uh they used to put honey on the table. They don't do that anymore. You gotta ask for it. I I've been in a few Bob Evans and they see me coming and they know, better get the honey, here comes that preacher And uh they'll put honey on the table. I I love biscuits and honey. And oh how sweet and delicious and satisfying it is. And and God says that my word is even sweeter than the honey and the honeycomb. It's better than what you can get at Bob Evans. Now, if you're an employee of Bob Evans, excuse me for just a moment. But I'm simply saying to you that this book is is precious and it's satisfying and it's sweeter than honey It'll delight your soul and bring joy to your life. And no wonder the psalmist bursts out in praise and adoration for the Word of God. And he says, Oh, how I love thy law! How I love it, how I cherish it, how I find my delight in it. When you read through Psalms 119 over and over and over again, The psalmist describes and declares how much he loves the Word of God and what it really means to him If you'll notice in verse number 16, he says, I will delight myself in thy statues. I will not forget thy word. I know that we're in March madness right now. And uh I've had a few comments from friends of mine that their team has not made it. There were those that I have friends that are Duke fans. Uh I don't know why, but they're Duke fans. And uh Duke uh got knocked out of the March madness and one fella sent me a note and he said, Well, I'm ready for baseball now. My delight is in baseball Our delight ought to be in the Word of God. I was coming here this morning and I passed a portion of the lake and I I was able to recognize that some fellas delight in going to the lake on Sunday morning and throwing out a line. And I just prayed as I went by. I hope they don't catch anything. I hope it's a miserable day for 'em today I hope that if they're in a boat, I hope it sinks and they have to swim to shore. We ought to be in the house of the Lord. We ought to be here fellowshipping one with the other. And and the Sama said, Oh, my my delight, my joy My anticipation is being able to come to the Word of God and enjoy the truth that I find therein. In verse number 24, he said, Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counselors. That means that when you have a problem, go to the Word of God. Find out what God has to say. He'll address your need and He'll address the subject that's troubling your soul. Why? Because we love the Word. It's our delight, and it becomes our counselor. Oh, we could go through this psalm and look at many things. Verse forty-seven and I will delight myself in thy commandments which I have loved. The psalmist just goes over and over And over telling us how much he delights in the Bible, how much he enjoys the Bible, how much it counsels him and shows him and maps out for him the course that he needs to follow. And folks, that is what revival is all about. It's getting in line with this book and the truths of this book and allowing the Word of God to regulate your life, to control your life, and direct you in the direction that God wants you to go. And when we're out of adjustment, when we're not walking in compliance to the truth that God has given us In his word, we need revived, we need restored, we need to be brought back into that right line and fellowship with him. That is what revival is all about It's not some mystical pill that you take, and all of a sudden we're revived. It's getting back to where God wants us to be. It's walking in obedience to his word Many, many, many, many, I say many, have rejected the truths of this book and reject the authority of the Word of God There are many that deny the truths of the Word of God. There are multitudes that refuse to live by the standards that God has established in His Word. But the Srama said, Oh, how I love thy law. Out of love for God's word, many have labored, labored long hours to translate it into the languages of the world. Because of a love for the Bible, a devotion to the Word of God, many have labored to distribute that word. One of the joys that we've had in going to Mexico was to spend hours upon hours distributing the Word of God. Knowing what it would mean to people, how it would help people. We're planning more trips in the future, and we'd love you to be on board with one of those trips. And go and let it impact you. Let it drive you. Let it get a hold of you to see what God is able to do. Because of a love for the Word of God, many, many have suffered greatly because they declared its truths. This book is the dividing book. It has divided multitudes. And because of a love for the Word of God, many have died because of their devotion. And their unwillingness to accept some other authority other than the Bible. Why do we love God's Word? Why why do God's people love the Bible so much? I'm glad you asked me that question In the next few moments, I'd like to give you some reasons why. I think first and foremost we love the Bible because this book convicts the sinner. This book will convict the sinner. I've seen people get up and walk out of the church service before under deep, deep conviction. They didn't want to be confronted with their need, and they were resisting the work of the Spirit of God, and in anger and in rebellion, they get up and storm out of the service. I've seen men grip the back of a pew and hold on till their hands turned white under deep conviction of the Spirit of the Living God. My grandfather was one of them. The first time he ever heard me preach, he was in a church, in a manual Baptist church in Mechanicsburg, Pennsylvania. And I was so thrilled and excited that he was there. I knew he was lost. I knew he needed saved. My grandfather gripped the back of that church pew until his hands turned white And refuse with tears streaming down his face to come and get saved. We love this book and praise God for this book because it has the power to convict sinners of their need of a Savior. In the book of John, chapter 16, and in verse number 7. The Gospel of John chapter 16 and in verse number 7. Nevertheless I tell you the truth that is it is expedient for you that I go away. For if I go away, these are Jesus is speaking, for if I go not away, the comforter will not come unto you But if I depart, I will send him unto you. And when he is come, praise the Lord, the Spirit is come. When he is come, He will reprove, and that word reprove means to convict and convince an individual. He will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. The convicting power of the Holy Spirit and the Word of God is able to drive deep into a person's life and convict them that they are sinners. Convict them that they need to be made righteous, and convict that if they don't come to Christ, there's a sure judgment awaiting for them. That's what the Spirit of God is able to do in a person's life. We love the Bible because it convicts the sinner. The Holy Spirit uses the seed. That's why these books are so important. They're so valuable. They're so needed all over the world. If there's ever one book of the Bible that I would love to put into the hands of every person around the world, it would be the book of Romans. Because within it you find the very plan and truth of salvation that man needs. It presents to us our condemnation. It presents to us that we can be justified. It presents to us that we can be sanctified, and ultimately we'll be glorified. That's what the Bible is able to do. And the Holy Spirit is able to take that seed, that planted seed, the entrance of that word. Do you know the Holy Spirit is limited in what he can do if the Bible's not there? People are born again by the word of God that liveth and abideth forever. You wonder why pagan religions can flourish and dominate and control nations and multitudes of people. You show me that nation, and I'll show you a country that is without the Bible. We love this book because it convicts the sinner. Many don't want to hear that. We live in a society that we're taught you need to feel good about yourself. You'll never feel good about things until, first of all, you feel pretty bad about some things. The fact that we are sinners and lost and on our way to a Christless eternity. Ecclesiastes 7 and 20, the Bible says, For there is not a just man upon the earth that doeth good and sinneth not. All we like sheep have gone astray. We love this book because it convicts the sinner. Not only that, we love this book because The book converts the sinner. I feel a shout coming on right now. It converts. It'll bring you into the family of God. Every time I begin to think about it and contemplate it and my mind rolls back to that day in September of 1963. When my heart was touched by the Spirit of God, and I walked an old-fashioned church aisle and bent at an old-fashioned altar and trusted Christ as my Savior. At that moment I was translated from the kingdom of darkness into the very kingdom of light, and I've never got over it since. It's a sweet walk. A sweet and wonderful walk. A wonderful fellowship. Oh, what joy divine we have in the Lord Jesus Christ And I'm thankful for this book because it not only convicts the sinner, it converts the sinner and brings them into the very family of God. In the Gospel of John, chapter 5 And in verse number 24, the Gospel of John chapter 5, and in verse number 24, the Bible says this: Verily, verily, and any time you see a double verily, you better sit up. Better pay attention. Something important is about to be said. There are times that the the Lord uses verily. It's all important. The boy when he puts a double verily on it, this is something he does not want us to overlook and bypass and not pay attention to. Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word The importance of hearing what God has to say leads to salvation. Verily, verily, I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on it, there has to be a response to it. It's not just good enough to hear it. You gotta respond to it. If there's anything that I notice in our churches today is a lack of response to what is being preached. You've heard the expression, it's like water off a duck's back. It just doesn't penetrate. It's there. It could do something, but it's just like water off a duck's back. And and I I I think a lot of times in our our fundamental churches where you Hear it over and over and over again. You get desensitized to the message. You get desensitized to what God is trying to tell us. You get desensitized to the need that is in your own life. And you go out the doors, oh, I fulfilled my obligation, went to church. Heard the message. But God says you not only need to hear it, you need to respond to it. You need to do something about it. So he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me Half what? Everlasting life. I'm glad I'm in and can't get out. I'm glad I'm kept by the power of God. Glad my name is written down in the book. I'm glad when the the the trumpet sounds, I'm going up. Uh the old truck driver would say I'm on the road with my hammer down. I got my foot on the pedal and and I'm a pumping as fast as I can go. When that trumpet sounds, I'm trucking out And the new assistant can take over things when you and I are out of here. We love the Bible because it convicts us. We love the Bible because it converts us. And when we're converted, we are cleansed from the defilement of sin. We walk in that new light. We walk in that new life. And the Bible says the blood of His Son cleanses us from most of our sin. Huh? All not most all. You sure that's what it says? I should know this by now. All that would it say, all That means there's therefore now, this very moment, no condemnation to them that are in Christ. All of our sin is taken care of by the blood of Jesus. Not only are we delivered from the defilement of that sin, but we're delivered from the very power of that sin. Romans chapter 6 and verse 14 says that we're not to allow sin to have dominion, and that word dominion means control and authority and and and captivating you to the point that you are imprisoned by it. Thank God that we're liberated when we come to Christ. We don't have to sin. We don't have to walk in disobedience to Him. We don't have to have that defilement in our life. One day we're going to be delivered from the very presence of it all. Nothing that defiles going to enter that city divine. Nothing that is contaminating will be found in that city divine. Nothing that would be erroneous will be found in that city divine. It's all going to be pure and right and glorious. in that place that he's prepared for us. That's because the Word of God convicts the sinner and the Word of God converts the sinner. Would you agree with me that Paul on the road to Damascus found the Savior and was gloriously converted? Would you agree that when Peter stood up on the day of Pentecost and proclaimed the gospel message, 3,000 souls come to know Christ as their personal Savior? And down through the centuries of time, millions of people that have responded to the old gospel call Where the lifeline was thrown out, are drawn to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm one of them. And if you're in, you're one of them as well. We love the Bible. Because it convicts the sinner. We love the Bible because it converts the sinner. We love the Bible, this book called the Bible, because it comforts the saints. It not only convicts and converts, but it comforts. The Lord told us in Matthew 11 and 28: Come unto me all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I We'll give you rest. There's nothing like having a troubled soul and carrying the weight and the burden of the circumstances of our life Coming to the Word of God and finding a verse that you can attach to and lay hold of and allow it to comfort your soul. The psalmist, Psalm 23, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He's the one that makes me lie down in green pastures, and there's nothing more satisfying to his sheep. Then to find green pastures, but the shepherd leads them there. He takes them by still waters. It's my understanding that do we have any sheep herders in the crowd? I I figured you had to be. You just look like a sheep herder. You oughta brought your staff with you this morning, too. Sheep won't drink from troubled waters. They want the smooth and glassy waters to find their satisfaction. There's been a many a troubled night, a many a broken heart, a many a troubled soul That has gone to the still waters of the Word of God and found comfort in their time of need Jesus said, Come, come, bring it to me. Whatever is troubling you, whatever's disturbing you, whatever is upsetting you, whatever circumstance that is Not compliant with what you need in life. You just come to me. You'll find comfort for your troubled soul. I can attest to that. In the darkest hours of her life, Dee and I have found comfort in the Word of God. It has restored our soul. It has comforted our soul. It has kept us having the right perspective in life. And knowing that in this life we shall have tribulation. We shall go through dark times. But the Word of God has become our comforter and our guide and our counselor. And answers the very needs of our life. Matthew 6 and 33, the Bible says, seek ye first the kingdom of God, and all these things will be added unto you. Aren't you thankful this morning that God is able to comfort? Not only is he able to comfort, but he's able to strengthen and he's able to give you grace and sustain you in the hour of darkness? I'm thankful that through our sorrows and our trials and our sickness and our death, he's able to dispense grace And meet those needs in our individual life. So we love the Bible. We love the Bible because it convicts the sinner. Because it converts the sinner. Because it comforts the saint. He says, fear not. Don't live a life of fear and worry and distress. Don't pattern your life after that course. For I am with thee, he says. Be not dismayed, for I am thy God. And he says, I will. And boy, when God says I'm going to do something, he does it. I will strengthen you. I will help you. I will uphold you. That's the promise he gives to us And you find that in the Word of God. The Word of God. Psalm 138 and 7 says, Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me. That's what we want to see God do this week. Revive the people of God. Revive my heart. I don't know of a person in this building, there's not some area of your life where you need revival. You need revival. I need it You need it. And when God puts his finger on that spot, we need to deal with it. And deal with it then and not allow it to have any hold and authority. An imprisonment in our life. We love the Bible because it convicts the sinner, converts the sinner, comforts the saint. Got to give you one more, and then let you go to the house. We love the Bible because it challenges the saved. You never open up this book that it does not challenge you. In Psalms 119 alone, over and over and over again, there's challenge after challenge after challenge. I think of verse number eleven. Thy word have I hid in mine heart that I might not sin against thee The challenge to memorize the scripture, the challenge to be in the Word of God, and allowing it to so grip your heart and so control your life that you don't let it depart from you day nor night. That's a challenge. We are so prone to being busy in this life that it's easy to slip out the front door and go on your merry way and forget all about the time with the Lord. Amen, preacher. The challenge of being in the Bible and reading the Bible and studying the Word of God It's a daily chore. And I found this out. The devil will work overtime to keep us from this book. Have you ever noticed that when you decide I'm going to read the Bible, the phone rings, the doorbell rings, the dog barks, the baby cries. Your belly begins to rumble with, I need attention. I need help. I need fed There's not one of us that couldn't go 30 minutes without having something to eat. I can tell you're liking this. The challenge to hide the word in your heart. And then I thought about this. The challenge, the psalmist tells us the challenge to meditate upon it. To to allow it to so control your thoughts that you're thinking about it. I I found that one of the best times to meditate on scripture is when you go to bed at night. Turn out the light, lay your head back on that pillow, and just begin to meditate upon God's word. The psalmist tells us in Psalm 119 and verse 15: I will meditate in thy precepts and have respect unto thy ways. That's a challenge. That's a challenge. The devil wants to remind you how mistreated you were today. The devil wants to remind you what you didn't do today. But God says, I want you to meditate upon my word. And allow it to comfort you and put you into a sound sleep. Not only did the psalmist say, I'm going to memorize it and meditate upon it, but he said, I'm going to delight in it. My greatest joy is going to be found in getting into this book, studying these scriptures, finding out what God has to say. In verse number 16, he said, I will delight. That is, I'm going to get excited about it. I'm going to get overwhelmed about it. When God gives you something, run and tell somebody else about it. Hello? You must be getting hungry or something. I don't know. You're checking out on me here When God gives you something precious, don't keep it to yourself. Share it. Tell somebody else. If you run across the passage of scripture that you're troubled about, Ask about it. Talk about it. There might be a new perspective that you'll receive from that. I've done that many a time. Why? Because we love this book. And we want to be revived by this book and walk in harmony. We need to pray for understanding of this book. That's a challenge. Lord, I want to understand what you're saying here. I want to know the truth. I want to be guided. I know how easy it is to be caught up in error and misled. and and and be devoted more to what someone else has written rather than what you have written. Amen to that. And the only way we're going to get God's perspective on it is to pray earnestly and genuinely that God will show me the truth and lead me in that truth. The Bible says in verse number 18, Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law. This wonderful. Wonderful book divine. Do you love it? Do you love it? Love it enough that you want to be in it? Love it enough that you're willing to come back tonight. Maybe I ought to preach tonight's message now. Because I can just tell by the look on some of your faces. If you're not going to be here tonight, shame on you. We love this book. And because of that, we want to be in it. Joshua says, don't let it depart from you. Don't let it depart from you. Talk about it constantly. Meditate upon it continually. Read it obediently Follow it exclusively. Accept it totally And share it widely. This wonderful book divine. Stand with me for prayer, if you would, please. Every head is bowed and every eye is closed, and in just a moment we'll have a song of invitation. I wonder how many here this morning, by uplifted hand, can say, Preacher, I I know I'm saved, I know I'm in the family of God, and I can go back in point of time and know when the transaction took place. Know exactly when I called out to the Lord to save my soul, and that's my testimony, and here's my hand in evidence of that. I know that I know that I know I'm saved. God bless you, can put your hands down Maybe you're here this morning and you couldn't raise your hands with the others and you're troubled about that and you'd say, Preacher, I I just don't know. I'm not sure. I I'm not sure if I drew my last breath that heaven would be my home. Would you pray for me? Slip up your hand and put it back down that we might pray for you. We're not here to single you out and embarrass you. We genuinely, sincerely I want to pray for you that God will help you to see the truth of His Word. Is there anyone like that this morning? Anyone? Anyone? Maybe you're here this morning and you say, Yeah, yeah, I'm saved, but my life is really not where it should be. There's areas of my life that I know is not right with God. And as best as I know, preacher, I do want to get that right, and I do want to be revived. I do want to walk in obedience to him and please him. And I need your prayers. I want to pray for you. Yes. God bless you and you and you. Yes. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. I I don't know what it was that prompted you to raise your hand. But we're going to have a word of prayer, and with our heads bowed and our eyes closed, the pianist was going to play. And I I would encourage you to come and Make holy vows to the Lord. Deal with that problem in your life. Deal with that area of your life that you know is not pleasing to him. Lay it before Him and ask Him for His help to restore your soul. Father, you've seen many hands that have been raised here this morning, and we thank you for that. We we do want to see revival, Lord. We know that it's got to come from you And it begins by admitting where we are and dealing with those things that are out of adjustment with you. And I pray, Father, that you would do that work, begin that work here this morning In each of our hearts and lives. While our heads are bowed and our eyes are closed and the pianist is playing, if God has spoken to you, this old time altar is open and we invite you to come and do business with the Lord.