Philippians chapter number one. I wanted to recognize my dad's down for a couple weeks here. I pointed out in Sunday school, so good to have dad down here again. And uh always glad when he's here. I'm always well more behav much more behaved, well behaved, and um not nearly as much fun as when Dad is here. But Uh we're a little more b well behaved when he's here. I'm joking. It's good to have Dad down with us. He keeps my squirrel population on my bird feeders thinned out uh for me. So It's great. Somebody asked if he was down for bow season, uh deer hunting. I said no, he's down for squirrel season. And it's good to have Brother Steve Heinbull, Pastor Steve Heinbull from the Galilean Baptist Church up in Stafford Springs, Connecticut. And uh tough area up there, but he's doing the job and preaching and winning souls, doing a good job. His wife Jackie's here. We got two Jackie Heinballs in the house today. That's a scary thought, but um Good to have you guys here and the kids. There's always a blessing to have them around. Others, we're glad that you're with us. Philippians chapter one. Sunny school teacher dismissed her class. And uh she told the kids, now you get up in the church service, you gotta be quiet. Be quiet when you get there. Be quiet. The one kid said to the other kid, he goes, Why do we have to be quiet in church? The other one said, because people are sleeping. And There is more truth to that than what you might realize. I would like for us to read together Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 6. I'd like for us to all read together all in unison, Philippians chapter 1 and verse 6. If you've got it there, ready, here we go, all together. being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. I want to speak on the subject. God is not finished with you. God is not finished. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word, particularly this passage, this verse uh that has meant so much to me personally over the many years. I pray you would uh uh your Holy Spirit would take the truths that are given to us in this verse And that you would apply them to each of our lives, each of our situations, our conditions, as you see fit, as you know that we need I ask, Lord, that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak through me to each of our hearts. It would not be me up here just running my mouth, but Lord, it would be the Spirit of God applying your word. to each of our hearts and lives. So with that in mind, I present my body anew in this hour, Lord, to you. I yield my will and again I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And Lord, help us to put aside the cares and the and things. Help us to put the phones up and put our focus on the Word of God for the next few moments. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Many of the New Testament books, as we call them, as you read through the New Testament, many of those books are actually letters. That the Apostle Paul wrote to various churches that God had used for him to start throughout that part of the world He went on a number of missionary journeys, and on those journeys he would go into a city, preach the gospel, people would get saved, he'd establish a church. uh put some leadership up there then he would move on to another town. So a lot of these New Testament uh books are actually letters, as I say, Paul is writing under the inspiration of God and helping these churches go forward in their faith. Some of those churches that he is writing to, some of these churches that are mentioned in the New Testament, our church would not want to be like them. Some of those churches, we would definitely want to avoid being like those churches. For instance, we're studying in Sunday school, the church at Corinth. That church had very, very serious moral problems. And just about the whole book is written, uh, is this letter written by Paul to the church correcting some very, very serious issues. I mean just to give you a taste of it, the church, they're they're having Lord's Supper. They're getting drunk at the Lord's Supper. How many people, if you're on vacation, you went and visited a church, they had Lord's Supper and half the crowd got drunk, how many people would have a problem with that Yeah. I don't know about you. I would say, I don't think I'm going back to that church. Uh nevertheless that was the case for the church at Corinth Uh they're carrying on. They've got fornication and adultery all rampant through the uh church membership, unsaved people in the church membership and and uh carrying on Uh and so my point is this, some of these churches that are addressed in the New Testament, and and though they're legitimate churches, they're use of God and and the church at current, just to add this in, they eventually got things right And uh God used uh Paul to turn that around and get things established. The second letter he commends them uh for the progress they made. Another church that we might want to not necessarily emulate everything about them was the church at Galatia. And Paul wrote the book of Galatians, and he addresses some very serious doctrinal errors there. They had worked salvation had worked its way in and and uh um a biblical definition of legalism had worked its way in there. And so there was some real serious problems in the church at Corinth at uh Galatia and the church at Corinth. So these letters in the New Testament that we call books of the Bible, and they are in a sense, but they're actually letters Paul wrote to various churches, many of them are, and some of those churches we would not necessarily want to be like them. We won't want to emulate everything about them. However Some of the churches that are addressed by these letters, the books of the New Testament, are tremendous. And we would very much like to pattern ourselves after those churches. For instance. The church at Thessalonica was a tremendous church, was a powerhouse church. And the gospel, the Paul said. commended them. He said the po gospel is going out from you to all that part of the region, so that we have no need to go in there. He says, everywhere I go Uh and I'm putting this in my own words. He says, everywhere I go I'm finding you've been here and you've been witnessing that people have heard of the gospel because of your witness. In fact he tells that church You are an example. You're a model church for other churches to pattern themselves after. So I would very much like, as pastor particularly, I would very much like for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to be like the church at Thessalonica, particularly in the strength of their faith and in their in their uh thoroughness and aggression and getting the gospel out, uh that's a tremendous church. Another church in the New Testament That we, I believe, as Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, we would like to emulate and be like is the church at Philippi. And that is the book where we're at this morning, we're looking at. The church at Pelopi was a tremendous church. It was a very strong church. This book of Philippians is Paul's letter to this church. In fact, someone has suggested that the book uh the book of Philippians is Paul's uh support letter he's writing back to the church. The church had been sending financial support and material support to Paul. And it's kind of like he's writing back. Uh how many people know what we're talking about when we say a prayer letter from a church, uh from a missionary to a church? Anybody know what we're talking about? It's when we have missionaries out around the world And they're serving the Lord, we're supporting them, sending financial material support to them. They write back to us and give us a report of how things are going, many pra prayer requests and different things like that. That's kind of What the book of Philippians is, Paul is writing back to the church there. Of course, he's given tremendous instruction and truth to them also, but it's kind of a prayer letter to a supporting church. It is a book of Christian joy. That church there, my impression of the church at Philippi is this. That was a tremendously happy church. He references joy, rejoicing throughout the book, a happy church. How many people like to be a part of a happy church? How many people would like to be a part of a miserable grouchy uh church? I don't want to be a part of something like that. Good grief. We got enough of that out in the world. Amen. And so the Church of Philippi was a very happy church. It was a rejoicing church. It was a very strong church. Their faith was very strong, very mature. He's writing to him. If you read carefully the letter, the book of Philippians, this letter to the church at Philippi from Paul, if you read it very carefully, there are no major doctrinal errors being addressed. They knew what they believed. They were straight on their doctrine. They understood the Bible. There was no major moral issues addressed there. They were godly people, very humble and rejoicing. By the way, I found out that the less godly a person is, generally, the less happy they are. The more sin we allow in our lives, generally the more miserable we become, particularly as a Christian under chastening hand of God. And so the church is a very happy church, very strong church, very moral, uh doctrinally strong, strong in their faith, mature. And our interactions, there's a couple little issues there, a couple folks that were fussing. He dressed that a little bit. But for the most part, it's a tremendous, tremendous church. Now, there are several verses throughout or statements that Paul makes throughout the book that many, many Christians have claimed and taken maybe to be a life verse. Sometimes you'll see them on a t-shirt. Somebody will put one of these verses on there, statements from the book, or we'll use them for, as I said, life verses or different things. Let's just quickly, I want to highlight a few of these. One of them is this verse here in 1. Chapter 1 verse 6, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it. until the day of Christ Jesus. How many of you agree with me? That's a great verse. That's a great verse. Let's look at a couple others. Come to chapter two if you would And we just I just want to touch on these, highlight 'em. You might want to if you're in the habit of highlighting your Bible or marking your Bible, and I think it's a great habit You might want to underscore some of these verses or note them in some way. Look at chapter two and verse number ten Well, how many of us have heard this verse or referenced this? Look at chapter 2 verse 10. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. How many people are familiar with that verse Isn't that a great promise? Someday, this whole world, all of mankind is going to recognize the Lordship of Jesus Christ, whether here or now. Somebody said atheism is a temporary condition. Think about it. Uh the moment an atheist dies, they're no longer an atheist Right? They understand? And there's a day coming when every knee shall bow, every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is exactly who he said he was Jesus Christ is exactly who the Bible presents him to be. God in the flesh. And so, what a great verse. Come over, if you would, to chapter 3 and look with me at verse number 13. This is a tremendous verse. And for some of us maybe that have known the Lord for a period of time, this is a good reminder to us. Chapter 3, verse number 13. Look what it says. Brethren, this is Paul speaking to the church there. He's writing to them. Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended. What is Paul saying? He says, I haven't arrived yet. I'm not everything I ought to be. I still got a ways to go. I got growing to do. I need to be more mature. I need to be stronger. I'm not, uh I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind. And reaching forth to the things which are before, I press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. What a challenge for you and I that know Christ as Savior. How many people have some things in your past you'd like to forget? Anyone? Sure. Sure we do. Paul says, listen, I'm not arrived. I'm not there yet. I'm not everything ought to be as a Christian. I've got a ways to go, but I'll tell you one thing. That stuff in the past, I put it behind, and I am pressing forward, I am pressing forward, I am focused, I am committed, I am dedicated, my energy is being applied to be that Christian God saved me to be. To learn to have faith in God and live for him and serve him. What a great verse. Come with me, if you would, over to chapter 4. Chapter 4 is full. Of tremendous statements. Of course, all the Bible is given by inspiration of God. It's all profitable, but some of these just stand out in our mind. Look at chapter 4 and verse 4. Chapter 4 and verse 4. Quote it with me. If you know it, say it with me. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say what? Rejoice. Great verse. What a reminder. Even in the dark times, even in difficult times, even in challenging times, hey, I can still rejoice in the Lord. I can still rejoice in the Lord. Then we come down, look at verse number six. Boy, what a great challenge to pray. Be careful for nothing. Word careful there means to be anxious, worried, worked up, all upset Be careful for what? Nothing. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known unto God. Look what he says. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding. Doesn't even make sense. How can you have peace in this situation? Peace of God that passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. How many people ever said this? You're in a situation that I'm going crazy. Anybody know what I'm saying? Anybody? Some of y'all have arrived. Somebody said, You're driving me crazy. They said, Well, that's not hard. It's a short short drive for you. But um, nevertheless This situation is driving me nuts. This verse says, this verse says that if we commit our prayer and pray with thanksgiving, the peace of God will keep our hearts and minds. We don't have to go crazy I can have peace of mind and Claire of the clarity of mind. God can give that to me even in difficult situations And by the way, as pastor, what a great blessing and challenge it's been to me to see people in our church who went through who, and maybe some are now, going through difficult situations, horrific situations, yet they have the peace of God. And the presence of God there through it. What a blessing. What a challenge that is. And that's what he's promising us. Great verses here. Let's read on. He says verse 8, finally, my brethren, what sort of things are true? Whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there Beanie praise, what's he say? Think on these things. My how different our attitude would be if we follow that that admonition there. If we control our thinking in keeping on these things that God says we should keep them focused on So, and let me give a couple more here, and then we'll get to our text. Look at verse number 13, Philippians chapter 4. Boy, what a great verse this is. There might be people here, this is your life verse. I don't know. Look what it says. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Isn't that a great verse? I've seen that on people. They've insurred or they'll use it for whatever attempt they're doing. Christ can help me do this. Christ can help me do this. And then one more, this is a tremendous, actually it's a missions verse, but look at verse 19. But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. Isn't that a tremendous promise? So the book of Philippians is written to a church, is a letter written to a church that is a very, very strong church. A very, very happy church. A very, very mature church. And by the way, we don't have a lot of time to get into this, but they were a church facing some pretty intense persecution. It wasn't that they had a bed of roses, says, Well, it's easy to be happy when everything's going fine. Everything wasn't necessarily going fine for them If you'll remember, this church started, much of it started when Paul was in prison with Silas. Remember that? And he's praying and the and uh the earthquake shook. And in in that prison they're singing and praising God and praying. And that was what the church was birthed, the the the circumstances the church was birthed in. And so the church, it wasn't easy circumstances, but nevertheless A very good, strong church rejoicing in the Lord. As I said, they weren't perfect. They weren't perfect. There were some folks in there that had some issues, and Paul addressed that But no major doctrinal problems. They were straight doctrinally. By the way, let me just throw this out. It is important for a church to be straight doctrinally. Doctrine does matter. We live in day and age where, oh, we'll just put aside our doctrine, we'll just get along. That is not scriptural. They were strong doctrinally. Morally, they were very strong morally. And so we come to Philippians chapter 1 and verse number 6. In 1981, I moved out of the house, I moved to Chattanooga, Tennessee. My dad and uh my grandparents uh loaded up everything I had, fit in one suitcase, and um 20 years old, 20, 20 year 21 years old, and went to Chattanooga, Tennessee And uh they dumped me off, they came back, and I started college and uh my journey down there. Uh when I moved down there, if I remember correctly, and I'm pretty s um I know I do That following week, I forget what day of the week it was we got there as end of the week, and that following week I got a letter from my father. He wrote to me. And um it's a nice letter, I don't remember what it said, but I remember this. That letter ended with Philippians chapter 1 and verse 6. Being confident this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it unto the day of Christ Jesus. That meant a lot to me. That verse became very significant. The following week, I got another letter from my dad. And guess what that letter ended with? Philippians 1 6, being confident this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Christ Jesus. The third week, I got another letter. Same verse. Fifth th fourth week, another letter, another letter, another letter, another letter. And for all these years, up until just recently, and up until he got a cell phone, um it's true I got a letter every single week from my dad for 30 plus years. I mean, if if there was a week missed, it was because he was visiting me and he was with me. And every single one of those letters ended with Philippians 1. 6, being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Christ Jesus. Now when I prepared this, I didn't even think Dad was going to be down here. But you can ask him whether I uh if if I'm telling the truth or not. Anytime I'm telling the truth, I'll be sure and verify it. And um What a tremendous verse. Being confident, this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Christ Jesus Now as I said, this church at Philippi is a strong church. They're very mature. They're very uh um uh happy. They're very strong. And the interesting thing to me, as I was looking at this and considering this verse, is that he starts out his letter emphasizing salvation. That's what this is about, salvation and growth and ultimately what the glorified with the Lord. And he starts out this whole thing With this statement about salvation. The beginning point, I put this down, the beginning point for a good, strong, mature, happy church is salvation. is salvation. And what's true for the church is true for the individual life. The beginning point for a good Strong, spiritually strong, happy, spiritually mature Christian life as an individual must begin with salvation. Let me make this statement. If you don't have salvation, you don't got nothing. You're lost. Ephesians says you're without God and without hope in the world If I don't have Christ as my Savior, if I don't have salvation. And so he begins with a very, very important truth. Is that the Christian life, a spiritual w to be uh the spiritual well-being of a church or of an individual must begin with salvation because if I don't have salvation, I don't have spiritual life. I have nothing to build on, spiritually speaking. I have no direction. I have no hope for eternity without salvation. And salvation must be the beginning point. For a church to be what it ought to be, it must begin with the gospel of Jesus Christ. It must emphasize salvation. By the way, a church, now I'm not, I'm not, we have to answer for ourselves, so I'm not trying to compete with anybody. But I will say this, a church that minimizes salvation is making a terrible, terrible mistake. A church that neglects salvation. A church that all they're caught up with is social work and social well-being and changing the society and work focused on all that, as fine as that is in its place. They do not emphasize salvation. If they do not focus on salvation, if they do not uh uh maximize salvation They're making a terrible, terrible mistake. Now, I hope this doesn't come across as unkind in any way, shape, or form. I don't mean it that way. But we can feed all the hungry people in the world. And we can put shoes on all the shoeless people in the world, and we can pick all the homeless people in the world and put them in houses. But if they don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, they die in their sins. They are lost for all eternity. And so it must begin with salvation. It must be emphasized. Salvation must be emphasized. And it must begin there. Now, let's look at this verse, and I have uh just three four words I want to say bring out from this verse here. And the first ver word I want to bring out of this verse, this is the word I I want to say uh give, is confidence. Confidence. I got four of them One is confidence. Notice he says there, being confident of this very thing. Now, here's the question: what does it mean to be confident about something? Well, I looked it up as I always do and got looking and had this idea. It's what you would think, I would imagine you would think. It means to be absolutely convinced that something is true Are you sure that's true? I am confident that is true. I'm confident. It means to be fully persuaded That something is so. I mean, you can't shake this person. They are absolutely confident in this situation, in this truth, to be completely certain To be completely certain. So Paul says, in writing to the church at Philippi, this good, strong, mature, happy church, he says, being confident of this very thing. Biblical Christianity is a confident religion By that I mean this. And let's bring it into salvation. Biblical salvation is a, I like to put it this way, no-so salvation. Biblical salvation is not a hope-so salvation. We get out knocking on doors. I was out yesterday and my dad was chauffeuring me and was knocking on some doors. And it didn't happen yesterday, but it often does when we're out going door to door visiting with people or whatever the situation is. I often ask someone this question We'll talk a little bit and find out what church they go to. I'll make something along these lines. I'll say, you know, going to church is important. And it is. It's God's idea. But more important than that is knowing for sure that my sins are forgiven, that when I die, I go to heaven and not to hell. And I like to ask people, do you ever give that any thought? And generally, most of the time, folks will say something like this, oh yeah, yeah, I think I think of that often. Yeah, I think about that, eternity and my standing with God where I spend eternity. I think about that. Then I'll ask this question, do you know for sure? That when you die, your sins are forgiven. You go to heaven and not to hell. And you know what answer I get, more probably than any other answer? You know what answer I get? I hope so. I hope so. I hope so. Or I I think I would. I think I would. Now I'm here to tell you, biblical Christianity is you can know. Anybody and everybody can know for sure, for certain That my sins are forgiven. God has forgiven me. I am accepted in Christ. I have eternal life. I have a home in heaven. I'll be honest with you, I can't find anywhere in the Bible where it says that we hope that we're saved. Now, the Bible will use the term hope in the sense of a confident anticipation. But nowhere in the Bible does it present a hope-so salvation. Biblical salvation is a no-so salvation We're gonna you got your Bibles? How many folks have your Bibles with you? How many All right, good. Let's get them out. Let's look at some verses. Let me show you a little bit. Now we're all familiar with John. Now keep your place here, we're gonna come back, but we're all familiar with John chapter 3 and verse 16, right? We're all familiar with that. For God so what loved the world, that he gave his only begotten son, that whosoever believeth in him hopefully won't perish. It's not what it says. Whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but hopefully has eternal life. No, but hath eternal life. Word hath is a present tense. It's very definite, very clear, very absolute. Now come to John chapter 3. We're familiar with John chapter 3 and verse 16. I want to look at the couple verses beyond that, if you would. John chapter 3, let me get here. 316, we're very familiar with that. But look with me if you would at chapter 18, or verse number 18. Now notice. Notice the confidence in this statement. He that believeth on him is what? How many people agree with me? That's a pretty clear-cut statement. There's no question about that. There's no wondering. He that believeth on him is not condemned. But he that believeth not is what? Condemned already. There's no questioning here. There's no wondering or hoping. It's clear-cut, one or the other. Either I'm not condemned or I am. And he that believeth on him is not condemned. Not hopefully won't be, might not be, Lord will, and in the end it's all said and done, he won't be. No, is not condemned. Because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God. Pretty clear cut. Come over to verse 36. Look what this verse says. Again, same chapter, same conversation the Lord's got going. He that believeth on the Son, what's the next word? Have. Not hope, not think, not might. But a very certain statement: He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life. That's very clear, right? But the wrath of God abideth on him. Do you notice those are all present tense? It's the way it is right now. Listen, every person and the sound of my voice, myself included, either has eternal life or doesn't. And the distinguishing factor between having eternal life being say, or being under the wrath and judgment of God, the distinguishing factor is believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I want to pause here for a moment and emphasize the fact that that word believer does not just mean mental acknowledgement. James tells us the devils belief. And so they have the mental awareness of who Christ is. They have a mental awareness that Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again. They have this in their head. They have the information, the academics of it, but they're not trusting in it. And to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ means that I, as a sinful man who has broken God's law under the judgment of God, make a conscious decision, to believe that what the Bible tells me about Jesus is true, and then to place my faith, my hope, my trust, my confidence in Jesus Christ. To forgive me and save me and take me to heaven. I'm believing in him. How many people ever said about someone else that's very a man of integrity or woman of integrity? You say something like this, boy, you can believe in them. Anybody ever hear something like that? What we're saying, you can trust them, you can depend on them, they're reliable. That's what he says when he's saying believe, put trust in, rely on, depend on you, I'm putting my hope in my trust, not in myself, I'm a wretched sinner. But in Jesus Christ. And when I do that, I have eternal life. Not hope so, think so, maybe might be. I have eternal life And so Paul here uses the term confidence, if you would, and I'm probably not going to be able to give all these. Let me show a couple others real quick. Romans If you would, uh Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans, chapter number one. Romans chapter 1, verse 16. Well, verse 15 he says, So as much as in me is, I'm not, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are Rome also. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, look at this, for it is the power of God unto salvation To everyone that believeth, to the Jew first, and also to the to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as is written, the just shall live by faith. Now, I don't know about you, but I'm looking at that and I see confidence written all over that verse. Assurance, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It's the power of God under salvation to everyone that believeth He's not giving them the impression that you have to hope or think or wonder maybe. But he's telling them, listen, the gospel of Jesus Christ is powerful. You can trust Christ and lay your head at night fully confident that God has saved you on your way to heaven. Amen? Isn't that great? Romans, come back to chapter 10 real quick. And good night, we could just go through all through the Bible here verses Romans chapter 10, we use this in witnessing to people and sharing the gospel with people. Romans chapter 10, and look with me if you would at verse number 10. Romans 10, verse number 10. Verse 9. That if thou shalt confess with the mouth, thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe, there's that word, believe in thy heart that God hath raised them from the dead. Last four words, say it with me. Thou shalt be safe. I don't know if you agree with me. It's pretty confident. There's no hoping or wondering about that. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Look down verse 13. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Uh when I first got saved, uh May 7, 1979, I'll have to tell you about that sometime. Um Uh to be honest with you, there was a short period of time after that where I didn't really have it settled in my heart and mind that I was really saved. God had transformed my life. That that'll tell you, just I mean like that, everything God changed everything. God did that. But for a period of time there I kind of struggled. I was unsettled in my mind about salvation. Really, my God really forgive me all this? And it was unsettled. And I was reading the sermon. We had gotten, Daddy had gotten the sword of the Lord in the house for years before I got saved, and I had a copy there. And it was an article by Dr. John R. Rice on Romans 10. 13. And it was about a no-so salvation. And as I read down through there and some of the statements John R. Rice made and some of the points he brought out, it dawned on me. Romans 10, 13 says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I knew, there was no doubt absolutely in my mind, I called on the Lord with all my heart as sincere as me. I needed God to save me. And I called on him, and it dawned on me. If I called on the name of the Lord, and I knew I did, and God didn't save me, if I wasn't saved, Then that means God lied to me. Because he said, whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. And if I'm not saved, that means God's lied to me. How many people follow my reasoning there? And I came to this conclusion, God does not lie. In fact, he cannot lie. And therefore, if he says something is so, then it's so Then it's though. And that settled it for me. And I can honestly say I've never, since that point, I've never had any uh doubt at all whatsoever whether I'm saved or not. Not because I you say preacher you say and you know for sure you're going to heaven? Yeah. You say boy you really think you're something you sure presume you must think you're really something else that you're going to heaven No, I ain't nothing. I'm telling you that right now. In me, that is my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. There's nothing righteous about me, but God promised that if I would call on him, put my faith and trust, turn to him. That he would forgive me and save me, and God does not lie. Being confident of this very thing, If you're under the sound of my voice here this morning, you say, preacher, I can't honestly say that I know for sure That God has forgiven me and saved me from sin and hell and given me eternal life. I'm going to heaven. You can't honestly say you know that for sure. I plead with you, get that settled. Now, I would never ever in the world try and get a genuinely saved person to doubt their salvation, but I would say this: if there are doubts about your salvation, you need to deal with that. Do not entertain that. It is too serious. And I've often said this and thought this in my mind. What kind of God would wait until it's too late for me to do anything about it to tell me whether I'm saved or not? How cruel would that be? Well, I'm not going to tell you. You're just going to have to wait and see. You're talking about heaven and hell. You're talking about eternity under the wrath of God. Wait and see. Are you crazy? God said, God doesn't work that way. He says in John chapter 5, these things have I written unto you, the Bible, that ye may know that you have eternal life. That you may know that you have eternal life. That's confidence. That's confidence. I don't have time to give the rest. Let me give you another one here. Commencement. Being confident, come back to Philippians there. Being confident, this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you. That begun commencement means the beginning of something. Salvation is not a goal to be achieved. Salvation is not a destination I arrive at. Salvation is not a conclusion. Salvation is the beginning of a new eternal life. A whole new type of life, a whole new nature of life. That he which hath begun a good work in you. Salvation is the beginning of a new life, it is the beginning of eternal life, it is the beginning of spiritual life. Of growth and transformation. All across this auditorium, there are people who can stand up and say, when I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, He changed my life. It's been a new journey. It's been a new life. It's been a whole new perspective on things. In fact, a lot of people say this: I began to live when I got saved. I can say that. It's the beginning of a life of growing and developing, uh going on. Um it's a got he that hath begun this work in you. It's a good work. It's God's work is what I want to say. He that hath begun a good work in you. Hey, we don't save ourselves. If you've come to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church hoping that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church can save you, you're going to be miserably disappointed. Church cannot save anybody. We had a fellow, Dave Stork, some of y'all remember Dave got saved. He was as wide as he was tall. A great guy. He's moved out to the West years ago. He got saved and baptized. He got so fired up. He had struggled a little bit, but then he got things squared away. He got so fired up. He'd sit down here about where Dave is or where Cindy is in this area here. I'd preach and he'd be He'd be so excited. He w he went out one time and says, Preacher, when you're preaching I just feel like saying Amen out loud. I said, Dave, go for it. Just say it That next Sunday he street, I could see it building. And I'm thinking while I'm preaching, do it, babe, do it. Come on. You can do it. Amen! They said, Pastor, I got some guys, uh, we need to go save 'em. I need you to go save them. I know what he meant. I said, babe, I can't save him. I can't save myself. But let's tell him about Jesus who can save them. What a point I'm trying to make is this, this good work that he which hath begun, God's the one that saves. God's the one that initiated the whole thing. He accomplished it. He provides it. My role is simply accept it or reject it I receive this salvation that God has done for me, or I reject it. But God does it all, God does it all. It is reassuring to me to know that my salvation is in the hands of God. It's not in my hands. John chapter 10 makes that very clear. It's God's work. It's a good work. He that hath begun a good work in you. I never met a person that regretted getting saved. I've done a lot of funerals over the years. I mean a lot of funerals. I never had a person on their deathbed come to me and say, Pastor Leatherman, I wish I'd have never gotten saved. I never had anybody say that to me. But I've had scores and scores and scores say, I'm so glad I know I'm saved. I've had people say, preacher, I I I I'm thinking of a couple folks that got saved just before they died, they'd say something like this, I wish that'd have done this a long time ago. I wished I'd have got this said a long time ago. Listen, the best thing in the world a person can do is trust Jesus Christ as Savior. I've done a lot of stupid things in my life. I made a lot of horrendous mistakes in my life, but one thing By the grace of God, I did right. I accepted Jesus as my Savior. Best thing in the world. It's a good work. It's God's work. It's a good work. I like this one. It's a gut work. A little crude. Gut work. He that hath begun a good work in you. In other words, salvation begins internally. God saves our soul, and then it grows out and it changes our lives. There's some folks going around trying to get people to change their life so that God will save them. Doesn't work that way. God saves us and then he changes our life. It's internal. So we got confidence, we got commencement, we've got completion, he will perform it. Thank God God's going to keep working in our life and working in our life and working in our life. He's not going to give up on us and he's going to mold us and change us and make us into the person we ought to be And that involves, if we had time, we'd go to Hebrews chapter 12 where it talks about the chastening of God. Anybody here ever been to the woodshed? You know what I'm talking about? Old daddy took you out to the woodshed Thing with my dad, we never made it to the woodshed. We just got it right there. You say, oh, they must hate their kids. No, they love their kids very much. They want their kids to be what they ought to be By the way, we wouldn't be in a mess we're in this country if kids would have been trained to be what they ought to be. Now we got adults acting like maniac kids. And that's what God, God's a good daddy. He doesn't save us and let us run wild. Hebrews 12 tells us he chastens us, he corrects us, and that for our good. So that we can be holy and righteous and live that life we ought to live. God performs it. So it is a completion. He's working in us. And then the last word I put down is consummation. Being confident this very thing that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Until the day of Jesus Christ. I tell you, there's a day coming, there's a day coming when everything that's wrong is going to be made right We talk about, and I preach on it when I do a funeral or whatever, we'll talk about the streets of gold. How many people would be excited to see a street made out of gold? I mean tons of them. Wouldn't that be something? Now some of y'all would have a pitchfork and a hack a chisel and you'd be digging it up, pocketing it. But up there we're gonna walk on it. Here, it's so important to us up there it's street uh streets of gold. How about gates of pearl? Anybody ever try and picture what that would look like? Gate, one pearl. I'd like to see the oyster that made that baby But you know what I think one of the greatest things about heaven is this. One will be with Christ, but we will be like Christ. And there's a day coming when this old sinful nature is going to be completely eradicated. Some people run around now and say, oh, I've been uh I've I'm sinlessly perfect. God save me, I don't have any more sin. Ask their spouse about that. They're delusional. They think that's true. But I tell you, there is a day coming, there'll be no more sin. This old sinful nature that I fight with every day is going to be gone. And every desire and every hunger and every thought of the heart and mind is going to be in complete alignment with God Almighty. Every thought holy, every desire pure, and no more struggle, no more struggle. He will perform it until the day of Christ Jesus. Along with that, no sickness, no pain, no cancer, no chemo. I was out visiting yesterday, met a lady, um uh she's uh working with chemo. She says, please pray that we won't have the side effects of chemo And just struggling. You know what? There's a day come if I know Christ here. All that'll be done. The day of Christ here. What a consummation that's going to be. What a day that will be when Jesus, I shall see. I read this week, you might have read it, a lady, I don't know where, somewhere in the states here, Michigan. The lady had cancer, and she was expecting a child. And she made a decision. They said, we need to really abort the child so that you can take this chemotherapy so that you live. If you don't have the chemo, you're going to die. But we have to take the child's life for you to live. She had a few other kids. She made a decision. I'm not going to kill my child. And if it means I lose my life, I will give my life so that my child can have a life to live. This past week she passed away. Baby was born. She died. What she did for that child is just a small Inadequate example of what Jesus Christ has done for you and I. When he died on that cross, he more than just died physically, he suffered the judgment of God. For you and I, every sin, every thought, every failure, shortcoming of mine before a holy God, Jesus Christ, took God's wrath, God's judgment on himself in my place. So that I can live, so that I can have eternal life. He says we don't have to hope about that. We don't have to wonder. We can be settled and certain that God has saved me And that he's going to work in my life and change me and do what needs to be done for me to be that person he saved me to be. And I can know someday I'm going to be just like him. I'm going to be pure and right and holy as he intended it me to me. Isn't that good? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. One to appreciate the price, the awful price you paid for our sin, paid that we can have eternal life. You died that we might live. I pray you'd help us, Lord, to settle that. If there's anybody that does not have that settled, is not certain about their salvation, I pray that today that would be settled. And Lord, it can't just be me pleading. We need your Holy Spirit dealing and convicting and drawing folks to you. I pray that those of us that have that settled and know, I pray that you would continue to work in our lives as you promised, and we would you would chasten it, you'd take away the things that need to be taken away and add the things that need to be added. And chasten us and correct us and deal with us and help us to grow. Lord, we look forward to your return. Wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed, how many say, preacher, I'm saved? I know I am. I got that settled. I can have biblical basis for that You'd say, preacher, I need to grow and I can sense God working in my life as a believer. There's some areas he's dealing with that maybe you're struggling with, that God's wanting to change, some things that need to be corrected, some alterations need to be made. Maybe there's some things in your life that got that have to go and God's trying to do that. Maybe you're holding on. Maybe there's some things God's bringing into your life that you don't necessarily appreciate, but they're necessary for us to grow and you're fighting that. Maybe some of us need to let go of some things, and maybe some of us need to accept what God is bringing into our life. So that He can chok mold us and make us into what He saved us to be. And how we'd say, Preacher, I know I'm saved, but I sense God working in my life. And there's some areas that are not real easy for me to swallow that God's trying to do, but I'm going to trust him. I'm going to submit to him, let him have his way. Is there anything like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I know God's working in my life as a Christian. And he's working and molding. I need faith and I need God to help me trust him and let him have his way. God bless you. Hands all around. Tell you an old-fashioned altar is a good place to say, Lord, no longer my will, but your will be done. Lord, not me living, but you living through me. Alder's a good place to do that. So some here this morning say, preacher, I know someone that's not saved. I'm very concerned about them. I'm concerned they come to know Christ. I don't want to see them Live their life without Christ and then go out into a eternity without him. And you'd say, Preacher, I know someone. They're heavy on my heart this morning. And they need Christ as Savior. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? You say, I'm praying for him, concerned for him. God bless you. Hands all around. Again, an altar is a good place to bring that burden. Is there someone here this morning say, preacher, I'm not sure that I'm saved? I hope, I'd like to think, but I can't say I absolutely know for certain That God has saved my soul and forgive my sins and given me eternal life. And it just seems like there's something missing there in the matter of my salvation. You say I'm concerned about that. And I really need that settled. Is there any here like that this morning? Say, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. I'm not sure And I want to be certain. I want that settled. Any at all. By the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. How about it? How about it? Father, you know our hearts, you know where we're at. You know the burdens in our heart and life. And you love us. And I pray and ask that you would help us this morning bring those burdens to you and cast all our care on you and let you have your way as we yield to you in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.