Ye be without chastisement whereof all, and the all there referring to sons of God, all saved people, if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. Furthermore, we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure, but he, the Father of Spirits, our Heavenly Father, He for our prophet, that we might be partakers of His holiness. Now no chastening chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness. unto them which are exercised thereby thereby. Wherefore, lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knees. If you would, come back to Proverbs. Keep your place here. We're going to end up back in Hebrews. But go with me if you would to Proverbs chapter 3 again, where Pastor Matt read from. Proverbs chapter 3. And I would like for us to read together in unison verses 11 and 12. Proverbs 3. And reading together verse 11 and 12. If you have it there, read along with me. Here we go. Ready? My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord. Neither be weary of his correction. For whom the Lord loveth, he correcteth, even as a father, the Son, in whom he delighteth. I want to speak this morning on God's woodshed. God's woodshed. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for the Word of God. And Lord, it's been expressed numerous times just in our passage this morning that you love us. And that you love us enough to intervene in our lives and step in and take action when it's needed. And Lord, we're grateful for that. And I pray now, as we consider this subject, of your chastening of your children. That you would give us receptive hearts. Pray that our will would be submissive, that we would understand what you're teaching us here and what it means for us. And that when we experience this, we would be able to cooperate with you and allow your will to be done in our lives. Lord, I can't communicate this of my own ability. And so I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I present my body to you anew for that purpose. I yield my will to yours. I ask that you would teach and speak, preach through me, is my request. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. When I was very small, I mean very small, uh our family attended for a number of years um uh a little Mennonite church back home in Pennsylvania. The church was located right beside a train tracks, and beside the train tracks there was a train tracks went down and there was a kind of a field there. I remember these monstrous uh oak trees there, just huge oak trees Behind there was a cemetery, a very large cemetery. Then the church kind of set on this little hill above that. So it was just maybe 100 yards, 150, 200 yards across to the train tracks It's kind of interesting. Occasionally the train would come through right during church service. There's a little intersection there. What do trains do at intersections? And so we'd hear it coming and we knew it and that train got there. Everybody just stop, wait a minute, and the preacher would pick up and train go by. One Sunday we were in the service, and our family always sat over on this side, about halfway back, back in there. We were uh in the service, and um I was accused of by my sisters of picking on my sisters. It was an unclaborated accusation. There was no witnesses to verify these accusations whatsoever. It was hearsay, and I pled uh innocent until proven guilty, but nobody listened to my pleas. They were false accusations I categorically deny, picking on my sisters during church. Nevertheless, my father believed these false accusations And he made grave threatenings to me that if this picking did not stop, there would be consequences. Well, again, the accusations began to fly that I was picking on my sisters, specifically poking them in the side of their head while the preacher was preaching. Of course, you understand there was no way that could possibly be true, and I again categorically deny all of these false accusations. Nevertheless, again, my father believed them, and he grabbed me by the arm while the preacher's preaching. and in a very undignified way took me out to the edge of the aisle, back the r uh out the edge of the pew, back the aisle, out the back doors, down the steps, out through the foyer Across the parking lot, which would have been over that way, across the parking lot, out through the field, underneath the oak trees, back to the cemetery. There was no woodshed there, but Dad took me to the woodshed. I to this day, fifty years later, I deny those false accusations. Nobody here believes that I would ever do that, whatsoever, under any circumstances. How many people understand the phrase being taken to the woodshed? Anybody ever hear that? Everybody understands what that is? Can I get any witnesses here to testify to the woodshed? You don't have to have a woodshed to be taken to the woodshed. Well, our passages we read here, and there's numbers of others throughout scripture we could have gone to, use a Phrase that is important in the Christian life, and that is this: chastening, chastisement These passages here are dealing with the chastisement of God, the chastening hand of God And that is referring to God taking his children out to the woodshed. The chastisement of God is taught all through Scripture. You find it as early, the word itself is used as early as Leviticus, where God there mentions in Leviticus 26, he mentions chastening his people Israel. It is mentioned in both the Old and New Testaments. God's chastening hand, God taking his people, his children, to the woodshed It's important to understand, and we'll elaborate on this here a little bit, but it's important to understand: the only people that ever experience the chastisement of God are God's people. Are God's children. There's the only ones that ever experience the chastening of God. So the chastisement of God, God disciplining, God chastening his children is taught all through Scripture. I noticed this, it is very seldom mentioned in a lot of pulpits. I remember outside of our church, I remember very few of any sermons dedicated to the chastening of God, the Bible teaching on the chastening of God. I have a lot of books in my library here in the office and back at home. And uh probably, I don't know, a thousand or more. I've got quite a few. I got looking through them. I can find no book that is dedicated to the subject of the chastening of God I have many books on prayer, God answering prayer. I have many books on God giving wisdom. I have many books on God giving the power of the Holy Spirit to a believer. I have scores of books on God saving the repentant sinner that comes to Christ, trusting Christ. I have books on all these subjects, but I can't find one book that is on the subject of the chastening of God. Now I think that's tragic. I believe a misunderstanding, an ignorance of the chastening of God, what that is, or misunderstanding what the chastening of God is, is going to lead to confusion About the eternal security of the believer. We don't understand that God does chasten and what that chastening is, what the purpose of it is, and what the results of it are. And so it's taught all through Scripture. It's preached not very often from pulpits and very little in books that I'm aware of. But I want to say this. Understanding the chastening of God is a vital part of our spiritual growth. If I am going to grow and be strong in my faith, If I am going to know God, my Heavenly Father, if I'm going to know Him and understand Him, I've got to be able to understand what chastening is and how He carries that out and what its purpose is. If I'm going to develop as a Christian, I must understand the chastening of God without God's woodshed. Without God's woodshed, we would never be the Christian God intends us to be. How many people understand? A child left to himself Will bring his mother to shame. Understand that? What does that mean? A child that does not receive discipline, a child that does never chasten It's going to bring his mother's shame. It's going to ruin their life. And what is true for a child of a human, physically a human child, is true for us, a child of God. And so the chastening of God is vitally important in our own experience, but also in our understanding. And so this morning I want to go to the Word of God, and we want to consider what the Bible teaches about chastening? What is it? What's its role? What's its purpose? What is the motive behind it? And so my first thought is this this morning. I want us to consider the meaning of God's chastisement. The meaning of God's chastisement. The word chastise to chasten, the chastisement. That term is used in various forms of that term throughout scripture, and it has a variety of definitions. But there's one basic idea behind it. Um the word chastise in its various forms. As I said, it has a variety of definitions. Some of those definitions are this. One definition of the word chastisement or chastise or to chasten is to correct Is to correct something. Something is wrong. Something is incorrect. Chastisement is taking that which is incorrect and making it what? Correct. It's to correct something that's out of whack. It's out of uh this is my lingo. Uh it's something that's out of whack and putting it back into whack. I like that. Yeah, back to back whack. And so But you get the idea to correct something. Here's a Christian, here's the nation of Israel, they're doing something that is incorrect. They're operating in an incorrect way. And chastisement comes, and the meaning of the chastise is I am going to correct that. I'm going to make it what it should be, not what it should not be. So to correct. Another definition is one we think of perhaps is to discipline. The discipline. What does it mean if someone uh what does it mean in the military if they're going to discipline a soldier? We think it's bad news, but it's actually a positive thing. Here's a soldier operating uh in an incorrect way. Here's a soldier operating outside of what is uh what would be safe for the entire military, what would be safe for himself, and we're going to discipline him, we're going to correct him, we're going to do some things that will accomplish the goal of getting him back operating in the way he needs to operate. So that the unit is safer, he is safer, we can accomplish the goal. Follow? We discipline children A children is a child is behaving in a dangerous way. They're out playing in the streets. And so we rebuke them, we correct them. We try and do what we can. We discipline them to get them so they don't run out on the street. How many people how many people agree with me? It's better to get uh uh a little pain on the backside than it is to get hit by a car So we're disciplining. This is incorrect. This is dangerous. This is not good. And so we're going to do what we need to do to correct that, to discipline that. and bring it back the way it needs to be. It also has uh sometimes it's used it has this idea to instruct. I need to understand something about life. I need to understand something. So chastening comes to help me have a clearer understanding, to be instructed in the ways of God, and the will of God, and what the Christian life is all about. So to correct to discipline, to instruct, and along with the word instruct, sometimes I had the idea of teaching to excuse me, to teach something One of the definitions, I was looking at how it was used different places and different ways it's translated, I found one of the definitions is this to reform somebody or something. What happens when you reform something? Now, I'm just a simple-minded person. So, me, when you reform something, it has one form. And I am reforming it. It's out of shape. It's not the way it should be. So I'm going to reform it. And um uh and so the idea uh to alter to alter a person's behavior or a nation, in the case of Israel To alter their behavior. Their behavior is outside the will of God. Their behavior is not healthy. Their behavior is not uh uh promoting their spiritual well-being. It's endangering them, it's harming them, it's hindering them And so chastisement comes to reform that and alter that behavior, to alter a person's perspective or nation's perspective Sometimes people have a wrong perspective on things. I want to suggest to you that this old lost world has a wrong perspective on what life is and what our values ought to be And when a child of God, a Christian, one of God's people, gets their perspective out of whack, chastisement can come and reform that. And get the right perspective. I'm telling you, this whole world has a distorted, perverted, ungodly perspective on so many areas of life. I was thinking this week, and again this morning I was just praying different things. And and um, you know, when you have, and uh and I'm sure there's some on both sides, but when you have a political party That has no problem. That not only do they not have a problem, but they justify the dismemberment and murder. Of a little child in the womb of its mother, and then take that to another step and justify and defend selling of the body parts of that child. And they have no problem with that, and they justify that. I'm telling you, they have a wrong perspective on right and wrong, on the most basic values of life. And let me throw this out. Don't you think for one minute any political party that thinks that way, that has that perspective, don't you think for one minute they will have any qualms about openly persecuting Christians? If somebody can justify murdering a child in its mother's womb, they're going to have no problem with murdering a Bible-believing Christian. Excuse me. And so when a child of God, now that's an extreme example, but when a child of God starts seeing things the way the world sees things, And starts adopting the values of the world. Chastisement plays a role, is the tool that God uses to bring That Christian who is incorrect, that is out of line, that is out of whack, and reform their thinking, reform that perspective, and bring them to the point where they see things as they really are. And in this case, the illustration I'm using, that little child in the womb of the mother is a viable human being in the eyes of God, and it's precious in the eyes of God. And I used an extreme illustration there to try and point out chastisement is the tool that God uses to reform us when our thinking is wrong, our values are wrong, our perspective is wrong. I got looking up the word and how it's used different ways, and I came across another definition. I like this one. It has this idea to nurture. To nurture. What do you do when you're nurturing something? A mother is nurturing her child. What are you doing? Taking care of it, you're raising them up, they're making sure the needs are met, you're helping develop that child, in this case you're nurturing. Um I like I like having a little garden. I like planting uh planting flowers and different things and flower pots. I like to that. I this is what I like to do. I like to go to Walmart in the spring They always do this. They put all their flowers and stuff out too early. Then frost comes, zap They all get frosted. And then they sell 'em like for fifty cents, you know. So I go out and buy all these half-dead plants and stuff. I come home, I'm what are you gonna do with that? They're all half dead. Ah, but if they're half dead, that means they're half alive And I'll take a half-dead plant for a quarter over a fully live plant for seventy for eight dollars, I'll take the half-dead one any day. So I bring them home. And a little process I go through, and I will nurture them. And um yeah anybody notice the little ferns in the back when you walked in, the big fern, the pot right out here, the flower pot right when you come in, the little ferns there, they're big now. Anybody notice them? Two people noticed them Praise the Lord. You know where I anybody want to guess where I got them? Walmart! They were all brown. There was like three green little things coming out when I got them back in the spray And I nurtured them. I got them out of that old plant, got fresh um um what's the soil um Yeah, what's the brand? Miracle Grow. Potting soil got in there, put some food uh plants in there, got it bigger, and worked on them, worked on them, put some plant food on there, and boy, they're beautiful. That process of nurturing those plants is in the idea, is part of the concept of chastening. God working. Would you agree with me? Considering these definitions I just gave, nurturing is a or uh chastisement is a positive thing. Would you agree with me on that? That's a very positive thing. When God intervenes and begins working in the heart and on the life of a believer who is not where they ought to be, who is not living as they ought to live, does not have the values that God uh intends for us to have. They do not have a clear and accurate perspective on life and what is right and wrong. God begins to chase and God picks up his tool of chastisement And he begins to work in that person's life, and the whole intention is to bring them over to the place where they're spiritually well, where they're have spiritually healthy. And they're developing and growing strong in their faith and strong in their witness for the Lord. And so chastisement is a very positive thing. Chastisement is a very good thing. It is a very necessary thing in my spiritual life. Now, chastisement is not to be confused with condemnation. There's a world of difference when God condemns, when someone in the Bible is condemned by God. There's a world of difference of that than when a person is chastised by God. Two very different things. Condemnation has the idea of falling under the eternal judgment of a holy God. It has within its context, it has the idea of damnation. And under God's condemnation, under God's judgment for my sins as a sinner. Can I say this? The worst thing that can possibly happen to a person is for a person to die under the condemnation of God. For all eternity. Unforgiven. Under God's condemnation. Condemnation is not a good thing. It is a bad thing. It is the worst thing. My Bible tells me in John chapter 3, verse 18, and again in verse 36, this whole world lies in condemnation. This whole world right now already because of our sins against the Holy God is under the condemnation of God and any person That does not come to Christ for genuine forgiveness and cleansing of sin is under the condemnation of God. And to die in that condition is irrevocable. Eternity under the judgment and condemnation of God. I'm telling you, Hollywood cannot come up with a horror movie as awful as it is for a person to die under the wrath of God And judgment of unforgiven sin. So we must never confuse the chastisement of God with the condemnation of God Chastisement is good. Chastisement is positive. Chastisement is for the child of God, the one who has found forgiveness in Christ. Chastisement in the Old Testament was for the people of God. Israelites, not for those outside the people of God. Condemnation is to those who are outside of Christ. Condemnation is upon those who are outside the family of God. And so we must not confuse the two, chastisement with condemnation. Chastisement is a good thing. Chastisement is a positive thing. Chastisement is beneficial. It's good for me. If you would keep your place here. Turn with me to Psalms chapter number 94. We're in Proverbs, just go back towards the front of your Bible a little ways. Psalms chapter 94. And I want us to look at beginning in verse number twelve. The psalmist says, Psalms ninety-four, look with me if you would at verse twelve. Blessed. How many people agree with me? Blessed is a good term. That's positive. That's a good thing. Whatever it is, whatever he's going to talk about, is good. Blessed is the man. Whom thou what chastenest, O Lord. And look at this, and teachest him out of thy law, that thou mayest give him rest. From the days of adversity. How many people agree with me? Rest in the day of adversity is a good thing. It's positive He says, Lord, blessed man, happy is that man, profoundly blessed and happy is that man who you chasten. And they find rest from the day of adversity until the pit be digged for the wicked. Look at verse 14. For the Lord will not cast off his people. Neither will he forsake his inheritance. Chastisement is not God casting off his people. Chastisement is not God removing their salvation is not God removing forgiveness. It is not God putting them back under again condemnation. No has taken that child of God, the man who knows this Lord, knows God, is part of the family of God. And God corrects him and chastens him and disciplines him and nurtures him, brings him back where he can have rest in the midst of adversity. He can have peace. So chastisement is a positive thing. It's a good thing. All through the Old Testament, God disciplined his people Israel. He chastened his people Israel. You never find God chastening the Philistines. You never find God chastening those nations outside of the children of Israel Those nations are under the judgment of God. Those nations were under the wrath of God. But you do find over and over and over God chastening his people. He'll work, he'll bring adversity upon them, he'll bring nations against them, he'll withhold the rain, he'll do all these sorts of things that in and of themselves are very unpleasant But the whole purpose, design, is to bring his people back into the place where he can pour out his blessing. Back into the place where they can experience peace in their heart. I tell you the most miserable, I'll tell you the most miserable person I've ever met in my life is the Christian who was outside the will of God. The Christian who is bucking their head and their heart against the clear teachings of Scripture, and thus say no. They claim to be a Christian, they say no to the will of God. I'll tell you what, that brings chastening hand of God. And I'll tell you, under that chastisement, it is absolutely miserable. I tell you, it wasn't too bad sitting in the little church, my sisters accusing me of terrible, ungodly things, lie, blantant lies. That wasn't too bad. I tell you where it got rough. was out behind the the the graveyard out there. I thought I was dying. But I'll tell you, afterward. Afterward. And so all through the Old Testament, God is disciplining his children. He's keeping them in a place of blessing. He's working and doing what he needs to do to get them out of harm and out of out of out of that which will hurt them. In the New Testament, we find the same thing. This time in the New Testament, however, it's the individual believers. That are experiencing God's chastening hand, God's woodshed. It's individual believers. You study the New Testament very, very carefully. You never find an unsaved person being chastened by God. Never. It's only the saved. It's only the children of God. There is a difference between chastisement and punishment Chastisement is not punishment. Chastisement is correction. Chastisement is nurturing. It may be unpleasant. It often usually is. At the moment, but it is not punishment for a sin. A parent makes a mistake. Now I may be just playing with semantics here a little bit, but I believe a parent makes a mistake when they punish their children. I'm not saying we shouldn't use corporal punishment. We should. The Bible teaches that. Not capital punishment, corporal punishment But it is not designed to be punishment, it is designed to be chastisement to correct that behavior. Now maybe I'm splitting hairs here on the words a little bit, but I think there's a difference between chastisement and punishment. Let me illustrate. I had many years ago a lady. She was saved out of a lot of sin and different things. And she was going through a very difficult time. You know, what uh what appeared at the moment to be bad things were happening. And she said to me, She said, God is punishing me For how I lived years ago. God is punishing me for actions I took and things I did back before I came to Christ. And I said, very kindly, I said, no, you're mistaken. God is not punishing you for your sins. Your sins have already been punished On the cross, the Lord Jesus Christ. He took the punishment of our sins upon us And so, again, maybe I'm splitting hairs here a little bit, but chastisement is not punishment. Jesus, all our sins were already punished for us when Jesus bore them on the cross. Now she says, well why am I going through this? I said, well, it could be several things. It might be simply, uh, and this is my opinion at the situation, I said, uh it it may just be consequences, natural consequences, for decisions you made earlier. And by the way, we can be forgiven for sin. That does not mean all the consequences of our sins are erased. I deal today on a daily basis with consequences of decisions I made as a teenager. That's why I feel like teen rallies in our youth ministry is so important That we try and teach the young people what the Word of God says and warn them of foolish, ungodly, unscriptural decisions and lifestyles. Because we know that down the road, they will have to deal with the consequences of the decisions they make as a 14, 15, 16-year-old person. Would you agree with me if a fourteen year old becomes a parent, has a child? Would you agree with me that when they're 27, 28, 29, they're going to have to deal with the consequences of that decision? I was at a meeting not too long ago and they were talking about the opioid uh plague going through our communities and drug addictions. They were talking about addictions, addictions. And somebody made the statement. They said, they said, nobody chooses to be an addiction. Addiction is not a choice. And I said, I'd like to clarify that. I don't think that's an accurate statement. Addiction is not a choice. Addiction is the consequence of choices that are made. It's the consequence. And so I said to this lady, I said, listen, I don't know. It may be what you're going through, maybe, and personally it probably was the case. You're experiencing consequences of decisions you made earlier, but it is not punishment I said, it may be God's allowing you to go through some difficult times just to develop your faith and strengthen you. But it is not punishment. It is not punishment. Jesus Christ paid the punishment for our sins on the cross. He was punished in our stead on that cross. Now if a person never accepts Jesus Christ as their Savior, they never turn to Him in repentance and faith, and are born in the family of God, never find permanent and thorough, complete forgiveness of their sins through faith in Christ, then that person will experience the eternal punishment of their sins in the lake of fire. But chastisement is not punishment. I want to emphasize that. Chastisement is different than the normal trials of life. Life is made up of a series of trials. Right? How many people ever heard this statement? It's just one thing after another. Hello, welcome to life. It's one thing after another. Oh, I just got this straightened out. Boom! Now that's not necessarily always chastisement. I think sometimes the purposes of chastisement and the trials that God lets us go through may overlap. The purposes and the results may overlap. But they're two different things. When Job was going through his trials, it was not chastisement, it was not trying to take him from living outside the will of God, getting him back into the will of God. It was revealing to him God's power and God's wisdom and God's plan. Am I making sense? Now again, I may be splitting hairs here a little bit. I'll allow for that, but Chastisement is when God intervenes in the life of one of his children With whatever tools he has necess uh he deems necessary to transform us, to reform us, get us from being out of the will of God Being in a s situation that is not for our spiritual well-being, and get us to where a place where He can bless us and use us, we can be confident and have peace in our heart and be what He intends for us to be That's the chastening of God. Now, how what does God use to chasten us? Well, I mean it could be varied. He's God. He could use any kind of things. I boil it down to three categories. I'll just throw these out I think the first tool that God uses in chastening us is his word. Is his word. That's why it's so important that every Christian should ri spend a little bit of time Every day in the Bible so God can correct me when I get catch it, nip it in the bud, I start thinking wrong, I start behaving wrong, God will use his word, speak to my heart And help me make that adjustment. It is a it is the initial tool of chastisement, is the Word of God. That's why going to church is so important. Hey, that's why going to a Bible preaching church is so important. When the Bible is preached, then God speaks to my heart through his word. He addresses areas in my life that I need chastening, I need correction, I need nurturing. Through the Word of God, the preached word of God, or the reading the Word of God. Anybody ever sit in a service, the preacher's preaching, and all of a sudden God speaks to your heart about something you know is out of whack? Anybody here know what I'm talking about? Call it conviction? That's God's chastening, correcting, bringing it to my attention, doing what he needs to do. How many people agree with me? Conviction is not pleasant. I mean it's miserable. But it's what God uses to get me back into whack So he uses his word. If that doesn't work, if I don't respond to the word of God and allow him to change me, then he uses his rod. And that's where he it that could take any form, but it's something very unpleasant unpleasant. It may be the loss of a job, it may be the wreck um a car wreck for me. I know early in my Christian life, early in my Christian life, I was going down a road, it was not sin. It was out of the will of God. I know it And God had a drunk driver come through a stop sign and smash into the passenger side of my almost brand new Toyota Corolla. And while that car was spinning in a circle, I knew I was saying, God, I know it, I know what you're doing, I know it. God was chasing me and getting me back, and I made things right and got on the right path. So it may be a rod. Maybe something along those forms. And if that doesn't work, the Bible suggests that there is a sin unto death. And chastisement may be removal. God says, all right, if you're not going to respond to my word, I've been working in your life, I've been convicting you, I've been bringing these things to life, you know I had your attention, you refuse to respond. Alright, I'm going to take you out of this world, or I'm going to take you on to heaven, because you're messing things up down there. Ever have your kids playing outside? You tell them what to do, and they tell them not to do something, they keep doing it, keep doing it, and finally say, All right, that's enough. Get on in here. Right? They're out playing on the front this road here, Broadford Road, the speed limit is 25. That means the minimum they're driving is 65. And the boys would be out in the front yard and they keep going, hey, get hey boys, get out of that yard. Get out of that road! I look out, they're out there again. Shut! Get out of that route. Still out there. Come in here. Whop, whap, whap, whop. Alright, go out and play. Don't go nervous. He's on the road again. Alright, get in. You ain't playing outside no more. First it was the word, then it was the rod, then it was removal. Make sense? And all that's for our good. For our benefit. For our benefit. I'm telling you, it's better to be in heaven early than to be on earth living in rebellion and sin against God. God knows that. God knows that. Chastisement is not the loss of salvation. Chastisement is the answer of those who misunderstand what eternal security is when they say, Oh, you think once saved, always saved. Yes, I believe in eternal security. Oh, you believe in a license to sin? And I say, absolutely not. God never gives a license to sin. God never indulges sin. God never tolerates sin He always deals with it. He is a holy God, but does not mean that he sends his children to hell. Christ already paid hell for us. Christ already suffered the judgment of our sinfulness. But he's not going to tolerate a child of God, one of his own children, living in sin, no more than a good parent lets their kids do destructive things. It's not a license there. Hebrews 12 is very, very clear. If someone, and he uses, and I mentioned this periodically, he uses very, very strong language. If someone claims to be saved, if someone claims to be a child of God, they claim to be a Christian and they know all the right answers and they go through all the motions But if they're living in sin and disobedience and rebellion against God's word, and if there is no chastisement He uses this term, strong word. He says they are bastards. Their claim to be a child of God is illegitimate. They are not what they put on to be, because all sons of God are chastened of God. When we get outside of His will. So, no, there is no such thing as a license to sin. But what there is, clearly taught in Scripture, there is a chastisement of God Upon the children of God who choose to live in sin, who rebel against Him and won't make that right of their own accord. When we take Lord's Supper, we read 1 Corinthians 11. And one of the statements there, he says, if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. He says, listen, if you'll deal with it, make it right, get things right, then God doesn't have to bring chastisement. I don't have to deal with that. So it's important to understand what chastisement is. It is God intervening. In my life, the child of God's life, to bring them back where he can bless us. I put it this way: chastisement is in a very real way. God protecting us from ourselves. God protecting us from ruining ourselves I don't have time. There's so much more the Bible teaches on this. I wish I had time to talk about the motive of chastisement. You know why God chastens us? Because He loves us. He loves us. I don't want Leatherman to destroy himself. I don't want him to go down this path and ruin his life and bring shame on the name of Christ. So he intervenes. He loves me too much. Listen, this may not go well in the world today, but I'll tell you, the parent that loves their kids is the one that disciplines their kids. Oh, I love my children too much to discipline them. Liar, liar, pants on fire. No, you don't. My Bible says Proverbs, he that loveth his children chasteneth them be times. I wish we had time. He that chasteneth them, he chasteneth them behinds. I always quoted it to the boys. He chasteneth them on their behinds. And the Bible clearly teaches that a parent that loves their children will correct them, will discipline them. That word betimes means early, quickly, thoroughly, immediately. None of this half-hearted stuff. I like what uh Jason Caldwell said yesterday. He says, when I was growing up, it wasn't time out, it was time's up He says, I would love to have had timeout. Here, sit in the corner and think about what you did. Oh, it was great. God chastens us because he loves us. And a parent that loves their children says, I'm not going to let you run wild. I'm not going to let you establish habits and characteristics that are going to destroy you. But teach you and develop you and nurture you and chasten you. And so it's the love of God. And the mission of chastisement is To bring peace, purity to my heart and life and mind. Give me purpose. God correct that. I was reading about a family somewhere out, I was Arizona or somewhere, Arkansas. Somewhere there's a lot of rednecks, West Virginia, somewhere like that. But there's this family, he's a farmer, and he's had several boys. And Uh they went to church for a little bit, but they just got caught up in the farm and hunting and fishing everything. Then they started missing church and And they the preacher would come around, they didn't have any time, and I mean they just got so far from God, just out there doing their thing One day one of the boys was out there messing around. A rattlesnake came and bit the boy in his calf. And it was bad. They rushed from the hospital and they're worried about him. And finally the daddy said, the old pop of the of the operation, he said, call the preacher. We need the preacher. Come in here and pray The doctor said, I don't think there's anything you can do. Called the preacher. The preacher went rushing out and the boys laying in the living room on the head of bed in the living room and the family's all in there crying. They're scared. He's going to die. Oh preacher, pray Pray that God will make them well hungry. He said, All right, I'll pray. I'll bow their heads. He said, Lord. I thank you for sending this rattlesnake. Bite Pop's boy in the leg. I thank you, Lord. He's on the verge of death. Because the first time in many years this family's bowed their heads before your throne. First time in many years this family's talked to the preacher and gave any consideration about you or your will for their lives. Lord, I thank you for this rattlesnake. I pray you'd send a heap more rattlesnakes. Fight every one of them. Until they get completely right with you and know your blessings. Now that's a little humorous thing. I'm telling you what, God knows how to get our attention. And he does it because he loves us. And he doesn't want us living in sin. He doesn't want his children living in sin. Because of that, he chastens us. And we as Christians ought to say, thank you, Lord. Blessed is the man whom now chasteneth and correcteth. I don't know where you're at spiritually I can't help but think there's some of us. God's been working in our heart. We know it the whole time I've been preaching, God's Holy Spirit has been saying, this is what it is, this is what it is. Now let me throw this out. Chastisement is between the individual and their heavenly Father. It has nothing to do with others. I have no business worrying about others' chastisement. That's between them and God, me and God. But God's been dealing with your heart. And I want to say this, as a pastor and a preacher of the Word of God, God's working in your heart, speaking in your heart, I plead with you, make that right. Yield to him, say, yes, Lord, whatever changes need to be made, I'm going to trust you, let you make them. And afterward, Hebrews tells us it brings a peaceable fruit of righteousness. Our hearts and life. There's nothing in the world, there's nothing this world has to offer that can match the peace that comes with being thoroughly right with God. Not enough money, not enough pleasures to match that. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you'd help us to understand Your loving chastisement, when you step in our lives and you do what you know needs to be done, to get our attention and to make us the people you saved us to be. So that we can know your peace and your fulfillment purpose. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, we'd say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt I know a trusted Christ. But preacher, God is working in my heart. Now again, this is between you and him, but you'd say, Preacher, I know God is working in my life. He's wanting to change me. I see it. I see his hand. He's been speaking to my heart as you preached. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me, that I would understand that it's God's love. I would trust him Let him have his way. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I know God's dealing in my heart. I know he is. God bless you. Number of hands around. Number of hands around I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I don't know that I'm really experiencing God's chastisement, so to speak, but you say, preacher, I know there's areas I need to grow. I know there's steps I need to make. You know, sometimes being the Christian God wants us to be requires making very difficult decisions Very hard decisions sometimes. And you would say, preacher, I want to be able to make those decisions. I want to be able to take those steps That are necessary to be a growing Christian. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need God to help me. God bless you. God bless you. Now let me ask this, and this might be a little sensitive. When you say, preacher, I know someone, I believe they're saved. I believe they're saved, but they're out of the will of God, obviously. I'm burden for and I trust God's working. But you'd say, preacher, help me to be a good Christian friend. Help them, encourage them. To be what God wants them to be. Not judge, not be harsh, but to help and encourage them. Is there any like this? I know someone, I believe they're saved, I'm burdened for them. I don't I don't want to be judgmental, but I want to be I want to be A friend and help them be what they ought to be. God bless you. A lot of hands around. One last question. Is there someone here today say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I tell you that to die in our sins under the condemnation of God is horrific. You say, preacher, pray for me. Pray for me. I need to know that I'm forgiven. And I'm a child of God. Is there any like that at all? Preacher, pray for me. I need to know that God has forgiven me. I have a home in heaven. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our invitation. I thank you for loving us. I pray that you would not leave us alone, Lord. But keep working in our hearts. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing the invitation. Now this is