Your Bibles, please the book of Numbers. Numbers chapter twenty. Jen, where are you? What a wonderful job. That's not an easy song to sing a cappella. Where's she? Appreciate that Beautiful song. Great great words to that song. You're in numbers chapter twenty. Before we get to the text of scripture, let me tell you something that might anger you at first or at least make you upset. But listen to me and let me explain what I'm saying before you get too mad at me. Did you realize that God isn't fair? All the attributes that God claims for himself, fairness is not one of them He says he's a righteous judge. He says he's no respecter of persons. He says that he's perfect and cannot sin. It says he cannot lie. And on down the list we can go, but it never says that he is a fair God. And let me point something out. If you're here tonight, you know Christ is your personal Savior. You should be pretty glad you don't have a If I have a fair God, I get what I deserve, and what I deserve is eternity in a lake of fire and brimstone. I'd rather have a gracious God and a merciful God and a forgiving God and a loving God than a fair God any day of the week. But he's especially not fair in the way that you and I consider fairness as we travel around the country. And the reason I mention that is because This is probably, if in my own human uh estimation, the most unfair or one of the most unfair Bible accounts in all of the Word of God As we travel around the countries, oftentimes we've had our trailer or we've stayed in prophets' chambers. And more often than not, I end up with a key to the church, because if we have your trailer you need to be able to get in to the room where everything's plugged in and all that. And if you're staying in a prophet's chamber most of the time it's actually in the in the main auditorium building. And so we're oftentimes in churches long after everyone else is gone. By the way If any of you are interested, I probably still have about thirty keys to churches in my collection that I forgot to give back. I pa I call up a pastor and said, Well, we're we're we're on our way there. Well do you need me to leave the door unlocked? No, I I got the key. But we're in churches long after everyone else is gone when it's dark and all that kind of stuff, church buildings have two significant things in common. No matter where you go, no matter what part of the country you're in Church buildings late at night when no one else is there are the scariest buildings on the face of the of the earth. They're scary buildings. They creak and they squeak and you hear belts turning on when the air conditioner kicks in. You hear all those sounds sometimes. You can't find the light switch. I remember we were in a church just outside of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania several years ago. And uh my daughter and I, I'll tell you how long ago it was, we had cassettes I've joked that our USBs are cassettes, but we really had cassette tapes. We had a tape table. So we went over and to sign everything up and so we walked in if you walk into most places all you gotta do is rub your hand right around the door and you're gonna find a light switch So we've started doing that. We're going down through the auditorium. It's uh now that building is now about a hundred and eighty-year-old former schoolhouse in Philadelphia. So we're walking down the wall trying to find the light switch. We can't find it anywhere. After stumbling around in the darkness for about a half hour, we went back over to the trailer and were relaxing. The next morning, I told Pastor Hall, I said, Preacher We tried to find the light switch for the auditorium and we couldn't find it anywhere. He said, Oh, it's in the Baptistry He didn't say it's in the same room as the baptistry. He didn't say it's on the steps up to the baptistry. He said it's in the baptistry. So he took me up into the baptistry and we walk there and there's the water down beneath us and you take that first step so that now the water is right underneath your the toe of your shoe, then you put your hand on the wall, the little glass there in front of it. You hold on like this, you lean forward as much as you can, and that's where you trip the breaker to turn on the lights in the auditorium. Don't ask me why some fire marshal hasn't closed that down, but that's the way it is. But y when you travel you see that church buildings are some scary buildings. By the way, that That pastor in that hundred eighty-year-old school building, the the previous pastor that was there, he told me that when he was in the church building late at night by himself, he locked his office door from the inside. It made that many noises You'll find a second thing is true of Bible-believing church buildings. And I haven't looked around, honestly, I haven't, but some uh most likely some Sunday school teacher either has it up now or has had it up in the past You'll go into that Sunday school class with the beginners or the uh the second through the fourth grade or however you divide them up. You're gonna see on one wall somewhere that some industrious Sunday school teacher has figured out the key To get little kids to do whatever you want. It's called a little gold star. For some reason, little kids think little gold stars are the greatest thing in the world. Now, when they become teenagers It completely changes. I I was actually the director of a camp in West Virginia for a few years. My nephew had come alongside me to be my assistant director, and so we had uh pizza one day, one afternoon for lunch So we'd ordered all these pieces, they came, kids went through, they got two pieces the first time through, then we opened it up for seconds and several of them came through. Then we realized we had five leftover pieces of pizza. We couldn't say anybody want thirds get in line. What if six kids get in line? Now we're in trouble. So we decided, and please don't think ill of us, although I don't care if you do. But don't think you love us too much. We decided that the five kids who did the five most disgusting things would get those five pieces of pizza I'll never forget a thirteen year old girl walked up with a boy by the name of Christian. Christian was about six foot two, and he would have a size thirteen and a half shoe. She walked up and he Christian lifted up his foot and put it on one of those white tables that we have and said it like this That little girl got down on her hands and knees and licked the bottom of his shoe all the way from the heel to the toe. Now, two things happened when she did that. Number one, she did get a piece of pizza. Number two She made her daddy really proud. That was my daughter. But she didn't win. She didn't win. She got a piece of pizza. Every morning for for breakfast we had cold cereal. and juice. And when everybody got finished, you can't throw that in a trash can, a regular trash can, so we had a separate fifty-five gallon plastic trash can that we just used for liquids. And so they would all take their leftover cereal and dump it in there, their leftover juice and dump it in there from all of the seventy-five or eighty kids that were there. That was for breakfast This is lunch at camp in July with no air conditioning. This boy walked up, grabbed a 16-ounce sirofoam cup Walked over to that trash can, dipped it down in there, and guzzled every single drop of it just for a piece of pizza. But little kids, they need a little gold star, don't they? And so you'll see that chart, and you've seen these, if you haven't made one, you've seen them in your church. You have the names, you have the it's all done in a grid and you have the names of all the little kids. And it's always funny to me, if you see those, that the first eight or ten kids are all written in the same pen And then there's like another kid written in a different pen, another kid written in a different pen, as new visitors come, the first pen is gone. And so you have their name, then they have They came on this Sunday and this Sunday and they brought their Bible, they said their memory verse, and they brought a visitor. And there's always that one kid that has one little star way over here. And then there's that other kid that beside his name it looks like the Milky Way galaxy. Because uh we know that little kids will do anything for a little gold star. If we're gonna get out little gold stars in the Old Testament Moses has more than anybody else. I'm sure I've told you this here. Moses is my favorite Old Testament Bible character. Think about this statement about Moses. There are more chapters in your Bible dedicated to the life and the ministry of Moses than Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Joseph, and David combined. Moses has been faithful when no one else has been faithful. He has been true to God when everybody else was questioning him. Remember when Coran, Dathan, and Abraham came to him and said, Ye take too much upon you, seeing that all the congregation of Israel is holy. They said, God let the Levites run the show, not you, Moses. And he says, Well, let's let God decide We'll give God the only vote that counts, so tomorrow you bring some incense off the altar, and I'll bring some incense off the altar, and then we'll let God decide who needs to lead the children of Israel. When they showed up Koran, Dathan, Abraham, the 250 princes of the Levites, they all show up and they have their incense, and then Moses gives them the fine print of the contest rules. He says, if you die some normal death Then you'll know I'm not God's man. But if the earth open up and swallow you, then you'll know I'm God's man While he's speaking, the ground begins to shake, opens up underneath them, swallows all of them, and all that appertaineth unto them down live into the pit Now, the funny part of that story to me is what happens next. The Bible says, the next day came the children of Israel unto Moses and saith unto him, Ye have killed the people of the Lord. Moses didn't kill anybody, number one. Number two, if God opens up the earth and swallows you down into the pit, you weren't the people of the Lord, whatever tribe you were from. God's patience runs out. He sends pestilence into the land, and they begin to die as fast as you can snap your finger. And Moses says, Aaron Run as fast as your eighty three year old legs will carry you, and go get some incense off the altar and stand between the dead and the living and we'll see if God's gonna stay this plague. By the time Aaron does that and the plague is saved Fourteen thousand seven hundred children of Israel have died that day. Moses was still faithful. When he went up on the mountain to get the law from God and he came down and he fa found them addressing immodestly and committing immortal immorality and were and practicing idolatry. It's still Moses that is faithful when everybody else It's Moses that is faithful when they begin to cry, where there are no graves in Egypt that thou brought us forth to die in the wilderness after seeing Ten incredible plagues that God has placed on the nation of uh Egypt. They look out over the waters of the Red Sea and they say, Consider the saying that we sent in you, saying Let us alone that we may serve the Egyptians, for it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians than that we should die in the wilderness. And Moses said, Fear ye not. Stand still and see the salvation of the Lord. Moses has been faithful even when no one else was faithful. We use the term and we use it incorrectly. We describe Old Testament saints as Christians oftentimes. It's not it's not accurate. We understand that But if we're going to describe a Christian as someone who talks to the Lord, and someone who listens to the Lord, and someone who obeys the Lord, and someone who serves the Lord, and someone who trusts the Lord, M Osus isn't just a good Christian He's the best Christian in the world. He's the best Christian on the planet. No one has talked to the Lord more, obeyed the Lord more, and trusted the Lord more than Moses has. You would think that at this point in Moses' life, after going through all of this, that when Moses sins or makes a mistake, that God would just kind of wink at it and say, Well, he's got more good things than bad things, and let him slide Isn't that what we do, Christian? How many times have you said about an older Christian that has this rough texture to them and they always are fussing and they're short with people and you look at them and say, well, you know I know he's got a short temper, but that's uh just how he is. Not a one of us should want to be just how we are. We should all want to be just like he is. And so in this passage of Scripture, we're going to find that Moses is going to sin. You and I would look at that and wink and say, even with this sin, he's still better than all the rest of the children of Israel But that's not how our quote unquote unfair God is going to look at it. Look at Exodus chapter 20, beginning in verse 1. Exodus chapter 20 Beginning in verse one. And again, God is not fair in the way that you and I consider fairness. The title of the message tonight, if you're taking notes, is this one sin Too many. One sin, too many. Look at N uh N Numbers chapter twenty, we're going to read the first twelve verses. Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zen. In the first month, and the people abode in Kadesh, and Miriam died there. And was buried there. And there was no water for the congregation, and they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron. And the people choked with Moses and spake, saying, Would God that we had died When our brethren died before the Lord. And why have ye brought up the congregation of the Lord into this wilderness that we and our cattle should die there? And wherefore have ye made us to come up out of Egypt To bring us in into this evil place. It is no place of seed or of figs or of vines or pomegranates, neither is any water to drink. Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon their faces, and the glory of the Lord appeared unto them. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Take the rod, and gather thou the assembly together, thou and Aaron thy brother And speak him to the rock before their eyes, and it shall give forth his water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock. So thou shalt give the congregation and there be strength. And Moses took the rod from before the Lord, as he commanded him, and Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said unto them, Hear now you rebels Must we fetch you water out of this rock? And Moses lifted up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice, and the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts also. And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron, Because you believe me not to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them I want you to look at this passage of Scripture with me tonight. I want you to examine our own hearts as we look at what happens to Moses if God is willing to judge Moses. Don't you think he's willing to judge us? Let's have a word of prayer. Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you for our time together. Lord, I ask that you bless the message tonight. Have your will and way in every heart. In Jesus' name, amen. The first few verses give us the situation. Now for those of you taking an outline, It's going to be a little bit intricate for the next moment or two. Point number one is the situation, but under that there's going to be uh three subpoints. First off, we're going to look at the people As you look at the people in this passage of Scripture, once again, we have two different sets, do we not? On one side we have the children of Israel. On the other side, we have Moses and Aaron. Let's take a moment and examine this children of Israel. Notice the first thing I want you to see about them is that they're unpraying people. They've come to this place outside of Kadesh. There they are. There's no water there. Let me ask you a question Why doesn't anyone in this entire congregation, these people that have watched God part the Red Sea, these people that have watched God turn water to blood. These people that have watched God give them water out of a rock earlier. If there's any group of people that should believe that God can do whatever he wants to do with water, it ought to be this group of the children of Israel. They should have said, You know, there's no water here, but God could give us water. They should have got together in groups of five or ten or five fifty or a hundred. They should have had a men a men's prayer breakfast or a ladies prayer tea. They should have s besought the Lord. But they're more like me and you than we would ever care to admit. Most of us pray as a last resort, not as a first response. The first place we should go is prayer, but what we usually do is exhaust every other resource that we have, and then finally consider when it's completely hopeless that we ought to talk to the Almighty God These are unpraying people. It doesn't even dawn on them to pray to God about having water there in the wilderness. Notice they're unpraying people. Notice this carefully too, though. They're also untrusting people. Said, you brought us forth to die in this wilderness. You know the children of Israel are not going to the promised land because Moses said so They're going to the promised land because God said so. Remember what the Lord said in Exodus chapter uh chapter uh chapter three and verses uh seven and eight He said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows And I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land, unto a good land, and a large, unto a land Flowing with milk and honey. They're going to the promised land because God said they're going to the promised land. They're not going to the promised land because Moses says, hey guys, it's got milk and honey. They're going there because God says it has milk and honey. So every time they say, Well, we're not going to make it to the promised land, they're really saying we just don't trust God to do what he said he's going to do They're really saying we don't trust him to deliver us. They're really accusing, and it it almost makes me mad sometimes when I read some of the things that they say about God That the Almighty God just delivered them from the hands of the Egyptians and brought them out of slavery so he could lead them to the wilderness and kill them They're not here by accident. They're here because they're being led by a pillar of cloud during the day and a pillar of fire during the night. It is God that has placed them in this wilderness outside of Kadesh. They're unpraying people. They're untrusting people. Notice number three, though, they're unsympathetic people, aren't they? What's happened in that first verse? Notice the end of the first verse. And Miriam died there And was buried there. Moses and Aaron have just lost their big sister. That big sister who was hiding in the bulrushes as Moses was floating down in his bassinet. covered with poctar and pitch? It's that big sister that made sure that Pharaoh's daughter pulled Moses out of the water It's that big sister that then suggests to Pharaoh's daughter, I know someone who could help you raise this little baby that you just found. And big sister put Moses and his mommy back together. She's been faithful to her little brothers the entire time. She had one bout with her own pride just a little bit, and God had to judge her for that just a few chapters before. But now Moses and Aaron just lost Miriam. And on their way back from the funeral, the children of Israel don't say, you know what? Not one of them says, I'm pretty thirsty like everybody else. But I think we should let Moses and Aaron mourn for a day or two before we start bugging them about having no water. It doesn't even occur to them. To care about Moses. Doesn't occur to them to care about this man who said he was willing to have his name blotted out of the book if God wouldn't forgive the children of Israel. Simple truth is, as we look at these people, on one side we have the children of Israel unpraying, untrusting, and unsympathetic. On the other side, we have Moses and Aaron. They come back from the funeral of Miriam. They're the children of Israel. They choked with them, saying, There's no water to drink here. And you know what Moses said? He said, Well, here's what I want to do. I want to form a blue-ribbon commission And we're going to study this thing, we're going to study where the water table, we're going to study what how the land is laid out here, and then I'll get back to you in a day or two with the answer of how to get some water. No, he didn't say that He said, here's what we're going to do. Back a couple of miles back, remember we passed that oasis. I know the pillar of cloud is staying here, but we're going to go and get water. Whether the pillar of cloud moves or not, we're going to go get us some water. That's not what he said He said, here's the plan. We're going to divide all the men in the nation of Israel into three groups. One group's going to dig for eight hours, then the next group's going to dig for eight hours. for eight hours and the next group's going to dig for eight hours and eventually we'll get down to the water table and solve our water problem. No, that's not what he did. The first thing Moses does is he leaves the assembly of the congregation. He goes to the door of the tabernacle, and he falls on his face. See, because Moses knows if you're going to find water in the wilderness, God is going to have to be involved. He prayed as a first response. He didn't wait until he tried everything else. That's what the Bible says. 1 Chronicles 16 and verse 11. Seek the Lord and his strength. Seek his face. Continually. Luke chapter 18 and verse 2. The Lord spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to pray and not to faint. We're told to pray without ceasing. Moses knows that miracles are only done through prayer. Notice, on one side you have the unpraying children of Israel. The other side you have the praying Moses and Aaron. On one side, you have the untrusting children of Israel God says water is going to come out of the rock. Moses gathers, depending on what estimate you read, anywhere from one and a half to three million Israelites, he takes them to the rock. You say, of course he did. God told him to. Listen, if God told us that water was coming out of this offering plate tonight, how many of us would run to the kitchen and get a cup? Water doesn't come out of rocks. It flows over rocks, it flows through rocks, it flows around rocks, it flows under rocks, it doesn't come out of ro But Moses just trusted. I always find it interesting that God doesn't tell Moses what to say to the rock Can you imagine three million thirsty Israelites who have been griping and complaining? Moses gets them all there, and he walks over to the rock and he goes, Hey. Nice weather we're having. What's he supposed to say to the rock? God doesn't even tell him. I think that's very interesting. By the way, let me ask you this. What if Moses takes all these complaining, griping Israelites to a rock? And he speaks to it, and nothing happens. How long do you think it is before they reach down on the ground and pick up stones to stone him? How long do you think it is before they put him in a padded room with one of those jackets where the arms tied together in the back? Simple truth, Moses just trusted. God said, do it, and Moses did it. You have the unpraying children of Israel, you have the praying Moses and Aaron. You have the untrusting children of Israel, you have the trusting Moses and Aaron. You have the unsympathetic children of Israel. And I want you to notice that Moses and Aaron put off The grieving time that they're supposed to have for losing their sister and then just care about what everybody else needs. They put everybody's needs above their own It's not hard to see who the good guys are, is it? It's not hard to see who wears the white hat in the old western and who wears the black hat in the old western, unpraying, untrusting, unsympathetic, praying, trusting, and sympathetic It's not hard to see who are the best servants of God or Christians in the entire nation of Israel. Notice we saw the people. Number two, the problem. Don't you love this? The first verse, once again, notice how much is in there. Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the rainforest of Zen. No. It says the desert of Xen, not the rainforest of Zen, not the pasture of Zen, not the prairie of Zen. It doesn't say not the oasis of Zen. It doesn't say the field of Zen. It says the desert of Zinn. And what desert means is there's no water there. But again, Christians, sometimes God puts us in a place where there is no water, so we learn to trust Him for our next drink. Notice there is a problem there. Moses doesn't say, Well, you guys, there's water right over there. No, nothing like that. They're in the desert. There is no water there. Nobody argues with that. There is a problem But then there's the prescription. Finally, Moses has spoken to the Lord, the Lord's appeared unto Moses, and the Lord says, take the rod. Look at verse 8 Take the rod and gather thou the assembly together, thou and Aaron thy brother, and speak unto the rock before their eyes. Four steps to get water out of the rock, aren't there? Take the rod Get Aaron, get all the people, and speak to the rock. Four simple steps. Take the rod, get Aaron, get all the people, and speak to the rock, and water will come out. Notice number one, the situation. We saw the people, we saw the problem, and we saw the prescription. But number two, I want you to notice the sin. So many Bible scholars, and I again I have great disdain for people that have to announce themselves as Bible scholars, they'll say this. Well Moses in this passage of scripture, he ruins the type of Christ First, Moses did ruin a type of Christ. Corinthians tells us that Jesus was the rock in the wilderness. The rock was smitten once. He wasn't smitten twice. Moses does ruin a type of Christ. Moses doesn't know he's ruining a type of Christ Moses doesn't say, you know what I'm going to do this morning? I'm going to go ruin a type of Christ. He wouldn't have any idea what a type of Christ was. There is no written revelation when this takes place. Nothing. Moses doesn't know he's ruining a type of Christ, but if you make this about a man ruining a type of Christ, that means it doesn't apply to any one of us in this auditorium. But if you make it about what it's really about, one man sinning and disobeying God, it applies to every single one of us, doesn't it? I want you to notice a few things about Moses' sin. First off, number one, his temptation is available. Now help me out here. You guys You guys are pretty good about this, I think. Some some preachers, and I don't know if you've had any like this, some preachers like to ask the congregation questions So they can stump you and make themselves feel good. I'm not into that, all right? I'm not the least bit into that. If I ask you a question And I ask you to respond out loud. The first answer you think of is going to be the right answer. All right? So let's have a practice question, okay? Is today Monday yes or no? Okay. About two-thirds of you said yes. The other third said, huh. I'm pretty sure it's Monday. But I'm also pretty sure he's trying to trick me like some preachers do. I'm not going to trick you. The answer that you think of first is the right answer. Now there's probably three or four of you that are sitting there going, wait a minute, is it Monday? No, but but still The rest of you, don't be shy. I'm not going to embarrass you. You're going to know the answer to these questions, but I want you to help me illustrate something. Notice that verse 8. Take the rod. Question number one. Did God love Moses? Yes or no? No one should even struggle with that one, right? God, of course, loved Moses. He loves the world. Of course, he loved Moses. Question number two: Does God, because he loves Moses, want what is best for Moses? Yes or no? Of course. Question number three. Does God know the end from the beginning? In other words, does God know what is going to happen next? Yes or no? Don't answer this one out loud. So why does verse eight the way it begin the way it begins? Why doesn't verse 8 begin with the Lord saying, Now, Moses, here's what I want you to do. I want you to take that rod. And I want you to walk out of the camp And I want you to take one hundred giant steps like this. And then once you get one hundred paces away, I want you to dig a hole, put the rod there, and put a red X on top of it so you can find it later. Why didn't God say, Moses, whatever you do, don't take the rod with you today? Moses, leave the rod in the tent. Moses, hand the rod to Aaron. Moses, whatever you do, don't have the rod But there in Moses' hand is the instrument that's going to ruin his ministry. Say, Brother Harper, wait a minute, is God Uh telling Moses to sin? Not at all. God never tempts any man to sin. Every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed, and when lust hath conceived it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth Death. No no. God certainly isn't tempting uh Moses, but God also is not removing the temptation See, these people that preach that the Christian life is easy, you just float downstream, and it's going to be those old terms, hunky-dory and peachy keen, that's just not the case Temptation is all around us. God has never promised us a life without temptation. He's made us many promises about temptation, hasn't he? Hebrews chapter four and verse fifteen, we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the fillings of our infirmities, but was in all points tempted like as we, and yet without sin, or Hebrews chapter two and verse eighteen, and that he himself has suffered being tempted, he's able to succor them that are tempted, or first John chapter four and verse four. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world or first John chapter five and verse four and that which is born of God overcometh the world and this is the victory that overcomes. Cometh the world, even our faith. Or 1 Corinthians chapter 10 and verse 13, there is no temptation taking you, but such is common. But God is faithful who also with the temptation make it a way of escape that we might maybe be able to bear it. The simple fact is God never promised us a life without temptation. He did promise to love us when we're going through the temptation. He did promise to understand when we're going through the temptation. He did promise to give us the power to overcome the temptation. He did promise to give us the faith to be victorious over the temptation. And he did promise that you'll never face a temptation that you can't handle. The simple truth is, God never promised to take all the temptation away By the way, let me take a moment and say something to parents in this auditorium. There are some people out there that will make a statement like this. Well, Brother Harper. They're going to be tempted eventually. Might as well let them get tempted when they're 13. Now, I am 61 years of age. There are some things that I cannot say in the pulpit Right? My father-in-law is 87. When you're 87, anybody in the auditorium 87 or older, raise your hand just quickly That's exactly right. Now you're gonna understand what I'm gonna tell you. When you turn 87, when you get that high, you can say anything you want to and nobody cares. I remember I was having uh I was having lunch actually with Dr. Robertson when he was 97 years old, and he's telling me about Billy Sunday. And he says, now Billy Sunday was a skinny man. A skinny man, a bony skinny man. He said it like that. And then he said this. Now Ma Sunday. Now she wasn't skinny You're 97, you can say that. Who's going to call you out on it? My father-in-law is 87 years old. He can say things that I would never say. So I am going to purposely quote him right now. This is not coming from me. This is coming from him. Understand this. Someone walked up to him and said, You know what, they're going to get tempted eventually. Might as well let them get tempted when they're thirteen. My father-in-law would say this Are you an idiot in any other area? By the way, as a son-in-law, he said that to me several times over the years The simple truth is, yes, they're going to be tempted eventually, but a fifteen-year-old is better equipped to handle temptation than a thirteen-year-old, and a seventeen-year-old is better to handle temptation than a fifteen-year-old fifteen year old and an eighteen year old is better uh equipped to handle the temptation than a twelve year old. Understand the difference here. We should be spending our life doing everything we possibly can to keep every temptation away from our children that is possible that is possible. You should be looking at their phones, looking at their internet history, you should be checking who they're texting and what they're texting. You should have every password that they have and you should know every time they're involved on social media. You need to be involved because if you're not, you're gonna stand there blindly with your head in the sand and wonder why your child left. Oh, yes, they're going to be tempted. Our job as parents and grandparents is to protect them from every temptation we can. Knowing they're going to be tempted. But understand, if you're doing that, first off, you have my respect for doing that. Secondly, though, you're only half right. While you're protecting them from every temptation, While you're standing at the door posts and lintels of your home with your sword out, protecting them, you better be teaching them that the only true way to overcome temptation is not through the power of mom and dad, it's through the power of God Because there's going to come a day when you're not there. But there'll never be a day that God's not there. Moses is standing there and his temptation is available. That rod is in his hand Secondly, though, watch this. His temper is apparent. He gets them together. I find it interesting. Moses was told to speak to the rock. He was not told to speak to the people. When you read the passage, Moses spoke to the people and never spoke to the rock. But Moses, his teammate, is absent. Remember, God said, Take the rod and gather thy assembly together, thou and Aaron, thy brother. Aaron is standing there. He helped gather everybody there. Moses lifts up his rod above his head. And he says, Here now, you rebels, must we fetch you water out of this rock? Let me ask you. When his rod is up like that and he's getting ready to hit the rock Where was Aaron? He didn't do a thing. He just stood there and watched his brother ruin his ministry. Aaron should have said, uh little brother, uh God said, speak to the rock, not hit the rock. He should have said, Let me hold the rod for you for a minute. He should have said, Moses, I think somebody needs a timeout He should have done what he did in Exodus chapter seventeen. Remember when the children of Israel are battling against the Amalekites and Joshua is down in the valley leading the army And every time Moses' hands were in the air the battle went well. When his hands went down, it went poorly. It was Aaron and her that stood on either side of Moses and held his hands up. When Moses lifted up that rod and got ready to hit that rock, Aaron should have said, Hold it. See, Brother Harper, that would have embarrassed Moses. Absolutely. But let me ask you this. Forty years later. As they stood on the other side of Jordan together and walked around Jericho's walls the last time? And shouted and the walls fell down, don't you think that Mar Moses would have looked at Aaron and said, Hey big brother, thanks for not letting me hit that rock. I'm going to tell you something. I'm not giving anybody permission to be the social media police or to uh uh uh put Put your uh business in somebody else's business. I am going to tell you this though. If you stand idly by and watch someone ruining their testimony, their family, or their ministry, and you say nothing, you're every bit as guilty as Aaron is. Notice, his temptation is available. Number two, his temp uh his teammate is absent. Number three, and I think I gave you this one earlier, his temper is apparent. Moses lifts up that rod and he looks at them and he says, Here now you rebels. I know y'all mean whale. But you I g I guess I just gotta hit this rock and get you some water out of it. I don't think he said it like that at all. I think he lifted up his rod above his head and said, Hear now you rebbel Must we fetch you water out of this rock? Why am I still treating you like a child? Why aren't you praying? Why didn't you trust? Why didn't you have at least the courage to ask God for water? I'm still treating you like babies and you've seen all these miracles. Do I have to fetch you water out of this rock? Every godly preacher that I know has had a Moses moment like this one. Someone comes to your pastor's office. Now he's not told me anything about anybody. Somebody comes to your pastor's office, and you and your wife. have not had a kind word for each other in ten years. You fight every minute of every day. You wake up fighting, you go to bed fighting You don't call each other, you don't talk to each other, there's nothing loving about your relationship. And finally, one of you, I don't know which one, says, let's go talk to Pastor. You finally come into the pastor's office and you sit down. And the pastor, I know your pastor well enough to know this, he's not going to reach on his bookshelf and get you the latest book written by Dr. Phil. He's going to open up his Bible, which was probably already on his desk anyway. Two things about Bible advice. Number one, it's always the right advice. Number two, it's almost never the easy advice. And he's going to look at the missus. And he's going to say, You're supposed to be in subjection unto your husband as unto the Lord. And that man who has sat in ten thousand church services and never uttered a peep Under his breath, he's saying, Amen. That's some good preaching, brother. I'm liking that right there. Just pull over and park there for a little while. But then he looks at the man and says, And you're supposed to love her as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. And she's sitting there going, Mm-hmm. Then he looks at both of them and says, Now listen, those two commands aren't based upon each other. If he loves you like Christ uh loves the church Or if he doesn't love you as Christ loved the church, you're still supposed to be in subjection unto him. And if she's subject in subjection unto you or not in subjection unto you, you're still supposed to love her as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. But it's a lot easier to love a woman who's in subjection, and a lot easier for a woman to be in subjection to a man that loves her the way he's supposed to love her. You both walk out of the pastor's office. And for the first time in ten years, you are in complete agreement. It's as if the clouds have parted over your troubled marriage The husband looks at the wife and he says, I don't know about you, but I thought that was a little drastic, didn't you? And she says, I was thinking the same thing. I mean he was really hard on you. You didn't deserve that. And he says, Oh no, and you didn't deserve that either. You go home, you download something off uh off the internet to help your marriage and about two weeks later you have You agreed one time walking out of the pastor's office that the pastor was wrong, and now after two more weeks you haven't agreed in anything else since. You go back to the pastor's office. So preacher, we still have problems. We fight about our family, our future, our finances, we fight about everything. And Pastor says, well Did you do what I told you to do two weeks ago, sitting in those chairs? You look at him and you draw a little figure eights with your feet like this, and you go, Well, you know, Pastor, that seemed a little drastic to us So we went home and did this and this and this. Every pastor that I know, worth his salt, even though he would never do it, at that moment would like to reach out with his right hand. and lay it gently on the left side of your neck. Then reach out with his left hand and lay it gently on the right side of your neck. And then squeeze and say, Here now, rebel, I can preach it, I can teach it, I can live it, I can practice it, I can counsel it, I can do all of that, but I can't go home and make you do it. I can't fetch you water out of this rock. Simple truth is, Moses' temper is apparent. See brother how brother Harper, how do you know that Moses is upset here, mad here, if you will. Because as you study the life of Moses, you find that he is a very uh one of the very best people at giving God the credit for everything that God does. Before and after God But you won't hear him mention God's name in this passage. Notice number one, we saw we saw the situation, the people, the problem, the prescription. Number two, we saw the sin. His temptation was available, his teammate was absent, his temper is apparent. Number three, I want you to see this. I want you to see the supply. Now, this will be short. This third point is short. Let's assume preachers use a phrase, I don't know if you use this, but some preachers use this phrase. They'll say, well let's go back to the desert of Xin In our mind's eye. I don't know what that actually means. I mean I've been in church my whole life. I got I got saved. I got saved when I was eight years old and I'm sixty-one. So I've been in church my whole life. I'm in church 400 plus times every single year. And I still sit there when someone says, let's go back there in our mind's eye. I'm like, what are you talking about? Just say your imagination, all right? It doesn't sound as impressive, but it's still the same thing. Let's go back to the Desert of Zen in our mind's eye. I just had to throw that in. We we we stand off in the distance and we see a million and a half to three million people standing in a circle. In between that circle is an eighty-year-old man with a stick in his hand and his eighty-three-year-old brother standing next to him Because we are Americans, when we get there, we start elbowing our way to the front because we don't want to be in the back for anything. We finally get in the front and we watch verse 11 And Moses lifted up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice, and the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts also What would every single one of us have thought at that moment if that's all we saw was verse 11? We would say, Wow. Do you see that miracle Moses just did? Moses must be living at the foot of the cross. Moses must be doing everything right. But listen carefully. God did not send water out of that rock because of Moses. He sent water out of that rock in spite of Moses. He sent water out of that rock because he put them there, so that he could send water out of the rock. The simple truth is, Moses, we would have assumed that Moses was doing everything right because of an outward manifestation, correct? Isn't that what we do, Christian? We come here to this incredible church and we see 200, 300 people here on a Sunday. Someone gets saved, the pastor preaches a fantastic message, the songs of Zion are sung Fellowship with brothers and sisters in Christ. We go home. Now that was a good service right there. And we turn on our television and we watch this little guy standing up. in a remodeled NBA basketball stadium with 25,000 people there taking up the offering in Kentucky fried chicken buckets. And you say, you know, he doesn't preach like my pastor preaches. He doesn't preach from the same Bible that my pastor preaches from. I don't know any of the songs that they do. They surely do sound like songs I've heard on the radio on the wrong kind of station. But you know what? Look at that crowd. God sure is blessing. Now listen carefully to this. God blesses one thing. If it's in here, God blesses it. If it's not in here, God doesn't bless it. If God said don't do it, it's not going to get blessed, no matter how often you do it, no matter how much money you raise, and no matter how big the crowd is makes no difference at all. A. W. Tozier said preach the truth, whether it fills the house or whether it empties it. The truth is, we would have looked and said a great miracle took place and Moses is doing everything right when in reality Moses is about to be judged. We don't judge whether God is blessing by some esoteric outward manifestation, or by the size of the crowd, or by the the fame of the person who's preaching. We judge whether God's blessing it or not, whether it lines up with this book. Notice, number one, we solve the situation. Number two, we solve the sin. Number three, we solve the supply. And number four, I want you to notice the suffering. Notice at the end of verse 11, because there is a huge time gap here. I mean it is it is rather large. Remember, they gathered the congregation together. All the people have been gathered to wherever this rock is. They're all standing around the rock. After Moses hits the rock, water comes out. Notice what it says next. And the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank. One and a half to three million people drank. And their beasts also. They had to go back and get all of their cattle. They had to get all of their lambs. They had to go get all of their goats and everything that they had and bring their beasts to the water so they could get something to drink. So in other words, there's a huge time lapse here. It's important to notice that because I sometimes we preach about God as if he is standing on the portal of heaven waiting for you or Moses to make a mistake so he can say, Aha! Gotcha That's not what happens here. Moses has lots of time. He's probably standing there watching children of Israel get something to drink. The type of person Moses is, maybe he's thinking, uh, I shouldn't hit that rock. But at least I prayed more than they did. At least I talk to the Lord more than that guy does. At least my family's doing better than that family is. Isn't that what you and I do? We look at our sin and compare it to everybody else's and walk away, even acknowledging that we're sinning, saying our sin is not as bad as other people's are. Notice Moses and Aaron, though. The Lord's going to speak to them after all this water has been consumed. And the Lord spake unto Moses, I find this interesting that it says this, and Aaron. Because you believe me not to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, you shall not bring this congregation to the land which I have given them. He says, Moses and Aaron, you're not going to the promised land. You're not going to set foot in there at all Moses won't set foot in there in his natural life, and Aaron still hasn't been there as far as we can tell You know what Moses did to miss the promised land? I mean, this guy that was up on the mountain, this guy that had to have his face covered with a veil, this guy that the Bible says the Lord spake to Moses face to face as a man speaketh to his friend This man that has seen God do miracle after miracle. This man that stood in front of Pharaoh and said, Let my people go. This man. You know what he's going to do to miss the promised land? Oh, it's going to have to be something big, right? Thou shalt have no other gods before me? Did Moses miss that one? Make him to the any graven image? No, he didn't do that. Bear false witness? No. Take the Lord's name in vain? Nope. Honor thy father and thy mother. No. No evidence he did that. Did he uh did he uh commit adultery? Did he kill somebody? Did he bear false witness? Did he covet? Which one of those Big sins did Moses commit. Let me help you. You know what Moses said to Mr. Promised Land? Watch He hit a rock with a stick. That is not the eleventh commandment. Thou shalt not hit a rock with a stick. It's not there. Say, Brother Harper, wait a minute. Moses disobeyed God. I love how we get so sanctimonious in a moment like that. Moses disobeyed God. Let me ask you a question Is there one person in this auditorium anywhere that hasn't disobeyed God worse than this? Today? You know what we are Christian? Every one of us, from this preacher all the way back to the sound room, we're a bunch of rock hitters. But we're looking around saying, well, I'm just hitting rocks. What they're doing is worse. I'm just hitting rocks. What they said is bad. I'm just hitting rocks, but I'm More faithful than they are, that's exactly what we do Moses should have fallen on his face and said, Lord, it doesn't matter what anybody else does. I'm so sorry I hit the rock I know the question is going to be asked, would Moses have gone to the promised land if he'd have done that? I don't know the answer to that question. Here's what I know. If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. Moses would have been forgiven if he'd have asked for forgiveness. Moses misses the promised land for this. You know how mo know why Aaron missed the promised land? Now watch me carefully, please. I'll illustrate this one for you too. Here it is. This is what Aaron did to miss the promised land. Are you ready? Watch You read the passage of Scripture. God says, You and Aaron gather the people together. Aaron helps Moses gather the people together. You and Aaron stand by the rock. Aaron stands by the rock. Do you realize Aaron does everything that God told him to do in this passage of Scripture? But he didn't stop Moses. He didn't do anything to help his brother. And to him that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is sin. You want to sit idly by and watch someone ruin in their ministry or their testimony or their family, and you say, Well, I'm glad it's not me I want you to notice that Mose Aaron is held every bit as accountable for Moses hitting the rock as Moses is. Here's the thing that makes it real unfair though, doesn't it? Anybody that was there at the beginning of this passage They didn't pray and didn't trust and weren't sympathetic. If they were under the age of twenty, in Numbers chapter fourteen, just a year ago, They're going to walk on the dry Jordan Riverbed. They're going to watch Jericho's walls fall down. They're going to see the sun stand still in the sky. But Moses won't. So Brother Harper, that's not fair. No? It's not fair. That's why the Bible says, to whom much is given. Much shall be required. Looks like God expected more from Moses than anybody else. Of course, God expected more from Moses than anybody else. You want to know the bad news? God expects more of you than he does from a lot of people You get to come to a church where the Bible is preached every single surface. You get to come to a church where God's word is taught in every single class without apology and without compromise. So guess what? God doesn't just expect you to be better than the liberal church or the evangelical church up the road. He expects you to be better than that. But that's not fair! No But it is just. It is holy. It is righteous. You're sitting here tonight. We're all just a bunch of rock hitters. And if God is willing to judge this choicest of servants for hitting a rock, don't you think he's going to judge us for our disobedience too? Don't you think he's going to judge a room full of rock hitters? Stop looking at your sin and deciding that it's smaller than everybody else's. Moses' sin in this passage is much smaller than everybody else's. But only Moses and Aaron get judged Just one sin. Too many. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes, no one looking around. If your heads bowed and with your eyes closed, here today and you've never trusted Christ as your personal savior, your one sin too many, took place in a garden. Thousands of years ago. You were born a sinner How many would say in this auditorium tonight, Brother Harper, I know I'm saved. I know if I died today I'd go to heaven. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? Hold them high in the air as a testimony. I know if I die today, I'd go to heaven. Thank you. May put your hands down. I think that was every hand. But now how many in this auditorium would just be openly honest, not worried about what anybody else would think? How many would just say, Brother Harper, you know what I am? I'm just an old rock hitter. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? Hold them high in the air. Thank you, and put your hands down. Just a moment we're going to have an invitation. We'll pray first and then we'll stand. You'll notice in this passage of scripture, when Moses sins, he doesn't step out. It's the opposite of the other stories that we've looked at. When people do stuff great for God, they usually do it stepping out. When people aren't doing something great for God, they usually stay put. So here in just a moment after we pray, And after we stand, I give the signal to the pianist and she begins to play. Why don't you step out on that very first note and do business with the Lord tonight? Delivered Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you for our time together. Lord, we pray that you'll bless this invitation, have your will in your way. Do what only you can do in your people's hearts. In Jesus' name. With your head still bowed and your eyes still closed.