Evening, our New Year's Eve service, sweet good service and had three good messages. Daniel and Jamie and Pat preached and uh it is just amazing in the Sunday school class how that you know three guys preach like that, not cohort together at all in any way and yet the messages just fall in place and uh match up perfectly. That shows you two things. One they're Bible messages and two the Spirit leaves in something like that. And so that's a blessing. Something else before we get started here, I want to share with you. As you're probably aware, we have a website and we put all our sermons, the services are live over the website And uh we keep uh uh an archive of our sermons there. And these are people are able to download these off of our website, listen to them on their computers or put them on their little uh iPods and all that type of thing And at the end of each month we get a report from the server tells us what messages were downloaded, how many times, and where they were in the world. And uh I shared this with the Sunday school I wanted to share with the church here also. Uh we have ten. They show you what the top ten were. The most downloaded sermon was from August, was preached this past August, an old fashioned Bible message. That was the number one uh message in December downloaded. But the interesting thing is for the third month in a row in the top ten sermons, Brother Pat Browning's message was on there again in the top ten. He preached it back in September. I think he's just downloading it himself over and over and over and over. and keeping that thing up there. And uh so I thought that was fascinating. Also as far as the different uh states that have messages downloaded. There's probably about 40, I didn't count them, but just looking at the list, I would say there's probably a good forty, forty-five uh different states had somebody in that state go to our website, download one of the messages, at least one, and listen to it. The number one state for December was the state of California with 307 sermons. uh downloaded off our website in the state of California in December. Isn't that an amazing thing? Virginia was second with 101. Georgia was third with 86. And then it goes on down through uh all the uh like I said, forty-some other states. Then the other interesting thing is around the world. Uh people in about, I'd say 22, 23 different countries outside the United States have gone to our website and downloaded sermons. The number one country for the month of December, get this. It's the country of Thailand. Isn't that an amazing thing? Forty-one sermons were downloaded off of our website by someone or someone's in Thailand. Netherlands was second I believe that's probably our our our European members over there, the Ranemus. United Kingdom was third And then it goes down Philippines, Australia, Canada, India, Cape Verde, Denmark, France, Germany, Guatemala, Singapore, and New Zealand. And that's something That just blesses my heart that God would use a little church out here in Western Maryland, uh, on the edge of the uh Arctic Circle, and um Have people all around the world be an influence. That is such a blessing. I hope you pray for our website, our outreach ministries, and of course our radio station. We'll say more about that in a little bit. Nehemiah chapter 2, just something I want to share with you that the Lord spoke to my heart in reading my Bible a week or so ago. Verse number twelve of Nehemiah chapter two. Verse eleven says, So I came to Jerusalem and was there three days. And I arose in the night, verse 12, I and some few men with me. Now look at this. Look what he says. I underline this part in my Bible. Neither told I any man what my God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem. Neither was there any beast with me save the beast I rode upon. Neither told I any man what God, what my God Had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem. I titled the message God's Deposit in Our Heart Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, please bless now our look in your word. And Lord, again, as pastor, Father, I'm so grateful for folks that made the effort to be out And uh braved the cold and the blowing snow and are in the house of God today. What a good crowd. And so I rejoice in that. And I pray, Father, that you would please speak through me and make it worth their effort to come out today. That something would be heard from heaven God, I readily and publicly acknowledge that I have nothing in and of myself of any spiritual value, eternal value. So Lord, I want to be out of the way I yield my body to you, my will, present my body, ask you to fill me with your spirit, and you would just use me, Lord, as a conduit to speak our hearts and minds. Have your way, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Verse twelve there, as I mentioned, Nehemiah points out that God Had put something into his heart. God had made a deposit in his heart. And by the way, the heart is where God works If God wants to change a life, he begins in the heart. When God wants a work done, He touches someone's heart. If there is a mission field, uh Kazakhstan, or any number of hundreds of other countries, That there is a need for the gospel. Somebody needs to go there, preach the gospel, translate scriptures into the languages, establish a church. God puts it in a person's heart. That's where God works. Even in the matter of salvation, salvation is a heart matter. The Bible says that thou shalt confess with thy mouth and believe in thine heart, thou shalt be saved. So Nehemiah doesn't say God put it in my head. He didn't just get information about Jerusalem. And the background here is Nehemiah was working as a cupbearer for the king. Uh and uh of course the cupbearer is the guy that tastes it to see if it's poisoned. He was a uh he was part of the uh national security what's it called? uh our national homeland security. Uh he was one of the Homeland Security Secret Service agents for the K. And he would have to drink the wine or the juice or p taste the food before the king would eat it and they watched to see if Nehemiah died, and if he didn't die, well then uh the king would eat it And uh how would you like that job? And um but anyway, it was a trusted position, he was highly respected. And uh he gets word, he gets He gets information from back in Jerusalem that the city is in ruins. The walls are down. The place is just in shambles. So he gets that report into his mind. People put that there. People told him that. And he gets it in his mind. And in chapter 2, he said that something else happened. Not only did he have the information, the truth, in his mind, but God put something in his heart. And that's where salvation is. A person, there's a lot of people going to die and go to hell. Tragically, are going to die and go to hell who have the truth of salvation in their mind. But they never got it to their heart where they trusted Christ and made a heart decision to trust Christ. You've heard me tell the story, but it It's tragic, but um it's so true. It happened years ago here. There was a uh old older couple and they're still living. I'll see 'em around town every now and then. An older couple were coming out to church They come for about a month or so Sunday mornings, came with another couple in the church, and um very friendly, very positive, set there and listen. And uh I would preach and give the invitation and uh they presented themselves as if they'd been saved and uh I wasn't sure. But anyway, between Sunday school and church one time I was in the back, he came up to me and he said, He said, like for you to pray for me I said, certainly. He says, this matter of salvation in the gospel, he says, I have it here, but I don't have it here. Isn't that sound? I said, well listen, let's go settle it. We got fifteen minutes. Let's step back in my office, sit down. I said, let me help you. We can get it down here and you can get this matter settled. He goes, no, no, no, no, no, no, no And I never could win that man to the Lord. Ain't that sad? To know the facts of the gospel, to know that Jesus died for me, was buried, and rose again. To know the offer of salvation, to have the facts in my head, but never trust them in my heart. The heart is where God works. The heart is where God begins to change, to save, to change, to direct a life, to change us what we are. So Nehemiah got the information about Jerusalem and the condition the city was in. And a slew of other Jews in Babylon had that same information. But God did something in Nehemiah's heart. And so stirred his heart that he left his home, quote-unquote, his home in Babylon, left his family, Though the job was fairly risky, it was a good job. It was high paying, it was a high-level position. He left his job. He left the security of the world where he was comfortable. He left his comfort zone. And he went back to Jerusalem, a city that was shambles. All because God put something in his heart, put a vision in his heart, put a burden in his heart. Now, what do we know about Nehemiah? Shared a little bit with him. He was what I would call a patriot. You read the book of Nehemiah and you find out one thing about Nehemiah. He loved his country. He was a patriot for the nation of Israel. And uh, hey, thank God for patriots Uh I don't know about you. I'm not thrilled about everything taking place in our country. I'm not thrilled certainly with the direction our country has gone, but I still love the United States of America And I was thinking yesterday, uh blowing snow or something. I I think the snow was actually blowing me across there, but um I was thinking, man, what a privilege to have been born in the country we were born in, and to have the opportunities and the prosperity and the freedom. And uh thank God Nehemiah was a patriot. He loved his country. Nehemiah was not a preacher. He was not a priest, nor was he a prophet. Now, here's the thing I I want to try and get across to you. He was simply an ordinary man. He held no spiritual position in the religious life of Israel. He was a working man, an ordinary man with extraordinary faith. And let me say this: you don't have to be called to the position of preacher or evangelist. Or even a missionary to another country. Although those may be true, and God does call people to that. But I'm saying this, you can have a powerful influence right where you are When God put something in your heart. He was not a preacher, he was not a priest, he was not a prophet, he was an ordinary man with an extraordinary faith. He was a working man with a God-given vision. God stirred his heart to meet a need and do something that made a difference. He was a working man with a God-given purpose to his life, with a God-given mission in his life. And it stirred him to the point where he left his home in security and went and did what God had touched his heart to do. He had his personal flaws. Later on in the book, you read that he got a little rough with some of the um uh folks that had compromised scriptural principles, you find later on uh towards the end of the book there were some folks that had mingled with the unsaved and were uh not being faithful Lord and uh Nehemiah pluck their beards out of off their face, you know? Uh that's a little rough, you know. I I don't know. I my personal feeling is He took that upon himself. I don't see any instructions from God for him to go start pulling people's beards off. I mean, can you imagine if Charlie came in late and I used to go back there and start ripping his beard off his face, you know Uh I wouldn't have too many church members if we did that. Uh another place towards the end of the book, he starts smiting people. You know, they were I think uh that situation they married some unsaved And uh he was telling him, What are you doing? He starts punching them in the face, you know. I believe in strong preaching, but that's a little overboard uh punching people in the face. So Nehemiah had his personal flaws. He was fired up And there's a few instances where maybe he cr he crossed the line there a little bit, but nevertheless, for for his fall falls and faults that we pick up throughout the book, nevertheless He was a man of great integrity and a man of great honesty. I pick up in studying the life of Nehemiah that he was a man you could trust. He was going to be where he needed to be when he needed to be there, and he was ready to do what needed to be done. He was an honest man. He does not blame others for his faults. He does not try and shirk his duty. He was an honest man of integrity, but he was a man who God put something in his heart. A man whom God deposited a vision, a burden in his heart to rebuild those walls at Jerusalem. Now the interesting thing is he basically acted alone. As he got involved, as he began carrying out what God put in his heart to do, others joined in. And by the time you get to chapter three, uh chapter three, you have a whole team of people are working together, building the wall. But for the most part, Nehemiah is stepping out alone. And God stirred his heart, and uh he began to do what God had touched his heart about. Now that tells me something That tells me that Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, for us to have an influence in our world, for us to fulfill what God has put in our heart as a church to do We do not need to join up with every other church in the county to accomplish what God calls us to do. There is no call for ecumenical operation within the work of God. Am I right or wrong? Listen, Nehemiah stepped out alone. In fact, later on in the book you find, uh later on this chapter, and later on the book you find Other uh folks, Sandballot and Tobias and some of these other guys, are trying to get him to compromise and cooperate with disobedient uh folks and unbelievers, and he refuses to do that. Listen, one church A small church in the hills of Western Maryland that gets God that God stirs that church and they step out in faith and do what God's called them to do can have a powerful influence, we don't need ten thousand other churches to do it. Now I'm not opposed to cooperating, well you know folks are If we're on the same page of like faith, man, we can work together, but you don't need that to do what God calls us to do. One person. One person in the workplace. Whose heart is thoroughly right with God, God stirs that person's heart to be a witness and have an influence, can have a powerful influence in that workplace. In a community, in a world, in a country. So Nehemiah basically acted alone. And when God started in his heart. Now Here's my message, two points, and I think you're going to be surprisingly pleased this morning, but maybe not. But anyway. First thought I want to give you this morning about this God putting a deposit in your heart. Number one, the dangers of that. There are some dangers. The first danger I want us to consider is uh um is uh with becoming consumed with what God stirs your heart about. Now you're saying that's a good thing. Yes it is. Brother Pat preached uh Thursday night on being zealously affected by good things. Listen, a little zeal wouldn't hurt us. Amen. God knows churches uh of our strike could use a little zeal, get a little fired up about the things. In fact, my understanding of fundamentalism Believing the fundamentals of faith is the fact that we don't just have these doctrines in our head, but they get in our heart and affect the way we live. We get fired up about it. I believe, I I think the biblical teaching that Jesus is coming again, that's is a fundamental of the faith. Lord is literally returning someday, and uh uh that ought to be more than just, oh yeah, I believe that. It ought to affect how we live every day, anticipating the Lord may come back today That's fundamentalism. So we could use a little bit of zeal. It would hurt some of us to get consumed with what God has given us, what God has done us. But there's a danger. Sometimes we can become so consumed with what God has put in our heart that our family pays the price How many times have we seen that? We get so consumed with the vision and the burden God has put on our heart that we tend to neglect other areas of my life. You know, you can be a great soul winner But fail in your personal walk with God. Get so consumed with winning souls that you neglect your daily Bible reading and neglect the other areas. Or whatever that may be. So we need to be careful. When God stirs our heart about a mission or a ministry or a burden he puts on our heart, we need to be careful to be zealously affected by it. Man, give yourself to it and let God have his way. But don't neglect the other areas of your life also. Amen? I've seen it so many times where uh uh things home life and various things suffered. Because they got consumed with what God had called them to do. So that's one danger. There's another danger, and this is what I want to take a moment and lead to the next point on Is that we must be careful that what is in our heart is put there by God. And this is what I mean by that. We must be careful That what we ascribe to God is actually of God. Over the years, I've heard many things said. Uh that God a lot of people say things that they were doing something God told them to do when I don't think God had anything to do with it. Well God told me to do this and God told me to do that. We probably all of us, most of us perhaps know of churches in our general area that are doing some things they said God told them to do And in my mind, it's a colossal waste of time and money and effort of God's people to do things that God said to do, they say God told us to do, and it wasn't of God at all. And so we need to be very, very careful that when we're going to commit ourselves, God, boy, God told me to do this. You need to make sure it's actually God telling you to do that. I had a couple Mormon fellows come by the house a couple weeks ago. There's two new guys in the area. And uh they come by the house and um stood out of the porch and we got talking to them and um different things were talking away and uh in the Conversation, the one fellow, they always ask you this, and the one fellow I knew was coming. They fellow asked me, he says, Have you ever read the Book of Mormon? And I says, as a matter of fact, I have. In Bible college, in cults class, we're required to read it. And I said, yes. And he asked me a few things. I said, listen, it was years ago, but I have read it He says, Well, have you ever prayed? Now this is what they'll say. Have you ever prayed to the Father for him to tell you whether the Book of Mormon is of God or not? And I said, no, I don't have to do that. I said, what do you mean? I said, I don't have to pray to God whether the Book of Mormon is of God or not. What I need to do is take the Book of Mormon and compare it to Scripture And if it doesn't mesh with scripture, I know it's not of God. They say, well, what you need to do is just pray. I said, let me ask you a question. Have you prayed about the Book of Mormon, whether it's God? And they said, Oh yeah, absolutely. I said, how what did God tell you? They said, yeah, it's of God. I said, how did God tell you that? I said, what do you mean? I said, how do you know that God's confirming to you that the Book of Mormon is of God? They said, well, we just know. I said, well, how do you know? And if you press them on this, they'll say it every time. Well, we just feel it. I said, wait a minute. I said, you're doing something very, very dangerous. You're basing your eternal destiny on how you feel about something. Have you ever felt something was so in another area and found out later it was wrong? I said, I asked him this, I said, have you ever driven what you thought you were driving north and later on found out you were going south? And they said, well, yeah, but this is different. I said, what's different? This, you know it's of God. This feeling. I said, how do you know it's of God? He says, you can just tell. He says, when God gives you that feeling, you know it's of God. I said, how do you know it's of God? And they could not tell me how they knew it was of God, other than they just knew it. I said, have you ever read in the Bible where Satan is an angel of light and operates as a minister of righteousness? I said, do you not allow for the possibility that it may be Satan giving you that feeling? I said, you have to have some standard to go by. You have to something concrete that's uh reliable to determine whether it's of God or not. And so we have to be very, very careful when somebody says, God led me to do this. God told me to do this. God put this in my heart. We need to be very, very careful that it is of God. Amen That leads me to my second point. And that is evidences that it is God putting it in my heart And this is true for salvation. This is true for the call to a ministry. This is true across the board. Uh, how do I know that it is God doing this in my heart? How do I know that it's God staring in my heart? Now I thought about this last evening I was reading over it and I thought, you know, the weather's going to be bad tomorrow morning The folks that are at church tomorrow morning are going to be there because God has stirred their heart. There may be a few young people that were drugged here, kicking and screaming by mom or dad. But um The adults, I believe, for the most part, you're here because you God stirred your heart and you want to be c can I assume that's true. Um you ventured out, blow zero, winds, snow all, so you're here So God stirred your heart. Um now this coming year I trust That we're going to walk with God, personally walk with God, and we're going to let the Lord lead us and direct us. Now, here's the thing: how do I know when it is God leading me? How about this? How do I know that my salvation is genuine? How do I know that it's God has saved me? And I just I'm I'm I'm I'm not mistaken in some way. What are the evidences when God deposits something in your heart? Now Nehemiah, he said, My God put this in my heart to come back and rebuild this wall. This is not my idea. I got the information. God did something in my heart. God stirred my heart. God touched my heart. And that's why I'm here. And I trust. I'm talking to folks, many of you perhaps have been saved long enough, and you know what I'm talking about when I talk about God touching your heart. Am I right? How many folks understand that? You've sensed that God touching my heart. Maybe you've been in a preaching service. He really wasn't anything, and the other preacher's just rambling on up there. But then he says something that kind of You know what I'm talking about? That's God, the old heart. Now how do I know that's God? Let me give you some ways that we can determine that. Number one, when God deposits something in our heart, when God stirs our heart, it is scripturally controlled. By that I mean what God puts in my heart falls in line with clear scriptural principles, clear scriptural commands. It lines up with God's word. Now, person says, oh yeah, I'm saved. God saved me. Well, how do you know God saved you? Ah, what assurance. What makes you so sure that God has forgiven your sins that when you die you go to heaven? The way I determine that is I go to Scripture. Amen. The Bible says I'm a sinner for all of sin. I agree with that. I am a sinner. That's not hard to prove. I accept that readily I agree with God. I've sinned. I've broken God's law. The wages of sin is death. I believe the Bible says I deserve, because of my sin, to die and go to hell. Jesus died and suffered hell for me as my substitute and my place was buried and rose again. He paid the price for my sin. He did everything that needs to be done for me to be forgiven, for me to be able to go to heaven. He did it all The Bible says, whosoever shall call upon him shall be saved. And I know I called on the Lord. I trusted as my Savior. Yes, I know God saved me because my salvation experience lines up with Scripture. Follow what I'm saying? Somebody comes and says, Oh yeah, I know I'm saved. How do you know you're saved? I got baptized. Wait a minute, Bible doesn't say whosoever shall be baptized shall be saved Baptism is not a ingredient in salvation. It is a step after salvation. So if a person is trusting in their baptism, then that God didn't save them. Right? You with me? I'm a church member. I did this. I did that. I was confirmed as a kid. I was this, that, or the other. Anything other than Bible salvation is not salvation. It wasn't put there by God. Alright? So it must fall in line with scripture. It must fall in line with scriptural principles. God calls someone. Well, God is leading me to do this. Then I need to stop and come in line. Alright, what does the Bible say? How does it line up with God? There's a lot going on around the world in the name of God that does not line up with Scripture. Scripture is the authority. Is it of God? Somebody says, boy, God stirred my heart to start a Sunday bus route. Uh I go to Terra Alda and Crowan and uh Corinth and uh uh Oakland and boy, I just want to work that route. I want to reach people, God Put it in my heart. Stir my heart enough to give my Saturdays and Sunday morning, Sunday afternoon, and I just want to serve God. God did this in my heart. Man, it's It's just motivating me and I've and I want to reach that area with the Sunday school bus. Alright, is it God putting that in your heart? Let's look at scripture. Bible says go into highways and hedges, compel them to come in Went to all the world and preach the gospel. Suffer the little children to come unto me and forbid them not. Hey, guess what? That that stirring of God in the heart lines up with scripture. Um well we could give so many negative ones, you know. Uh somebody says, Well, God's uh God's uh guy told me one time in Indianapolis, well God told us that we shouldn't go to church We're just gonna stay home and have our own little church service with our family. We're not we shouldn't go to church. I can tell you this, God didn't tell them that My Bible says, forsake not the assembly yourselves together. It's a matter of summits. Doesn't line up with Scripture. So, before we say, Oh yeah, this is what God wants me, this is what God says. God put this in my heart. First thing I need to do is, does it line up with scripture? Second thing, evidence that God deposited in the heart. Number one, scripturally controlled. Number two, Christ-centered. When God gives us a burden or a vision, it is never for our own glory. It is never for our own exhortation. Uh somebody, uh Mike Stubler starting up the uh nursing home ministry this afternoon, getting it going at Cherry Hill. Praise God for that. Amen And uh God's been gracious and restores that He's starting that this afternoon. You know, when God stirs someone's heart like Mike's or anyone else's bus route or whatever, God stirs that heart to uh do that ministry, God deposits that heart He doesn't do it to exalt that person. It's done to exalt Christ. Nehemiah said, My God, put this in my heart. Say, man, what a great idea. Go back to Jerusalem and rebuild the walls. Nehemiah, you're really something. He goes, I don't know. God's the one that put it in my heart. He could have put it in anyone's heart. God and His mercy and grace put in my heart. God's the one that gets the glory. Listen, I've said this so many times, but I believe with all my heart God has been good to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. But listen, not because the preacher or any of us are very wonderful. It is because God is wonderful. He gets the glory. We're praying for Kazakhstan. Jewa Adams is going there. We've got men uh had men there, put some tracks out. We're going back in a year and a half. Uh go again and see what we can do. Listen, uh God puts it a heart not so that our church can be exalted, but so that people can be reached and Christ glorified. Christ centered. God always stirs our hearts to bring glory to Christ, always to exalt and honor the Lord Jesus Christ. Never for our own glory, never for our own exaltation. God did not put in Nehemiah's heart to rebuild the wall to advance Nehemiah, but to advance the cause of Christ. Number one, scripturally controlled Number two, Christ said, or number three, soul conscious. John ten twenty John ten verse two, Jesus said this. I'm sorry, John ten, verse twenty-one. The Lord Jesus said this As my Father has sent me, even so send I you. God sent not his son into the world that condemned the world, but that the world through him might be what? Saved. Christ, God sent Christ down the world so the world can be saved. Christ says, even as the Father sent me, I send you. Now, our cause, God stirs our heart, God puts in our heart to do something for the Lord, it is so that souls will be saved. That's the end game. Christ gets all the glory, it's according to Scripture, but God's heart and desire is for souls to be saved. Listen, God killed his own son. So that people can be saved from sin in hell. That's what he expects. He stirs our heart. What was Nehemiah there doing? building the wall. What does the wall have to do with anything? The wall protected the city of Jerusalem. The city of Jerusalem contained the temple of God, which was to be rebuilt. And the temple of God was the witness to the world that God's presence in the nation of Israel. It all came back to being a witness for Jehovah, a witness for the true God. And so Uh, we are called, God stirs our hearts to be soul conscious. Missionary called of God to preach the gospel to the lost. Sunday school teachers. God stirs your heart about being a Sunday school teacher. Man, you are there as a Sunday school teacher, or I am there as a Sunday school teacher, there to present the gospel for souls to be saved. the believers to be developed so that they can be more effective witnesses. And by the way, as a Sunday school teacher, I can never lead someone farther in the Christian life than where I'm at myself. And I'm s uh the sad thing is uh in a lot of churches across the country, I've been in them when I was in Bible time and whatnot, you had Sunday school teachers teaching kids to do things the teachers weren't even doing Teaching kids to do obey the Bible and the teachers weren't even obey the Bible. How in the world is that gonna happen Teachers teaching the kids. You need to love your enemies. You need to be kind and gracious. You need to be faithful to church. You need to give your tithe. You need to be a witness for Christ. Teaching the children, the students, and they're not doing themselves Listen, the purpose God stirs our hearts and gives us the opportunities to have is so that we can lead souls to Christ, develop new believers, so they can lead souls to Christ. Soul conscious, soul conscious, missionaries, Sunday school teachers, evangelists. I thank God for the evangelists that come through our church. Thank God for them. As far as I know, every one of them are soul winners. I never had evangelists here where I asked them to go out visiting with me or go soul winner or something, and they said, no, I don't do that. But When I was in another church in another state years ago, when evangelists and the preacher and I would go out every day or several days a week knocking on doors. And we had Savangials to go along. Dancers, oh no, no, I don't do that. My ministry is pulpit ministry, preaching behind the pulpit Now listen, thank God for that. But I made a mark in my mind. I'm never having that guy. If I ever pastor, I'm never having that guy in the church. Our ministry, God calls us to be soul winners, to be soul conscious, to influence others for Christ. Pastors, preachers, Sunday school teachers, missionaries, whatever God stirs our hearts, bus workers, all of this. Is for uh is uh the end game is soul conscious. So how do I know it's God put this in my heart? Well, does it line up with scripture? Is it Christ-centered? By the way, you can apply that to salvation. Biblical salvation is all about Jesus. It's not about me at all. Christ saved me. Christ is exalted. When we get to heaven, guess who's going to get all the glory for our salvation? The Lord Jesus Christ. Nobody's going to get to heaven and say, I made it That ain't gonna happen. We're gonna get to heaven and say, Man, I'm here by the grace and mercy of the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh so conscious God saves us to be a witness to others. I'll tell you what's a neat thing. To get someone get saved and then immediately get a burden for others. I want my friends to be saved. I want my family to be saved. I want my neighbors. I want them to have what I have. Remember the story of the woman at the well She was a pretty loose lit living woman. Five husbands living with a God. First thing she did was got saved. She put down her water pots, went back to city, told them all that Christ did for her. That's a good sign that God did something in her heart. A burden for others. A burden for others. God deposits in the heart of every genuine believer. A love for God, a burden for the lost, and a love for other believers. And a desire to see souls saved. I want to end with this. Acts 16, 10. If you would come back there with me. Acts 16. I told you you would be pleasantly surprised. Some are. Acts 16. Look at verse 6 with me. Acts 16, verse 6 Now God had put in Paul's heart to take the gospel to regions beyond, to get it out there to people. God put that in his heart. Look at verse 6. Now when they had gone throughout Pergia and the region of Galatia and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. God says, No, I don't want you to go there. And after we come to Mycia, they are saved to go to Bithynia, but the Holy Spirit suffered them not. And the Holy Spirit said, no, I don't want you to go to the Bithynia. And the passing by Maizia came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night And there stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision, Immediately we endeavored to go to Macedonia. Look at this. Assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel unto them. You know what he was saying? God put it in my heart. To take the gospel to Macedonia to those people. Now God used various circumstances, situation, but God put it in his heart. I wonder if there isn't someone in this year 2009. You ventured out on an ugly day to come to church on a Sunday morning. I wonder if there isn't some here this morning. God's put in your heart to be a better soul winner Not preacher, not the pastor, not anything. You've had it in your head. But when we begin this year, your heart stirred. God's putting a heart. I need I want to I want to see someone saved. I would like to see some folks come to Christ. I would like I want God to use me. I want to be zealously affected. I want to be fired up about this and give myself To win souls to Christ. God puts it in your heart. Maybe there's some here this morning, like Nehemiah. God put in your heart to be a stronger Christian, be more of a blessing, encouragement, and help to others. Maybe God put in your heart to be more faithful in your Bible reading. Maybe God put in your heart as Jamie testified. Maybe God would put in your heart to be a preacher. God call you to preach. Maybe in mission field. Whatever it might be, a bus wrap. But when God puts it in our heart, let's do like Nehemiah, let's step out by faith And man, what a powerful influence he had. Let's pray. Father in heaven, please bless us. Help us, Lord, to be sensitive to your working in our hearts, that we would be the Christians. We would be the church members, the Sunday school teachers, bus workers, choir members, beacons, trustees, pastors. Church members that you would have us to be, put in our hearts, Lord, stir us. Give us a vision and a purpose in life in Jesus' name. With our heads bowed and eyes closed. How many