Luke chapter ten. I'm going to try and be uncharacteristically brief this morning. Now none of our church folk believe that for one minute. But uh I really am gonna try because uh I can't I have not had Schweitzer's turkey dinners ever yet and I am anxious to try it, so I want to get out there to that thing But uh I'm going to be uncharacteristically brief. Ms. Hoss Settler said before, and I mentioned this earlier, but she said that uh they get paid by the word For when she does presentations. I said, man, I need to talk to our deacons about that. These sermons are gonna get long, I'll tell ya So uh Luke chapter ten, I want to read a few verses here and then we're going to go a couple chapters back to another verse. And I want to share some thoughts with you. And I trust, I don't know how this is going to come across. I tried to uh be a little creative in our message this morning, so I just pray the Lord will use it to help us and uh encourage us and maybe draw us closer to the Lord. But look in verse chapter 10, if you would, look with me at verse number 33. Now the context here is Pastor Matt read was this fellow was accosted by a bunch of thieves. They stole all his belongings. He's traveling uh through this p mountain pass apparently and uh they leave him for dead. So he's in bad shape His bones are broken, no doubt. He's injured severely until the point where they the thieves believed he was dead A couple of fellas come by, a couple of all things religious fellas, a Levi and a priest, and they look at him and they just walk on past him. But there's a fellow, a Samaritan, who, by the way, was hated by the Jews. You talk about racism, you talk about pride, there was it was bitter hatred between these two people And so the Samaritan comes along, and that's where we pick it up in verse number 33. But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed came to where he, this is the victim that's lying there left for dead, where he was, and when he saw him, he had what? Compassion on him And he went to him and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast. And brought him to an end, and look at that last phrase, and took care of him. What does that sound like to you? That sounds like one of the first responders He went to him, he saw the need, he went to where the need was, he administered some care, medical care, on the spot, put him on the beast, that's the ambulance He takes him to the end where he can get further care and better care. You see you see what I see there? And one of the first responders there. And then he says, on the morrow, and on the morrow when he departed, verse 35, he took out two pence. And gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him, and whatsoever thou spendest more when I come again, I will repay thee. Now listen to how the Lord assessed that. Listen what the Lord said. Which of these three thinkest thou was a neighbor unto him that fell among the thieves? Now If you go back and remember it was a lawyer says, oh, Jesus said, you should love your neighbor as yourself. He goes, Well, who's my neighbor? Kind of being smart, Alecky. Ah, who's my neighbor And Jesus' response is, listen, you shouldn't worry about who your neighbor is to you. You need to be a neighbor to them. And he says, Which of these thinkest thou was a neighbor unto him among the thieves? And he said, He that showed mercy unto him. Then said Jesus unto him, go thou and do likewise. Now I have one other verse I'd like you to look at with me. If you come back to Luke chapter 10. Luke chapter 10. Or I'm sorry, Luke chapter 19. And verse number ten. And this is my thought for this morning. God's first responder. And Luke 19, 10 says this, and a lot of us are familiar with this verse. For the Son of Man, who's that? It's the Lord Jesus Christ. For the Son of Man is come, look at this, to seek and to save that which was lost. You know what that is? That's God's first responder. He comes to where the need is. He does what needs to be done And he meets that need. Let's pray, and I'll share a few thoughts. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our time as we give consideration of what your word says. I pray that, Lord, you would bless our efforts today in trying to be a blessing to folks that are a blessing to so many people. I ask that you would fill me with your spirit, Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body. And pray you would help us and challenge us in Jesus' name. Amen. My father, who went to be with the Lord last November 2020, November 22nd. My father was for years, and I've never said much about this. I've talked a lot about my dad, but he was for years a first responder. Dad for about three, four years, was a volunteer ambulance driver for the Harleysville, Pennsylvania Rescue Squad there. I don't they used a different term back then It's back when I was about 9, 10 years old, 11 years old in that range of my life. And so as the son of a first responder, I was able to see firsthand some things. And one thing I saw in our home there was uh the sacrifice that first responders make uh to help the community. My dad was a truck driver from sixteen years old. Back then, you could drive big trucks sixteen years old, uh, back in the 1700s. And um no And he drove till he retired at age 67, 50 some years. What's that? 56 years driving truck. Of course it was early mornings. And he would get off the truck in the afternoon, about supper time, he'd come home, clean up a little bit, and then he'd be on that uh that ambulance driver. And I saw many, many times a young boy, one, two, three o'clock, a lot of times it was between that two and three o'clock range, the bars close up, drunks are out in the road, there'd be wrecks And he'd jump in that thing and they'd go racing out to wherever the accident was or whatever it was, heart attack. And he would spend many times hours and hours In the middle of the night, loss of sleep, to help somebody that was in need. And then he'd get up and he'd go drive the truck the next day. Makes me a little nervous, think about it. He didn't sleep at all. He's out driving a truck all day the next day. But he was willing to do that. And the sacrifice that first responders make many times, in the middle of the night, I don't know about you, if my house is on fire, I'm glad that somebody's willing to get up and go out and help fight that fire for me. And so I saw firsthand in my life of my father as an ambulance driver the sacrifice that he made. I also noticed the intensity that was required. Now think about this and some of y'all know understand it, you're going to understand exactly what I'm trying to say. And that is this. You get to an accident scene, you get to a a heart attack or something, somebody's life is on the line And time is of essence. And it becomes a race with death to get that person to the hospital, to the place where they can spare their life. And the intensity that's in the heart and mind of that man behind that wheel, or that medic that's hovering over the person trying to take care of them as they're on the way. You talk about stress, you talk about intensity. And across the board, and I saw that in my dad many times. He would come home and just frazzled. Man. That was close call, or sometimes we didn't make it. We didn't get there in time. And the impact that that would have in his heart and mind. And so the sacrifice that is paid and the intensity that is required. And then I jotted this one down, and I think hopefully it's a little better, maybe than it was, but the lack of recognition Whoever thinks about the ambulance driver. You know, you get there, you go through all of that, and I know people are very grateful, there's no doubt about it. But so many times you get up and go on and never think about the price that was paid and the investment that was given on the part of the first responder so that I could be well, so that my needs could be met. So as the son of a first responder, I saw firsthand a little bit of what the requirement, what things that are required, and um and a lot of times uh our law enforcement Our rescue squads, the folks behind the phone on 9-11 you call in and they make sure that gets to the right people, make sure it's communicated correctly. All of these, the fire department, they do things for people that are they're never recognized, they're never known. And so that's a little bit what we're trying to do here today. And people do great things For people that are never known. And we've had not had a lot, but we've had some instances just not too long ago. We had a little uh incident back behind the church here, 1 30 in the morning And I get a call from the alarm company, says, uh, there's something going on. You need do you need a uh sheriff's department? Shall we call law enforcement? I said, well, uh I'll go over and check I'll go over and check, see what it is. I get over here and the sheriff's already back here. Two or three vehicles already here. And they're taking care of it and would have never known that. And the things that they do behind the scenes, great things that so many times we're never aware of. I am appalled. As an American, I am appalled that there are certain segments of our society. That have such a pitiful, dishonest attitude about our law enforcement, about our first responders across the board. Now, to think That folks that give of themselves so selflessly and yet are criticized, are flat out lied about In many cases, are physically attacked, disrespected, shown such disrespect, it is appalling to me as an American From our media promoting that type of thing in our social media, many in the entertainment industry, even in our government Wanting to defund law enforcement. I don't know about you. I think we ought to double their I make a motion we double their pay Thank you very much. But seriously, seriously, I don't know how you feel, but that's appalling to me. That there are assaults made. Uh down what was several years ago down in Texas, wasn't there some police officers, snipers they called him in and people shooting at them from off the buildings There's cases up in New York where they'd call in a false alarm and the firemen w firemen and women would show up and then they'd attack them there for no other reason, just for hatred. I think God have mercy on that type of thinking. And so very, very grateful for what they do. And yet, in spite of all of that, they continue to give of themselves. They continue to do their jobs. They continue to make our community safe. And for that, we're very, very grateful. I put down four observations of first responders, and then I want to make a little application. First thing I observe about first responders is this: we can be confident that they will respond We call that 911, something happens, there's a wreck, we make the phone call, our house is on fire, we get that phone call. We don't hope somebody shows up We don't think, oh the house on fire is the fire department coming, they were called. Uh well we think so. We have a real confidence that when the need is there and they're made aware of it Our first responders will show up. We have that confidence. Can you imagine if you didn't know if anybody if the fire department's going to show up or not? Your house is being broken to you don't know if the law enforcement is going to show up or not. Driving over the speedlin on sixty-eight and uh you don't know whether Yeah, they'll be there, I guarantee it. You can be confident of that But we can be confident. We don't have to hope so, think so, or wonder whether anybody's going to show up or not. We are fairly confident that they're going to be there and they're going to help us. Number two, I put this down. They pay a cost to help us. And I kind of referenced this with my dad, but oftentimes they put themselves in danger. And you'll see it, and you can read of it when the firemen show up and a house is on fire and somebody is inside there, trapped in that fire, in that smoke. And those firemen show up. And brother, they'll they'll get in there. One way or another. We're going to get in there. We're going to get that person. We're going to take care of them. We're going to do everything we possibly can. And what they'll do is sometimes family member will try and run in. Did you ever see video of that? A family member, my child's in there, my wife is in there, and they'll try and run. And they'll restrain them and say, no, no, no, let us do it. And they will go in and put themselves in danger. Many times they help us at a great cost to themselves. They pay a great cost to themselves. Oftentimes they leave family and miss special occasions. Because somebody else is in a crisis. Because somebody else is in danger. And some have given their own lives. I was thinking this week, I was. Just uh very often I drive out fourth street there up to that store up on top of the hill above the the um uh The dry cleaners era. What's the name of Walmart? Uh some I find myself going out there, occasely. And you come around that band on 4th Street and there's a little memorial there. David Living Good. Gave his life, some low-life criminal breaking into the Army-Navy store. Shoots him cold blood, shoots his doll Gave his life so that Oakland and our community, Garrett County, can be a safer place than if they weren't here. And the price that they pay, the cost that they pay for us. And then not only are they, number one, we can be confident they're going to show up and they're going to help us as quick as they can. They pay a cost to help us, but I put this down. They are very qualified to help us. And by that I mean this. They go through some pretty intense training. They are trained to do what needs to be done. They know the procedures if somebody is having a heart attack Somebody is choking. They know what to do and what the procedures are and how to keep that person. I wouldn't know what to do, to be honest with you. And the house is on fire. They know the right place to approach that and the way to get this thing out as fast as we can. Criminals causing trouble or there's something traffic issue going on. Law enforcement knows the best way to deal with this. They know what they're doing. They are qualified to help us and meet our needs and help us through the crisis. Some cases they're highly trained. I thought, how many people are still alive today? And of course, you can't always be successful. But how many people are alive today because a medic knew the right thing to do? Had the right training and that person is alive because that medic knew what to do. How many people are alive today because of firement Knew how to get in there to where that person was trapped and how to get them out safely, and how to administer the uh medical care maybe when they get them out. Where the policeman knew the right way to go about that, the right way to deal with somebody who's strung out on some meth or some uh drugs and They're threatening people and they come in there and they know how to deal with that and how to minimize that and and to uh get the situation under control And so they're qualified to help us. And I put down number four, they have a genuine concern to help. Genuine concern to help. We're joking about their pay and all. I wasn't really joking, but uh we joke about increasing their salary. I think they ought to be um I think it's I I just think I don't know if you care what I think or not, but uh I think a guy throws a basketball through a hoop and gets millions and millions of dollars And that same night some officer is out there on the streets putting his life on the line to keep a family safe and that ball guy gets millions and millions of dollars and this guy barely pays his bills, barely is able to make his car payments I think that's not right to be honest with you, but for whatever it's worth. But I really believe in knowing a lot of the fellas and the ladies That serve in these capacities, what I know of them is that for the most part, they are not in it for the money. Nobody's getting rich in first in uh in uh first responder services. Uh many times they're they're putting money like that good Samaritan, they're putting money out of their pocket to help people. They're taking your own gas to get there, paying much of that to help others, to help others. And so they have a genuine concern to help. They're not in it for the money They're not in it for popularity. I've never had any first responder organization call us up and say, hey, will you recognize us on this Sunday? In fact, most of the time we got to beg them to let us do this. Listen, we want to do this. They're not in it for popularity. They're not in it for recognition. They're not in it for money The overwhelming majority sincerely care for the well-being of our community. And I'm grateful for that. In many ways, the service of a first responder is a biblical service. We noted here this Good Samaritan. And how he gave of himself, saw the need, was made aware of the need, went to where the need was. Administered what needed to be done, did what needed to be done on the spot, and then made sure they got the person back to a place where they could get further care. And then Jesus says, hey, you go and do the same thing. You go and do the same thing. Wouldn't it be wonderful if every member of our community had an attitude towards the community that our first responders had and say, listen, I want to give of myself to make my community a better community. Make my neighborhood a safer, better community. So in many ways, the role, the service of a first responder is a biblical service. In Romans chapter 13, let me just read it to you. Law enforcement is referred to. I don't know if you fellows and folks realize that are in law enforcement. You have a biblical office Listen to what the Bible says in verse number 3. Well, verse 1 he says, Let every soul be subject to the higher powers. He's talking about authorities in the land. For there's no power but of God, the powers that are be ordained of God. And he says God delegated governmental authorities and those types of authorities. God's delegated that to them. He's the ultimate authority. Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, that authority, resisteth the ordinance of God. And they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation. What strong statement there For rulers are not a terror to good works. And he's talking about those who enforce the laws. The rulers, those that enforce the laws, are not a terror to good works, but to the evil Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power, that authority? Do that which is good? Thou shalt have praise of the same. Listen to this For he, that law enforcement, he is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid. For he beareth not the sword in vain. And that sword is a weapon. That could be a nine-millimeter pistol hanging on his side, a taser He doesn't bear it in vain. He has authority to use that for the well-being and the safety of a community. For he is the, he says it again, for he is the minister of God A revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil. So all through Scripture, we are told to help the needy. We're told to care for those who are hurting. We're to protect the innocent and those who are in danger. It's biblical instructions. And it fits right into the description of a first responder. In fact, Jesus Christ is God's first responder. He's our ultimate first responder. There are many dangers our community faces, many dangers our country faces. In a month or so, we're going to recognize our veterans. We're very, very grateful for our veterans and the lives putting their lives online in defense of our country. So there's many dangers our community faces. There is the scourge of drugs. It's through our community, and we've been in old meetings on that, and it seems like they could tell you better than I can, but it seems like Mountain Lake Park has just gotten hit. With the influx of drugs and dealing and that type of thing, I've never seen it in the 28, 9 years we've been here almost. 28 years, I've never seen it like that. So there's dangers facing our community, drunk driving. We uh that the danger of uh uh COVID now. Everybody's dealing with that. And we have all these various dangers we face, the criminal element and sickness and accidents and fires. But I'll tell you, there's one thing, danger facing mankind, that is above and beyond all of that, and that is the danger of sin. The danger of sin. The greatest danger facing mankind, I put it down this way, has nothing to do with COVID crime or climate change. The greatest danger facing mankind is sin, and not just sin in general, but unforgiven sin in particular. Jesus made it clear if you want reference John chapter 8 in various places. Jesus made it clear the greatest, the worst thing that can possibly happen to a person Is for that person to die in their sins. That's Jesus' words. He said, ye shall die in your sins. Now, what does he mean by that? He makes it very clear. What he's talking about is dying with sins unforgiven. Bible's clear we're all sinners. Every one of us have broken God's law. Our God, our Creator that spoke this whole everything into existence, He is a holy God And we've sinned against that God. God gave us an option. Our first fathers, Adam and Eve, our first parents, gave them an option: obey or disobey. They chose to disobey. And from their sin, sin passed on to all men. And as a result of that, death has passed on to all men. The wages of sin is death. So all these things that our first responders, all these crises that our first responders re spawn to and deal with are really a consequence of the underlying problem of sin in the world. Jesus said, Romans says, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. There is none righteous, no not one. We know we're familiar with the Ten Commandments, at least some of them. One of the Ten Commandments is, thou shalt not bear false witness. Now, what does that mean? Not bear false witness means we shouldn't what? Lie! I wonder how many folks here. Now be honest. It's just us. So we can be honest. Nobody's going to arrest you. Not during the service, anyway. I mean I was here to be honest that in our lifetime we've told at least one lie. Come on now. Some of y'all are lying now by not raising your hands. Yes Two lies in our lifetime? Five? Fifty? Some of us have been around for a while. Hundred? You know what we found out? We found we got a room full of liars here is what we got. You know a lie is a sin against God And every dishonest statement I make, every lie I give, I am sinning, I am violating the holiness of God. Then you've got all the other nine commandments That we haven't touched on, taking God's name in vain, uh, stealing, coveting God says the consequence of that sin is death. That's the great danger facing us. We are sinners. And if we die with our sins still on our account, unforgiven, we die in those sins. The Lord Jesus said we're separated from God for all eternity. For all eternity. And so that's the crisis mankind faces and has. Getting our sins forgiven. Getting our sins forgiven. Mark chapter 8, verse 36 says this: For what shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world? But loses his own soul. You know what we need? We need a savior. We need a first responder, a spiritual first responder. We're in a crisis. I'm a sinner. I know I've sinned against God. What do I do? How do I find forgiveness? Well, just to keep to my word of keeping a brief message, I'll just say this. The church cannot forgive your sins. My sins. The baptismal pool does not bring forgiveness of sins. There's only one way to have my sins forgiven, and that is through the person, the Lord Jesus Christ. God's great first responder. Now think about the first responders. Number one, we said that we can be confident they're going to show up. I'm here to tell you, if you'll come to the Lord Jesus Christ to find forgiveness of sins, you can be confident He will forgive your sins. Bible says, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Saved from the judgment of my sin. Saved from the consequence of my sin. That's not hopefully might be, not might might be, could be, think so, but shall be saved. John said in 1 John, he says, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know. That you have eternal life. Know your sins are forgiven. I get my phone, I mash 911, I say, we got an emergency I tell them what it is. They said they'll be right out. I am confident they're going to show up. I see myself as a sinner. I realize I'm under the judgment of God. I've got to do something. I call on the Lord Jesus Christ. He died for me, was buried, rose again. I'm calling you. I'm trusting you. I'm confident that he'll but hear that prayer and save my soul. We said, second of all, not only do they uh uh do they show up, they pay a great cost To help us. I want to say God's first responder paid a tremendous cost to save you and I from sin and hell. When he died on that cross, he took responsibility for all your sin, my sin. And he was judged by a holy God in our place. And he suffered the eternal judgment and wrath of God for you and I. When he was hanging on that cross, the Bible says a darkness settled down over the earth. A darkness you could feel You ever been in a place so dark you could almost feel the darkness? Total absence of light down on that cross And as soon as that happened from the cross, Jesus cried out, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? God turned his back on Jesus Christ because all our sins were placed upon him, and he was judged of God for your sins and my sins. Talk about a price to pay. He's buried, rose again the third day. Forty days later, he ascended to heaven He's at the right hand of God. And the book of Revelation tells us that there in heaven he still bears the wounds from the price he paid for your sin and my sin. What a savior. What a savior. So one, he we can be confident that he'll do what he's promised to do. He's the savior. Savior's saved. We trust him to forgive us and save us, give us eternal life. We'd be confident he can. We know he can because of the great price that he paid for us. And then we said that the first responders are qualified. They're highly trained. I want to say to you, Jesus Christ was qualified to be our Savior. He lived a perfect sinless life for you and I. When he hung on that cross, that wasn't a mere man hanging there paying for his own crimes and no sins. No, he was innocent, sinless son of God. And he was eminently qualified to pay the price for your sin and my sin. And then last of all, we pointed out that they have a genuine concern to hell. Want to say this morning is this. God loves you. The God that created this world Loves you and I so much that while we were yet sinners, he died for us for our sins. We were helpless. We're like the victim lying there along that road, left for dead That good Samaritan came over and did what needed to be done. You and I are sinners, separated from God in our sins. Jesus Christ loved us enough. He came to earth. He did what needed to be done so that you and I can be forgiven and have a new life and have eternal life. What a savior. What a responder. We need a savior, we need to be rescued, and Jesus is our Savior. Little boy was outside of his parents were missionaries, and the mother was trying to teach her son to share his faith with his friends. And he was outside in the back and you had a bunch of race cars and he was pretending playing in the dirt there. You know how little boys are racing. Do you ever notice little boys when they play they make noises? Little girls when they play they talk. They use words and actually communicate. But boys just go whiz just make noises like cavemen or something. But anyway. Little boy was out there racing his race cars, the mother looked out and a couple of the neighbor kids came over. After a little bit, the boy came running in. Mama, mama, Susie next door wants to accept Jesus as her savior. And uh she thought, ah, he's just being flippant. He he doesn't know, you know, he's not taking this seriously, talking to others about trusting Jesus. And she goes, well what makes her want to trust Jesus as her Savior? He says there was a t in the race there was a terrible car wreck. And the people were there and they were dying from the car wreck. And I asked Susie, what if you were one of those in that is a little pretend car wreck? What if you were one? Where would you go? Would you know you'd go to heaven? She goes, no. He goes, well, let me get my mama. I'll go tell her and she can tell you how to be saved. I thought, isn't that something Little boy used that instance to help his neighbor, that little girl next door, to see that she needed Jesus as her savior. Listen, we don't all need a policeman today. We don't all need a fireman today. We don't all need a rescue squad today. Someday we may. But I do know what all of us need. We all need a Savior. We all need Jesus Christ. And if you've never trusted him, accepted him as your personal Savior, my plea with you today is this: come to God's first responder. Trust Him as your own personal Savior. He'll give you new life. Forgive your sins. Eternal life, a home in heaven. I was 19 years old when I did that. An old drug addict, strung out, messed up teenage boy in Philadelphia. I knelt by my bed on a Monday night. As I'm in a crisis, I made a mess of my life. I called out, Jesus Christ, I need you to forgive me and save me. Just as the Bible says, Jesus Christ came in my life, he changed my life. Not sinless, but he cleaned things up. He gave me a new direction, a new life And today, God forbid, if there'd be some wreck and I'd be killed. I know for sure I'd go to heaven and not to hell. Not because I'm a preacher and not because I'm some good guy. I'm just an old sinner that trusted Jesus as my Savior. And God did what he said he would do, forgave me. And promise to take me to heaven someday. And he'll do the same for you. Let's pray. Father in heaven. We are so grateful for the men and women of our community that are willing to put their lives on the line and sacrifice and give so that we can have physical safety and so we can be well. And Lord, we thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ, who gave his life so that we can have eternal life, a home in heaven, forgiveness of sins. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many this morning say, preacher, I've never I've never trusted Christ as my Savior. Maybe you said I've never really given much thought to that, where I spend eternity But maybe God's Holy Spirit has touched your heart this morning. We heard in the Sunday school hour of many thousands that lost their lives on September 11. We have folks, men and women here in the service That have seen lives taken through wrecks, through hatred, acts of crime. Life is not certain. Maybe this morning you say, I never really thought about it. If you'd like to trust Jesus Christ as your Savior, if you acknowledge to God that you're a sinner, the Bible says we've all sinned, if you acknowledge that and take that seriously. If you believe that Jesus died for your sins personally, was buried and rose again, you'd be willing to call on him. My Bible says that God would forgive you and save you. And I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I'm going to offer a simple little prayer. And this prayer, just lipping these words, is meaningless. Just repeating after me is meaningless If in your heart say, I want Jesus Christ to be my Savior, you could call on him from your heart, just between you and God, and this prayer simply helps you. Helps you make that decision. Here it is. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Between you and God, here's the prayer. Dear Lord Jesus, I know I'm a sinner. I believe you died for my sins, was buried, and rose again. I'm calling on you to come in my heart and life and be my Savior. In Jesus' name. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I prayed that prayer with you right now? I meant it with all my heart. I prayed that prayer. Is there any by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I prayed that prayer. God bless you. How about it, others? God bless you. How about it? If you have questions about that and you're not sure, we'd sure like to be able to help you. We don't have all the answers, but the Bible does. And maybe we can help you. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now. Have your way in our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jane's playing an old-fashioned invitation. She's playing the hymns. Maybe you'd want to come