Ecclesiastes chapter 8. Now you got Romans mark there. We're going to head there in just a little bit. But I want to begin reading in verse number 14. Of course, Solomon is writing under the inspiration of God. He is far from God. He has pushed God out of his life. He's leaned on his own understanding. He's paid a heavy price for it. And I think it's um I think our God is amazing. And uh he takes Solomon in this situation, this spiritual state, and he is able to use him To record the book of Ecclesiastes and help us today to avoid making the same mistakes Solomon did. And so he's given us some observations he made. And verse number 14 he says this. There is a vanity. What does vanity mean? Emptiness, it's just empty. There's a vanity which is done upon the earth. And this is it, that there be just men unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked Now, notice what he's saying. There be just men unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked. And again, there be wicked men. To whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous. And I said, this also is vanity. Then, I've noticed that, I came to this conclusion, then I commended mirth. Because a man hath no better thing. What's the next three words? Under the sun, a man hath no better thing under the sun than to eat and to drink and to be merry. For that shall abide with him of his labor, the days of his life, which God giveth him. Here's our phrase again, under the sun. Verse 16, when I applied my heart to know wisdom and to see the business that is done upon the earth, that phrase upon the earth is another way of saying under the sun. So he's keeping this whole context is under the sun. For also there is that neither day nor night see asleep with his eyes. Then I beheld all the work of God that a man cannot find out the work that is done, cannot find out the work that God is doing under the sun. Because though a man labor to seek it out, yet shall he not find it. Yea, farther, though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it. It's a little obscure what he's saying here, but I believe what he's talking about is God's work under the sun, God working in our lives And how we can, wisdom is able to discern what God is doing. So let's pray, and maybe God can help us from this tonight. Father, again, it's been a very good day. Lord, my heart is full of gratitude And it's been such a blessing to serve you. And I ask, dear Lord, that you would help us tonight to have open hearts, open minds. And that you would speak to us from your word, this passage here. Lord, a lot of these things, like Peter said, are hard to be understood. And so I pray that your Spirit would give us understanding, fill me, speak through me, and help us, Lord, to be the Christians you saved us to be. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Whether we see it or not, whether people recognize it or not, God is working in our world. God is very active. Our God is not a passive God, He is an active God. He is working, he is moving. God is bringing uh and here's the thing, as a Bible believer, If we can look at the world and world events from not under the sun, but if we can look at from o above the sun, from God's perspective, we can see God bringing events and nations into line With his prophetic plan for this world. I like what Albert B. Green said a couple weeks ago. He says, you have an open Bible, an open newspaper, you can see God bringing everything all together And uh God is working. He's working in nations. How many people ever look at our country, you look at the world situation, you say it's hopeless? Anybody ever see that? It's a mess. How in the world I'm here to tell you whether we see it or not, whether we understand or not, God's working in the world God is working in the world. He's bringing about his perfect plan. And one of these days that old trumpet's going to sound. The angel's going to shout, and we're going to blow on out of here. So God is working, God is working, God is working. We don't always see it because we're looking at stuff from under the sun, but God's working. I want to say this: God is working in our lives Our individualizes. And a lot of times we don't pay attention. A lot of times all we see is the valley I'm going through right now. All we see is the storm I'm dealing with right now. Because we're looking at things from under the sun. We're looking at things from down here. And if we can wisely learn to view our life from above the sun, from God's perspective, then we can see God working and accomplishing His will in our lives. I know one thing about every single person here tonight, I know one thing. about every single person here tonight, that is this. God's working in your life. God's working in my life. A lot of times we don't see it till afterward. How many people ever went through a situation and say this doesn't make any sense? I don't understand what's happening After it's all said and done, you look back and say, wow, God did something. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And so my point is this: God is working. God is working. We don't always see it. If you would come back here to Romans And I find so often myself ending up at Romans chapter twelve and the first couple verses. Romans chapter 12, and if you would notice verse number one, some of y'all have this memorized. It's a good passage to memorize Paul is writing to the Roman believers, and he makes this statement. He says, I beseech you. What does it mean if somebody's beseeching someone? They're begging them, they're pleading them. It is a strong, strong plea. I beseech you. So he's making this strong plea to them. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, because of all the mercy God has shown you. Beseech, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that. Look at this, good and acceptable and perfect will of God. And my point I'm trying to make is this. God is working in our lives. God is working to get us into His perfect will. God wants His will to be done in every one of our lives. I don't know how you feel, but it is my sincere desire that God's will be done in my life. I want that. Now my flesh wants to do its own thing, wants its will But I sincerely want God's will to be done in my life. And the key to that is this: presenting my body a living sacrifice. Now, what does that mean? That means I submit to the Lord. It means total surrender to God. I'm not my own. It's on the altar. It's a sacrifice. So God's working in our lives. He's trying to accomplish his perfect will in our lives. But something else he's trying to do. Come over to Romans chapter 8 He's trying to conform us into the image of Christ. He wants us to be just like his Son. There was a fellow, my dad told me, uh, back years ago, the Mennonites back home where I grew up at, this was long before I was around. Uh here they had a big tent meeting. They used to have, uh he was telling me, they used to have big-time tent meetings, sawdust, hellfire, brimstone preaching. And he said there was a fellow that got saved. He was kind of a gang guy and just rowdy and causing trouble. We went to the the big tent meeting they were having. And God got hold of his heart. He walked the aisle. He got saved. And he said, God transformed his life. Everybody knew him. The whole community knew this guy got saved. And he had the idea he wanted to be like Jesus. How many people agree that's a good thing? But he wanted to just be like Jesus in his character and his conduct and his attitude and what he was. He wanted to look like Jesus. And he took it to a long deer. How in the world do you know what Jesus looks like? So he grew this long beard and had this long hair and just kind of became weird. But um But to be like Jesus is a good thing. That's what God wants. Look at Romans chapter 8 and look with me, if you would, at verse 28. A familiar passage, likewise, or verse 28. I get to get it here. And we know that all things work together for good. All things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. Now look at verse 29. He expands on that. For whom he did foreknow. Now don't let that word throw you. That's simply saying God knows what's going to happen. God knew from eternity past that on May 7, 1979, at 10:30 at night, right after Laverne and Shirley, a guy, Dennis Leatherman, was going to bow his knees and trust Christ as Savior. God knew that from all eternity. He did not predestine that event. He foreknew that event. Alright? Everybody with me? Everybody follow what I'm saying? He didn't he didn't I die of my own free will. I could choose to accept him or reject him. I chose to accept Christ. God knew that from eternity past. So he foreknew it And then he predestined that anybody who will have their own free will, determined to trust Christ as Savior, he predestined that person's going to end up in heaven. That's what predestination is. It's for saved people. Once we're saved, then it's already set that person's going to go to heaven. Alright, making sense? Now follow with me. I know I'm a little The theologic here, but follow with me. Um for whom he did foreknow, those he knew would trust him. He also predestined, he decided ahead of time. Anyone trust me? They are going to be conformed to the image of his son That he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Here's what I'm getting at on this. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. How many people can point back to a time and place where you trusted Christ? At that very moment, God determined that He was going to start working in your life and my life. He was going to allow events into our lives. He was going to allow circumstances into our lives. He was going to bring people into our lives that mold us, conform us until we be just like his son Jesus Christ We have his attitude. And so all these things, God is working, God is working, God is working in the nations. God is working in our lives. Our God is an active God. The problem isn't that God isn't working in your life. The problem isn't that God isn't working in the world. The problem is we don't see it. We don't perceive his work he's doing because we're looking at things from under the sun. Now come back to Ecclesiastes with me. We're not always aware of his working, and we don't always understand what he's doing. But God is working. I say this often, and I believe this with all my heart. I'm absolutely convinced of this that there are people in Mountain Lake Park and in Oakland, Maryland, I just said this recently That there are people right now, God is working in their lives. God is convicting them of sin. God is convicting them of their need of Christ. God is working in their lives And what God's trying to do is get Christians to go by and show them from the Bible how to be saved. He's already working there. He's working. And just needs people, Christians, to go out and show them from the Bible how to be saved. So God is working in our lives, whether we see it or not. We walk by. Here's the thing, we go to Walmart or wherever And we walk by somebody, and uh and maybe there's a little voice in our heart and soul that says, Witness that person, give that person a track. How many people know what I'm talking about? Boy, just something inside. You know what that tells me? God's probably working in that person's life. He's trying to get somebody to share the gospel with them, somebody to share the gospel. But we don't see that. We're in our world, we're doing our thing, and we go right on by and we never pay any attention, but God's working. I got thinking of this. Uh when I got saved, I got saved on Monday night. Uh Did I ever tell you about that Monday night And um uh my dad was out in the road, I was living with my dad, it was just two of us, he was out in the road driving truck. He got back later in that week, and uh and uh about a day or so went by And uh I said, Dad, I need to talk to you. And he says, uh, what's up? What's up? And uh I was wild, maniac. And um I said, Dad, I need to talk to you. He said, what's going on, son? I said, Dad, Monday night when you were gone, I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal savior. And I was so bad I had a photo I wish back then the phones had cameras on them. And uh I wish I had a picture of my dad's face. It was something like this. I mean it came completely out of the blue. Um here's here's here's the thing. God was working in my heart for five months. under intense conviction. And Dad never knew it. Nobody around me ever knew it. I got saved Monday night and Tuesday I went into work. The guys are like, Leatherman, what's up with you? Something's different. I said, I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior. They're all they went like this. And God is works in people's lives, but we don't see it. We we don't we don't we don't know that's happening. And uh I think that is what Solomon is kind of getting at here a little bit, that God is working but we don't see it. Here's my two points, and um they're just short. Number one, wisdom understands there is a mystery to God's working. Wisdom understands there's a mystery to God's work. And come back there to Ecclesiastes. Let me show you again, verse 14 and 15. He says, There's a vanity which is done upon the earth that there be a just man unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked. And again there be wicked men to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous. This is vanity. What's he saying? He's saying this It's like God, he says, I'm looking at this situation from under the sun, not God's perspective, from man's perspective, and it looks to me like God is treating good people like they're wicked. And God is treating wicked people like they're good. How many people ever saw that? Did you ever see somebody just ungodly, wicked, perverse? And man, they're making buckoos of money and they're healthy and it's like everything is going their way. And then you look at some other godly Christian and man, they're struggling to get by and there's health issues and and people are mad at them And Solomon is looking at that situation from under the sun from man's perspective, and he said, This is crazy, this is vanity. God's treating the good people like they're wicked and the wicked people like they're good. And that's a real observation. I got thinking about how many people remember Joel Collette Anybody recognize that name? Joel Collette. He was a missionary we took on in one of our missions conference going to Netherlands. Remember that? Everybody remember now Michelle was his wife? Is his wife? He could not get into the Netherlands with an American visa as American citizen. So God stirred his heart and he was so determined to get in there and prant plant churches That he went to Belgium, he got a co-citizenship of some sort with Belgium, and that would enable him to get into Holland a lot better I mean, this guy was soul winner. He's out on the street preaching. He's giving out gospel tracts. This guy is a soul winner dedicated to Christ. Makes a trip up to Holland to do some surveying, coming back, and for whatever happened, he loses control of his car, runs into a truck, and is killed instantly. How many people, let's be honest, how many people have ever heard that or something like that and you say that doesn't make sense And then here you have some wicked drunk guy run through a traffic light, destroys some people's lives, and walks away with it without a scratch. That's what Solomon's looking at. And he says, from under the sun, it's vain. Under the sun it doesn't make sense. How can that be? I thought of uh I'm reading a book right now about missionaries in the South Pacific back in the late 1700s, early 1800s, probably more 1800s And just going to these little islands or own ships. And one fellow was the name of his name, they called him Bishop Patterson. I don't know what his first name was They called him Bishop Patterson. And he had a ship and a fairly well to do guy and quite a mentor. And he would go onto these islands. A lot of them are cannibalistic And he'd win some uh nationals to the Lord, some of the Polynesian people, he'd win them to the Lord, and uh he'd take them along and they would help him witness and get in there And it's very, very dangerous. In fact, he was involved in in uh New Zealand a little bit, Chuck. I was reading about that. That's what caught my attention. And um and he's gone to all these different islands, places, and establishing churches. And I mean this guy's getting after it. And here he is, in my mind, a powerful witness for Christ And he goes to one island, a bunch of these natives come out, overpower him, and kill him and drag his body off, and that's it. And I read stories like that, and I think from our perspective, from our understanding, that doesn't seem right. You with me? And then yet the wicked are so the wicked uh uh are so prosperous and uh goes on goes on. So under the sun Under the sun, our reasoning is this, and we get to verse 15. Solomon says, I see this from under the sun, from this our perspective. I see this wicked are treated like they're good, and the good are treated like they're wicked. So here's my conclusion. Here's my reasoning, verse 15. Then I commended what? Mirth. Because a man hath no better thing. If the wicked are going to be treated like they're good, and the good are going to be treated like they're wicked, then there's no better thing to do than to eat, drink, and be merry Just live it up if that's all there is. If that's the case, just live it up if there's nothing but do uh uh uh be Beyond the sun, under nothing underneath the sun. If there's no purpose to this, if there's no meaning, if there's no rationale, none of that, well then fill me on it all. I'm just going to live it up And what does that produce? He says it over and over again. Vanity. Vanity. Vanity. ASAF. was one of the human penmen of the Psalms. Come back with me, Wood, to chapter 73. And Asaph struggled with this same thing. Psalm 73. If you would come over there, I want to read a section here, passage here. Psalm 73. And I want to begin reading in verse number 2. And the spell of Asaph is suffering, is struggling. He sees the rich, he sees the wicked, he sees the ungodly, he sees people living in sin, and they seem to be so prosperous and they seem to be so successful. And he becomes envious of them. Look at verse 2. But as for me, My feet were almost gone. My steps had well-nigh slipped, for I was envious at the foolish, and I saw the prosperity of the wicked. Let me stop there. That is a real danger to our young people. If we do not teach our young people that there is more to life than what is under the sun, They're going to see the prosperity of the wicked, and they're going to become envious of the foolish. You know what that is? That's big posters of rock singers hanging on the walls. That's being enamored with movie stars and ungodly, wicked, adulterous people, and then wanting to dress like them and wanting to look like them and talk like them I think if the Mol Hollywood movie stars would wear boots on their heads, uh the kids would all walk around with boots on their heads. Because they are envious of the foolish. All they see is what's under the sun. They see the the money and the prosperity. That's what Asaph is, and he becomes envious of them. Look at verse 4. For there are no bands in their death, but their strength is firm. They are not in trouble as other men. Neither are they plagued like other men. Man, they've got it great. Their pride compasseth them about as a chain. Violence covereth them as a garment, their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than heart could wish. They're corrupt. They speak wickedly concerning oppression and speak loftily. They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongues walketh through the earth. Therefore, his people return hither, and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them. And they say, How doth God know? And is there knowledge in the Most High? Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Verily, I've cleansed my heart in what? I've washed my hands in innocence. All day long I have been plagued and chastened every morning. He says I'm looking at the wicked and ungodly, and man, they're prospering and they're they're uh have everything they wish and they're living and here I'm trying to do right and I'm trying to live for God and I'm struggling and all this And it's I'm washing my hands in vain, I'm doing right in vain. Verse 15, if I say I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. Well, he's struggling. Can you sense the struggles going on here? But look at the next verse. Until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then understood I their what? Ah, you know what the difference is between, you know what changes from ver from the first 16 verses to verse 17? You know what changes? He goes to church, so to speak. And he hears a message from God, and he realizes that there is a whole lot more to existence than just what's under the sun. And he says, there is so much more to life, there is so much more to reality than what I can see and feel and touch. There's a whole nother world from God's perspective. By the way, let me just throw this out. That's why it's important to be faithful to church. Because we get a skewed perspective of life in the world and we think this is it, this is it. And then we get to church, we hear Bible preaching. And it changes our perspective. Say, wait a minute, this isn't the way it is. Um And so Solomon is telling us in Ecclesiastes, saying a wisdom person understands that there's a mystery to God's work and I don't always always understand why God is doing what he's doing. I don't understand why God may be a good a good person Life is very, very short, and a wicked person lives a long time. Why a good godly soul winner is struggling to pay every bill and a wicked, blasphemous, uh adulterous person is so wealthy and doing so good. I don't always understand this, but I do know this. God works in ways that I don't always understand. And there is something far bigger than me, and there is something far above me at work here. God is at work, even though I may not understand it. Does that make sense? So he's saying in verse uh fourteen and fifteen, a wise person understands, hey, God's working isn't always clear. There's a mystery to it, but I know God is there. I know there's something beyond this life. Then second of all, real quick, let me give you this one. Wisdom, this is a long point here, so bear with me Wisdom understands from Earth's perspective that God's work appears meaningless. Anybody ever hear serve the Lord and serve the Lord diligently and you just see little or no results and you think, why in the world am I wasting my time? We would never say that, but we think that. I'm thinking of a dear sweet lady, and she would come out soul winning all the time. And uh one time she got real frustrated. She was visiting, out visiting, she didn't see anybody saved, didn't see anybody saved, and she would give the gospel, and I'm telling you, this lady loves the Lord, she's very, very faithful. And uh finally, in exasperation, she said to me, She said, Pastor Leatherman, and she put her foot hand like that, Pastor Leatherman, I don't even know why I come out. I never see anybody saved. I said, Sue. I said, Sue, God's using you. You're being faithful and you're being obedient to the Lord. And God is working in ways sometimes we never ever see it. I want to tell you this. Serving the Lord is never vain. It is never empty, it is never meaningless. From under the sun, it might look that way. But I'm telling you from heaven's perspective, and I got a sneaking suspicion that one day Sue's going to get to heaven and there's going to be a heap of people there. That God used her for in ways she never saw down here. And same thing with you. Didn't we just see that with the testimony of the teenagers giving that tract out to the lady at Walmart? God was working They never knew it. I think of we talk about Sean Lundy so much, a gospel track on his window. He's in Brazil for 30 plus years now, winning thousands to the Lord. And that guy that put that track on, I'm convinced never knew, to this day does not know what that track did And a wise wisdom says, listen, it may appear to be meaningless, it may look like there's no value to this whatsoever, but I'm confident by faith God is working. When God is doing something. I get that from verse uh 16-17. When I applied mine heart to know wisdom and to see the business that is done upon the earth, everything going on down here, all we're trying to do down here. For there is all uh for also there is that neither day nor night see asleep with his eyes. I mean this guy's just working at it and working at it, working at it. Then I beheld all the work of God that a man cannot find out the work that is done. He said, I don't see any results. Because though a man labor to seek it out, yet he shall not find it. Yea, further, though a wise man seek to know it, yet he shall not be able to find it. He says, working and working, I'm doing this, I'm doing this, I don't see any results. And the wise person says, wait a minute, I know that even though down here it appears meaningless, God is still working How many people recognize the name? Richard Dawkins. Anybody recognize that name? Outspoken Atheist. The guy, I think, from the little I've read of him, I don't try to pay him much attention. I think he just hates God, my opinion. He made this statement. Listen to this. He views the world from under the sun. He views everything as if there's nothing more than what we see. He said, the universe we observe, listen, has no design, no purpose. No evil, no good, nothing but blind, pitiless indifference. I tell you what, you talk about an empty life Empty life. He's looking at things from under the sun, and he says everything we do, everything, every effort we make, all of that is absolutely vain, absolutely indifferent, means nothing. And I'm here to tell you, Richard Dawkins is dead wrong. Is dead wrong. There is a God in heaven, and that God is working. And anything and everything we do sincerely for God, God will use, whether we ever see it or not. It is not in vain. Did you notice how often he started using that phrase under the sun again? We didn't see it for a little while, and now it comes up again. Under the sun three times. Then he uses that phrase upon the earth, which is basically the same thing He's saying a world or a life without God is i i is meaningless, is empty, but if a life with God there is purpose. Now let me give you my last three thoughts. I'm trying to buzz through this here a little bit. Number one, our remember our perspective is limited. We're down here under the sun. We can't see all that God is doing. We can't see all God is planning. We live by faith. That's why we were given Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. and lean not into your understanding. Don't evaluate things by the way they appear. Don't evaluate your service. Don't evaluate your influence. Don't evaluate your Christian ministry. Don't evaluate it by the way things appear. Trust the Lord with all your heart, lean not into your understanding. All thy ways acknowledge Him. He's working. And he'll direct your paths. And we need to understand our perspective is limited. We need to understand, uh realize our understanding is limited. Are you familiar with the story, Abraham offering up Isaac, Genesis 22? How many people feel like I do that when if God would say that to me, that would make no sense. To offer my own son. We have no record of Abraham saying, God, why are you asking me to do this? We have no record of Abraham saying, I don't understand what you're asking me to do. I know me well enough, I'd have said, are you crazy? God, I don't understand. I don't understand. And Abraham is such a tremendous man of faith, with all his faults. He is such a tremendous man of faith. He never questioned God. I believe Abraham understood. I don't understand everything God is doing My job is to trust them. My job is to obey them. I don't understand everything God's working in my life. I don't understand a lot of things. I don't understand why God would allow that to happen. I don't understand that But I need to be able to understand that I don't understand everything. And God's work is bigger than me. Am I making sense? Let me give you a third point here and we end that our control is limited. God is working in ways we have no control over. I'm saying this more and more all the time. The older I get, the more I realize how little control I have in life. It's like I feel like I'm just hanging on, you know, just barely hanging on, and life is just going. We have little God does works that we some many times we have little or no control over. And here's what I'm trying to get at. We just have to trust them. We just have to trust them. You say, preacher, I don't understand what's happening to me. Right. It's because we're under the sun. We don't have that heavenly perspective. I'm tempted to use that illustration with the quilt Remember that? Down under the quilt, it's just chaos. Doesn't make sense. I don't understand. This is crazy. Blue doesn't go there. Green doesn't it doesn't even anything. But you get above the sun, you look down. Oh, it's a beautiful pattern. Beautiful pattern. Read this event that took place in World War II during the Blitz when Germany was just wreaking havoc across Europe. There was a father who was holding his small boy by the hand. They were running from a building that had been struck by a bomb. And in the front yard of the building was a big shell hole. And so as quickly as he could, he got there and he jumped down in, got up got his footing, and then he reached up. This is at night, he reached up to his son And uh he yelled out, he says, son, jump down, jump down here to me. The boy was terrified But he kept hearing his father's voice tell him to jump. And the boy yelled down to his daddy, Daddy, I can't see you. The father looking up against the sky by the light of the burning buildings could see the boy, and he says, I can see you though. Jump, son And the boy by faith jumped into the dark and into his father's hands. He trusted his father. Didn't make any sense. He couldn't see what was happening. He was just jumping into the dark. But he heard his father's voice and he trusted his father. And that, I think, is a beautiful example of the Christian life. We don't understand, we don't see what's happening, it doesn't make sense to us, but God says, trust me. Follow my leadership. Follow my instructions. I see you. I'm working. And that is wisdom. That is wisdom. Let's pray. Father, I ask you'd help us to trust you when we don't see what you're doing. Help us, Lord, to trust you when we don't understand what you're allowing into our lives. Lord, help us to do what's right. God help us not to take this world's view and just say, well, it doesn't make sense. I'm just going to go do my own thing. Lord, help us to follow your instructions, have faith in you, and see it from Above the sun, not under the sun. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, there are some things that God has allowed in my life that don't make sense. There's things in my life I don't understand. But by faith, deliberately, I'm going to trust God. And I'm going to go forward. I'm going to do what he says. I'm going to anticipate him being glorified and molding me in the image of Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, there's things I don't understand. There are things that don't make sense. There's things that I don't see, it doesn't, I don't understand, but I'm going to trust it. Many others like this, a lot of hands. How about it, others? Now that's a conscious decision, just like that little boy had to finally make the decision to go ahead and jump Joe, you and I need to make a conscious decision. I'm just going to trust God. I'm going to go forward. I'm going to do right. And let God have his way. Is there someone here tonight that doesn't know for sure your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven? I urge you to trust the Lord. Get that settled. Any like that? Preacher, pray for me. Not sure I'm saved. I need to get that right. Any at all? God dealing, God working in your heart? Trust him Trust them. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed. Eyes are closed. Jennifer's