Verse 5, 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 5, it says, and besides besides this, giving all diligence All diligence. And then he tells us a list of things to add to our faith. He's given instructions here. Add this to your faith. He says, add to your faith virtue. And to virtue, knowledge. And to knowledge, temperance, which, if you remember, we said is self-control, self-discipline. Add to knowledge temperance, and to temperance, patience, and to patience, godliness. Godliness. He gives a few others here. Brotherly kindness, and to brotherly kindness, charity. Then he says in verse 8, for if these things, this list he just gave us. These seven eight characteristics. He says, if these things be in you, and they abound, they're not just there a little bit. I mean they're they're abundant in our life. They make you that you shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ And so I want to look at this one he let's hear godliness. Look at godliness. Let's pray together. Father, Lord, a little bit of time we have, I pray you'd speak to our hearts Lord, teach us what godliness is. And I pray, Holy Spirit, you would impress upon our hearts the importance of it. And that it would become a very high priority in our lives to develop godliness. And so I yield my will to you in this hour anew. God, I just give my body back to you for you to speak through me, fill my body and my mind with your Holy Spirit. And pray you'd be the preacher tonight. You'd speak to our hearts and teach us. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. God intends for us to be growing Christians. How many people understand that? God wants us to be growing. In fact, if you would, look back at chapter 3, 2 Peter, just the last verse of the book, actually. He ends with this instruction, this admonition. Verse 18, he says, but grow in grapes And in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory, both now and forever. Amen. This is the last recorded statement we have the Apostle Peter. And he's instructing those who he's writing to who are believers. He's telling them, listen, you keep growing, and you keep growing and you keep growing in grace. In the knowledge of the Lord, the understanding of the Lord, of who he is and what he is, and what his will is, his purpose and plan for our lives. You keep growing in that I read about an old farmer out, lived out in the country, old time farmer, and he attended a Bible preaching church, a Bible uh a Baptist church, and It was a good church and they had testimonies every Sunday night. And all good churches have testimonies on Sunday night. And so his church had testimonies on Sunday night. And every Sunday night, this old farmer would get up and he said the same testimony every time. He said, Well, I'm not making much progress, but I'm established. Next Sunday night, come by. Testimonies, he'd stand up. I'm not making much progress, but I'm established. And this went on week after week after week. One day during a weekday, or a weekday, uh one of his neighbors came by, and lo and behold, the old farmer was taking a load of uh lumber and he'd gotten to a soft spot there uh in the trail where he was going by and his uh his wagon sank down in the mud to the axles and he was stuck And a neighbor of his, who was a member of the church that he attended and was irritated that every week he'd stand up and say, I'm not making much progress, but I'm established That testimony irritated him. So finally yelled out to him out in the mud hole. He says, hey neighbor, I see you ain't making much progress, but you sure are established. He was stuck. And if we're not careful, we as Christians will get stuck. At a certain point in our Christian life. Oh, we're established. We got our salvation down. We got our assurance of our salvation. We know what we believe. But we ain't growing. We're not progressing in our Christian life. And Peter is challenging these folks, and as we've said a hundred times, they've been persecuted intensely And if I understand the context here and the historical background of this book, they're kind of coming out of that persecution. It was still very real and very intense. But they were established. They are re-establishing churches in the areas that they were run out to. And they're settling down in the new regions and in the new bodies of believers that they've organized. And Peter's concerned that they don't get stuck. They keep progressing. They keep going forward. And so he gives this list here that we just read a few moments ago. And he says, these are what are necessary, and I hope you'll get this, these are what are necessary if we're going to be a complete Christian. And by that I mean this. If we're going to be mature as believers, spiritually mature, not babes, but mature, growing, growing, growing, maturing, developing These things must be in our life. Did you notice there in verse 8? He says that these will make you fruitful. If they're in your life, you'll be a fruitful Christian. If not, you'll be a barren Christian. And so he gives the list of ingredients. Ingredient number six, as we're working our way through this list on Sunday nights, ingredient number six is godliness. Add to your patience godliness. Now that's not a subject you hear preached on a whole lot anymore, I don't think. Godliness. I think one of the greatest statements that can be made about a Christian man is that that man is a godly man. I think one of the greatest statements can be made about a Christian woman. That woman is a godly woman. I think one of the greatest statements can be made about a young person, a teenager, a young person, say that teenager is a godly teenager. Godliness To be said that a person is a godly person is one of the greatest compliments can be made. It's possible to be a very active church worker and not be godly It's possible to be a very generous giver. And by the way, I thank God for active, hardworking church workers, and thank God for generous givers. You know, I think we have a church that is very generous, gives very much. I got tomatoes coming to me every service, and I am committed to eating every single one of them. Before the next service, so I can get more. But you can be the most generous giver in the church and still not be godly. You can be a Bible scholar. You can memorize all the Bible verses that we memorize through the year. You can know every book of the Bible, you can know the take the Bible Institute and get your doctrines down, have a good comprehension of the whole survey of the whole Bible. You can be a Bible scholar and not be godly. It's possible to be a very gifted leader. Able to lead people, provide organization, and cast a vision as the new terminology is, and yet still not be godly. Godliness. You can be a great singer, and I thank God for our singers, our choir, music. Thank God for all of it. But you can be a very gifted singer and not be godly. If I'm not godly, I'm not a mature Christian. If I'm not godly, I'm not going to be a fruitful Christian. That's what Peter's saying here. If these things are in you and abound, you'll be fruitful. Godliness. Can I put it this way? And I'm preaching myself as much as anybody, so don't But if I'm not a godly Christian, I'm a poor Christian. Not a very good Christian if I'm not godly. The word godly is used in one form or another at least 15 times, particularly through the New Testament. The whole Bible, I believe the whole Bible is a book on godliness. If you would, take your Bibles and turn to Titus. Now, stay here if you would, but just Titus a few pages back, get back to um Hebrews and then you'll hit going backwards you run into Philemon then you'll hit Titus And look with me if you would at Titus chapter 1 and verse number 1. What I'm saying is this: the whole Bible is a manual on how to be godly. It's a book of godliness. Look at verse 1 of Titus chapter 1. Paul, a servant of God and an apostle of Jesus Christ. According to the faith of God's elect. And now look at this. And the acknowledging of the truth Which is after godliness. When he says the acknowledging of the truth, what's he talking about when he references the truth? Talking about the Word of God. He's referencing the Bible, and he says it's after godliness. The whole Bible, Genesis or Revelation, is a manual on godliness. In the Bible, we find examples of what a godly person looks like, how they behave, particularly in the Old Testament. In the Bible, we have examples of what an ungodly person looks like. How a person that does not have godliness, how they behate, and consequences of an ungodly life. We're given warnings. If you're going to be godly, you need to heed these warnings. We're given promises if you claim these promises and godliness. The Bible is a book on godliness. Godliness is not out of date. He said, oh, those Baptists out there, they're so old-fashioned, they still talk about godliness. Yeah, godliness is still in date Still current. Godliness is not just for elite Christians. Godliness is not for the special forces Christians Well, they're they're the godly ones. Godliness is for every single church member From the little children up to the senior citizens and all points in between, godliness, godliness It is required of all believers to be godly and to live godly lives. So Peter's writing to these believers. Says, all right, here's a list. You need to add these things into your life, make them part of your life, bring these things in, and then if you do that and you abound in these and These are become part of you and they're consistently lived out in your life, and you're not going to be barren. You'll be a fruitful Christian. You'll be mature and complete and strong in the Lord. You'll be what God intends for you to be. I heard it read years ago. Old time preacher, I guess he was more of a theologian, but he made this statement. He says, we're content to be incomplete. We're contented to be less than what God intends for us to be. And I think there's a real danger that has settled in among many believers. We're content to not be godly We're content with a level of ungodliness in our lives. We can tolerate a certain level of ungodliness. Oh, we say this. Oh, I would never do that. That's the roll-off when he was um going to court down there in Corpus Christi over the girls' homes. The state was uh was suing them, wanted them to uh uh license the homes and do all this stuff and he was fighting it. And they were going to court one day, and they were going in there, and uh David Gibbs was uh uh was um defending him, was his lawyer, the Christian Law Association And he said, Lester Roloff, as they were preparing, and it was a very spiritual thing, they prayed. And he said, Lester Roloff made this statement. He says, too often, I don't remember if it was in a prayer or conversation, but he made this statement. He says, too often we want God to make us cleaner and not clean. Follow what he's saying? Oh, I want to be cleaner than I am. But we're not at the point where we want to be clean. You can be cleaner than you were and still be a little dirty. And Peter's saying, listen, we need to add godliness. We can't be content with just a certain level. We need godliness. So here's my few thoughts real quick. Number one, I want to try and define godliness. What do we mean by that? The definition of godliness. Now here's mine. I looked up and It's uh it's you know there's various definitions out there. So I tried to condense them down into a thought. And so listen carefully. Here's the definition I come up with for godliness The reverent or respectful submission to the will of God Or the Word of God, the respectful submission to the will and Word of God in every area of my life In other words, every area of my life is very respectfully and humbly submitted to God's will as expressed in His Word That would be a very basic definition of godliness. I added this: a humble, willing, contented submission and obedience to God's will. It's possible to do God's will and be discontented about it. Right? Would you agree with me? All right, I'll do it. How many of y'all, when your kids were small You told them to do something, and they said, Oh right. And they did what you said, but it wasn't godly. Right? We'd say, get back here. You're gonna like it. Sometimes, am I right or wrong? Sometimes we'll submit to God and do what he says, but we're not very contented about it. Or feel obligated or coerced into it. Now, by the way, it's better to do what God says Um what's the word? Grudging, it's better to do God's will grudgingly than not do it at all. But that's not what God wants. And godliness is doing God's will. Every area of my life is submitted to the will of God as expressed in the Word of God. Every area, and I'm content with that. I'm good with that. Godliness, if you would, turn over, if you're still in Titus there, come over to 1 Timothy chapter 3. Just a few pages before Titus, 1 Timothy, chapter 3, and verse number 16. He says, and without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. The mystery of godliness. And he tells us what this mystery of godliness is. God was manifest in the flesh. Who's that? That's Jesus Christ. Andy and I think we were talking about that this morning. That verse. 1 Timothy 3. 16. And without controversy, great is the mystery of Godness, God was manifest in the flesh. justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, and received up into glory. You know what he's saying? He's saying Jesus is the perfect Example of godliness. Okay, what does a godly person look like? Study the life of Jesus. He was godliness manifest. He was, he was the, I put it this way in my notes, he was the Jesus was the perfect specimen of godliness. Of godliness. Godliness is a reflection of the moral characteristics of God. God has various what we call attributes. He has some what we call the natural attributes of God The natural is everybody with me? Everybody doing alright? Alright. I'm a little theological here, so bear with me. This is good stuff Um I think it's good stuff, but um the natural attributes of God that the natural attributes of God are are like His omniscience. He knows everything. God is all-knowing. Question, can I be all-knowing like God? He's ever-present, omnipresent. That's a natural you and I can't be omnipresent. Everywhere all the time. Now some of us are take up a little more space than others do, but uh we can't be everywhere all the time. So that's a natural attribute of God. I can't be godly in that sense. God is perfectly holy. I can't be perfectly holy, but I can live a holy life. And that would be a moral attribute of God. God is good. Now I can't be as good as God, but I can be good. So godliness is these moral attributes of God, fair and just and honest. And uh good and patient and loving, holy, pure. I can have all these, these attributes of God, I can have them to some extent seen in my life And that would be part of godliness. Take your Bible, if you would, Acts. Book of Acts. We're going to jump around here a little bit. Look in Acts chapter 4. I love this. There's one phrase in here I can really relate to. Acts chapter 4 and verse 13. Acts 4 and 13. If you found it, say amen. Alright, that's about everybody. Just about. Now when they saw the the when day, the day is the enemies of Christianity, the Pharisees, the self-righteous, and those condemning everybody. Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John And perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men. I say, praise the Lord. God can use unlearned and ignorant men. Can I get a witness? So it wasn't their great learning that they noticed. It wasn't their great intelligence that they noticed. They were unlearned and ignorant. But notice what they noticed. They marveled, and they took knowledge of them that they had what? Than with Jesus. You know what they're saying? They're saying these guys hung around with Jesus Christ and they're starting to act like Jesus. The way they talk and their attitude and their spirit about them and their life that they're living and the way they live and and uh how they talk and And the things they they go go and do, man, they're like Jesus. These guys have been with Jesus. We see Jesus in them How they use their time and the words they use and stuff like that. We see Jesus in them. You know what that is? It's godliness. It's godliness. Christ, the attributes, the characteristics of Christ seen and made. Come over, if you would, to chapter 11 of Acts. And look with me if you would at verse twenty six. And when they had found him, they brought him under Antioch. And uh And it came to pass that a whole year they assembled themselves together with the church and taught much people. Now look at this last phrase. And the disciples were fur the disciples were called what? Christians, first in Antioch. And we said this often, most of us understand this. That term Christian, when they called them Christians, they weren't complimenting them. That wasn't a term of respect. Nowadays they say, oh, that's a Christian man right there. That would be a good thing to have said about you. They meant it as a derogatory term. It was this idea, oh look, those little Jesuses, those little Christs running around here everywhere, just like Jesus And they meant it in a mocking way. They meant it in a derogatory way. But you know how the disciples took it Nice. Thank you. We'll own that. Yeah, we are Christians. That's what we want to be. You know what they were saying? They were saying we see Christ in them. They remind us of Jesus, the way they talk, the way they act, the way they treat each other. That's godliness. If a person is worldly, what are they like? The world. If a person is godly, what are they like? Like God in the characteristics, like Christ. He's the perfect specimen of godliness, Jesus. So if I'm like Christ, Christ's life is being lived out in me Then that would be godliness. Number two, I want us to notice the demands or the requirements of godliness. First, the definition. Number two, the demands, the requirements of godliness. Like everything else in the Christian life, godliness begins in the mind. It's how I think. Godly thinking leads to godly living. As a man thinketh in his heart, what's the rest of it? So is he. So godliness is not some outward conformity. Godliness is not just coming in and fitting in with other Christians. Godliness begins in the mind. It works itself from the inside out. Until my thinking is godly, my living will never be godly. Begins in the mind. Godly thinking leads to godly living. It is an attitude before it is in an activity. Now it does produce a certain lifestyle, it does produce certain behavior, it does produce a pattern of treatment of others But it begins with a godly mind, godly thinking. So how do I develop that? Well, number one, there needs to be deliberate faith in God I need faith in God's Son for salvation. I do not believe a person can be genuinely godly in the biblical sense and not know Jesus Christ as Savior. They might be a very kind person. They might be a very honest person. They may have integrity. There might be a lot of good characteristics about them. But if they're unsaved. They cannot be godly in the biblical sense. And by the way, until I'm saved, I can't grow in my Christian life. I've got to be saved. I think sometimes preachers sometimes get frustrated, oh this person's not growing, this person's not growing. I'm wondering, and God knows, so don't misunderstand, but I wonder sometimes maybe the reason they're not growing is they've not been born again. They need some spiritual life to begin with. And so godliness requires faith in God. For salvation. If you're here tonight or you're under the sound of my voice and you don't have assurance that your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven, that is number one priority in your life So it's make sure, establish an assurance of your salvation. Because until you do that, you won't be able to be godly. I'll be honest with you, I've never seen anybody grow any with any significance. That did not have assurance of their salvation. And so godliness, there must be faith in God's Son for salvation, but there must be faith in God's word for authority. This is the final authority on what godliness is. There's a lot of There's an element of Christianity that is abandoning the authority of the Word of God and adapting the authority of the world. And they're letting the world dictate what is right and wrong, what is godly and ungodly, and I'm telling you, like I said this morning This world is very, very good at making that which is ungodly seem so godly, and that which is godly seem ungodly. And so if I'm going to be genuinely godly as God tells me to be, this book must be my authority. That tells me what godliness is. I must have faith in this book as the authority. So number one, there has to be deliberate faith in God if I'm going to be godly, meet the requirements to be godly. Number two, I put this down, there must be disciplined behavior. Come with me back to 1 Timothy, and it's interesting, Paul writing to Timothy, a young preacher boy, and he addresses this subject of godliness over and over and over through 1 and 2 Timothy. I mean multiple times. 1 Timothy chapter 4, and notice with me verse number 7 Verse 6, he makes this statement, but godliness with contentment is great gain. And that we'll have to use that for another message. Verse 7, for we brought Wait a minute. First Timothy four. I'm in six. How many people were wondering what in the world is he reading? First Timothy four and verse six. Verse seven. Somewhere in there, I'll just read it Look at verse 7. But refuse profane and old wives' fables. Now here's what I'm getting at. And what's that next word? Exercise. I circled it. You were close. It started with the same letter. And exercise thyself rather unto godliness. Exercise thyself rather unto godliness. Then he goes in verse 7. He says, or verse 8, for bodily exercise profiteth little. That's why I don't exercise very much. It don't profit but a little. For bodily exercise profiteth little But godliness is what? Profitable into all things. So he says, exercise yourself into godliness. Exercise yourself into godliness. I say, all right, what does exercise mean? Well, it simply means this: to train vigorously, to apply myself diligently. Here's what I come away with. Godliness doesn't just happen. I've got to apply myself, I've got to exercise. Listen, I didn't get this physique just by not doing anything. Actually, yes, I did. If I'm going to have Pastor Matt's physique, I've got to exercise. You've got to apply yourself vigorously. You've got to work out. You've got to watch your diet. You've got to do this. No not so many tomato sandwiches and um you you gotta work at it. You with me? And so if we're gonna be godly like God tells us to, be a complete mature Christian and be fruitful, I've got to be godly. I've got to work at that. I've got to exercise I've got to be diligent in working at being godly. All right, are my words godly? I need to pay attention to this. I need to work on how I talk. Are my Thoughts, godly, all right. Think these ungodly thoughts. All right, I've got to deal with that. I need to work on that. Uh on my behavior, uh, what I look at, the places I go Things I desire, how I use my time. I've got to discipline myself. I've got to control myself. I've got to use temperance, like he said earlier, and make sure and apply myself. vigorously to be a godly teenager, to be a godly man, to be a godly woman requires discipline. Requires discipline. And then there has to be a sincere desire Godliness is not something I should do out of coercion. Well, that preacher will get all over me if I do this. Oh, I know. Uh uh he he's gonna preach on it, so I gotta do right. Years ago I we used to always Sunday nights I'd have um Uh how many people read your Bible this week? And hold your Bible up. How many people remember doing it? And um uh how many people read it every day and keep it up and I have one guy say to me, I've got to read my Bible, the preacher's gonna embarrass me if I don't. Godliness is not something we do out of coercion. Now, should parents discipline their kids if they do ungodly things? Yes. But would you agree with me? A mature child would do right not just so they don't get disciplined, but because it's right. Because they want to. I want to please my parents. I want to please God. So there has to be a desire there. Godliness is not something we do out of duty or to merely conform outwardly. Look over in chapter 3 of 2 Timothy, and I'm winding down, so bear with me. 2 Timothy 3, and look with me at verse 5. Now he's saying this is characteristic of the last days. And verse 5 he says, having a what? form of godliness, but denying the what? Power thereof. How do we respond to that? Turn away A form but no power, just an outward conformity. Alright, I'm going to dress godly when I go to church. Now listen, we don't make a big deal about how people dress come to church. I'm glad they come. I mean be decent. I'm just glad they come. But I tell you, there is There is an element of godliness in how we dress. Let me just throw this out there. The Bible's clear: men ought to dress like men. Ladies ought to dress like ladies. I didn't get as many amens on that, but we ought to dress modest. How many people agree ladies ought to dress modestly? How many B men ought to dress modestly. Yeah. And so there is an element of godliness in the dress. But what he's saying here is you can dress modest to the T if your heart's not godly, you're not a godly person. You're not going to have the power of God. You're not going to have the blessings of God, the presence and power of God on your witness. It's just outward conformity. And so it's not something we do. It's not just a form we put on, a show we put on it, but there's substance to it. And then last of all, and with this, the display of godliness. What does it look like? How has it played out in my life? What are the characteristics of a godly teenager or a godly mother or a godly father, godly senior citizens? Number one, there's a commitment to live for God. And I don't have time to talk about these, but a commitment to live for God. 1 Timothy 6. 11, he says this. But thou, O man of God, flee these things and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness. He says, get away from the things of the world, the simple things, and commit yourself to live for God. Commit yourself to live for God. I wonder how many of us here tonight have come to the point in our life Where we have committed ourselves that I'm going to live for God. I'm committed. To living for the Lord as it's in I'm instructed in the Word of God. I think there needs to be a clean heart in mind. David prayed, Create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me. I tell you, a dirty heart will lead to dirty talk. Dirty heart leads to dirty living. A dirty heart listens to dirty music. Dirty heart watches dirty movies. Huh? A clean heart. David said, God give me a clean heart. A clean heart. I think there needs to be a consistent testimony. In other words, not on again, off again, up and down, in and out, hot and cold, here for a while, there for a while On the mountain for a while, down the valley. Now there's, I mean, I understand the Christian life is three steps forward, two steps back. I understand that. But there needs to be some consistency in our testimony If I'm going to be godly. Number four, I put this down, compassionate humility. The antithesis, the exact opposite of godliness, is pride and self-righteousness and condemnation of others Self-exalt exaltation and focused on myself and absorbed with myself Godliness is humility and a love for others, and invest in others, and the things I say and the things I do. And my interaction with others is to help others and to lift them up, not exalt myself and put others down. It lifts others up over myself. And last of all, there's complete dedication to Christ. If I'm going to be godly, Jesus said, except a man deny himself and take up his cross daily, he cannot be my disciple. I want to be godly. I want to grow and be a mature, complete, fruitful Christian. I have got to die to self and dedicate my life to Jesus Christ. Take up that cross. It's not me. I'm dying to self. I'm living for Christ. Godliness. He says, add to your patience, add to your faith, virtue. Do right. And add to your virtue knowledge, learn what is right. And to knowledge, add temperance, discipline yourself to do that. And then to temperance, add patience, and just take your time, be patient, don't get worked up, don't react. And then add to that godliness. Godliness. I like what Adorn Iram Judson said, missionary to Burma, great missionary years ago. He said the motto of every child of God ought to be devoted to Christ for life. I think I was talking to my wife. I was trying to think of the most godly person I know I've ever met. And as soon as I thought that, a name came to mind and I saw a face. And in 1982, 83, I was working a bus route Out of the Highland Park Baptist Church down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, and we were the inner city projects. And we was introduced, when I first took the route, the fellow that had the route before me took me and says, I want to introduce you to somebody. And he took me and he introduced me to a dear lady. She's about the size of Jackie. And she must have been in her mid-80s at least at the time. And it I mean projects, slums, whatever term you want to use. Ghetto And they took me behind, knocked on the door, and there's no grass. There's beer cans and bottles everywhere. If you look carefully, there's uh heroin syringes and needles laying around. I mean it was awful Prostitutes, gangs. And they came up and knocked on the door. It's a little Haiti came. And she couldn't hardly see. And he said his name was Ken. He said, Miss Ms. Nick Ms. Tate, Miss Tate, it's Brother Ken. I want to introduce you to a new bus captain down here. Said, and they call me Denny. Don't you dare do that. This is Brother Denny. Oh, come on in. I was thinking this afternoon, I was thinking about it. I'm confident I have never been in a home in Garrett County as poor and as desolate. as that Anna Nixon Tate's home was. I mean there was nothing an old ratty sofa, a light bulb Kitchen table, an old refrigerator, and in the back, assumed she had a a bed and whatnot. I mean that was it. Cement floor, cinder block walls I tell you, Mrs. Tate is the most godly woman I have ever met in my life. She loved the Lord with all her heart. And she'd invite us in there, dear little black lady. She invited us in there and she says, sit down, Brother Denny. You know the Lord is your Savior. I said, I sure do, Miss Tate. I'm planning on living for him and serving him in my whole life. Well, God bless you, Brother Denny. I'm going to quote a chapter from Psalm chapter whatever, 90. You get your Bible out and tell me if I got it right. And she'd quote a whole chapter of the Bible, verbatim. I'd follow her and I'd say, Miss Tate, you've got that exactly right. And we go by there week after week. I told her her house was my haven of rest. All the sin and wickedness out there, and people call us names and yell at us. I had a guy chase me with a baseball bat We come there in the presence of God in that poverty-stricken ghetto house apartment, and the presence of God was there. One day her neighbor had to go away and so she took anything in her apartment, the late neighbor lady, that was of any value, and asked Mrs. Tate to keep it because somebody would break in and steal it. And she brought her television over. So I showed up one day and she had this thing setting beside her sofa and there was a blanket over it. And uh she goes, uh don't worry about that over there, brother Daddy. My neighbor went out of town, she asked me to watch her television for her. She goes, I hate that thing So what she did was she took the screen and put it towards the wall and set a blanket over. She goes, that way that thing won't mess with me. I'm telling you, you don't have to be rich, you don't have to be educated, but you can still be godly. Love God, my heart and mind pure, and love others. Let's pray. Father. I ask you to teach us to be godly. Help us to exercise ourselves this coming week. And every single day get up and just say, I'm going to apply myself vigorously to be godly in heart, in mind, my behavior. And Lord, teach us to do that. Stir us to do that. Motivate us. Put that desire in our hearts to be godly. And we'll give you the glory. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need more godliness in my life? I need to be more like Christ. I need to grow. Sure. Every hand, if we were honest, every one of us would raise our hand Now, what about an old altar before we go to Lord's Supper? And just say, Lord, teach me this, provoke me, convict me, prod me to be a godly Christian. Father, bless our imitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.