Isaiah 40, verse number 8. Let's read it together out loud in Judasin, if you would. This is I want to encourage you to try and memorize this verse. How many people notice this verse is a lot shorter than last month's verse? Yeah But it's a good one. There's a lot of good stuff in this. And so let's read it together. Would you verse 8? The grass withereth, the flower fadeth. But the word of our God shall stand forever. My message this morning is: God's word shall stand Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, we come to you on this Sunday morning. We recognize today is your day, Lord. It's the Lord's day. And so we want to honor you, Father, on this day with our lives and our time. And now, Lord, we've assembled together in your name. And here we are as a body of believers. And I'm asking that your presence would be here, would be manifest in a very real way as we preach your word. I ask that you would use your word to challenge us, build us up in our faith, help us to grow in the Lord, our understanding of your will for each of our lives as individuals, and your will for our church as a whole. And so, Lord, I can't do that in and of myself. So I yield my heart and mind to you, and I pray that you guide my thoughts as I try to preach. I present my body anew, Lord, and I ask with all my heart that your Holy Spirit, who dwells within me, would fill me and control me as I preach and speak through me. And that we can leave here a little bit stronger in our faith in your word and our confidence in your promises. So please bless now the preaching of your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Our theme for 2024 continues to be Standing on the Promises. We have it very prominently displayed. We put it on our business cards in various places. And our emphasis this year has been standing on the promises. And by the promises, we mean the promises of God's Word. Standing on the Word of God. Man is awfully good at making promises. Did anybody notice recently in the news there's a lot of promises being made? It's a campaign season and folks will promise everything in the world. I tell you, a lot of times the promises that man makes will tickle our ears. Boy, I like to hear that promise. Boy, that's uh they're gonna give us this and they're gonna do that and they're gonna do this and they're gonna do that, and boy, we listen to it, and we think, boy, those are those are Make promises But I tell you, the promises of man are not always something we can stand on. Not always something we can put a lot of confidence in. Has anybody ever heard a politician make a promise and then not keep it? If you haven't, you've not been listening. And this isn't a political message at all this morning. But I'm simply trying to say is this, man's promises are often very hollow, very shallow, and not necessarily something we can count on Did anybody here ever count on somebody to do something and they failed you and they came up short? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And before we get too quick to be critical of others, I'm sure many, if not most of us, have made promises. And we failed to keep them. We failed to live up to them. And so man's promises are not necessarily something we can put a lot of uh a lot of uh trust in, maybe that uh we don't put our hope in man's promises a whole lot. Um we don't stand upon it, especially when man is making promises about our spiritual well-being. There's a lot of religion out there. There's a lot of statements by man about God and the spirit world, about heaven and hell. And man has opinions. I've learned something in 31 years as pastor, over 40 years almost in the ministry. I've learned something. Everyone has an opinion about God. Everyone has some sort of opinion. Some people, their opinion is that they don't believe in them. Some people have different ideas about God, but everybody has some sort of thought about God I'll tell you, man's opinion about God is not necessarily something we can put a lot of weight on. What man thinks about God. What man says about our eternal destiny. There are churches and denominations and religions of various sorts outside of Christianity that make all kinds of promises about heaven and about hell, about our soul salvation. Some will say, well, if you do this and you do that, if you get baptized in our church, and if you give this money and you do these rites or You uh make this sacrifice or whatever, they'll have all kinds of stuff they come up with, then you might have a hope of salvation. I tell ya Man's promises about heaven and hell and the salvation of our soul is not something I want to put my confidence in. I want something when it comes to where I'm going to spend eternity. Now get this. When it comes to where I'm going to go when I die, if I'm going to heaven Or I'm going to hell, I want something I can have confidence in about where I'm going to spend eternity I don't want to go out into eternity with some hope-so-think-so Dr. Bigshot said this and Church of the Deep Freeze taught me that I want to know. Anybody with me? Anybody follow what I'm saying? I'm telling you, we have something we can stand on. We have some information that has been given to us that we can have absolute confidence in When it comes to heaven and hell, the spiritual realm, and our spiritual condition. And that is the Word of God. We can stand with confidence on the Word of God. And the reason we can be confident on the Word of God, the reason we can stand on the Word of God is because the Bible stands. God's word stands. Look at our text here, if you would. The grass weathereth. It's not going to last long. We saw that in the last couple months. No rain. The grass is withering. The flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand what? Forever. Forever. That word standeth. The word of our God shall stand. That word stand means this: to be established. It means to be fixed in place. It means it's been confirmed, proven to be true. There's people all across this auditorium who could stand up and testify, God has proven himself to be true in his word. Anybody here ever claim a promise of God and he kept his word? Sure, sure. It's confirmed. We can confirm, yes, the Bible Uh is true. We can be confident. It means to endure. The word of our God shall stand forever. It shall endure. It's fixed in place. It means to be proven or persistent. God's word stands. Our stand on the promises of God has a sure foundation. Sure foundation. There never has been a book like the Bible. Never has been a book like the Bible. And by the way, there never will be another book like the Bible. The Bible is God's Word. God's Word. We hear a lot today about artificial intelligence. Anybody hear anything about artificial? I've met a lot of people. I think their intelligence was artificial. Nobody in this present company excluded, of course. But um we hear a lot about artificial intelligence. Oh, it's the greatest thing since sliced bread. Artificial intelligence is going to do everything for us. It can write books. Kids can have essays do in school. Artificial intelligence, oh write that essay for it. Don't do that, kids But um anybody here ever hear about artificial intelligence, all this? AI, AI. I'm telling you, as wonderful as artificial intelligence may be, I don't know. Artificial intelligence will never come up with a book like the Bible. Nobody ever has, nobody ever will. Produce a book. Like the Word of God, our Bible. The Bible is a miracle book. A miracle book given to us by God. I want to make a few statements quickly here. God's Word will stand. God's word will stand. Our theme this year is standing on the promises. The word of God. God's word will stand. God's Word will stand number one. Maybe you want to jot these down. Number one, because it is inspired of God. Look there at our text, if you would. It says, the grass withereth, the flower fadeth But look how the Bible is described. Look at the term that is used to describe the Bible. The word of our God. All through the Bible, Scripture is referred to as the Word of God. In other words, the idea is this: it is the very words of God. It is as if God, now God is a spirit. God the Father is a spirit. We can't see him. We can't feel him. We can't hear him. We can't touch him. He's a spirit. But it's as if, when we're reading the Bible, it's as if God would somehow appear and be speaking to us, literally, audibly speaking to us, is what's happening when we're reading the Bible. Now, God speaks through the Bible in our day and age. But when we read the Bible, we are reading, now get this The very words of God, the God that created this universe, that spoke this infinite universe into existence. The God that breathed into mankind, you and I, the breath of life, this all-powerful, all-knowing, all-wise God. That's the words that we're reading when we read the Bible. The Word of God. It's inspired of God. Jesus put it this way, he was rebuking the devil. He had been in the wilderness forty days and forty nights after he got baptized in Matthew chapter 4. He comes out of the wilderness, he was hungry He had been fasting for 40 days and 40 nights. I get hungry when I fast for 40 minutes. And he comes out of there, can I get a witness? Yeah. Forty days and forty nights, Jesus comes out of that witness, and who shows up but the devil himself? And the devil approaches Jesus Christ, confronts him with these series of temptations. And we don't have time to dwell on them, but the first one was he tempts Jesus to turn these stones into bread Now, let me just throw this out there. Jesus would have been, humanly speaking, he would have been vulnerable in this area of eating because he'd just been fasting 40 days, right? So the devil's no dummy in the far as when it comes to temptation and sin. He knows how to tempt us He knows where your vulnerabilities are and my vulnerabilities are, and that's where he hits us. So he came to Jesus Christ, tempting him, turn these stones into bread. You're hungry, turn these stones into bed. You're God. Come on. And Jesus responds with an interesting statement. He says, It is written. Man shall not live by bread alone. Now listen to this, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of our God. What was he referring to? Scriptures. And Jesus said that the scriptures are the very words coming out of the mouth of God. When you and I open the Bible, we are reading the words that God has given to us. It's not the words of man. It's not some government publication. It's not some theses from a higher in an institute of higher learning about some doctrine. It is the very word of God. When we read the Bible, the Word of our God. It is inspired. It is inspired. There's more to life than just the physical This whole world is captivated by the physical, materialism, physical. But there is a whole lot more to light. Listen, there is a whole lot more. to reality than simply what you and I can see and feel and hear with our physical senses. There is a spiritual realm that is just as real as the physical realm that you and I observe all around us. And the Bible says there is more to life than just the physical. You and I are spiritual beings. We have spiritual needs. There are spiritual aspects to our existence. And to neglect my spiritual well-being and to ignore the reality of heaven and hell, the devil and God, to just ignore all of that is a very, very dangerous thing. And Jesus said, you don't live just by the physical bread alone. We need the Word of God. We need our souls fed spiritually. You follow what I'm saying? And he says, the very Word of God, the Word of God, there is more to reality than just than just the material. Spiritual realm is just as real. And God in his word instructs us on these spiritual realities. God has given us his word. You say, well, how do you know there's a heaven and hell? Because God told me there is. Why do you say Jesus is the only way to be saved? Because God tells us Jesus is the only way to be saved. This is the word of God. It's given to us by inspiration. God gave these words. 2 Timothy 316. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. Now, if you've been around Bible preaching, you've been around our church very much, you've heard that term inspiration referred to numerous times. It means simply to breathe into, to inspire. And the idea is this: God used men, he used 60 uh I think 49 different men to pen the scriptures. Over a period of 1,600 years, and 66 books of the Bible come together. And what God did was he breathed into or he put into the hearts and minds of those penmen, the very words to write down in the scriptures. The Bible didn't just fall out of heaven, boom, oh, look, the word of God. Nobody was digging around up in New York in the fur ground and found some golden tablets and uh that's not how the Bible came about. By the way, nothing that way came about of God. God used men. And he put into their very hearts, their very minds, the words he wanted written down. That's what inspired means. So when we read the first five books of the Bible, the Pentecost, Pentecost uh the Pentateuch, penned by Moses, God put into the heart and mind of Moses what to write down concerning creation, the fall of man, the establishment of the home, government, all of that It's all recorded in Genesis. God put that in the heart and mind of Moses to record that down. When you and I read the Bible, we are not reading the words of some man. We are reading the very words of God. To you and I. So he says, the word of our God shall stand. Everything written in Scripture is the Word of God. The very words, not just the ideas and concepts. Sometimes some liberals get uh on their high horse and they say, Well, the Bible, the ideas and the concepts are inspired. But the very No, no, no. The very words of God are exactly the words God wants us to have. The very word. Jesus said, if any jot or tittle, that's the little cross T and dotted I. The implication there is the very spelling of the words. How many people know if you have to spell a word a certain way if you're going to get that word? And if you don't have the right word, then you don't know what the truth is. And so the very words themselves are given to us By inspiration, God put in the hearts and minds the Apostle Paul and Apostle John and Peter and Jude. Samuel and David's Psalms and Isaiah and Ezekiel, all through Scripture, Daniel We have these men who God, and I want to drill this, God put in their hearts and minds the words that are recorded in Scripture. The Word of God, the Word of God. We need to pay close attention to what the Bible says, because what the Bible says is what God says. If we reject the Bible, we are rejecting the very words of God. And God have mercy on any theologian or seminary professor or preacher that stands behind a pulpit and minimizes or rejects or alters the Word of God God have mercy on that man's soul when he answers to the God that gave him the Bible. We better take this seriously. We better understand to reject the Bible is to reject the very words of God. Now, by God's grace, we're not going to do that around here. We're going to hold to the Word of God. We're going to hold to the Word of God. But can I bring a warning closer to home? To reject the Word of God, to reject the Bible is to reject the Word of God. So let me bring it closer to home. To neglect the Bible is to neglect the very words of God. I've seen Bibles stuffed in corners and get home Get home from church, throw it there on the end table, and that's where it sets. I'm telling you, that's the very words of God setting there on that thing. That's the very Word of God given by inspiration that's collecting dust on your bookshelf in the back room you never use anymore. You follow me? We better respect this book, we better heed it, we better pay attention to it. It's the very Word of God So God's Word will stand. We can have confidence in the Bible because it's God's word. He gave it to us. Let me give you a second reason we can stand on the Bible. Because it is inerrant. Now there's a word for you, inerrant. What do we mean by if something, if the Bible is inerrant, what do we mean by that? It's what? It's wet out error. What does it mean to be without error? It means it has no what? No mistakes. It has no errors in it. There's nothing false in it. There are no errors in the Bible, period. That's not a question. The Bible is perfectly given. The Bible tells the truth. In every aspect, everything that the Bible addresses is true. Jesus said in John chapter 17 and verse 17, he says Thy word is truth. That's from the lips of Jesus Christ. It's true. It's true. Listen, don't try and explain away Bible teaching. Don't try and somehow say, well, you know, that's not really what it means. Listen, God says what he means, and he means what he says. The Bible is inerrant. There are no mistakes. There are no errors. If something is true, it means it's free from falsehood. It is without deceit. God is not lying to us. I'm here to tell you the devil is a liar. The devil is a liar. And this world is, in many ways, disciples of the devil. Jesus said to the Pharisees, he says, you are of your father the devil. They were unsaved. They were without Christ, without God in the world. They were religious, but they didn't know God. And he said, the devil was their father. The devil is a liar. But God's word is true. You're crazy. You're crazy. If you're going to take what this world says over top of what God's word says, you're nuts. Oh, this world's so intelligent this world. Oh, we all evolved from amoebas. And somehow something came out of nothing for no reason and Oh, it's just uh and I tell you every time I hear that, these people are nuts. I tell ya, I'll take the f I'll take Bible teaching of where we came from over evolutionary teaching any day of the week It takes a lot of faith to be an eva uh to be a an atheist. Right? You gotta believe something that's difficult to believe. And I use this illustration a lot, but to me in my mind it's very f it's uh it makes it obvious. Uh you will find um I I noticed a news article here last week or two, I think it was over in Romania or somewhere, but they were flying over uh the this uh uh drone or something, and they found this rock structure, a figure of some sort of animal uh a this design. I think it was a horse or something. I mean they were up there and it was huge. And this the this design of I believe like I said, I believe it was a horse. And they said, good, nice, somebody made that. There's no way in the world those rocks would just show up in the shape of a horse. Somebody obviously intelligently did that And then those very same people look at an actual horse, which is 10 billion times more complex and say, oh, well that just happened. There's a Bible term for that, foolishness. So the Bible's true. When the Bible says that God created man from the dust of the earth, that is not a lie. That is absolute truth. And the Bible says that God breathed into the nostrils of man the breath of life, and man became a living soul. That is not a lie, that's the truth. The Bible is inerrant. It is without error. It's without mistake. When Jesus said, no man comes to the Father but by me, he was telling the truth. It's not a lie. The Bible is without error. There's no deceit. There's no mistakes. God was not mistaken. Jesus was not mistaken when he tells us in his word that he's coming back again someday. We can be confident that is the truth. Are you with me? So the Bible is inerrant. The Bible is inerrant. I know a lot of us, you say, preacher, I've heard this for years and years and years. I got news for you, you're going to keep on hearing it for years and years and years too. Because this is true. I'm telling you, the Bible is under attack in our world today And I'm not talking about in the in the secular education. I'm talking about in our seminaries. Places training future preachers are questioning the Bible and denying the Bible and saying it's full of errors. It is not full of errors, it's true. It's true. It is without error. Jesus said, thy word is truth. The Bible is accurate and reliable in everything it says and teaches. The Bible cannot fail because it's perfect truth. So, what the Bible says is so. If that's the case, then that means we can claim its promises. If God promises something, then we can mark it down. He'll keep his word. If God tells us in Romans 10, 13, that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved, then you mark it down. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Amen? He says, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and everyone that knocketh it shall be open unto you. You mark it down, that is true We need to come to the Bible as a book that is absolutely without error, without mistakes. It is perfectly true in every word, every word. We need to get back to that. I'm telling you, we are losing our influence in the world because we're getting away from the truth of the Word of God. And we need to anchor ourselves, stand on that. So the Bible is without error. We can claim its promises. By the way, because the Bible is true, we ought to heed its warnings. The Bible says don't do something, we'd be smart to not do it. Because it's true. The Bible says stay away from this type of activity, stay away from this type of lifestyle. Stay away from this type of a behavior, then we ought to stay away from that type of lifestyle, behavior and activity Why? Because the Bible's true. The Bible's true. If the Bible tells us, gives us some instructions on how to go about something or do something, then we ought to follow his instructions. Amen or not? If the Bible teaches us a church is to operate a certain way for a very specific purpose, then we are to operate that way for that specific purpose. Amen? So the Bible's true. We follow its instructions, we heed its warnings, we claim its promises, because it is without error. Number three, jot this down. The Bible is indestructible. If something's indestructible, it means you can't what? You can't destroy it. Destroy it? They never can. The Bible stands like a rock undaunted amid the raging storms of time. Notice Isaiah, notice our memory verse, our text here this morning. The grass, what happens to the grass? It withereth Eventually it's going to dry up and die. The flower? Bait it, fade. Especially you have flowers in our house, they fade pretty quick. W that word the word wither it there means to decay. It means to dry up and die. The flower, oh, it's beautiful, it's wonderful. I want it to be forever. The flower is going to wilt, it's going to droop, it's going to fall, it's going to die. We have funeral services here at the church. Uh when we do, I like to keep one of the flower arrangements. If there are some, I like to keep it for Sunday as a memorial for the one that went on, passed away Sometimes at funerals early in the week, Monday or Tuesday, I like to try and keep those flowers till Sunday. But inevitably, about Thursday, Friday, they start what? Start wielding. They don't last forever. They're just here for a short time, and then they're gone. And by the way, the Bible tells us our life is the same way. Our life is like grass In fact, he does there earlier in the ver in the passage. Notice there, verse 6, he says, cry all what shall I say? What shall I cry? All flesh is Grass. And the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth. Our lives are here for a while, physically, we're here for a while. And this whole body starts to to uh wither. Some of them swell up, but um Our body withers. Our flower, all our beauty, and all our wonderful things start to fade, start to fade. Fred Schindler. Now Fred Schindler said this, not me, okay? A good friend. He said that that Coke bottle figure that your wife had when you married her turns into a two-liter. And um now Fred Schindler said that. I did not say that. Too late What are you saying, preacher? I'm saying everything in this world is material-wise is temporal. It fades, the grass withers, the flower fades. But I'm here to tell you this Bible will never wither This Bible will never fade. It's indestructible. It lasts forever. But the Word of God, the Word of our God, shall stand forever. Forever. Physical life is temporal. The word of God is indestructible. That word forever. Notice there, verse 8. But the word of our God shall stand forever. That means continuous existence without end. It means perpetual and everlasting If something is everlasting, how long does it last? You know, there never will be a day when there is no longer a Bible. Never will be. It's forever. The word of our God stands forever. Nations come and go. There will be a day when there will no longer be the United States of America. There will be a day when there will no longer be a France. There'll never no longer be a China. You name any nation in the world. They're temporal. They're not going to be forever. But after these nations have fallen, these great, powerful nations in the world When they have all fallen, the word of God shall still stand. That's why I'm saying we don't put our hope In governments or man-made institutions, our hope is in the indestructible, eternal, inerrant, inspired Word of God. That's where our hope is. That's where our confidence is. It's indestructible. It's indestructible. In Matthew 24, verse 35, Jesus said, heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Again, in Mark 13, 31, we have the exact same statement: heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. In Luke chapter 21 and verse 33, we have the exact same statement again. Heaven and earth shall pass away. But my word shall not pass away. If God says something one time, we ought to mark it down and pay attention. He says it three times. I think he's trying to tell us something. The Bible is indestructible. It's indestructible. There is not a professor with the greatest degree, most intelligent IQ in the world, can destroy that book. Nobody can. Nobody can. The Bible stands forever. Forever. 1 Peter 1:23, the Word of God liveth and abideth That word abideth means to remain in place, to be unchanged, to be kept continually forever. The Bible is indestructible. By the way, quit trying to change the Bible. Quit trying to rewrite the Bible. Remains unchanged all uh long after all these other versions pass off the scene, they'll keep coming up with new ones and new ones and new ones. I'm telling you, the old King James will stand I'm convinced of that. The old Bible will stand. The old Bible will stand. Unchanged. Unchanged. 1 Peter 1:25. The word of the Lord endureth forever. That word endureth means to remain in place. It means to not perish. I like this definition: to survive permanently. The Word of God. The Word of God. The Word of God. Men come and go, but God's Word stands forever. Better not put your hope in man. Better not put your confidence in what some preacher you better not put your confidence in what Dennis Leatherman says, because the day's going to come when Dennis Leatherman's not standing behind this pulpit anymore But I tell you, the Word of God goes on forever. Your confidence ought to be in the Word of God. Say, how do you know you're going to heaven? Well, the preacher told me so. That ain't going to cut it. How do you know you're going to heaven? I got Bible basis for my confidence I'm going to heaven. See the difference The Bible stands, endureth forever. Cities come and go. Nations come and go, but God's word stands forever. The most powerful forces in hell Have tried to distort, tried to dilute, and tried to destroy the Bible, but they never can. It always stands. It always stands. The word of God. The media mocks God's word. Education institutions hate God's Word. Governments fear God's word. That's why they outlaw it. That's why they control it and restrict where it cannot be. Because governments fear the Word of God. But no one can ever destroy God's word. Number four, last of all, I put this down. God's word stands because it's influential. Hebrews 4. 12 says, the word of God is quick, that means alive and powerful, sharper than any two-edged sword By influential, I mean this. God's word is powerful, changes lives. It affects those who read it and believe it. It's influential. There never has been a book that has influenced nations like God's Word. There never has been a book that has influenced societies like God's Word. I like reading about the old preachers from a hundred years ago or so, and back in the old days. They would come into towns and They had nothing more than an old wore-out King James Bible, and their lungs and throats and voice boxes were wore out from preaching And they'd come into some community and they'd get up and put a tent up or some sort of tabernacle and they'd preach the old word of God. And I tell you, the Spirit of God would move, and entire communities were altered. Old Billy Sunday. Tell you if you're not familiar with the name Billy Sunday, you ought to get through some digging and learn about Billy Sunday. Baseball player got saved, become a great man of God, a great preacher of the Word of God. And he would go into towns all across the Midwest up in Pennsylvania, down through the east, and he would preach great revival meetings. And he did nothing but preach the word of God. And they said when he would leave town, liquor stores were closed up, houses of ill report were boarded up, churches were filled, entire communities were altered through the preaching of the Word of God. Tell you, there never has been a book as powerful as the Bible. Lives changed all across this auditorium. Myself, along with scores and scores of others, can stand up and say my life was altered By the word of God, what it taught me, what it said to me, life was changed. Amen or not? Can I get a witness? This book will make drunkards sober, this book will make liars honest. This book will make harlots pure. It'll take sinners on their way to hell and turn them around and send them on their way to heaven. The power of the Word of God. Most influential book that's ever been penned because it's the Word of God. It's the Word of God. This whole world's been affected by the Bible. There never has been a book as powerful as the Bible. There never has been a book that's changed lives like the Word of God. Say, what can that Bible do for me? I'll tell you what the Bible can do for you. It can give assurance that you're on your way to heaven and not to hell. No other book can do that. Some great I I have some good friends that have written some great books, and I have some great books in my library that I Very much enjoy or very, very helpful. But I tell you, there's no book like the Bible. There's no book that man wrote can tell me how to get to heaven with confidence. The Bible tells me that I can know for sure my sins are forgiven, that when I die, I'm on my way to heaven and not to hell. The Bible tells me that I can know that my sins are forgiven. I've been cleansed by the blood of Jesus Christ. This book can tell me about that new life I have in Christ. The Bible, you say, why should what can the Bible do for me? I tell you it can point you to Christ and lead you to everlasting salvation. Tells me how to be saved. It tells me how I know I'm saved. You'll never find a hope-so salvation in the Word of God. God doesn't deal with hope-so God doesn't deal with maybes and might-be's. God deals with assurance and confidence. The Bible says God created the world. It's not maybe he did, he might have. I think so. I hope he didn't know. He did. God says he'll save a soul, he'll say, that might be, hopefully, might be, could be, should be. No. He saves the soul. That's what the Bible, the Word of God, tells us. What can the Bible do for me? Or give me assurance of my salvation? I know for sure, now hear me out. I know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven After service here a little bit, we'll fellowship a little round, talk a little bit. Eventually I'm going to go back to my home, cross the road. And I cross that road, Broadford Road here, the speed limit's 25. The average speed of people driving down the road is 75, I think. I tell you, it's like it's like I feel like a y you ever see that little game frogger? That's what I feel like going across the road. God forbid, but this afternoon maybe I'll walk across the road, some Mac truck come up over that hill, 75 miles an hour, spLAP I know for sure. At that moment I was hit, I know for sure I go to heaven, not to hell. Now hear me out. You say, well, you think you're really something, huh? You're some goody goody two-shoes. You're whole you're so holy, you go to heaven. No, I'm not so holy I go to heaven. I'm no goody two shoes. I know me better than you do. I'm nothing more than a rotten, dirty sinner. But the word of God tells me. If I call in the name of the Lord and trust what Jesus Christ did for me in that cross and taken responsibility for my sins, And being judged by God for my sins. Buried, rose again, that if I call on him and trust him as my personal Savior, my sins are forgiven. I can know I'm on my way to heaven, not to hell. That's what the Word of God will do for you. That's the power of the Word of God. Old Elon Musk, SpaceX, they can send a rocket to Mars, but they can't get anybody to heaven. Only God can do that through the Word of God because of the cross of Jesus. You follow what I'm saying? What can that Bible do for me? Well, you Bible, you're talking about the Bible all the time. What'll it do for me? I'll tell you what it'll do for you. Give assurance of your salvation. I'll tell you there's nothing in the world like knowing I'm going to heaven, not to hell We can stand on the Bible. 1 Peter 1 23 says, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the Word of God, which liveth and abideth forever. I can stand behind this pulpit, and I can preach and teach with absolute confidence that what this book says is so. I can preach that God will save your soul if you'll turn your sin and trust Christ to your personal savior. I can preach with confidence that that'll happen because God's word says so. I can preach, I can stand behind this pulpit and preach with confidence that there's a very real place called heaven, there's a very real place called hell, I can preach that with confidence because God's word says so. I can stand behind this pulpit and preach with confidence that the wages of sin is death. Not because I think so, not because the board beacon board has voted that so. No, because God's word says so I can stand behind this pulpit and preach with confidence the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. I can preach that with confidence because the Bible says so. It's not something we concocted and come up ourselves. It's the Word of God. Our Sunday school teachers down in the classrooms, downstairs, and They can stand in those classrooms and with an open Bible, they can teach with confidence that what they're saying from the Bible is true. We're not interested in a hope-so, think-so-made-so Christianity. We want a know-so. What God says, what God says. It's influential, it's powerful. We can go out on doorsteps. All through our community. Teams are going to go out this afternoon. We go out Thursdays. I go out every Saturday, sometimes during the week. We step on the doorstep, knock on the door, say, can I show you from the Bible how you can know for sure you go to heaven, not to hell when you die? If they let us, I can open my Bible with absolute confidence and tell that person from the Bible how they can have their sins forgiven, go to heaven, not to hell. I can tell them that with absolute confidence from the Word of God. On the street corners, in the marketplaces. I was talking to Ken Reeves yesterday. Their church started something. They go up on Route 40 and they hold up big signs: you must be born again. The wages of sin is dead And they can stand there with the scripture verses on a board with absolute confidence knowing that what they're saying is absolutely true. He told me yesterday people stopped by and hey I've got some questions about that They've had people come out to church because they're holding a big sign up alongside the road there. You must be born again. That's the power of the Word of God. It's influential. What do I get out of the Bible? I can get assurance of my salvation. We say, why should I care? I'll tell you what the Bible can do for you. It can protect you against sin. Psalm 119, wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word. You know, we do what this Bible says, it'll protect us against sin. I'm talking to folks, I know for a fact, every single one of us have what the Bible calls besetting sins. Areas we're vulnerable in, areas we're susceptible in. Some of us know what they are, some of us don't. You ought to find out what your besetting sin is so you can deal with it. My Bible and this book can help protect me from giving in to the sins I'm vulnerable in. Powerful. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way, taking heed that thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. The Bible is a powerful protection against sin. If we let it, it can change our life and clean up our hearts and minds. We can live good, clean, godly lives by the power of this book. I I when I uh first got saved I worked a meat packing plant. And I didn't do I didn't even think anything of it, I just took my Bible with me, because I was reading and I got saved and I was just reading it every day and at lunch I'd read it. These guys come up and say, Preacher, you're some kind or they didn't say preacher. Uh they they call me other names. Um So Letterman, you're some kind of weirdo, aren't you? I said, I don't know, but I tell you, this book's been good for me This book's been good for me. When I was a youth pastor, I used to tell young people, you ought to get your big old Bible and carry it around with you at school. Uh kids aren't going to try and get you to do wrong. You carry that thing around. They'll run away from you And uh praise sir those kids are always trying to get me to smoke and vape and smoke pot. I tell you, get your big old Bible carried around, they'll back off Pretty quick. Say, ah, only cowards are Christians. I d I'm just gonna say I dare you, I don't uh I challenge you. If you think only chickens Christians are cowards, you get you a big old black King James Family Bible Carry that thing around for a while, that takes some guts. Especially in some of the workplaces, school. Carry that around, see what happens And better yet, you get some bully or somebody that thinks they're really something to say, here carry this for an hour. I don't know how I got off on that, but um What I'm trying to say is this. This whole book's pretty powerful. It can clean up our lives. Protect us from sin. I'll end with this. It reveals to us the will of God. Listen, don't come to me and say, I don't know what God's will is if you're not reading your Bible. God's will is found in the Word of God. The will of God is found in the Word of God. And by the way, the will of God never contradicts the word of God. Don't come to me and tell me that it's God's will that I do this. If what you're saying contradicts the Bible, I know it's not God's will. Teaches us how to live. The Bible tells us God's will for our holes. What a husband is supposed to do and not do, how he's supposed to treat his wife and family. Tells a wife, what kind of wife she should be, and how she should treat her husband and her family. Tells us the will of God concerning children and how they're to respond to their parents' leadership and authority. It tells us how the world home is supposed to function. It tells us God's will for the church, as I mentioned a moment ago, the purpose of our existence and how we're to function. The Bible tells us that. The will of God for Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. The will of God for our individual lives. Do I serve the Lord with my life? Am I called into the ministry? Am I called to be a preacher, a missionary? God's Word will lead you and direct you. And all of that reveals to us the will of God, tells us who we are and where we came from, why we're here and where we're going. The Word of God, here's my point. The Bible stands. And it will forever. And we can put absolute confidence in what that book says is so. We can live by it. And this whole world may hate it, this whole world may reject it, but I'm telling you, we, if we're wise, we're going to hold to it and live it and believe it and live it and obey it. Amen? Anybody recognize the name Brezhnev in the old timers? He was the leader of one of the most atheistic nations that have ever existed: Russia. USSR. They hated churches. They destroyed they outlawed Christianity unless They would have the sanction of the government, and that basically meant you don't have Christianity, you do what we tell you to do. One of the most atheistic nations ever. Brezhnev was the leader He was hardcore atheist. He hated God. He hated the Bible. He hated Christianity. And he was very vocal about it. Brezhnev died. George Bush, Sr. , the daddy, was sent as vice president. He was sent to the funeral as a representative of America to the funeral of Brezhnev. He told a story. He said when he was there at that funeral, of course, there was no Christianity about it at all. There's no hope. Hey, there is no hope in atheism. No hope. Despair and emptiness. He said he sat there as a representative of the United States. He saw the funeral, the ceremony they went through. He said, Brezhnev's wife stood right beside that casket like a statue. Never moved. He said, right as the soldiers stationed there, right as they were about to put the lid down on the casket, Rejnev's wife did something completely out of order. He said, he saw her. He said, I saw her with my own eye. She stepped over there as they were about to put the lid down, and she reached over the chest of Brezhnev and she made a sign of the cross. On his dead body. He said this. He said, What an act of rebellion On her part. He said, I believe in her mind there was a glimmer of possibility that he was wrong. And that maybe Christianity really is the only hope in life. And she did the only thing she knew to do and made the sign of a cross on him. The most hardened atheist, perhaps, that may have ever lived, the leader of the most one of the most atheistic nations that have ever existed And right before they close the lid, she puts the sign of the cross. I'm here to tell you that sign of the cross did nothing for Brezhnev Did nothing. But it tells me that in his wife's heart and mind there was a fear and a concern. Maybe there really is a hell. Maybe there really is a heaven. And maybe Christianity is the only hope for escaping hell and going to heaven. Now she was misplaced. That little cross, you can cross your heart and hope to die all you want. It's not going to get you to heaven. I'm here to tell you we have a more sure word of a More sure word to know that we're going to heaven, not to hell, than some cross your heart and hope to spit. We have the eternal, inerrant, inspired, indestructible. Word of God, and that's where our hope and our confidence is. In the Word of God, I want to urge you, believe it. Take it for what it says. Obey its instructions. Heed its warnings. Claim its promises. Live by its examples. I'll tell you, we're on solid ground when we do that. Amen? Father, I ask you to bless now our invitation. I ask dear Lord that you would help us to hold to that book no matter what direction this old world goes. And when all around us we see people walking away from it, rejecting it and denying it, Lord, help us to hold true. Help us to stand firm on the Word of God. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many say, preacher, I'm saved according to the Bible. I have a Bible basis for my salvation, but I need to make that book more of an authority in my life than it has been And I need to get that thing where it needs to be. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that book as the governor of my life. God bless you, hands all around. Maybe I'm talking to some Christians. You're not reading the Bible on a daily, regular, daily basis. And I'm telling you right now, you really, really need to establish that. And get that book on a daily basis and start reading it and memorizing it and learning it. It's God's word Quit neglecting it. Say I need to get it back. Any like that, uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I need to quit neglecting my Bible. I have got to get in that day. God bless you, hands all around, young and old I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, I need to share the message of the Bible with others. My mouth is just zipped up so much, and I don't say anything to folks that need the truth of the Word of God He'd say, preacher, pray with me. I'll be more bold, more in my witness for the Lord. Anything like that by the uplifting hand. Sure. God bless you all around, young and old. Now, maybe you're here this morning and you don't have assurance that your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. You don't want to die and go to hell, believe me. My Bible, this word of God, will tell you how you can know your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. You'd say, preacher, pray for me. I'd like to have that settled. I'd like to have that assurance in my heart and mind. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. Preach or pray for me. I need to get this matter of my soul's salvation settled. Maybe you're away from the Lord. Maybe you've been backslidden or out of God's will. Maybe today God's calling you. Come on back. Come on back to the will of God. Come on back to the Word of God. I'll tell you, God will take you in and he'll help you. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.