Chapter forty we're studying through this chapter, it's one of uh it's one that has significance for me after I first got saved. I think I mentioned this a number of times, but Just, you know, just getting saved, this chapter just connected with me in such a way. We looked at the first few verses about waiting patiently the Lord, inclined unto me, heard my cry Brought me up out of a horrible pit, set my uh in the miry clay, set my feet upon a rock, established my goings, put a new song in my heart. And now we're down to verse number five And notice what he says here. He says, Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done. Thy thoughts, which are to usword, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they're more than can be numbered I have various titles I wrestle with. I'm not real great at coming up with clever titles, so I just titled it God's Works and God's Thoughts And so let's pray and we'll look at this tonight. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of this small portion of Scripture. And Lord, I believe there's a lot of truth here that can help us And Father, we ask that you would just speak to our hearts and help us tonight and challenge us and help us learn the lesson that's given here, I pray. Fill me with your Spirit. And please speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We broke this whole chapter down before, and if you remember, we had mentioned the first five verses David is praising the Lord. He's praising God for what he's done for him. And it's just the whole first five verses there are just praise. And David was a tremendously gifted man. If you got in on our study in the life of David on Wednesday nights, it's been a little while ago, but uh we noticed about David he was a tremendously gifted man, he was a tremendous leader And we noted some leadership characteristics in his life, we noticed there when he became king and some of his maneuvering the ark into the capital and different things like that. He was a great warrior He won battles. Saul slew his thousands. David his what? Ten thousands. He was a phenomenal warrior. He's fearless and victorious in battle. He was a tremendous musician. Uh if you remember when Saul, the evil spirit, would come on Saul, he'd bring David in, he played on his instruments, and it would calm Saul down. And so David was gifted in many ways, but I want to suggest to you one thing David excelled at above all else, above his his battle for his battlefield uh abilities, above his music musical abilities. One thing David excelled at, and that is this. He excelled at praising God He was a tremendous. The Psalms we read of David and how he would praise God. I'm convinced that praising God is one of the greatest habits that a Christian ought to get into. Just developing a consistent attitude of praise to God for what He's done. I tell you, that'll see us through a lot of rocky times. That'll help us in a lot of ways, learning to praise God. And the thing about David was he perfected the ability, he perfected the ability to praise God regardless of what the circumstances are. How many people would agree with me? It's easy to praise God when the sun's shining, it's 80 degrees, and the birds are singing, the bills are paid, my health My blood work is good, my blood pressure is right. It's easy to please God when everything's gone right, right or wrong. But I was thinking when Austin sang about um Uh Lord giveth, the Lord taketh away. I thought yesterday the Lord gave fifty degree weather and sunshine, and he took it all away. It was easy for me to praise God yesterday. Now today it's cold, wind, blowing, snow, sub-zero temperatures, you know, crowds are down. David had the unique And tremendous ability, he perfected it at praising God, whether he was in the cave of Adolam hiding from King Saul. Or whether he's sitting on the throne. You read some of the Psalms of tremendous praise that David wrote. We don't have time to look at them all. He wrote many of these tremendous Psalms of praise. David wrote them when King Saul was hounding him all around the backside of his desert. I don't know about you, but probably me and most of us, we wouldn't be writing psalms of praise when I'm running for my life. I'd be calling CLA. You know? I'd be calling nine one one. But David's praising God. And um and you say, well, uh, he probably just had uh He probably had one of those personalities that everything's positive. Anyone know ever know anybody like that? Just their personality It's just everything's wonderful. You know, you s you say, uh, how's this? Oh, this is the best food I've ever eaten in my life. It's a hot dog, beanie weenies, you know. And um they just have a personality that That David, his praise of God was not because of a type of personality he had. David's praise in God was because of a tremendous strong faith in God. I believe David could praise God in any and every circumstance because he was absolutely confident Had absolute confidence in the goodness of God. He was convinced that God is good, whether my circumstances are favorable or not, God is still good. You follow me? And so David had this attitude of prayer. If you would, praise, keep your place here, because I want to break down this verse a little bit. But come back just a page or two to Psalm 34 and look with me, if you would, at verse 1. Now, if your Bible has above verse number one, it tells you what the circumstances are, what the background is of this psalm. How many people have a little note there above verse one? Now, notice what it is. It says a psalm of David, when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away, and he departed. Now, if you remember the circumstance there, David is fleeing from King Saul. He decides he's going to defect, not really defect, that's not the right word, but he's going to go over uh to the Philistines and he's going to uh hide with them to avoid King Saul And the king there, Abimelech, realized this is David. And David acts like he's insane. Does anybody remember that story? And he's spitting, he's acting like he's got spittle coming out, and he's scratching at the door, and he's acting like he's insane. So that's the situation. Look what David writes when he's in that condition. He's in enemy territory. He's he's afraid for his life. He's humiliating himself to save his life. King Saul's been chasing him for a year or two. And look what he says, verse one. I will bless the Lord at all times. His praise shall continually be in my mouth. My soul shall make her boast in the Lord The humble shall uh hear thereof and be glad. Oh, magnify the Lord with me. Let us exalt his name together. Isn't that something? Oh, when most, when your average person be griping and complaining and scared and uh oh this is terrible, everything's terrible. David says, I'm going to bless the Lord at all times. I'm going to praise him at all times. I'm telling you, he had A tremendous ability to praise God regardless of the circumstances. And I say again, it wasn't because he had some tremendous positive attitude, personality He had absolute confidence that regardless of what he was dealing with, God was still good, and in the end, everything is going to be alright. And so David's ability to praise God. David could praise God in changing circumstances because of his faith in an unchanging God. Sometimes I'm happy, sometimes I'm blue. My disposition depends on you. Right? Well, I'm happy if everything's going my way, then happy, praise the Lord, it's wonderful. Everything goes bad, people aren't nice to me. Oh, everything stinks, everything's lousy. David was able to. Now I don't know about you, I would like to learn to praise. How many people were here would like to be happy in the Lord regardless of what the circumstances are? I'd like to learn to do that I'd like to be able to praise the Lord, regardless of how people treat me, what people think of me, just live in my own little world of praise. You know? And we can. If we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm going to touch on that here a bit. We can praise the Lord regardless of circumstance. Now, if I want to learn to praise the Lord, if you want to learn to praise the Lord. Like in all circumstances, all situations, then study David, because he knew how. He learned that. He could do it. Praising the Lord. Having an attitude of gratitude and an attitude of praise regardless of circumstances. Now, I said all that to get back to verse number 5 and 40, because I see three things Here in this passage that teach me and can help me to praise the Lord like I should. Number one, I put this down. I notice the progressive nature Of David's praise, the progressive nature. Now, what do we mean by progressive? We say the progressive nature of his praise. We mean it is doing what? It's progressing. You guys are brilliant. The progressive nature. It's growing. It's increasing in quality and in amount. Verse number one, he says, I waited patiently for the Lord, he inclined into me and heard my cry. Right there, that's in that's a praise, indirect praise. God heard me. He listened to me. He's praising God for hearing that. Then he builds on that. He brought me up also. Not only did that, but he brought me up also out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock So he praises God for his salvation. He starts out praising God for his salvation from this horrible pit in this miry clay. And we talked a we've been talking a lot about that. We don't know exactly what it was, but whatever it was, it was very, very unpleasant. And God got him out of it, and he's praising God for salvation from the horrible pit and the Merry Clay. Oh But then he doesn't stop there. When he's done praising God for that, then he adds to it. It progresses. And he says, out of the mighty play, and Not just that. He set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. If you remember, we noted that. What he's saying is God stabilized my life. He got me out of this mess I got myself in or I found myself in, Harbopit My. Woo! Praise the Lord, he got me out of that. Not only that I got thinking about that. Not only did he get me, man, he set my phone in a rock. He stabilized my life. No more in and out, up and down, on and off. I've got direction. I've got stability And then notice in verse number three, he says, and all right, there's more. This praise is progressing in amount, in intensity. He established my going. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear and shall trust in the Lord. So now he's praising God for a new song. Do you see the progressive nature of what's taking place here? I cry, Lord, he heard me. God listened to me. I tell you, just the fact that God listens to me when I talk to him is something to praise him about. Then he got me out of the mess. And then he settled me down. And then he put a song in my heart. And now we get to verse number five. And this is progressing. And now he's uh praising God for this superabundance of what God has done for him and God's thoughts towards him. He's progressing. I put it this way, in verses 1 and 2, the first part of verse 2, he praises God for where he was, what God took him out of. I think it's good for you and I periodically to stop and remember where God brought us from. Just look back and remember, man, where I was. God thank you. You ever hear somebody say this? I'm not all I ought to be, but praise God, I'm not what I was. How many folks here you saved to know it? Say amen. Listen, we got something to praise God about if we just think about the fact that we were lost, now we're saved. Would you agree with me? If God never did another thing for me, that'd be something to praise God for all eternity, right there. But that doesn't stop. Then he praises God, not just for where he was, but he praises God for keeping him from where he could be. He set my feet upon a rock. I could just be out there in the world wandering around. But he settled things down. I'm not uh I thank God uh from where he brought me from and praise God, uh I'm uh where I could have been, I'm not where I could have been. Anybody here ever think where you'd be right now if you hadn't gotten saved when you did get saved? I'm pretty sure I'd be dead and in hell right now. Pretty certain of that, if God hadn't saved me. That's something to praise God about right there. Amen. Where it came from, where I could be, and He's kept me from that. And then what God's doing through in my life now. You may not know this or not. You're pretty faithful. You're out at church on a windy, snowy night. God is using your testimony, whether you realize it or not. People see that. People notice that. I'm still convinced that we have more influence than we realize If we name the name of Christ and we make an attempt to live for the Lord, that is a testimony that God can use. And that's something to praise God about. And so he this progressive nature, this progressive nature, I put this down. Praise, praise prompts praise. If I'll start here here's here's what I'm tak this is what I took away from this in in pr studying this. I was looking at this progressive nature. This is what I took away from it. If I want to learn to praise God regardless of the circumstances I begin by praising God for the obvious things. If I can learn to praise God for the obvious good things He's done for me, and instill that into my character, into my lifestyle, into my way of thinking, praising God for the obvious things, then I can build on that And I'll be able to praise God even for things that even aren't so obvious on the surface that God is in it. You follow what I'm trying to say? If I learn to praise God for the obvious things, then I find myself in a circumstance. It might not be that pleasant. It might be people against me, whatever, a health issue, whatever But because I've learned to praise God for the obvious, I build on that, and I can start praising God even for this sickness And I can praise God even for this setback. And I can see God's hand, and I know regardless of what's happened to me God is still good. And if I learn to praise Him for the obvious things to praise about, I'll develop the ability to praise Him when things aren't so obvious. So here's my challenge. What I I got here's my challenge on this first thought is how about this week? Let's just decide we're going to start praising God for the things that we can obviously praise Him for And we all have, with nothing else, we got our salvation. Just get up and say, oh it's snowing, it's blowing, uh, eh. I'm going to praise God, He saved my soul. How many people would rather be in a snowstorm than in hell? Alright, so we got something to praise God right there for, right? So we get that settled and start learning habitually to praise God for that, then I can build on that. And I can build on that, build on that. And so I see this progressive nature. Number two, I put this down. I notice the personal nature of his praise. It's progressive. He's one thing after another. He's adding to that. Oh yeah, I can praise God for this. Oh yeah, I can praise God. Oh, you know what? I can praise God for this too. Now we see the personal nature. Look at verse 5, and there's a word. I read this thing probably 15 times. I read this verse, starting out trying to break it down. And there's one word about ten times into reading it, one word stuck out at me. It's the fourth word in the verse. Many, O Lord My God are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, thy thoughts which thou art to us word. My God. He doesn't just say, Many, O Glord God. are thy wonderful works. He says, Many, O Lord, say it with me, my God, my God. Verses 1 through 4, if you'll pay attention, if you notice the wording here carefully, verses 1 through 4, he's talking to others about what God did for him. He's declaring, he declined to me, heard my voice, God, he did this, and he did this, and he did that, and God did this, and God did this. Then you get to verse 5, and the audience changes He's not talking to others. Who's he talking to in verse 5? He's talking to the Lord. He's talking to God. He's changed the direction of his conversation, his praise, and he's directing it. And here's the thing I got. He's not just praising God. He's praising my God. My God. David's praise was not some ritualistic praise It wasn't, David's praise wasn't some sort of secondhand. I heard about something this God did for somebody, and uh, oh, praise God for that. His praise was intensely personal. His praise was genuine because his praise of God was based upon the fact that he knew God personally. God wasn't just some entity out there that created everything and well we'll praise this God that created everything. No, no, no. So I praise my God. I know him, and he knows me. We have a relationship. I am his, and he is mine. And I tell you, praise that is based upon a relationship with God is praise that is genuine. It's not just what I heard about God. It's what I know God is. I know what he's done for me. I know who he is. I like that song in the garden. Come to the garden of the Lord, and He walks with me. And he talks with me. And he tells me, I am his own. That is a song, that song is a song of praise. And it's a praise of this relationship that the hymn writer had with his God. And that's what David is doing here. My God did this for me. He's mine. I know him. It's one thing to praise God for what I've been told about Him. It's another thing to praise God for what I've experienced in my relationship with Him. He's praising God because he knows God. He has a relationship. And the challenge for you and I is this Do you and I have. Now think about what a relationship is. Do you and I have a relationship with this God? That created this world that died for myself. Do I have a relationship, a give and take, back and forth, interacting? Relationship. Walks with me, talks me. I talk to him. I walk with him. It's what David had. It's my God. It's my God. I think one of the one of the most important endeavors in my Christian life Is not just establishing a relationship with the Lord when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, but maintaining and developing that relationship throughout my life. As members of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, every single one of us ought to endeavor and work very diligently To maintain and establish a very intimate, a very real, living relationship with the God that we've created I'll tell you something that's gripped my mind, maybe my imagination to an extent, over the last several years, is the fact that God is here. And right now, you and I, we are in the presence of God that created us, the God that met with Moses on the Mount Sinai, the God that parted the rivers, the God that answered Elijah's prayers. That God is right here. He's paying attention. I we have his attention. Can't see him, I can't feel him, can't hear him, but he's here And through Jesus Christ, this holy God, I can have a relationship. He can speak to me through his word I can get on my knees. I can pray and pour my heart and talk to him, and he's right there. He walks with me and he talks with me. And he tells me, assures me from scripture that I'm his own. David said, It's my God I'm praising. My God. 2 Timothy 1, verse 12, Paul put it this way: He said, I know whom I have believed. And then persuaded. It's interesting how he words that. He doesn't say, I know what I believed. I'd venture to say many of us, at least we should, most of us surely, would know what we believe Well you believe, well I believe that old King James Bible, that's the word of God. Amen. That's wonderful, that's great, and we need we need that. Well I know Jesus is God, He's divine. Amen. Praise the Lord, that's important. We need to understand. I know Jesus coming. That's one thing. That's great, wonderful. Paul said, I know whom. I don't know just the doctrine about him, but I know him. I know him. So this was a personal, the personal nature of his praise. Let me put it this way. Let me challenge us this way. Maybe some of us Don't praise God much because we really don't know God very well. Hmm? Maybe some of us don't praise God much because we don't have a very good relationship with Him. I've found, I'm coming to the conclusion after all these years, that the better, the better a Christian gets to know God, the more they're going to want to praise Him I think about and I've uh mentioned her many, many times over the years, but little Anna Nixon Kate down in Chattanooga, Tennessee, in the inner city projects. I mean You can't find you find the roughest area around here in Garrett County. I mean the most poverty, rough drugs, all that. You find the roughest area in the world. I guarantee you it's a hundred times better than where Mrs. Tate lived It was inner city ghetto horrible. We go and visit her, and I'm telling you, today here it is 40 years later. My heart still stirred to think about her and how she would praise God there in that in that ghetto, in that government housing. And just the sweetest lady grew up in Alabama, suddenly About pick cotton, segregation, treated horribly, just because of the color of her skin. She loved Jesus. And she would praise God and praise God. You know why she could praise God so much? I'm convinced of this. Because she had a relationship with him. She knew him. She knew what he was. She knew how much he loved her. She knew what he had in store for her someday. She knew what he did for her on the cross. And she just praised him and praised him. I think sometimes we don't praise God because our relationship with the Lord just isn't that hot. The closer we get to Jesus, I'm telling you, the closer you get to Jesus, the more you want to praise Him. Do you ever have someone from a distance you really thought they were something? Man, ah, they're they're really great. Then you got to know them and you're like, ew, yuck. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's the exact opposite with Jesus. Before I got saved, Jesus, what are you a freak? I don't yeah. I tell you, when I trust him, got a relationship. Now he's wonderful to me. I can't praise him enough. Amen. Are you with me tonight? Everybody with me? And so David's praise, first of all, was progressive. He learned, he started praising God just for some answer prayer. He got me out of a mess. And then, oh yeah, and I'll praise him for getting me settled and and stay Oh yeah. And I'll praise him. He put a song in my oh yeah and he's done all these wonderful works and his thoughts towards me. I can't add them up I just can't praise him enough. And it all started with praising God for the obvious. And he's overwhelmed with all that God did. And then it's personal and last of all I am with this. How many people were waiting for that statement right there? Yeah. The third one, I noticed the proclamation of his praise. Look at the last part of verse 5. He says, Many, O Lord, my God. I underlined that word, my. Many, O Lord, many, O Lord, my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done. Do you hear the praise coming out? And thy thoughts which are to usward, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. The word thoughts there has plans and purposes for my life. He says, I can't even I can't even add it up All that you've got planned for me, Lord. Then he says, This, if I would declare and speak of them. Now I got studying that, and the idea, I believe the idea behind that is this. I want to. I want to declare all that Christ has done for me, all my God has done for me. I want to speak of them. But look what he says. I would declare and speak of them, but they are more than can be numbered. He's saying this: God has done so much for me. He uses the term wonderful works. I got study on it. Those wonderful works are like things that I could not do for myself. My God did for me. Things that others couldn't do for me. My God did for me. These wonderful. The word wonderful means almost supernatural, kind of like something beyond man's ability. These wonderful works. And then he says, thy thoughts. Oh, the word wonderful means extraordinary, beyond human ability. And then he says, God cares for me so much, his thoughts, his plans, his purposes, his concern for me. Oh, I want to tell you about it. I want to declare What God has done for me. No one else could do it. And all his thoughts, his love and concern for me, I want to declare it. But where in the world do I begin? Ha ha! If I would speak of them, they're more than can be numbered. I don't even know where to start In John chapter 21, verse 25, John ends his gospel, and he makes this statement about Jesus. He says And I'm putting in my own words here, but he says something to the effect that if all that Jesus did, if all the wonderful things Jesus did were recorded in books, listen to this. The whole world could not contain the books that would be written about him. I think that's kind of what David is saying here. Man. If I would declare all that God has done for me and how good He's been to me and His plans, His love and concern, if I said that, I don't even, I couldn't say it all He's overwhelmed with the amount of blessings and joy. Now remember, this is a man that failed God totally. On more than one occasion. This is a man that was hunted like a dog out in the wilderness. This is a man, his own children turned against him. And yet he says, God's been so good to me. He's done so many wonderful things and his plans, his purposes for me. I want to declare it. I want to tell you about him. I don't even know where to begin, there's so many. David knew how to praise God. He knew how to rejoice in the Lord, regardless of what his circumstances were Revelation, we could go through the book of Revelation. We find out that in eternity, when you and I get to into eternity, You want to guess what the book of Revelation tells us we're going to be doing through the rest of all eternity? Anybody want to guess? Griping and complaining. One lady always down on earth, all she ever did was gripe and complain about everything. Finally she went to heaven and one of the other Uh people in heaven came up to her and said, What do you think about heaven? Well, it ain't like home. You read the book of Revelation, we're going to be praising God for all eternity. God's been so we get to heaven and realize all that Christ and our Lord has done for us, it's going to take all eternity. We number them up, we can't even number them up. It's going to take all eternity to praise them for it. I want to learn to praise God like that. I want to have that spirit, that attitude. And I just praise God. Progressive, personal. And proclaiming it. I want this world. Wouldn't it be wonderful? Wouldn't this be wonderful? Now the world, the religion twists what praise is. Praise is not a rock concert That's ridiculous. Praise is love and gratitude and exaltation of our Lord and Savior in holiness. Godliness. Wouldn't it be wonderful if you go out into our community and they'd say, What do you know about Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church? What do you know about those folks out there on Broadford Road? Wouldn't it be something if they would say, Well, I don't know a whole lot about one thing I know. They love Jesus They praise them. They're thankful for what God has done for them out there. Wouldn't that be a great testimony? I think that would empower our gospel witness tremendously. David developed that. I want to learn from David. I want to learn to praise God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask Lord you'd help us and teach us. From David to learn to praise you and rejoice in you and exalt you. Help us in our relationship with you. Do not let it be stagnant Just become a rut, going through motions, but God, Holy Spirit, I ask you to stir in our hearts to have a living, living relationship with you, alive, real. walking with you and talking with you and you talking with us on a regular daily basis. I wonder heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would join me in saying, preacher, I want to learn to praise God like he would want me to. Anybody like that, my hands raised. Good heavens. I find myself not too often. Or if there's some say, preacher, I got a situation that's just overwhelming, circumstance, and it's just hard. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me and I can see beyond that and see the Lord high and lifted up on his throne. I can do what the choir said and just bow the knee. And worship him and praise him. And see beyond that need. Is there any like that? I need that in my heart and life. God bless you. My hands raised. Maybe an old altar on a snowy January night would be a good place to kneel and just say, Lord, fill my heart, your spirit, and your praise. Father, bless the invitation. Now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.