It's chapter four and verse number Dorothy laughs no matter what odd joke I give. She thinks they're great, so that's why I like her so much Verse number 13. We're looking at this last objection of Moses. We spent a long time just looking at these in great detail. God's course called him, commissioned him to go down to Egypt, and he doesn't want to. So he kept throwing up these objections. Here's his last one. We already started at this. I'm going to finish it up tonight But he says, verse 13, he says to the Lord, O my Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of whom thou wilt send. Now there's little discussion about what exactly he's saying there, the wording is a little unclear in in English here. But my understanding as I look at this, I believe he's telling the Lord, he's saying to the Lord, listen, find somebody else. I'm not going to do it He gave all these objections, God answered each one, now he says, find somebody else, send by whom you will, send somebody else, I'm not going. So God responds to that And verse 14, he says, And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses, and he said, Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well, and also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee And when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart. And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth, and I will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye shall do. And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people. And he shall be, even he, shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him instead of God Thou shalt make thou shalt take this rod in thy hand, wherewith thou shalt do signs. So this final objection uh of Moses where he's not willing. So let's look at this last God's response, this last part of God's response here. Let's pray together. Father, I thank you for the life of Moses, the impact He had upon this world for thousands and thousands of years the lives that have been impacted by his testimony and the faith that has been challenged on so many of your people by Moses' faith And Lord, as we look at his struggle here with your call in his life, his struggle with being willing to answer that call and submit to your will, I pray we could learn from that. God, I ask now that you would fill me with your Spirit and help me to be true to your word, and that your word would do what you promised it would do, bear fruit in our lives and strengthen our faith and help us grow. So fill me again with your spirit and speak through me, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. We notice in this last objection we already looked at Moses finally being very honest. And again, this is my take on it, but I think he was the whole time he didn't want to go. And uh he just kept throwing objections up and God would answer each one. I don't know if he thought You know, when we first threw fur threw the first one up, who am I? God would say, well, maybe you're well, you're nobody. You're right. I made a mistake. I'll get somebody else. I don't know what he was thinking But he finally gets to this point and he says, send somebody else, I'm not willing. So he be he's being honest. And we looked at that Then we notice the anger of the Lord. And we saw that in verse number 14, the immediate response. When Moses makes that statement in verse 13, the immediate response of God is anger. The anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. Now we looked at that in depth, and if you remember, last week I tried to compare what the Bible says about God's anger as opposed to man's anger. And they're very, very different. The bases of both of them are very different. In fact, if you remember, we pointed out multiple times God says that we as humans, as fallen human beings, were to put off anger. Or to put it off. Like you take a coat off. You get angry, put it off. And so we we went into depth of that We noted that God's anger is never, and I want to touch on this, then we'll move on. God's anger is never impulsive. It's always deliberate. It's always for a purpose. And I want to suggest it is always, it's almost like a tool that God uses. To get man's attention, to alter man's sinful behavior, and to redirect man's will. And you see that through Scripture. Now, something I want to point out that we didn't touch on last week When Moses says there, at verse 13, when Moses says, O my Lord, send, I pray thee, by the hand of whom thou wilt send, and the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. Here's the thing to keep in mind. God knew that Moses was going to make that statement long before Moses ever made the statement. In fact At the before that burning bush, before God ever confronted Moses at the burning bush, God knew That Moses was gonna they were gonna come to this point and Moses was gonna make that statement, right? Everybody on board with me on that? The reason we know that is because the Bible teaches us that God is omniscient. What does that mean? Omniscient means He's what? All-knowing. He knows the end from the beginning. And so when the Bible says when Moses says, Send by whom thou wilt send, and the anger of the Lord is kindled against Moses It wasn't because God suddenly reacted to something Moses said. He knew all along Moses was going to say that. God does not react, He acts. And there's a difference reaction or deliberate action Reaction is something happens and it provokes a reaction in me, emotional reaction maybe. That's what 99% of man's anger is, an emotional reaction To something that takes place, something that's said. God doesn't react. He knows far ahead of time what's going to happen. So And again, I'm a little bit repeating myself from last week. So God's anger here is really deliberate with the purpose of affecting Moses' will, of altering Moses' thinking, to getting him, I think, to Stop in his tracks and pay attention and realize how serious God really is about this. God isn't playing games And um we're going to see this here in a little bit, but God is determined to get the Hebrews out of Egypt That's going to happen. God is dead set on that. And God is determined to use Moses to bring that out of Egypt. Bring them out of Egypt. And so that's where we're at, God's anger. Now we want to look at what I'm calling God's arrangement. Notice, if you would, there, verse number 14, the anger of the Lord was kindled against Moses. And he said, Now God makes an arrangement. To accommodate Moses unwillingness to go down. Now Moses is going to go down, but I notice here God makes some arrangements. Notice what he says. Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well, and also, behold, he cometh forth to meet me. They probably hadn't seen each other for a long time. Moses has been in the wilderness for 40 years, so it's very very possible They hadn't interacted with each other for 40 years. And somehow God apparently stirred Aaron's heart to come up and find Moses. He's going to be glad to see his brother. We suspect it's like I said, it's been a very, very long time since they saw each other. And so God is accommodating, He's making arrangements so that Moses will cooperate. I found that many times, probably too often. God's people are willing to serve God as long as it fits in my plans. People are willing to serve God as long as it uh doesn't interfere with my vacation. Right? Willing to serve God as long as it isn't inconvenient for me. I got certain nights my favorite shows are on. I'm willing to serve God, but I won't be inconvenienced by it. Willing to serve God as long as it doesn't cost too much time, doesn't take too much time. You'd be willing to do this. God touches your heart about doing something. Well, Lord, I don't know. I don't I don't know how much time I have to be able to do that Um willing as it uh uh uh willing to serve God as long as it doesn't require too much effort Doesn't require too much money. How much is that going to cost, Lord? If I do what you're calling me to do, if I do what you're stirring my heart to do, how will it upset my schedule? And we want to serve God as long as serving God fits in to our schedule and our values and our time and our plans and our everything. None of what God was calling Moses to do fit his schedule. What God was calling Moses to do was hard. It was life-altering. And I've looked through scripture. We did this early on on this study here on this part of Moses' life, the call, and I can't find anywhere in Scripture where God called one of his men or one of his people, man or woman to something that was easy, to something that didn't require some sort of effort, in many cases tremendous effort. And didn't require an extended period of time, and 99% of the call of God required life-changing decisions. And like Moses, when those calls come and that challenge comes from the Lord so often Lord, I'll serve you, but but that's where Moses was. Moses was. What God was calling Moses to do was hard, it was costly, and it was life-changing. And Moses struggled with that, and he objected, and then finally he flat out refused. But God, as his nature is, was very patient with Moses. And he's very gracious. In every one of his objections, as we noticed in great detail, God responded with grace, he responded with patience. He tried to answer Moses' objections. He gave solutions to these problems Moses brought up that he saw in him going down there. And God answered every one of them. And then finally, it ends with God's anger. And God is relentless in his commission for Moses. He's not letting him off the hook. He's not getting away. He's not walking away from this. Moses will do what God is calling him to do. And so God's making arrangements with this. And the interesting thing is we're going to see here, and when we get to probably next week, God won the struggle for Moses' will. We have Moses' will here. God's will is here. They're in this conflict. God says go. Moses says no. They go back and forth, back and forth, and God ultimately wins the conflict. I made a statement at the beginning of this section of our study that whenever you get in an argument with God, God's going to win every single time. And God wins this argument with Moses finally. And God gives in. I don't know what God may be dealing with your heart In your Christian life, wherever you're at in your walk with God, wherever you're at in your Christian life, what the Lord may be doing. I know one thing, I know uh there's a lot of things I don't know, but one thing I do know is God is never satisfied Satisfied with us being stagnant, he always wants us to go forward. Constantly challenges us. He pulls us out of our comfort zone. Tell you, I have a world of respect for uh Derek and Ronnie Brant. These guys are teaching the Sunday school class, and I'm telling you, both of them will tell you immediately they are out of their comfort zone. And the interesting thing is, I didn't ask either of them to fill in there. God touched their heart. And said, I need you, I want you, my will for you is to fill in these places until we come up with something else. And both of them, though no doubt they struggled, they said yes. And they're doing the best they can, and I'll tell you, my hat's off to them. And so God's call is never easy. God's call is never convenient. It almost always costs something. It always requires some effort, life-changing effort. There's not one mission field that would be reached with the gospel if nobody was willing to sacrifice to go. Here's a statement I've been wanting to make through this study here. I'm convinced that if someone is willing to trust God, work hard, and sacrifice, God will use them to do great things. I'm convinced of that. What I'm finding, and this is no reflection on anybody in particular, I don't mean anybody in particular, but what I'm finding is there's a a spirit or an attitude that I want to serve God, but I I don't want to sacrifice any of my personal time. I don't want to have to work past a certain so many hours a week. I don't want to have to do this and I want to be paid for that And I want to be recompensed for this, and I want this, and it has to be this, and it has to fit into this thing. I'm telling you, those are that's not the attitude God uses to change a world and to reach a community with the gospel. What God uses is hard work, faith, sacrifice. God, I give myself 100%. What did Paul say? Paul said, I'm willing to die for the gospel's sake. And I tell you, we need that spirit back in our churches again. That's what built great churches in years gone by a commitment. And so God's winning this struggle for Moses' will. What he's asking him to do is incredibly difficult. What he's asked him to do is going to change his life forever. So God makes this arrangement for Moses, and apparently it satisfies Moses' concerns because he ends up down in Egypt. Apparently satisfied all his objections, and now he's going to go. I put this down as I got thinking about Moses. Sometimes God will accommodate our weak faith. Sometimes God will accommodate our lack of courage without changing his plan, but if we're just willing to let him have his way. Lord, I don't know if I have the faith. Lord, who am I? Nobody's going to believe me. They're going to ask who sent me? But finally, he got to the point where he's willing to do what God says in spite of his lack of courage, in spite of his lack of faith, and God says, now I can use you. Now I can use you. And so he makes this accommodation. I notice three three aspects of this arrangement the Lord has. uh for Moses to go down to Egypt. They finally at this point. The first thing, he arranges a partnership with Aaron He ranges a partnership. Look at the last part of verse 14. We said, he says, Is not Aaron thy Levite thy brother? I know he can speak well. And that phrase, I know he can speak well, has the idea. I got looking that up. It has the idea of He enjoys speaking and he's good at it. So apparently Aaron was a talker. He can speak well. He enjoys it. He can talk. I know he can speak well, and also behold, he cometh forth to meet thee. And when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart. As I said, they probably hadn't seen each other. Then come down to verse 16, and here's the actual partnership. This is where They work together, where God arranges for them to work together. And Aaron has no prop trouble with this. He cooperates immediately. But he says verse 16, and he, Aaron, shall be thy Moses' spokesman unto the people. And he shall be, even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth And thou shalt be to him instead of God. Now, obviously, having Aaron involved in this endeavor, this adventure, This mission to bring the Hebrews out of Egypt, obviously this was not God's initial intention for Aaron to go along with Moses. God's intention Was for Moses to go down there, Moses and God, and get the job done. But Moses resists, he he uh he he objects, finally he gives in, God says, All right Alright, I'll send Aaron with you. He'll be the spokesman, and you'll be to him as God. And I'll explain what that means here in a moment. I don't think that was God's original intention. In fact, I know it wasn't. And in fact, there are some problems with this down the road. With Aaron being in the mix of all of this. Aaron was no Moses. Aaron ended up being as much of a liability to Moses as he was a help, I'm afraid. If you remember, this is jumping way down. We're going to look at it some point down the road, but when Moses ends up on top of the Mount Zion getting the uh getting the commandments from the Lord, the instructions from the Lord, the walls of Israel from the Lord. Moses or Aaron gets impatient with the people. The people get impatient. Aaron gets impatient. And what's he end up doing? He ends up making a what? A golden calf. Total blantant idolatry. And he's impatient. Aaron shows impatience. He's dishonest. Moses said, What's the deal with this golden calf? Of course I'm putting my own words here. And Moses says, Oh, we just threw all the gold in the fire, and lo and behold, this calf came out. What are the stupid written on the top of my head that didn't happen? And then he blamed the people. Which he's the one that told them to bring their stuff, that they do that He proves himself to be a poor leader. When the people got restless, he didn't stand up against them. He didn't stand up for what was right. He didn't stand up for God and the truth. He didn't stand against wrong and unrighteousness and idolatry. And if you're going to be a leader among God's people, you've got to be able to stand for what is right and what is true and stand against what is wrong. Amen or not? And Aaron failed in this case and hurt Moses. Moses blew his stack By the way, let me back up here. Again, coming back to God's anger and man's anger, you look at God's anger, it produced the will of God in the life of Moses Moses had a struggle with temper and anger. We're going to see that as time goes on. Every time Moses got angry, stuff started flying. Things started getting broken, people started hurting, and people started dying. Every single time Moses got angry. When God got angry, God's will was accomplished. When Moses got angry, things broke, people got hurt. And so you there you have a beautiful picture of the the difference between the two. So God makes this arrangement and he says, Aaron will go down with you. Well that I mean Moses satisfied and he helps him a bit, but he's more of a liability than he is an asset, I believe. And then you get a little later on when his sister Miriam rebels against Moses, says, oh, why do you have all the authority We're no different than you. And Aaron follows right along with his sister and rises up in rebellion against Moses. Criticizes the leadership. He's influenced by his backslidden sister. And again, he shows poor leadership. He should have stood up against that and said, No, this is God's man. We're not turning against Moses. The authority he has, he didn't take on himself. God put it on him. But he didn't And again, we see Aaron is, again in the second case, easily influenced by those around him, and he becomes a liability. And then in Numbers chapter 20, now this isn't quite as clear, but Numbers chapter 20, much later on, Moses is in the wilderness, and God tells Moses to speak to the rock. And what does Moses do? He gets mad. What's he do? He strikes the rock. And we don't have time. We're going to look at it in detail when we get there in 15 years. But we uh Mo Aaron is right there with Moses. The Bible says that. And in fact, he was so involved with Moses losing his anger That God judged both of them, and neither of them made it into the promised land. And Aaron was right with them. Now, Moses is responsible for his actions, right? We're responsible for our own actions But God held Aaron also responsible because he was part of it. And so I see a lack of leadership. I see a lack of confidence in the life of Aaron, the lack of willingness to stand up for what is true and being very, very influenced by the crowd or by people around him. And so it becomes a bit of a liability to Moses, but nevertheless, God makes this arrangement. I'll send Aaron down with you. And Moses got in a sense what he wanted. He did not want to speak. That was his whole issue the whole time. My tongue, I'm slow to speak. I don't know what to say. I won't I don't know who to tell him Sent me. I I I I can't do that. And God says, all right, I'll send Aaron with you. Sometimes when we get what we want, we lose what we had. Wonder how different it had been if Moses said, yes, sir, when God said, Go. I'll do it. How less of issues they had, how fewer people would have died. How quicker they might have gotten to the promised land. Sometimes we get what we want, but we lose what we had. Yes, exactly. Psalms 106, verse 5, speaking of Israel, God says he gave them their requests, but he sent leanness to their soul. And I've seen that in so many areas. I've observed this in people, in ministries. Somebody have a good ministry, effective ministry, serving the Lord, but they want something else. They'll go into something else and it's a mess and they had something good and they left it. Now I'm not talking about anything in particular, I'm just saying I've seen that over the years. Good pastors, good church, no go Um I've seen it in marriages. Somebody has maybe it's not a perfect marriage. They get these eyes on someone else and boy, if only there, and they'll get what they want, and then they lost what they have, and there's heartache the rest of their life. Money. All these areas here. And so Moses got what he wanted. He got somebody else to speak for him. But I'm afraid it was more of a liability than it was an asset to him. So the details of this arrangement he has here He says, first of all, its structure. He gives us here in verse verse 15, the last part. He says, thou shalt, or the the verse, thou shalt, and thou shalt speak unto him and put words in his mouth, and I will be with thy mouth and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye shall do. So here's the structure. God communicates to Moses what he wants. God has a message for Pharaoh and the people. So God has that message. He gives it to Moses. Moses is to take that communication from God and he communicates it to Aaron. Aaron gets the message from Moses, which Moses got from God. Then Moses goes to Pharaoh. Moses goes to the people. This is what God said. Would you agree? That's a little more complicated. Than would have to be. But this is what Moses wanted. He didn't want to speak. And so the structure is God to Moses to Aaron. From Aaron to the people to Pharaoh. Now, the stability of all this, Moses is still the authority here. Moses is still the prophet. Aaron has no authority. He is just like a megaphone. He's like a microphone. It's just going through him out to the people. Moses is the prophet. And notice that little phrase There in verse number 16 at the end, and thou shalt be unto him instead of God. Now Folks have taken that, knuckleheads have taken that, twist that around, say things it's not saying. This is not suggesting that Moses is some sort of God to Aaron It's simply saying that Moses is God's spokesman. He is simply telling Aaron what God said. It's very similar to what a pastor, a Bible teacher, or a preacher is an evangelist. Simply get the message from God and then proclaim it out to the people. And by the way, we all have God's message right here And so it doesn't make the speaker, it doesn't make Moses divine or anything like that. It just gives him a position of authority. To give the message of the Word of God to Aaron and then out. And so, Moses is God's spokesman, Aaron is Moses' spokesman Everybody get it? Everybody so far? Clear as a bell. Simple, not complicated. Unnecessary, I think, but not complicated. However, Aaron ends up doing very little speaking on Moses' behalf, actually, when they finally get down there. Aaron doesn't do a whole lot of spokesmanning, spokesmanning. Look at verse 29 of chapter 4. Here he does. He starts out pretty good. Verse 29, chapter 4. And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel. Here it is, here's the arrangement, plays out. And Aaron spake all the words which the Lord had spoken unto Moses. And did the signs in the sight of the people. And the people believed. And when they heard that the Lord had visited the children of Israel and that he had looked upon their affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshiped That's what God said would happen if Moses just gone down. So we start out pretty good. Moses is getting the message from God, gives it to Aaron. Aaron speaks. I don't know about you. If I was one of the people there, I'd be wondering, why doesn't Moses just tell us this? But they didn't From that point on, Aaron is involved less and less and less. In chapter seven, verse nine through ten, we won't take time to go to all these. All we have Aaron doing at that point is Moses tells Aaron, throw your rod down, and Aaron throws the rod down. And then in chapter 7 verse 19 and 20, Moses tells him, I forget what it is, tells him to do something. He takes pours the water out, turns to blood. Aaron does it. Moses is doing the talking at this point In chapter 8, verse 5 and 6, tells Aaron to do whatever that plague was there. You do this. But Moses doing all the speaking. And after chapter 8, verse 5 and 6, from that point on, Moses is doing everything. And so this whole arrangement was for Moses' sake, and it didn't really last very long. Moses ends up doing it. Moses ends up doing exactly what God was calling him to do in the first place. So, first of all, the arrangement. First of all, we have God uh uh God assures him God arranges this partnership with Aaron. Then number two, verse fifteen, we notice God reassures Moses of his presence Look at the last part of verse 15. He says, I will be with thy mouth and with his mouth, and will teach you what to do That's what God was saying all along, right from the get-go. He said, I'm going to be with you. I'm going to teach you what to do. I'm doing it, Moses. You just cooperate with me. I just want to use you So God restates this again to Moses now that he's on board, now that he's cooperating, he's satisfied with Aaron coming down with him. And then thirdly, in this arrangement, God's arrangement, I see God reminds Moses of his power. Look at verse 17. And thou shalt take this rod. Remember the rod Moses still has it. It's right there. Thou shalt take this rod in thy hand wherewith thou shalt do signs. I think what he's doing here, God's reminding Moses, Moses, listen, you've got my power. Alright, I made arrangements. You got a partnership with Aaron. I assure you of my presence. I'm going to be there with you. And remember the rod. You have the power of God available to you. So God's coming right back to square one. And he's saying, Moses, you're set. You're ready to go down, you're ready to go down. And so Moses does. We'll see that next time. Now, what does this have to do with us? So I got looking at these three areas where God arranges for Moses. He has a partnership with Aaron. He has the presence of God with him, and he has the power of God with him. Those three things. And I come to the New Testament, and lo and behold Our great commission to go into all the world, the Lord gives us those same three assurances. He gives us partnership. We are told in Philippians that we are, as members of the church, we are striving together. We're working together. The work of God is not the work of one man. Now, God establishes leadership in the home, in the church, and God is leadership, but it is a partnership of all of God's people working together. How many people understand Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church does not operate on one person. It is a partnership of everybody working together, working hard. How many people understand that? Sure. It's all through Scripture. In Corinthians, and I want to turn there, but for sake of time we won't. But 1 Corinthians chapter 3, he says, I watered, Pollos watered, I planted, and God gives the increase. And he goes down through there and says, it's not just one person's operation. Somebody plants, somebody waters, God gives the increase. We work together. Some people sow, some people water, some people, everybody has a part in all of this. In fact, remember when Jesus had the disciples, how did he send them out? He sent them out how Two by two, not individuals. Why? Because there's a partnership. It requires working together. Corinthians And I think it's chapter 10, I think it is, 11 somewhere there, he compares uh the church to a loaf of bread. And all different parts that make up that loaf, but they're baked together into one part, one object, one organism Our church is so diverse. We have people with different gifts, different abilities, different different talents, different understandings, different different uh uh just some are very different, and um uh just different But yet we work together and we see God do great things. Amen? And so that partnership is there. He says, all right, Moses, I'll give you a partner. God's given us a partner, one another. Work together. Work together. Uh remember where Paul described the the church as a body and the eye and the toe and the the ear The ear says, I don't see like the eye. I'm not of it, no use. No, he said we we all have a role. We all work together. We all function together. So we had this partnership in the church. And then I got looking, we also have God's presence assured us. In Matthew chapter 28, verse 19 and 20, he says, Go ye therefore, go ye into all the world, and he says, Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, and Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all whatsoever things I told you. And lo, I am what? With you always. We have his presence. In Hebrews 13, 5, he says, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So we have the promise of God's presence. I can't imagine pastoring a church without the presence of God in the church I think about these liberal churches where probably about everybody in the church is unsaved. There's no Holy Spirit there. There's no presence of God there. Can you imagine the chaos in that? I mean God's people have a hard enough time getting along to get along with the Holy Spirit. Can you imagine without it And so we have God's presence. We have partnership. We're all working together. We have the presence of God. If two or three are gathered together in my name, there I am in the midst of them. God is here right now And then we have God's power. And ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you and ye shall be witnesses. Every single and not one of us here have a rod, right? Nobody came walking in with a rod. You didn't see me walk up here with a rod. Boom. Now we don't have a rod, but you know what we got? We have the Holy Spirit in us. And I'll be honest with you, I'd rather have the Holy Spirit than a wooden stick. Moses had a wooden stick, but the power of God was on it. We have our bodies, and the power of God is in us, and the person of the Holy Spirit So we have to do what God has called us to do, we have everything God provided for Moses to do what he was supposed to do. Isn't that good news? I thank the Lord for it. I thank the Lord for it. So let's pray for one another. Let's encourage one another. Let's work with one another. Let's be patient with one another. We have a partnership. Let's recognize the presence of God and put aside fear when it's where we're called to serve Him and things you say, I don't know, I don't have that courage to do that. We have the presence of God with us When we need to take a stand for what's right, when we reach out into a world that's opposed to the gospel, we we press on. Why? Because we have the presence of God with us. And then we have the power of God in us, and we can see people saved. We can see people saved. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I thank you for what you did for Moses and these lessons. And remind us, Lord, of these assurances that you gave Moses, you gave also to us. We praise you for that. Father, and I wonder, with our heads bowed eyes closed, I wonder if there's some tonight. Say, preacher, I I want to be submissive, Lord. I don't want to be like Moses and resist Him. When God speaks to my heart, I want to say yes. I want to agree But at the same time, I want to appreciate others that God brings into my life to help me live for God, help me serve God. I want to appreciate them. Maybe some of us say I I need to rem be reminded of God's presence. Some of us I need God's power. We ought to seek for the power of God on us. Every one of us should do that. How many God spoke to your heart tonight? Anything like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Hands all around. My heart stirred. I want God's power. I want God to use us to bring people out of the world to Christ. Bring them to Christ. Father, bless our invitation, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen.