2 Peter 3, verse 8, the Bible says, But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing: that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years. And a thousand years as one day. One day with the Lord is like a thousand years, and a thousand years like one day. I want to talk tonight about God's perception of time, or you could say God's measurement of time. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to help us tonight. Father, we ask you bless. Our study of this verse here, a little unusual, and uh I pray you'd help us to comprehend things that in many ways are incomprehensible And so we ask that your Holy Spirit would give us understanding, give us uh uh insight here. Lord, I yield my will to you. I do ask, Lord, tonight, as I preach that you guide my thinking. And the words I say, Lord, direct them to be what you would have me to say. And Lord, I present my body that you could take me, this physical body, fill me. With your spirit and you speak through me and use me to communicate the truth to each of our hearts and lives that we need And so, Lord, just bless this time now with your presence and give us open hearts and minds. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. As we've been pointing out over and over, this whole chapter here, Peter is dealing with scoffers. In the last day He was dealing previously with these false prophets who were in the church at that time, and no doubt they were scoffing as false teachers would. But he's addressing for him and for you and I to an extent future events About in these last days, the days as the Lord before the Lord comes down. Now we're all in the last days, the whole church age is technically the last days. But he says these guys are going to show up. He's speaking in future tense And there's going to be people come in the church and be in the world and they're going to scoff and they're going to mock and they're going to make fun and they're really going to act like children is the idea in a lot of ways, making fun of two things in particular. We already addressed these. One is the return of the Lord. They're going to mock the idea that Jesus Christ is coming back again. And the other, uh issue they they mock and ridicule is the judgment of man, coming judgment. And so uh their argument for this, their reason for mocking these truths, these teachings of Scripture that Jesus is coming back again, man's going to be judged. The reason they mock these Was the here was their argument. It's been a long time. Now in the in the future they're going to say this, it's been a long time since he said he's coming back. It's been a long time he's not back yet Nothing's changed. Nothing's happened. He said he was coming. It's been a long time. Everything continues as it was And they were and and the same argument was for the judgment. He k the Bible says there's going to be a coming judgment. It's going to be a coming judgment. It's going to be a coming judgment It's been a long time, nothing's happened, nothing's changed And so their argument is because it's been a long time, and because it hasn't happened, therefore it won't happen. Hasn't happened yet? No reason to think it's going to happen. There's two approaches to understanding the future. Now these scoffers had their approach. To understanding what the future held and these prophecies that the Bible gives us about the return of Christ, about the judgment of man. The scoffers, their approach was to rely upon their own reasoning. Their own understanding. They would look at it and they would reason things out and um and uh and then that was the authority in their mind. Their understanding of the way things are and the way things are playing out, the way I interpret that, the way we decipher that, the way I look at that, I reason it in my logic, my thinking, and thus that's the authority In other words, if if if I can understand it, then it's true. If I can't understand it, then it can't be true. It's my reasoning as the authority. We're told in Proverbs 3, 5, and 6, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not unto thy what? Own understanding. So they're approaching the future, and they're interpreting and deciphering these prophetic statements of Scripture from a humanistic standpoint. You remember they rejected past this so they wouldn't even look at the biblical account of the flood and creation, all of that, and they said that that was supernatural. We have to take that by faith, and we reject the supernatural. We reject anything that has to do with faith. We lean on our own understanding, our own rationale. our own scientific evaluation of it. And they come up with the with the conclusion that Jesus is not coming back and there is no future judgment. Everything continues as it is. So that was their approach to prophetic teaching and the future of mankind. There's another approach to the prophetic teaching and the future of mankind, and that is as believers We rely not so much on our own reasoning, our own rationale, our own understanding. We don't rely on that so much We rely on the Bible's revelation of the future. What the Bible says the future holds. What the Bible says uh uh is gonna be involved with Jesus returning. W we rely, we interpret uh the events in light of Scripture. We approach it by faith. Do you follow what I'm saying? They disregard the Word of God because it's supernatural, it has to do with God, and it requires faith. And they said we just lean on our own understanding. We just uh approach from our own rationale And this is our conclusion. Everything's always been the same. It's always going to be the same. Nothing's going to change. We come and we say, no, no, no. We're convinced that book is the Word of God. We're convinced that that book is given to us by inspiration of the Holy Spirit. It has no errors. It never has been wrong, and it never will be wrong. The Bible, everything the Bible prophesied that would happen has happened exactly the way the Bible prophesied it. And we have no reason, we have no reason to question that what the Bible says is still yet to happen should happen any other way than exactly as the Bible says it. See, here's the difference. Well, let me take that back. Here's the contrast. They operate by faith. Just as much as the Bible believer operates by faith. It's both faith. We weren't there in the beginning, and we're not in the future yet Their faith is in their own reasoning. They're putting faith in themselves. And if I can't understand it, if I can't explain it, if it if it doesn't make sense to me, therefore it can't be true. I'm here to tell you, there's a lot of things that mankind has considered, has said it can't be true, it doesn't make sense, and found out, hey, you know what? It really is true People years ago said man will never fly. And in fact, the statement was: if God wants us to fly, he'd have given us wings. Man, why? We put people on the moon. And they were wrong. They relied on their understanding, their knowledge. How many times do uh history books have to be rewritten Because of some discovery the archaeologists made, and lo and behold, that history book had it all wrong. They find some discoveries, some parchments or something, or some ratings or some ruins, and they say, hey, you know what? That city did exist. We didn't think it did. And lo and behold, there was a city there. We've never, ever, not one time, have we come to the Word of God and say, oh, wait a minute, that thing was wrong. Anytime the Bible says a city is in a certain location, you dig there long enough, you check it out, there was a city in that location. And over history, the the unbelievers, the humanists, modernists have denied teaching of scripture, saying, oh, the Bible talks about this city or some uh some uh culture in this area and there's no evidence and they dig away and dig away and lo and behold they find out they were wrong and the Bible was right. I love to make this statement. Archaeologist is the friend of the Bible. We're not afraid of them digging up and finding stuff. All Ebert does is just falls in line with what Scripture says. My statement to the unbelieving humanistic archaeologist is, dig, baby, dig. Go for it. I'm not worried about them contradicting the Bible. And so the difference between these scoffers and a Bible believer is. They're leaning on their own understanding. They're relying on their own rationale. Which as humans, you have to agree with this, which as humans is limited. Right? Our understanding is very limited. And so that's the final authority, if I can understand it. I had a uh I had a Jehovah's Witness say to me one time on our porch, they come by and We were uh going back and forth there a little bit, and I was contending and trying to show from Scripture very clearly that Jesus is indeed God, which Jehovah's Witness rejects And uh we were going back and forth, and we were talking about the Trinity, which they reject: God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit, the great three personalities, yet one God And their argument was, how can that be? How can there be three yet one? That doesn't make sense. We don't understand that. That can't be true. And I said, so what you're telling me is your understanding is the final decision on truth. If you don't understand it, then it's not true. I said, whether I understand it or not, if the Bible says it, it's true. You with me? And so that's the difference between these scoffers And Peter and you and I as believers, as we take what he's writing to us, they're leaning on their owners' hands. He said nothing changed. And in fact, if you remember, he said earlier they were deliberately ignorant Of things that God had done in the past because it didn't fit their understanding. Both require faith. To believe what the Bible says about the future, about the return of Christ is faith on my part that what God says is so. And by the way, on my part I'm willing, I am willing, and I've already made this decision, I am willing to base my eternal destiny on what this book says right there My whole only hope of eternal life, my only hope of escaping hell and getting to heaven is faith in the promises of this book, Whoever Calls the Name of the Lord shall be saved. You with me? So it's fate. The scoffers were ignorant of what God had done in the past. Look at verse 5. We already preached on it. For this they willingly are ignorant of. They were stupid on purpose. Then you get to verse 8, and they're ignorant. When we get to our text tonight, we find out they're ignorant of not only what God had done, they're ignorant of what God was like What God is capable of. Two thoughts tonight, two points, and don't get too excited. There's 43 sub-points to each of them. But only two points tonight. My first thought is this, the importance of this truth given to us in verse number 8. Notice what he says, the first part. He says, but beloved, he's talking to believers He's being very tender here, beloved. And he says, be not ignorant of this one thing. Now, he's being very emphatic here. Peter is speaking to believers, and through the pages of Scripture, God speaking to you and I. He's being very emphatic. Listen, here is one thing, here is something. You and I as believers must not be ignorant of, especially concerning prophetic teaching of Scripture. Especially concerning the doctrine of future events given to us in Scripture. There's one thing we must not be ignorant of. And so what he's about to say is incredibly important. Now I think what he's saying this in so many words, he's saying, don't be ignorant like these scoffers are ignorant. You need to know this. You need to know this. As believers, we need to know what the Bible says God is like. We've got to know this. If you would, just turn keep your place, but come a few pages back to 1 Peter and verse chapter number 3, 1 Peter chapter 3. And verse 15. Now we emphasize this a lot around here, and I want, and Peter's emphasizing it here in our text, that we ought to know what the Bible teaches about God. We have to. We can't be ignorant. Look at verse 15 of 1 Peter 3. But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. Look at this. And be ready always To give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you, then he adds this on with meekness and fear. Don't be arrogant, don't be proud But you need to be able to answer the questions that these scoffers are bringing up. Where is his coming? Peter says, listen, you can't be ignorant about what God is like because you won't be able to answer that sculffing. You won't be able to give an answer to that ridicule. Ignorance of God's word About God makes us vulnerable to faulty human reasoning. We don't know what the Bible says, and therefore we'll question what God's able to do. We don't know what God is like. We don't know what the Bible says God is like. Therefore, we'll doubt whether God is able to do what he says he would do, or what we'll doubt whether God is able, like we preached this morning, take care of us. And meet our needs and help us and strengthen us because we don't understand what God is like. I think it's the whole basis of our doubting God. That's the whole basis of the weakness of our faith is because we really don't grasp what the Bible teaches God is like Peter, uh Moses back in the Old Testament, he's about to lead a million plus people out of Egypt miraculously. And they go through this Red Sea, he's seeing these phenomenal things taking place, and now he's out in the wilderness, they're going to be there forty years He's got to make sure these people are fed. He's got to make sure they have clothing, and he's got to make sure they have water. And God says, listen, you the I am that I am, I'll take care of you. And Moses said, Lord, I need you to show me. I need to know who and what you are a little better if I'm going to be able to do this. You follow what I'm saying? We need to know what God is like. Peter's saying, listen If you're going to avoid questioning God's promises and his ability to return and judge the world, you need to know a little bit what God is like. If we do not, if we neglect The Bible, if we're ignorant of God's word, we're vulnerable to faulty human reasoning. We by default start leaning on our own understanding. How many people here ever were in a situation and you found yourself, you found yourself start trusting in your own rationale. You start saying, well this, I don't know that, that. And then you catch yourself, maybe the Holy Spirit convicts and say, wait a minute. I just need to trust God I just need to trust God. I just need to let Him take care of it. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sure. And Peter's saying, listen, you can't be ignorant of this one thing, something that you need to know about God Because if you're ignorant of who and what God is and what he's like, you're going to be vulnerable to start leaning on your own rationale, which is exactly what these scoffers are doing. If we are ignorant of God's word, we'll be vulnerable to the false teachings of cults. Now I don't I can't document this, but there's been many that have documented the numbers of people that go into cults that get sucked or lured or uh deceived into false doctrines and false cults They found that a big majority of them are people out of Bible preaching churches like ours. that don't know Scripture, that don't know who God is or what He's like or what the Bible teaches, and then they become vulnerable to twisting the scriptures and and uh false teaching and they get drawn into it. So Peter says, don't be ignorant of this one thing. And he says it if you study it, it's very, very emphatic. Like I said, he's saying it very strongly. Do not be ignorant. This thing you need to understand We need to know what God is like. Churches that neglect Bible doctrine are making a big mistake. They can get big crowds, they can maybe have big offerings and a lot of noise and big sensation But if they're not very carefully and systematically and thoroughly teaching all the doctrines of Scripture, they're making a big mistake. I like Bible Institutes. I was with Brother Jim Townsley Monday and Tuesday. Of course, he has a Bible college up there in New England. Good school. I highly recommend it. And we're talking about Bible institutes, and we both agreed it is good for a church to have a Bible institute to teach Bible doctrine to the people It makes a stronger congregation, makes a stronger foundation, and help that church avoid drifting. In all our Sunday school classes, we teach the Bible. Period. Teach the Bible. And because this one thing, we need to know what God is like. We need to know what He got what He says, or we'll be very, very vulnerable. A church that neglects to teach and preach Bible doctrine is hurting their people. It's hurting their people. Christians, individuals who neglect Bible doctrine are making themselves vulnerable. Vulnerable If you would, again, come just a few pages back here to 2 Pete Timothy, 2 Timothy, just before Hebrews. Run back into 2 Timothy. Paul is writing under the inspiration of God to a young preacher boy. He's gonna eventually be the pastor probably of the church at Ephesus. Perhaps others, and maybe some itinerant evangelin evangelistic ministries, and he's going to give his life to serve the Lord and Paul is writing to him, advising him, mentoring him as a young preacher boy, and in chapter 3 of 2 Timothy, verse 16 He makes this statement. All scripture is given by inspiration of God, all of it, Genesis to Revelation, all of it It's given by inspiration of God and is profitable. What's the very first thing listed here that it's profitable for? Doctrine! The importance of understanding what the Bible teaches about who God is and what he's like. For doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction righteous. Why? That the man of God may be perfect. That means mature, grown up, complete, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Look over in chapter 4 and look at verse 2. He's instructing Timothy. Well, verse 1, he says, I charge thee, therefore, before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing of his kingdom, referencing the second coming. Look what he says: preach the word. Be instant, in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. For the time will come, look at this, they will not endorse sound doctrine. But after their own lust, they shall heap to themselves teachers having itchy ears. You know what that is? False teachers, scoffers Why? Because they weren't taught sound doctrine, sound doctrine. So we come back to 2 Peter 3, verse 80, he says, my beloved. Be not ignorant of this one thing. Don't you be ignorant about what the Bible says about God. Now here's the point that he wants them to not be ignorant of Especially concerning these folks who are stuffing the idea Jesus coming back, he's going to judge the world. Look at this. Chapter 3, verse 8. He says, But beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing. Look at this. This is what we need to be aware of. That one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. Now, I think we need to be very, very careful when we interpret and try to understand what he's saying here. We have to be careful we don't read too much into it. We have to be careful. We don't make it mean something it doesn't mean or say something it's not saying. I don't believe Peter is suggesting that God can't tell time. Oh God thinks one day is a thousand years. Oh it just takes so long. Oh a thousand one day is like uh did you ever have your kids say something like this, we've been here forever Well no, you haven't been forever. It's been three minutes. When's lunch? I'm starving. I've been waiting forever. No, it's been 45 seconds. So he's not suggesting God can't tell time or God does not have the ability to accurately assess what time goes by. So we can eliminate that thought. I don't think he's necessarily even explaining how God measures time. He's not saying that God measures a thousand years is a day, seven thousand years is a week, three hundred and sixty-five thousand years is a year of year. I don't think that's what he's saying. I think what he's saying is this God is not like man. God does not God does not perceive things the way we do. He is not man. Here's our problem. Here's our problem. Too often we see God in human terms. With all the physical limitations and all the limitations of you and I as humans, as men and women, our limitations, and then we project that on God. And we view him in, oh, he's bigger than us, he's better than us, but we view him in humanistic terms. And sometimes the Bible will use terms that relate to you and I in identifying God. For instance. Sometimes the Bible will refer to the eye of God. His eyes are in every place, beholding evil and good. Now let me ask you a question: Does God have eyeballs? No, I doesn't have eyeballs. He's a spirit. It's not physical. And by the way, if he did have eyeballs, his sight would be limited to where those eyeballs are pointing. Right? My only ability to see is because of the eyeballs I have in my head, and I can only see where they're directed. Now my mother could see 360 around her. I don't know how that worked. So when the Bible says, talks about the eyes of God, it doesn't mean he has literal eyeballs. It simply means that God what? He sees. He knows. He's aware. It's called. I'll tell you, you're going to be so impressed. You're going to say, our pastor is so smart. It's called anthropomorphism. Come on now, come on now. It simply means taking human characteristics and applying them to God so that you and I have a better ability to understand what God is like. So God doesn't have little. . Did you ever read in the Bible? The right arm of the Lord is strong. God doesn't have a right arm. He doesn't have a left arm. He's spirit. But it's a human term applied to God. So sometimes, if we're not careful, we start thinking of God in human terms, though like a superman, a superhuman, but still human. Now Jesus became man, but he never stopped being God. And God is unlimited. In his understanding, in his intelligence, in his observation, there is zero limitations. And so we have to be very, very careful that we do not bring God down to human level and then make judgment on God as if he's no different than you and I. God is very different than you and I. Job said, speaking of God, he says, he is not a man. Back in uh Exodus, God is not a man that he should lie. Now Jesus became man. We understand that, but God is a spirit, and he is unlimited So I think Peter is saying here, listen, don't think of God in humanistic terms when it comes to these time frames about when the Lord's coming back, when these prophetic events will take place. Don't limit God to our concept of what time is. If you would, come with me to Isaiah 55. A profound statement here on understanding God, I think. Isaiah 55, if you would, and again, this would be an excellent passage to underscore and be very familiar with. What is God like? Well I tell you, he is so far beyond you and I. About the time I think I got figured out what God is like, and I read something in the scripture, I realize I I don't I'm I just barely scratched the surface While you're finding Isaiah, think about this with me. The immensity of God. Think with me. How many people brought your brains with you tonight? Any? About a third. Think with me. The immensity of God. There is no place that God is not. There's no place that God isn't. We send these satellites up that have telescopes, phenomenal telescopes. And they're able to see the universe from a perspective we can't see down here on Earth. And they're outside of the atmosphere, so they don't have any of that atmospheric stuff to interfere. And we're seeing and learning things about our universe that is absolutely mind-boggling. At least to me. Now, no doubt, as time goes by, we'll learn more and more and more, if the Lord tarries. But they're saying now, and I follow some of these on the computer, I just find it fascinating The suggestion now is that the universe is infinite. There's no end to it. And when we look up at the night sky, if it's clear out tonight, you go out and you look up, and I do this a lot, I'm captivated by it. We are looking, literally looking into perhaps infinity. There's no end, it just keeps going. What's beyond that? What's beyond that? It just goes. And Solomon said this under the inspiration of God. He said, the heavens of the heavens cannot contain God. What does that say about the immensity of our God? Now think about that tomorrow morning. You get up and you get on your knees and you pray. That's who you're talking to. Are you like me? Whoa. So Peter is saying, listen He's not saying God doesn't know how to keep a calendar. God just doesn't see it the way you and I see it. God is so immense. Look at Isaiah there. Did you find it? Verse 8, chapter 55, verse 8. Look at this. He says, My thoughts are not your thoughts. In other words, God doesn't think the way we do. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. That was the word ways there, I like this. I did a study on that years ago. The word ways there means manner of operation. God doesn't operate the way you and I do. He's so far above and beyond us. Look at verse 9: For as the heavens are higher than the earth, So are my ways higher than your ways and my thoughts than your thoughts. What he's saying here is, he says, just like the heavens, uh how's he word? He says, just For as the heavens are higher than the earth, in other words, just like this universe, the immensity of this universe, so God is so much beyond and above And greater than anything you and I can comprehend. I'm convinced we don't understand one millionth of who and what God is like Immensity and the power and the wisdom and the knowledge and the intelligence of the God that loves you and me. And became a man. That God became a limited man. Little baby. And then he took five sense. Was judged in my place for my sins. Peter's saying, listen, you need to be, don't be ignorant of this one thing. God doesn't see things the way you see things. God doesn't God's perception of things is so far above our ability to perceive We cannot think of God in human terms. I already referenced this. Numbers 23, 19. God said, I'm not a man. I'm not a man. I'm not like you. I'm not limited. Like you are. Job 9. 32, Job says, He is not a man as I am. God is not like me. He's bigger. Remember at the end of Job when he finally God starts asking these questions, where were you? When I made the stars, where were you when I created this? Where were you, Job? Job becomes so overwhelmed with the immensity of God in the and uh the how good how much God transcends everything you can comprehend. And he says, I repent in dust and ashes. I didn't even I I can't even comprehend the greatness of this God. Says a day But God is like a thousand years, a thousand years like a day. He doesn't see it the way you see it and the way I see it. Don't confine God to physical limitations God transcends time, space, and matter. He's above time. He's not in the limit. You and I are prisoners of time, right? I'm a prisoner of the present. I can't go back five minutes. I can't go forward five seconds. I'm stuck. I'm a prisoner here and now. God transcends time. Now how many people agree with me? That's mind-boggling. I'm gonna lay in bed tonight, look at the sky, hello He transcends time, space. God is a spirit. There is no place. God isn't. He's not confined by space By by uh by uh uh uh this square thing. You can't you can't put God in a box. You can't pack 'em up and move 'em somewhere. He's everywhere. He transcends space. He transcends matter. He's a spirit. Our God is amazing, God. A thousand well, Isaiah fifty-seven fifteen says, the high and lofty one that inhabiteth eternity Isaiah had a grasp of who God, what God is like a bit. And he says he is high and he is lofty. Listen to this. He inhabits eternity. From eternity past to eternity future, God is. He lives it, He's there. He inhabits eternity How many people like me that's hard to wrap your head around? Anybody? So we come and say, oh it's been a thousand years, the Lord didn't come back. Good night. Time for God. For you and I, a thousand years is impossible. I couldn't do something a thousand years, I never lived that long. Nobody in the Bible lived a thousand years. But God transcends time. So a thousand years, Peter's saying, listen, you say it's been so long, he hasn't come back. Good night. God inhabits eternity. He doesn't see time the way we do. It's just a day, a day, a thousand years. What seems like a long time for you and I is not an issue with God. We're prisoners of time. God transcends time. You say, all right, what does that have to do with anything? That what that has to do is, you know, people say, well, Jesus said he was coming back 2,000 years ago. He ain't back yet. Listen, just stick around Just be patient. God's not in any hurry. We talked about that a little bit this morning. Anybody here ever get impatient, get in a hurry? Anybody here get impatient with God because he's not in a hurry? I got some stuff I'm asking God to do. I'm praying with all my heart morning and night, every morning, every night I'm asking God couple things I'm I'm I'm asking them, miracles I'm asking them for. Just be patient. I want them done today. I want them tonight before I go to bed. I want God to do these things I'm asking. But God sees things differently than you and I do. It's a whole nother, he's from a whole nother perspective, a whole just transcends our our ability Our understanding. So here's what I want to leave us with. Number one, if this is what I said tonight is true, I believe it is. I believe it's taught in Scripture. If that's the case, then let's just trust God. Amen. If he says something's going to happen, and you're getting I getting patient, and we're measuring whether it's going to happen by our little time frames we come up with. Just trust him. Believe him. When he says something's going to happen, he's going to do something. Believe it. Just believe it. That's emphasized all through scripture. Believe me, trust me. And then wait on him. Just wait on them. Wait on them. Over and over and over. We're told, wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Wait on the Lord. Now that doesn't mean sit around, twit twiddle your thumbs, drink iced tea, and eat Chocolate chip cookie dough ice cream. It means be about serving them, but don't get impatient. Just wait on them. Jesus coming back again. Maybe tomorrow, maybe next week, maybe 150 years from now. But I know to God that time is nothing. He transcends it. Are you with me tonight? Peter said that's something we need to understand. We can't be ignorant of that. And it'll help our faith. Father, please bless us. Lord, our minds, we readily admit, our minds are limited. We can't comprehend this unbelievable incomprehensible God and your incomprehensible love for us. So help us just take you at your word. Help us just believe you and just wait on you and trust you. Help us do that. How many people with me, along with me, you would say, preacher, I want to learn to just wait on God and just trust Him. Any like that? My hand's raised. I need it. I'll just wait on you. I'm not going to get bitter. I'm not going to get in despair. I'm just going to wait on God and trust him. He's above all this. And I believe God will come through. I know he will. Father, bless now our invitation we ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together heads abound eyes or clean