Send me here in my Lord. Send me. I will serve you pay for me You in my voice and me would I do my right to Take control each I will follow anyway. We're far away. Here am I Lord Send Me. Here am I Lord Send Me. I will serve your pace for me in my wood enemy. Lord, I want your perfect will be my faithful God I will never be afraid. You close these eyes Here are my Lord Lord Sandy. Here are my Lord. I will serve you faithfully in my old enemy. Let me see my mission fill all around each day. Fill my heart with Jesus' love Use me, Lord, I pray. Here am I, Lord, I saved, Here am I, Lord I saved. I will serve you baby here in my board. Here in my board Amen. Excellent. Excellent. What a great song. Let me say a word, please. And uh that's a great, great mission song. I am thrilled that the Morelands are able to be here. We took them on for support, what was it, two years ago, I think? Missions Conference. Not this past year, the year before, and uh going to Central Asia and uh I tell ya I was thinking when he was showing the slide Uh, you know, to leave family and friends and country and go to a country, just the name Kurzakstan, you know, is just seems so bizarre and and uh so far away And uh so my I I'm just uh you know you know, when God calls folks like Brother Ron and his family, and then they surrender and agree with God And go to where God's called them, I just have such utmost admiration for them, the faith that involves. But then there's another side to it is God gives the person that surrenders, God gives them a desire and a and a you feel at home there. I I noticed he called their home, you know, welcome to our home. That's pretty neat And I've seen that with other missionaries. Once they get there it's like, yeah, this is where I belong and and just fit in and so I'm just excited for the Moorlands and what they're doing and uh every day is a day closer to getting over there and he's become a good friend. The whole family's excited. They're taking survival training in case there's nuclear attacks over there, right, Nathan? And uh they they've got it all we got it all planned out at lunch today. And uh I'm telling you this family can survive if something happens they know what to do. They use mufflers to keep them warm And um so but anyway, uh he's gonna preach to us. Let's get our Bibles out, Brother Ron tomorrow. Thank you, sir It's good to be back here again and um pastor said being here at this church is like uh almost like a second home to us. We feel at home here, we enjoy it, we enjoy you all, and And um I'm excited about when the Lord comes back and then we can be spending time with each other up in heaven and just glorifying, magnifying God, isn't that right? That's good. Turn into um The gospel according to Luke, chapter 5. Now, when we was here a couple years ago trying to show our presentation, Um I actually had to speak and kinda had the PowerPoints run through because the sound didn't work, it w my stuff wasn't updated with your stuff and everything. So Now you guys finally got to see a little bit about what we're doing. This is just from this last year. We got to spend the whole summer over there. And uh we had a great time and We uh saw uh a man from Germany come to the Lord while we were over there and and um you know that's fruit, the the stuff that's happening in that orphanage, you know, we're training that next generation to come up. And go to their people. Um the one young man that you saw with um Brother McPhall in that one picture, the older guy, that young man um wants to be a preacher. He wants to go to his own people. And you know, so pray for that orphanage that we can keep that training going on. I had that Muslim prayer call in the beginning, you know, just to kind of wake you up. You know, when you're over there and you're hearing that, that can be kind of a scary thing for you. I want you also to know something about about those people, about the Muslims that you know what? Some of them are also scared of us. They don't understand us. They hear what the media has to say and what their people have to say, just like what we hear about them and what our people have to say One thing that they're looking for is they're looking for that truth, that narrow way. They just don't realize it's through Jesus Christ. They believe that Jesus was a prophet, a great prophet. Well, he's also the Son of God. A lot of them are searching, and with them searching, you know that that gives us an open door. to go with them. They're beautiful people over there. Um and we're we're excited to be part of it. We really are. So many things are happening. The Lord's just opening up many things. We're looking at starting a Bible institute over there to reach down into different countries. And um man, I just th there's just so much going on. We just don't have all night I could stay and stand here and talk to you. So I'm not standing here before Congress tonight and speak for that long. So Yeah. Do a field blaster. But once again, just thank you uh for having us here. Thank you for the housing over there. We enjoy every bit of being in in Maryland. We really do So um the gospel according to Luke chapter 5, tonight I want to um talk about don't settle where you're at, but go farther for God. Go farther for Him. Okay? Chapter 5 of verse 1 says, And it came to pass that as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake Gesineret. and saw two ships standing by the lake, but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nets. And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land And he sat down and taught the people out of the ship. Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught And Simon answering said unto him, Master, we have toiled all the night, and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net And when they had this done, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes in their net break, and they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ship. That they should come and help them. And they came and filled both ships, so that they began to sink. When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knee, saying, Depart from me For I am a sinful man, O Lord. For he was astonished, and all that were with him at the draught, and the fishes which they had taken And so was also James and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not, for henceforth thou shalt catch men. And when they had brought their fit their ships to land, they forsook all and followed him. Let's pray. Our gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening, Lord. We thank you for being in your house where we can preach your word. Lord, have your word speak to us tonight. Use me as an instrument. Open up the hearts and minds to hear your word tonight. Lord, help us be able to stand strong and firmly upon you and upon your word. And we look forward to your coming. In Jesus Christ's name. Amen. I know you guys are looking at me and saying, man, he's a large guy to be over there with all those little people. I'm not I'm not fat. I have allergies and I'm allergic to food and every time I eat it I swell up. So just bear with me. All right. Some of you guys were probably like I got those allergies too. That's what it is. Here we've been trying diets. It's just allergies, that's all it is. And like I said, I I do, I look forward to the Lord's coming. And it's uh you know, I saw it pastor today, we we feel like it's near. And um, you know, we've hit a point here in America where things will probably never be the same before 9-11. You know, we go back to 9-11. Well that was a crucial point to where we are now. And um but you know what, we have to be able to stand strong. And we look forward to his coming. And um and the and the rapture. I look forward to the rapture every day. And uh I remember I was driving down the road and I was listening to a Christian station and they blew that um horn, like you know, at the Jews Israel horns, you know. Lou I thing and it sounded so real, oh coming over the radio, I about drove off the road. I was like that's a trumpet right there Man, I think and then all of a sudden the commercial broke through and I'm like, oh man, I was kinda disappointed. You know. So I hope you guys have been practicing for the rapture. Do you guys practice out here? How many have porches? You have porches? Well go go to the edge of your porch. Okay? Stand there and then jump off. And just that little bit of air. See what it feels like underneath your feet. You know, I got people, my neighbors are selling tickets now just to watch a fat man jump off the porch. You know, but I love to see what it feels like in the air. You know, for a little while. It's it. We really are. We should all be looking for the coming. So now I want to talk about don't settle on while you're at, but go farther for God Now, now here's a passage we talk about a lot a lot about going out and catching men. Talking about, look at the blessings that God has to give you. But I want to come from a whole different aspect in this passage. One thing that we know about reading God's Word is that there's stuff that comes out of it. It's real. You know, that this one book This is the only book that's not allowed in every country of the world. It's almost not allowed in this country. But why? Why is it not allowed? Because it's truth. It's the breath of God. It speaks to us. It speaks to us at different levels from a child. All the way up to being a senior, it speaks to us in many different ways. It's God talking to us. It's the Holy Spirit working within us. And some people want to hear the truth, but they don't accept it. You know what? I hear a lot of people saying this book it was written by men. No, it wasn't. It's written by God. So man wouldn't write a book like this. Especially after all the years that everything was put in here and everything works correctly, perfectly, no mistakes. And what a wonderful God we have. So I want to talk about three different groups of people today. The first group we see that they're on the shore watching. Here we see in verse number one, and it came to pass that as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of centered. People were pressing on, there's a multitude of people that wanted to be around him. In verse three says, And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed upon that he that he would thrust out a little bit of land and he sat down and talked to people out of the ship. There are so many people along the shoreline that Christ had to get go out into the ship and be thrust out a little bit so he could speak to everybody Okay, I was like, well, what does that have to do with anything, Brother Morland? I want to look at it from the church's aspect today. There's a lot of people we want to come in, we want to hear the Word of God. Okay, there's a lot of people that want to be around Jesus Christ. Even the sinful people in this and that, they want to be around Jesus Christ. They might not accept it and may not want to hear it, but they want to be around it. There's a great multitude of people here that he had to be thrust out a little bit. Then it says here, you know, verse 3 that he'll be thrust out will be sat down and taught the people out of the ship. I'm guessing here that You know, the people sat down, maybe they kneeled down, they got a little bit comfortable with where they were hearing the words of Jesus Christ. Can you imagine in your mind's eye just being there and hearing Jesus speak? Hearing him preach to you, that's a better than any other preacher I've ever heard of. I know Brother Leatherman comes close, but you know, come on. That's Jesus Christ. That's our God. He's speaking to us. You know, and here are these these people look keep keep it in your mind's eye. Look at the shoreline. Look at the masked people. They're sitting, kids running around. Mother's trying to grab a hold of the kids. Father's standing there listening. People sitting there, they was getting comfortable. They were getting comfortable where they were. Some want to some want to be comfortable and sit and watch. But nothing ever gets done. They're just sitting there. Listening. Today we see that in a lot of churches around us. People just sit there. You know, we got Resurrection Sunday coming up. Some people you're gonna have coming into your church that come in just for Easter, just for Christmas. Well, praise the Lord. They're at least coming into church. Accept them. Give them a loving arm. You know, let them know that they're loved and try to get them to come back to church. Second group of people was uh was along the shoreline washing their nets. Verse two and Christ saw here, he says, and saw two ships standing by the lake, but the fishermen were gone out of them and were washing their nets. In verse 5, we find out who it was, and Simon Peter, or Simon, answering, son unto the master, We have toiled all the night and have taken nothing, nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the night. They were toiling all night. They were along the shoreline washing their nets. Nothing ever happened. Well, Brother Morton, what does that have to do with anything? We have a lot of brothers and sisters out there that's been working hard, they're trying. We have missionaries coming home because of illnesses, they're sick, they quit. We have people that just try to do a little bit for God And they quit before the blessings ever get shown to them. You know, and and and that happens in all of our lives. You know, we're only human, but we can't keep on using that we're only human as an excuse. You have to keep on toiling. We get so close and we dig and we dig and we dig and we get so close to the blessing But yet we stopped because we're tired. I haven't seen any fruit yet. Nothing's been done yet. We book we belong to a society now where it's all about fast food. We want things quick and we want things done now. The more memory, the faster your internet goes. We can't stand dial up anymore We want something fast, we want Wi-Fi, we want to go. Man, hurry up. I mean every place every place it is. Even in a rest area, man, you're trying to hurry up and get everybody in and out and get back in the car and let's go. Getting on an airplane, man, you're trying to hurry up. Most people have a lead foot anymore. Driving down air. We want everything so quickly, but God doesn't work like that. We have to give God some time to work in our lives. Notice here too. It says in verse 5, and Simon answering said, Unto him, Master, we have toiled all the night. They were out in the middle of the night. There was no light, no sunlight. You know what the thing is, we're going to find out here too. Christ wasn't in that boat with them yet. We try so many things in our lives out of the will of God. Even as Christians, we're trying to do things, and we're thinking we're doing it in the will of God, but we're out of the will of God. We're blinded by the night. We can't see our our the through the darkness. You know, the thing is, Jesus Christ isn't our high school guidance counselor. He's our God. We need to be listening to him, finding out what his will is for our lives. Now a lot of people they they quit, they've been hurt in churches. We I don't know how many churches we've been into Trying to go in and show our burden with them. A lot of you guys, you know, thank God we're in a church tonight that has a heart for Central Asia. And for you know the countries that you guys have have adopted. You know, I a lot of times I have to go in, they don't even know what a missionary is. A lot of them don't even know what the nativity is. I've been in in places in the US that they've never even heard of Adam and Eve. We're losing our grip. We've quit. And we're coming back and washing our nets and we haven't even got the job done. But we need to go farther. We need to keep on digging away. A lot of people say I've been hurt. Well, y'all, we're in a spiritual warfare. When you're in a war, you're gonna get hurt. It's not fun. But who's your faith in? Is it in Jesus Christ or is it or is it in a man? Why mean you know why why do we put our faith in a man, in a weather man who's correct five to fifty percent of the time, but we can't put our faith in Jesus Christ who's correct for eternity? We're messed up. We're not seeing the whole picture. We quit before anything gets done. Now let's look at this third group of people. They're out in the deep catching and reaping. Okay? Verse six. You know what? Let's go back over here to Um verse four. Jesus Christ is talking to him, he says. He was done preaching and talking to him. He looked at Simon and says, Now, when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out to the deep and let down your nets for a draw. Notice nets is here with the plural. Simon verse 5, and Simon answering said, Master, we have toiled all the night and have taken nothing. Nevertheless, at thy word I will let down the net. No plural. But yet there is a surrendering with Simon. He could have very easily looked at Jesus and said, I'm a fisherman, and I'm a good fisherman. I own business. I got chips. I got partners. I know exactly what I'm doing. Now listen here, preacher, who do you think you are to tell me? He could have very easily said that, but no, he surrendered. He said, nevertheless, at thy word, I will let down the net. I like this here when you get Jesus Christ involved in your life and you're in his will. Let's look at what happens. Verse 6. And when they had this done, they enclosed a great multitude of fishes and their net break. And their net break. When Jesus Christ is involved and you're in the will of God, things start to happen. Things that start happening all around you and in your life. The thing is, everyone got to see what happened. Here in verse in verse nine it says, For he was astonished at all that were with him at the draw of the fishes which they had taken. And so was also James, John, and the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. I want to go back to that net thing for a second. That just bot bothers the tar out of me. Here's poor Simon. He was out there all night long. Didn't catch anything. He gets back and he's mending. He's trying to put that net back together. He's trying to fix it, clean it. Get everything put back together. And he says, you know what, Lord? All right, we're going to go out there and I'm going to let down the net and see. The net broke. The net broke. He just got done fixing that thing. Can you imagine? Well I wonder, I wonder what would have happened if he let down all the nets. I bet he was able to keep that one net. I think God looked at looked at Simon and said, you know what, Simon, I know you're you're you're doing this, but I'm gonna show you what I can do in your life. We as God's children have to stop going to God and saying, God, I'll obey you, but only to this point. I know you want me to go out here and tell talk to the gospel, tell you know people about it, but I'll do it for only this much. Let them come talk to me first. Yeah, I'll go to Bible school for you, but you have to be able to pay all my bills first. You know, I I'm willing to do all these things, but I I want to I want to be comfortable. I want to do this and that. God don't want us to be comfortable. If you're comfortable where you are in life, you really need to start looking at your life. You really do. Because you can't to to me, you know, and I might be wrong. Some of you guys might disagree and that's fine. That's fine. Pastor might disagree, that's fine, but To me, if you're comfortable where you are, you're not always listening to God. You're not searching for Him. I like this too. We see here in verse seven, and they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ships, that they should come and help them. Peter was asking for human assistance when Jesus Christ was right there. Jesus Christ was right in the boat with him. How many times do we get things go through our minds and we get into life and stuff and we go ask people for advice instead of praying to our Lord and Savior? We really we we need to start looking at God a lot more. Today, especially in this country, with where it is, we need to be praying for our government. We need to be praying for that president. We need to be praying for people in authority. We need to be praying for our brothers and sisters in Christ. Be praying for your preacher and his wife, his family. Be praying for each other. For somehow we've gotten into a society too that we've lost compassion. We don't teach compassion in our churches anymore. We don't even show it anymore. We worry about what somebody's wearing as they come into the sanctuary. Maybe how much money they make. Come on, Brother Morgan. You know it's true. There's churches all over the place do that. I've been in churches too where they look you up and down and they want to see if you got money or not. Listen, I I don't want your money. I want your heart. God wants your heart. He could care less how much money you make, he could care less what title you have, your job, what kind of house you live in, what kind of car you drive, what you've done in your life. He wants your heart. He wants a relationship with you. Too many times we've done dumbed down God's purpose in our life God wants your heart. We need help in Central Asia. I know you guys are praying for five more to go into your oil country or into Kazakhstan. That's not that's not too far away. We it could be done. God can do anything. If He can make the rivers dry up and feed you by ravens and And Israelites by millions go crossing on dry land across the sea. Wow. Can you imagine what he can do with you if you just let down all your nets? Wonder how many fishes you could actually catch in the blessings. We always want to see success. Let's just wait and let God give us success. Let God give us success in His own eyes. It's not about here, when you die, you can't take anything that we did here, except for souls that were saved. You can't take your clothes, you can't take your job off. When you retire, how many of you all are retired? Did they find a replacement for you? Yeah. Yeah. And a lot a lot a lot of them, you know what? They don't even wait till you retire. They're just letting you go to bring in somebody younger and cheaper. Start looking at your investment in heaven and glorifying Him. You know, some of the things that we see here, the blessings above, we can't even comprehend the blessings that he can show us above. You know the the it says here the ships began to sink. Wonder what would happen if that net didn't break. For the ships sunk. You know what? Let me go get a bigger and better ship. Come out here and help you. Maybe we gotta tow you up there. Maybe I need a bigger and better net. I like this part here in verse 9, for he was astonished at all that were with him at the draught of the fishes, which they had taken. Hold on. They were astonished. It was amazing to him. You're all, I mean, I don't know how many here are saved, accepted Jesus Christ your Savior. But I know I was astonished. And ever since we started deputation I've been around you know around the world. I can actually say I've been around the world now, brother. And I I rem I remember my dad always saying, son, I've been around the world I know what's going on. Man, now I can say that. Went around the world. But seeing God work, I keep on getting astonished. Amazed, surprised. I don't deserve a bit of it. Here Jesus Christ was up in heaven Up in heaven. It says in my father's house were many mansions. Man, I can't even imagine in my mind's eye what heaven is like, what the kingdom of God is going to be like. And he said it he came down here. And the Bible said he had no place to lay his head. He left all that to come down here. To be homeless. No place lay his head. Not being comfortable. He did that for me. I was astonished. Sitting up there, being sung to by the angels, being served, being praised To come down here, to be mocked, to be abused, to be beaten, to have his beard plucked. To have a bag over his head to be punched. He did that for me. Yeah, I'm astonished. Sitting up there on his in the throne as king and wearing the crown of glory to come down here to wear a crown of thorns. To be up there and sitting in that beautiful, righteous, holy throne. To come down here to be beaten to a pulp. To the brink of death. He wa it wasn't by Jew by the Jewish laws he was beaten, the Romans were beating him. The Roman soldiers, they knew how to take somebody right to the point of death. And then he carried that cross, that dirty Splinters in his back after that beating. Carried it down that stone brick walkway all the way to Calvary. To be nailed to it, to be hung in the air, and then to be mocked out again. For me, I'm astonished. His love. His perfect love. And I don't deserve any of it. But you know why it didn't stop there. I'm astonished by him raising from the dead three days later. Going down there and taking those keys from death and hell. Coming back here to earth, teaching more, and you know where he is now? He's alive. Standing at the right hand and he's ready to come back. I'm amazed. See Simon, he was astonished. When you obey God, I mean you see you see Jesus Christ in a whole new light. Look here in verse 8. Chapter 5 of Luke, verse 8. And when Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me, for I'm a sinful man, O Lord. When you see Jesus Christ in a whole new light. Man, I'm a sinful man. And for somebody to love me and be able to use me, somebody I can serve What an honor it is to be able to serve our Lord and Savior. I got tired of just sitting in the pews and watching. I didn't want I was tired of being an armchair quarterback. Man, trying to tell the the coach how to next play to run. God, what are you doing? You did that wrong. I wanted this. Instead of just signing that blank piece of paper and saying, Lord, what is it that you want me to do? How's your prayer life? Man, let's next time we pray, let's just go to the Lord in prayer and saying, Lord, what is it that you have me to do? Do you want me thrust out into the deep? Do you want me to go farther for you? Do you want me to let down all my nets? Let's quit playing the games and quit just doing partial work. And let's just jump in all the way. I say you do everything possible you can for God and let God tell you no. Instead of you saying I'm only going to do this and I'm telling you no. Thank God shut those doors. You know what, we're going over to land and you got several guys over there in the country north of us and And there's two of us down there in our country. And you know what? We we need help. Millions and millions and millions of people are going to hell on a handbag. The more we stay silent in love, you're just staying silent in love and send them straight to hell. We need to be able to do something over there. I want to thank this church for having a a vision what God can do. God's not done. Thing is, folks, you know what? Satan knows who won the war. God's victorious. Jesus Christ already has victory, but we still have to fight the battles. He was astonished. And guess what? When when some when Jesus Christ works something in your life and you can see and you surrender everything you have. And God's working, people around you see it too. His partner saw what was going on. How do we get to that point in life? Well, we need to surrender. We see that in verse 5. Simon said, nevertheless, he surrendered. Okay. I'll go do it. Two, he was obedient. Three, he was repentant. You can't be in the true will of God and not be repentant for your sins. You need to get right with God. Stand up. Start walking with God. I love this in verse 4. Or my number 4, sorry, point was forsake and follow here in verse 11. And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all and followed him. We're not willing to forsake anything. You know the good thing here about living in America where we are, when you get saved, you don't have to give up anything. I've met people from Asia over there and around Vietnam and Korea and in that area and they said they're praying for our country. I said, thank you very much. We need our prayers. And they said, No, we're praying for that you guys will collapse. Because see you guys over there in America you guys aren't real Christians. A real Christian is one who suffers. A real Christian is one who gets persecuted and prosecuted and tortured for their faith. He said, see, we have to fight for the Word of God. We had to travel for hours to sometimes hear somebody preach. They only, some places only have a portion of God's word. There are six thousand nine hundred and nine living languages in the world today. Four thousand one hundred, I think thirty-five, if I'm correct, or thirty-two, do not even have The Word of God in their own language. Over 4,000 do not have the Word of God in their own language. You know what? That's our fault. It's not government. It's not a closed country. That's our fault. We have to blame. Over two you're telling me over two thousand years we can't learn languages and try to get the word of God in other languages? One brother over there in Nepal knows 16 different languages. And he's trying to work with all different languages and try to get that Bible translated into them. Can you can you see what what that whole part of the world would be if we can get Bibles into every hand over there? What could happen? You know the president of Mexico is asking for American missionaries to start putting Bibles in all their schools and prisons? That's in Mexico. South Sudan, the n the newest country in the world. I was talking to the Blinkenships missionaries down there. They said the same thing. That president wants Bibles in every student's hands in the schools and every prison. They just got done in a real war fighting. Sedan's been separating. Christians to the south, Moslems to the north. Are you willing to forsake all and follow him? I am. I don't want to be sitting there anymore. I don't want to quit. Before I see the blessings, I don't want to quit. I want to be able to bring as many men to the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I want to bring as many souls as I can. I want my net to be ready to break. You know that net broke, wonder how many fish he lost. I don't want to lose anybody. We need a disciple. We need to teach. We need to keep those who come to Lord Jesus. We need to bring those to us. Let's forsake all and follow Him. See, when you're obedient, you see Jesus Christ in a whole new way. It's God getting the glory. It's not about us, it's about Him. And then I I like this. The response of the world has nothing to do with our responsibility as a Christian. We have a great responsibility. You know what? We should be excited to be one of God's children. I know what I spoke of it and this and that. It's I'm trying to get to hear. I know some of it's convicting, it's not happy, it's not joyful, I know you don't feel good. But you know what? We still have hope. We're never going to have a good hope in this world, in man, but we got hope in Jesus Christ. If we thrust out to the deep, if we go out there and we obey to God and repent and get right with Him That's our hope is in Jesus Christ. That's our hope Let's pray and then I want to give you something. Our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I thank you for this evening. I thank you for I thank you for everything you've done for us. Lord, we don't deserve all. Lord, work in this man's heart. Lord, keep us strong. Sometimes we feel weary, we feel burdened, depressed. We're trying to fight a battle. Every day is just a battle. Getting up out of bed sometimes seems like a battle. Lord, help us, strengthen us, that we can just keep on moving for you. Make us strong. Lord, if there's one here tonight that has not accepted you as Savior, Lord, I ask you to give them unrest until they see your light. Until they see who you are, that you died on that cross for their sins. You took that punishment. Your blood's on that mercy seat. Lord, what a wonderful day it will be when we come to you. Lord, we know you live. We're looking forward to your coming in Jesus Christ's name. Amen.