Mark chapter two, I want to preach on uh going with an unhindered gospel. Going with an unhindered gospel. Mark chapter 2. We're going to read a lengthy portion of scripture here. We're going to read from verse 1 through verse 12. The Bible says, and again he entered into Capernaum after some days, and it was noise that he was in the house And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room in to receive him, no not so much as about the door, and he preached the word unto them And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy which was born afore, and when he they could not come nigh unto him for the press They uncovered the roof where he was. When they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee. But there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? And immediately, when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee, or to say, Arise and take up thy bed and walk? But that ye may know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins, he saith for the sick of the palsy. I say unto thee, arise, take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house. And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion. Let's pray. Lord, I thank you so much for your word. I thank you for the opportunity to preach your word. I thank you for the faithfulness of your people here in this auditorium. I thank you for their spirit, Lord, and their desire to reach others with the gospel. I pray that you'd meet with us here, Lord. I pray that you would uh if there's any hindrances to the gospel here, I pray that you'd uh help us to identify those in our lives and to to take those down so that you could fully work through us. I pray that you would uh meet the spiritual needs here in the auditorium. I pray that there's one here that Does not know for sure that if they died today that they would uh awake in heaven, Lord. I pray that you'd convict them of their need of salvation and uh direct them to your Son, Jesus Christ. I pray that If there's one here who may be discouraged, I pray that you'd encourage them with your word. If there's one here that that needs something, something needs to be changed in their life, Lord. I pray that you convict them and empower them to make that change. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Here in this passage, uh I want to point out some hindrances to the gospel. The Lord's led me to go to these different churches and I help with transitions. I go there and the first church I worked with was up in Maine. And uh it had a lot of challenges at that church. Uh there was a lot of problems at the ministry and uh some struggles that we needed to work through and things we needed to reorganize so that The gospel could be unhindered. The next ministry I'm at right now is in Taunton, Massachusetts. I'm 20 minutes away from Gillette Stadium. And uh right next to the Patriots home stadium there, and I'm in the next town over from Foxboro, Taunton. And uh the people need the gospel there, they really do And uh it God's been working, and it's exciting to see how uh the they're we're pulling down hindrances to the gospel Uh each place I've gone, what I found is in some way there's some hindrances to the Word of God. There's something holding the Word of God back. I don't want that to be true about any individual, and I don't want that to be true about me and my life, and I don't want that to be true about any Bible-preaching church. I don't want there to be hindrances to the gospel There are things that can hold the gospel back. And here in this passage, that's what we find, and we're gonna we're gonna get the end of the message is really the crux of the message here, but We're going to go through a few things, point out some obvious things from this passage of scripture that can be a help to us. Several years ago now, I had a buddy and we started talking and we decided we're going to do some backpacking. And uh I didn't know anything about backpacking. I never really heard of it. And backpacking is basically you hike all day and you you hike with everything you need to survive in the woods on your back And you'll go day after day after day on these backpacking trips, and there are people that will hike the entire Appalachian Trail. In fact Just this past week somebody set a new record that hiked the whole trail, I think, in like 46 days or something like that. From Georgia all the way up to Maine. That's a long way to hike With just things on your back. And I didn't know what I was doing. I had no clues. So we just Googled it and Well, I gotta get a backpack. So I found out suddenly it gets really, really expensive to just sleep in the woods. You can't get a twenty dollar backpack from Walmart. You need a good backpack. So I spent like two hundred bucks on a backpack Uh and then you need all this gear. You need you know, you might need tracking poles, which I don't want to waste money on that. Uh but you need something to cook your food, something that doesn't weigh 30 pounds, so you're not lugging 30 pounds through the woods and I tried to skimp out. I tried to hold back. I tried to spend as little as possible to get out on the woods on my first five-day-long backpacking trip And I'll tell you what, we we didn't realize how ridiculous we were until years later. Because we would stop at these stops, you'd stop, and uh there'd be spots where you could camp out and set up your tent or Set up your hammock and there'd be other backpackers there and we'd start pulling things out of our backpack and you would see the other backpackers, your eyes would get about this big Like they're like, what in the world? I've never seen that before. I pulled a propane tank out of my backpack. Then they're looking at them like, what in the world are you doing? My stove probably weighed like I had this small stove, I thought it was small, but it weighed a ton. And then I pulled an axe out of there. I figured I might need some firewood or defend myself from a bear. I pulled an axe out of there, a hatchet And they were looking at me like, what in the world? They're over there, they're the kind of people that they got a toothbrush that's this long and they cut off the handle of the toothbrush to save weight. And I'm over here with a three-pound axe And uh I'll tell you what, it was eye-opening. I say this. We walked into the woods, campers. We came out of those woods backpackers. We walked into the woods campers. We came out backpackers. Because after about day two We got to the spot where we crossed a dirt road. There were some telephone poles on that road. So I'm like, let me break out my phone. And I Googled where we were and I put a mark where we were And I pulled about half the stuff out of my backpack and just said, I don't need this stuff. It's holding me back. I ripped that axe out of there and I hid it in a bush next to that telephone pole. I pulled my stove out of there and I'm like, I can live off of protein bars. I do not need this brick in my backpack. I had this giant like hunting knife. The thing weighed like two pounds I don't need that in my backpack. And I I lightened the load by like 20 pounds. Because we're being held back. We were being hindered And there might be some things in our lives where we look at God says, I want to use you in a big way. I want to use you to have an impact on your lost family members and your lost friends. I want you to be used to serve the Lord here in this church. I want to use all your abilities, but in some way, there's something that's hindering those things. That's what you find here in this passage. Number one, I want you to see this: the message of the gospel. First thing that we need to make sure that we're not hindering, we need to make sure we can articulate accurately the message of the gospel. If there was someone here right now, you walked out of this church, you went off to some, maybe you went to Walmart to pick up something to eat for lunch, maybe you went to a diner or someplace to eat and you stopped and The waitress there at that diner, she she comes up to your table and you can tell she is distraught. Like she is heartbroken. She's been crying. You can tell she's struggling And you just mentioned to her, is something wrong? Is there something I can help you with? And the waitress there with tears in her eyes looks at you and she says, I just, I'm afraid if I died today that I would go to hell. What would you do? Would you be able to clearly articulate the gospel? Do you really know what the gospel is The gospel is the death, burial, and resurrection of Jesus Christ. It's him dying on the cross in our place, the substitutionary death of Christ, where Christ paid for our sins. He stood there in our place. He took upon him our sin sentence, and he paid for our sins for all of eternity. There is not a single work which we need to do to earn salvation. There is nothing we could do to earn salvation, not one thing. There is no person on this earth that's born on this earth that can earn salvation because every single one of us, we're a sinner, and sin has a payment. Sin needs to be paid for. There's a punishment for sin. If there was somebody here who You know, Scarlett. Scarlett's here. I've been talking to Scarlett for the past couple days. You know, Scarlett shot somebody. You know, she went home and she's like, ah, this, yeah, I'm I'm just I'm mad at this person. I'm gonna shoot him. And she shot somebody. I mean, that would be terrible. But then Scarlett says, man, my sin, it was terrible. Let me do this. I'm going to volunteer at a soup kitchen. I'm going to join the church choir. I'm going to start witnessing to people. I'm going to be a good person. I'm going to give lots of money to the church. I'm going to do all these things That doesn't matter. When the Lord comes to her and they're not going to say, Oh, you've been trying to be really good. That's okay, you're fine. We'll just let you go. No, that sin needs to be paid for. There's a prison sentence tied with that. Possibly a death sentence, biblically a death sentence, but we won't go there. Um there's a sentence that needs to be tied to that. There's a payment that needs to take place. Well, there's a payment that needs to take place for our sins We can't make that payment. There's nothing we can do to pay that. Christ had to pay that for us. And it's by faith that his payment for our sin is allocated to our account. The moment we trust Christ to be our Savior, we are declared innocent. Our sins are washed away. We are 100% forgiven For that penalty that we should pay by spending an eternity in hell. That is the gospel And every single person here in this church, we have to be able to articulate that. We have to be able to, from the Bible, show somebody how they can know for sure that they're on their way to heaven. I would hate to have a soul-winning opportunity where I could get to heaven and that person could be in heaven with me. They're spared from an eternity in hell to go into heaven just because I didn't know how to articulate the gospel. That's very, very, very important. There are, I mean, there are so many things that help us with that. There's a pastor who wants to show you that. If you don't know how to clearly articulate that, you can know that. You can learn how to do that. Number two, I want you to see this. Not just the message of the gospel can be hindered, but the messenger of the gospel can be a hindrance. As a messenger of the gospel, every single one of us, we are messengers of the gospel. If you are saved today, you are God's voice. You are part of the body of Christ here on this earth. God wants to save somebody here on this earth. He's not going to use the government to do it. We know that. He's not going to use somebody out in the world to do it. He's going to use you He's not going to come reincarnate here in the flesh and share the gospel with somebody. He's not going to preach a sermon. He's going to use some teenage boy here to preach a sermon for him. We're his body here on this earth. We want to make sure we're a good messenger of the gospel. I was a teenager and we wanted to get some kayaks to go kayaking So we went to this place. I I won't say the specific place, but it was a kayak, it was a place that that's all they did is sell kayaks and canoes. That was their business. They had a rental business, they had a sales shop. I mean these guys were the experts. And I went there to uh to go buy a kayak and I'm concerned I don't want to buy a piece of junk. I mean it's it costs some money to buy these things. They're not cheap. So I don't want to buy junk. I want to make sure I got something well built that you know isn't going to sink in the middle of the ocean while I'm on it and I'll get eaten by sharks. I want something good Something that can handle both the ocean and because we're by the ocean and and the lakes and all that stuff. So I go there and uh we're talking to a salesman and this guy, it's like he just landed in Connecticut from being out in California like surfing on some beach. And uh we go, well how are these? And we mentioned the kayak. I I mean is there any you know is this a good kayak? How's it made? We want to know the details. The guy just looks at it and he looks at us and he goes, Well, they are what they are. And I'm like Wow, that is helpful. You are you are the worst salesman on the face of the earth. Yeah, and and it y you have bad instances like that. I've been I've been looking at cars before and you know the salesman I he's talking to me and it's like oh it's his breath is like killing me. I'm being oppressed by his breath and You know, I mean there's hindrances. There are people that are a hindrance. And we don't want to be a hindrance. We don't want ourselves, the messenger, to be a hindrance. How do we be a hindrance to the gospel? Well, our testimony can be a hindrance Our testimony can be a great asset. In fact, the most powerful tool you have to share the gospel in many ways is our testimony. You can use your testimony to explain the gospel to somebody with some Bible verses, and it is a powerful thing. But if you say, Well, you know, I was saved from a life of sin and the Lord changed my life, and this is what God did for me and He can do this for you too if you just trust Him and He'll give you a home in heaven and all different things that come with salvation. But they know you've got, man, you've got a temper and you're you're abusive to your wife and you're abusive to your kids. Suddenly The messenger of the gospel, that messenger has been a hindrance and not a help to the gospel. We don't want to be like that. We want to be somebody who's a good, faithful messenger of the gospel. Now I want you to see this, the methods of the gospel. Now here we're getting right into this passage here. There's a method. They had a very unconventional method of getting somebody to Christ That's what the gospel is. That's what soul winning is. You're just getting somebody to Christ. You're not getting them to a place, you're getting them to a person. The the Jesus Christ is who makes a difference. My pastor, he lost his voice. And uh I mean I mean when I say lost his voice, I mean he lost his voice. He didn't talk for 18 months. He couldn't talk. Uh he couldn't preach, couldn't do anything. And he did all kinds of research and finally he found a doctor in New York City that could tell him What was wrong with his voice? He said, you have spasmatic dysphonia. My pastor said, great, what's the cure? And the guy said, there is no cure. You you're you're gonna be like this for the rest of your life. He said, well, isn't there well he didn't really say it because he couldn't talk, but he indicated that he said he indicated that well isn't there something I can do? Well he said, well We can give you Botox and that your voice will come back for a little bit, but then it'll go back to the way it was, and before you know it, your vocal cords, they're semi-paralyzed right now, but they'll be completely paralyzed. He was like, this thinks, I'm never going to preach again. I mean this is this is the end of his ministry in many ways. So he just didn't have peace about that, and then uh really through a unique set of circumstances, the Lord led him To a person out in of all places, Los Angeles, California. And you would fly back and forth to Los Angeles, California, to have therapy with this holistic physician. And he was cured. He can talk. You would never know he had a voice problem today. But what was the answer? He had to find a person that could help him. He had to find the person that the cure wasn't some book. It wasn't some instructions. It wasn't some list of things to do. It was a person that helped him. That's what the gospel is. The gospel is uh we're uh the person, Jesus Christ, helping somebody to paying for their sins. And it's the gospel that changes lives and We're not getting them to any any individual here on this earth. We're just getting them to Jesus. And that's what soul winning is, just getting somebody to Christ. I can't save anybody. You can't save anybody. We're just getting them to that person And there's methods to doing that. And here in this passage, the method, very unconventional, was they ripped open the ceiling and dropped the guy in from the ceiling down to Jesus. That's what they had to do to get them to God. Get them to Christ. That was what this meant. This was the method in this passage. Now imagine here, you're sometimes we read these things and we just Brush right over it and it doesn't really strike home. Imagine here we're in service and I'll tell you what, we've been having a big event here and this building is packed. I mean there is No seating room in any of the pews. We've got chairs set up in the aisles, chairs set up along the sides. We have the choir loft is full. The choir just stays in the choir loft because there's no room to sit There's people standing out in the lobby area over there with the doors open. In fact, the lobby's full. The outside the doors of the church is full. There's people out on the front porch in the parking lot. with the doors swung open so they could hear the preaching in the service. I mean this place is filled with capacity and then some And then while the preacher's preaching, suddenly you hear a Milwaukee sawzah on the roof. And he's like, what in the world's going on? And you got guys in here, you're packing heat, you're you're ready for yeah, I mean you're ready for a Wild West shootout. What's going on here? Who's breaking into the church And they got the saws on there ripping apart the roof. And then you see hammers ripping apart the sheetrock and they had to cut a floor joist in the ceiling here so that they could squeeze this guy in and he's on a stretcher. And there's four guys up there, each with a rope, and they're lowering down a stretcher right here, right in the front of the pulpit, and the guy lands on the communion table. That's what just happened here in this passage. That was the extreme method they had to use to get somebody to the gospel. You know, there's a lot of methods to getting somebody to Christ. There really is. We have a bus ministry down in Connecticut, and it's a thriving bus ministry, and that's one way to get people to Christ When I went to Taunton, Massachusetts, they don't they didn't have much outreach because of uh several different things. And uh one of the things I noticed when I went there, there's no track track in the church. There's no tracks They were there, but they were in some drawer hidden somewhere and I was like, well we need to get a track rack, so I bought a track rack. First thing I did, day one, I bought a track rack off of Amazon And when that thing came in, I screwed it to the wall right at the exit, and which is full of tracks right now, and our our church people have taken a ton of tracks And every single week we have a count to see how many people, how many tracts were given out that week in the church. It's exciting. It's a method to get out the gospel You hand somebody a brochure that explains to them how they can trust Christ to be their Savior. There's other methods. There's radio programs. There's podcasts. There's billboards on highways. There's. Different events that we have throughout the year, friend days and special events, and church potlets, all different opportunities, an excuse, a method to get somebody to the gospel I was with um uh he used to Pastor Franklin Road, uh Dr. Rick Wallace. Do I have that name right? Tom Wallace. Tom Wallace. I knew something was wrong there. Dr. Tom Wallace, he's got a unique method Uh he knows, I guess, uh the founder of Cracker Barrel or something. Uh so every time he goes to a Cracker Barrel, he has a card to get free stuff at Cracker Barrel, which I think is the coolest thing ever But he got he's got a picture there of the founder and he he knows them personally. He goes, Oh yeah, do you know the founder? I know the founder. So he starts talking to them about the founder, and then that opens up a conversation. He shares with them the gospel It's a neat thing. It's a neat little method that he has. And listen, we're not salesmen out there. We're not there the key is not the method. The key is Christ. Just getting somebody to Christ. There's no sort of smooth talking you can do to get see somebody saved. God has the work. But there's techniques, there's things we can use to get somebody to gospel. That's a good thing. And every single method to get somebody to the gospel that's honoring to God is a good thing. That's not a hindrance Uh but there are methods that are a hindrance. Today we could probably tack this place out if we had, you know, uh I don't know some famous you know, if we got Taylor Swift to come here This whole property would be filled. And we could we could have Taylor Swift come sing here, and Pastor Leatherman could get up and he could preach a little message, nice short, concise message explaining the gospel And you know what? That's a method we could use to get out the gospel. But I don't think that's honoring to God. That's not pleasing to the Lord. I'm not going to hinder the gospel with the method I'm using to get out the gospel. If God's not pleased, then that that's uh we the gospel seeing somebody say this is getting God to work. Like that's just seeing God work. You don't want to have something going on where God pulls back. You want something that makes God happy, that pleases the Lord, not repels them. I mean, that's a terrible thing. We don't want to use a wrong method to get out the gospel. There's a lot of great ideas to get out the gospel, but we want to make sure those methods are biblical. And they're not a hindrance to the gospel. Then I want you to see this. Number four, the maze of the gospel. Number one, you got the message of the gospel. Number two, the messenger. Number three, the methods. Number four, the maze of the gospel. Here you have in this pastor as many little hindrances to the gospel. Number one, see the building. The building was a hindrance. It wasn't big enough. And this church has seen that in the in recent days. How long ago was it when you finally finished that activity center? Two years? That was cool. I remember coming here before there was no activity center. That is a great asset. What is that building? We don't have a building there, so we like having buildings and something else to clean. Now that building is a tool of the gospel. The building's an asset. Here in this passage, the building was not an asset. It was a liability. It was hindering the gospel. And it's important that every one of the physical aspects of the church, that they're not a hindrance, if somebody walks in here and there's Some rotting pizza from last week sitting in the garbage can. There's flies around it. And they walked into the welcome center. There's pizza from two weeks ago still next to the water fountain in the garbage can. And it reeks and smells. They had anchovies on that pizza. And you can smell it from a mile away. I mean, don't you guys think that'd be a hindrance to the gospel? Somebody would walk in and say, I'm not going here. This church stinks, literally, like there's flies in the foyer. That's a hindrance to the gospel. There's things about this building. If the lawn's a foot tall, somebody drives by and is like, well, that church isn't well kept. That's a hindrance to the gospel. They're not going to come visit. Those are hindrances And praise the Lord for everybody who works so it takes a lot of work to keep a building going like this. There's a lot of work involved Praise the Lord for many people that I remember my dad, he's an HVAC guy. I remember going to church with my dad at one o'clock in the morning on Saturday, well actually Sunday morning, one o'clock in the morning Because the boiler quit and we're trying to get it going so there's heat there for the morning service in the middle of January. I mean, praise the Lord for people like that That they just they they bend over backwards to make sure God's house is in the best shape possible. There's all aspects of that. There's a church website that needs to be maintained. There's a church building that needs to be maintained. There's uh all the Flyers for the church, those got to be done first class because we don't want to hand something out. And somebody looks at them and says, I'm not going to this. They don't even care They're not trying. That's important to getting out the gospel. The building was a hindrance in this passage. Number two, I want you to see this. The press was a hindrance. Verse 4. And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press. That was the big hindrance. There are so many people there That the people there that had come to listen to Jesus preach, they were the hindrance. This is convicting to me. Because most of my life I've been a church member. I'm still a church member. I'm you know pastor of a church, but you know, it's it's It's difficult because I l I remember times in church where, man, I'd want to talk my pastor's ear off. Just blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. You You know, tell them all kinds of stuff and tell them stories and and I don't wanna I want to be very a good steward of my pastor's time Because my pastor's got a job to do, to get out the gospel. And there's a lot involved in that. And there may be someone here and you're you're a little upset because Man, the pastor just he didn't talk to me as long as he wanted to. Uh he didn't pay me to say this, by the way. He doesn't know I'm saying this. Uh the pastor, you know, I I ta he didn't want to talk to me for for a long time after service because Sometimes the pastor's gotta just they see a visitor and they gotta run off and talk to a visitor and talk with them because that's high priority. I can call the pastor in the afternoon. They don't have his number. The pastor needs to reach them. That's important. Preeing up the pastor to do what he's been called to do, finances of the pastor. One of the things that's I found going to church to church, that's important. You don't want the pastor, the finances of the personal pastor's finances to hinder his work in the ministry. Some of them's got a work-aside job and he's he's he's stretched over finances. You want to pay a pastor a livable wage. That's all part of it. You know that that can be a hindrance to a to the ministry of a church. You don't want that to be a hindrance. There can be someone here, I mean, you just walk in, you're in a bad mood And this happens to me. I wake up on the wrong side of the bed. My dog's looking at me cross-eyed. My dog's grumpy. I'm grumpy. Kick the dog on the way out the door. Come to church and walk in, and man, I I'll look like, you know, I just Somebody just drowned my dog. Like I'm just upset. You walk in the church with a bad attitude. I sometimes I gotta do a attitude check. And I I I I'm on my way to church and I realize, man, I didn't do my devotions I don't have that sweet smell of being with the Lord on my disposition. I just spend sometimes there's I'm in the middle of the day and I'm just like Man, if I don't get in the Bible, I'm gonna rip somebody's head off. Like I do not have the right attitude right now. And I'm like, listen, I need to quit what I'm doing. I need to spend some time in the Word of God. So The Lord changes my attitude so that I'm not a hindrance to the gospel. You know, there's uh parents here, this is a big thing. You've got young kids in your life. Your children. You can't hide things from your kids. Your kids know what's going on. Your kids know, I mean, they there's there's no hiding from them. They know what's really going on If there are things in our lives that are hindering the gospel, that shows. And there are kids today that are not on their way to heaven because there's something a parent did to hinder the gospel. See, we don't want to be a hindrance to the gospel. Not only was the press a limitation, the building was an limitation, but verse 6, you'll see the critics. The critics were a limitation It says in verse 6, but there were certain of the scribes sitting there and reasoning in their hearts. Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sins but God only? And immediately, when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts? Uh I uh I'm a New Englander. New Englanders they're just automatically critical. Like like we we j we get born, we come out of the womb And there must be some like vaccine that the doctor shoots us up with that makes us critical. Like it's just it's part of our nature. Uh being in New England, we're halfway between Boston and New York City. It's just It's just it's critical. It's part of the it's part of the culture up there. And it's something that needs to be battled. Well, yeah, I don't care. There's there are you can say something, I don't care how positive it is Somebody will find something bad about it. Oh, I got a new car. Oh, you bought a Kia? That's not made in America. You know what? Critical Yeah, got a new car. Ah, can you handle the the payments on that thing? Uh I mean it's just it's just no matter what you say sometimes, there's somebody that can come up with something critical about it I don't care what church you go to, there's no perfect church. And I could sit here and I can list to your problems about the church I'm in, the church I was in before, the church I was in before that. Hey, there's no perfect church out there But there's no crown that we're going to receive in heaven for being the grumpiest, most critical person in the whole church. Alright, God. God's not going to, you're not going to get to heaven and say, well, praise the Lord. You pointed out every problem That ever existed and then made a few up. Good job, buddy. Praise the Lord. Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Okay, that's not living the Christian life. That's not what God wants us to do Our goal is not to be critical. And I'll say this, there may and I'm a chess player. You know, chess players, I love playing chess. I I've actually I've kept record of every single chess game I've played with my dad since January 1st of 2020. We're somewhere around 300 games right now. Every single one. We know which one won, which one lost. It's just a fun thing my dad and I do But when you're playing chess, you're looking at that board and you just know your opponent's up to something. And some of you, you're going through life like that And you're skeptical about everything. And I'll say this: there is a difference between being discerning, walking circumspectly, and just being plain outcritical. Those three are not synonymous with each other. Two of those are biblical, one of those is unbiblical, and it hinders the gospel. And I'll add a fourth one to that. This is a further end, being a scorner. So being a scorner is getting past just being critical. Those are four different things. Two are of the Lord. They're a work of the Holy Spirit. Two of those are a work of the devil in your life. They're a work of the flesh. And two of those are a great asset to the gospel. Walking circumspectly is important. We preached about we I I basically preached to them in Sunday school today. Did a little teaching, but a lot of preaching. And uh uh and you i we talked about walking circumspectly as a young person, considering what's going on. That's important, being discerning. There's a lot of things in this world to be discerning about. I just read in my devotions yesterday. Christ instructed his disciples Be wise as serpents, harmless as doves. That's important. There's a lot of things in this world that Satan's got. There's a lot of things in The greater spectrum of Christianity that Satan's got there to hinder the gospel. We want to be discerning about those things. But there's no crown in heaven for having a critical spirit. If God's trying to do something good and accomplish something great, I don't want to be the person to be critical about it. I I would I I I I mean that's that's scary. That that's that's not a good place to be as a Christian. We need to consider is there some things in my life And look inwardly. Are there some things that I'm critical about that I ought not to be? Parents with your children? Children with your parents? Everybody here with the pastor, with the church leadership, the church leadership with everybody in the church and the church. I mean it's it's this is no one is exempt from this. Every single person here, this is a tool that Satan uses in our lives to derail us and hinder the work of the gospel. And we don't want to allow Satan to have that success, to place in our hearts a critical spirit We do not want that. And if that if we find ourselves guilty, that's something that we need to get right with God in an old-fashioned altar And we need to get in God's word and allow God's word to change our disposition. You say, well, I've been critical since I was born. Well, welcome to the club. I'm from Connecticut. I mean it's it's it's just my personality. I'm a critical person of detail oriented and I see issues, I see problems Well, that can change. Now God's given you a personality. That's ingrained in you. That's who you are. That's how God made you But your spirit about how you go about things, that's where that critical attitude comes from. And God changes the spirit. Just in the chapter before There was somebody in the set so this is the second time he went to Capernaum here in the book of Mark. In the first time he went to Capernaum in chapter 1 He went there, and there was somebody in the synagogue with an unclean spirit. The Bible talks a lot about different spirits that we can have. There's an evil heart of unbelief, an evil spirit of unbelief. There's things that can approach us in ways Satan can work in our lives, but here when he gets to the synagogue, the church house The place, the synagogue where the where the Bible gets opened and the Bible's read and expounded upon and where where God should be working. No, this place was a place where There was somebody with an unclean spirit, somebody possessed, that felt perfectly at home in the church. Now it's not a church, this is a synagogue. But perfectly at home where the Bible was being preached. That's a dangerous place. What was going on in that synagogue? I think the Bible had been stopped being obeyed a long time ago. And God came there and he cast that that evil spirit out of that person. See, there might be somebody here, you've got some things that need you need to get right with God. Lastly, I'll point this out. Unbelief. If you go to Mark chapter 13, verse 58, this is him speaking of Capernaum. Fast forward another visit to Capernaum. And it's interesting if you do a study on this city here, Capernaum, on the shores of the Sea of Galilee. Mark chapter 13, verse 58 says this, and this is a sad statement. Says, and he did not many works there because of their unbelief. That was about the city of Capernaum And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief. The last thing that I'll mention that can be a hindrance to the gospel is unbelief. And the gospel is powerful. I mean it's an amazing thing. I think of a testimony, I believe, was Meltrotter. Correct me if I get anything wrong on this. But Meltrotter Was a drunk up uh in the Chicago area, I mean just drunk. His family was destroyed by alcohol And his him and his wife were there, and his he had recently had a young uh young infant there, and uh him and his wife and his child The child's real young and the child got sick. And the family was dirt poor. He drank every penny away that he could. So the doctor came out of the kindness of his heart. He knew the family couldn't pay any He comes there and he looks down and uh sees the infant and he says, well, the only chance this infant has of surviving the night is if you run to the pharmacy down the road and you get this medicine. And he took some of his own money out of his pocket Handed it to the to do I have this right, Meltrotter? Yes. Uh handed it to Meltrotter. And I get confused about names sometimes. Meltrotter. And Meltrotter took that money and he walked down the street to go to the pharmacy to pick up medicine for his dying child, the only hope that child had of surviving. And as he's walking down the street, he had to walk by a bar before he got to the pharmacy, and he never made it to the pharmacy. He stopped at that bar and he took the money out of his pocket that the doctor had given him to pay for the medicine for his dying child and drank the money away that night. The next morning he stumbled back to his house. He stumbled back to a crying wife with a deceased infant in her arms. Because he was so entrapped by sin that he drank the money away that the doctor had given him for the medicine for a child. In him, he was so hurt. He just s alcohol had destroyed his life. He went down the road and he was going to commit suicide that day. Somebody reached out to him and shared with him the gospel. He trusted Christ to be a Savior. And that day changed his life forever. He became a preacher of the gospel. He led gospel crusades. Thousands and thousands and thousands of people got saved. His family was restored. I mean, the Lord blessed his life. Just like the song that they sang today, he had been blessed. Once he trusted Christ to be a Savior. His whole life changed around turned around. Hey, the gospel's powerful. And I don't think there's anybody in that town that would have looked at that man and said, That guy's got any hope But there was a man there who shared the gospel with him because he knew Jesus Christ. And he knew if he just got this man to Jesus, that this man's life could be completely changed. It took that man's faith. He didn't have in him a heart of unbelief. He believed that God could do it. He believed enough to share the gospel with this man. There may be someone here, you're struggling with unbelief. You look at there might be somebody you're witnessing to in your life. You say, I don't I just I just don't see a possible. I don't know how God could work in their life Hey, don't let that unbelief be a hindrance to the gospel. Get that straightened out. God is a powerful God. The last point I have is the muscle of the gospel. Verse 12 of our passage, you see this man, he immediately arose and took up his bed and went forth before them all, insomuch that they were all amazed. And glorified God, saying, we never saw it on this fashion. That's the power of the gospel, the muscle of the gospel. The gospel is powerful. We don't want to allow our unbelief to hinder the gospel. If we just believe, if we just had faith, I think it was Lee Robertson who said, you know, my only regret, if I could do it all over again, I would have had more faith That man was known by his faith. I mean, there was a tremendous work of God built through uh through the faith of Lee Robertson. But he said, if I could do it all again, I would have had more faith Now I think for every single of us, when we get to heaven, we look down and we see how powerful our God is, how omnipotent He is. We look down at our life and we would we will say, Man, I just wish I had more faith. Just the faith that we can have, that God can use that to change lives. The faith, these four men, it took faith For them to get this man to the to the gospel. And it's going to take faith for each one of us to do the same. Let's have every head bowered, every eye closed. Oh, Pastor Leatherman will come up and he's going to close the service as he sees fit, but I wonder today if there's somebody here who would say, you know, this sermon helped me identify some way in which the gospel is being hindered. Maybe with a messenger, maybe you don't know the message as well as you should, and you need to work on that. Maybe there's someone here and say, well, you know the the the the there's some hindrance, maybe a critical spirit Maybe the Lord's working on somebody's heart where you're going to devote more time to keeping up the church building and investing in the church property here. I don't know how God spoken to you, but however he's spoken to you, you make sure you respond. And get whatever it is that needs to be changed, changed. Pastor? Amen