Bible's turn to the book of Genesis. Genesis chapter 37. Pastor said, I'm gonna leave I can go as long as I want to, but they're gonna start leaving after a while. So when the crowd starts thinning, we'll start slowing. How does that sound? Uh we do have a pizza night for the teenagers, and I'm willing to get those pizzas, Pastor. You don't have to I I I I never I sprung that on you. I just looked at these young people and I said They need some pizza. But then I forgot. In a former life, I used to be in business. I had three pizza franchises. And it's not as easy for me to just throw out pizzas like that as it used to be We had Crown College students come through, a singing group. They stayed in my house and they hadn't seen TV forever, and I had cable TV. And I said at the pizza plant, get a any pizzas they want. The next morning, three of 'em were still in the living room, on the recliners, asleep, literally a stack of pizza boxes that high Clean me out, man, but we're gonna have a pizza party. For the teens, alright? And uh for a review This morning we talked about the peas to remember the life of Joseph. He starts in his parents' house, goes to the pit. From the pit to Potiphar's house, Potiphar's house to the prison, from the pit prison to the palace But he winds up in the promised land. That's six P's, and it's hard to say that real fast. And we did the first one this morning in the main service. And we were talking about his parents' house. And then we did the last one, which is the promised land, because he said, put my bones in a box and don't leave them here. And I'm going to tell you something. Some of us know that this world is not our final destination. And I want to leave a testimony behind for my children, for my grandchildren, and I want them to know where I'm going. And I want them to meet me there. And if you don't know the free pardon of sin, or if you're not sure about your salvation, It's going to rob you of your life. And we talked about how that you're not ready to live until you are ready to die. We also talked about the presence of God. That the presence of God should be the number one thing in your life. The number one thing that you should seek is the presence of God. And when the presence of God is not in your life, Did you know others will know that? And sometimes you will not know it. Samson got up to shake himself like normal, and he did not know that the Spirit of God had left him. I'm afraid in our churches, it's too many Christians still living under their own power. They don't realize the presence of God has left them. The manifest presence of God. God's everywhere. He's everywhere. Our problem is we don't see his presence manifest. And when God comes down and his presence is manifest, everybody can see that. And power comes along with that. And clear direction will come along with that. And we talked about something else. We talked about the dreams of Joseph. We said how that there was no written scripture. The only thing he knew about worshiping God he learned from his parents And God gave him dreams, and back then God spoke to us in dreams. God's not going to speak to you in dreams in a great way, but he can in a personal way. But this is what he speaks to you through today. And God's dreams that He gives you to serve Him will never conflict, not ever, with God's Word. You need to have a dream. You need to ask God to give you a dream. You don't want to just go through life and then later on wake up and you're 50, 60 years old, and nothing is done for Christ. And there's no direction in your life. We talked about God-given dreams. They give you direction. God-given dreams. They are the ones that last, they have duration. God's given dreams don't change. They do not disappear. But the illusions that come from Satan do. Young people, I'm talking to you now. Listen, listen, listen, listen. Satan would blind you, count you many blessings, Satan would blind you to the goodness of God. When Moses in chapter 33 said, God, show me your glory. God said, You can't see my glory, you'll die. But I'll show you my goodness. I'll cause all my goodness to pass before you. Don't let Satan blind you to the goodness of God. God's been good. He's been better to me than I deserve, said Dave Ramsey saying. Y'all need to get on that Dave Ramsey stuff. Need to get good jobs, pay into Social Security, make lots of money. Remember that's one of the main points. I need the money. You'll never see a dime of it, but that's okay. You're not even going to get the house because your parents are going to take out a reverse mortgage. I don't know what you're going to do, but I'll be dead and gone. I'm not worried. That was no way to put that in there, was it? Satan will give you illusions. And illusions will deceive you. And Satan's always trying to trick you. And everything God does, Satan has a counterfeit for. You better be careful because God's got a plan for your life, and that plan for your life is better than anything that you've thought of yourself. God's plan for your life and his dreams for your life and the things that he wants to accomplish is better than anything you could ever imagine If the Lord would have sat me down, or an angel, let's say not the Lord, he's not going to pay attention to me. But if if I was sitting on a park bench, When I was some of your age, and God would sit down or send an angel to sit down and say, Let me tell you about your future, Ted. This is what's going to happen, where you be, this boom, boom, boom. I wouldn't believe it God's only going to tell you enough about your journey that you need to know. That's all you need to know. And if you're in the presence of God and close enough to him and hear him, he will give you dreams and he will guide your life and give you direction. We talked about those things this morning, got to get reviewed because I've got to get going. If you know the Word of God, I'm shifting gears here. I know you won't believe this, but one time I studied to be a licensed professional counselor. That's impressive, isn't it? My kids say, Daddy, what in the world were you thinking? You had not the gift of mercy How many of y'all remember that old uh Ralph Emory? He plays the drill sergeant, the Geico commercial, that drill sergeants don't make good Counselors. You ever heard that? And the guy's sitting on the couch and he said, What's wrong? I just don't think like people understand me. And if you know who the Emery guy is, he played drill sergeants in a lot of movies. Well let's just waltz off to Mambi Pambi land, you know, and he's crying. You need a tissue? Yeah, he throws the box at him. You know, that's the kind of counseling you do. If you look in the Bible long enough, listen to the situation. You can find examples in the Bible that parallel, and that gives you insight into what to do about it. I want to speak briefly. Man, it's already 743. You told me to be done at 8 There's a problem in America today with blended families. Divorce is a plague on our land. Center for Disease Control, these statistics are old, for 15 women that become with child, only 10 deliver. Of the 10 that deliver, only six have a husband in their home. We used to have a girls home in Cosciesco, Mississippi. Girls, listen to me, young young ladies. Graduate high school before you get married. Number two, do not get married as a teenager. Number three, do not have a child until you are married. If you'll do those three Statistically speaking, you have almost no chance of living in poverty. Do one of those three, and for every one of those chances, every one of those things you do Increases by 25% your chance of living in poverty. You don't want to live poor? Graduate high school. Before you get married. Don't get married as a teenager. That means twenty. Don't have a child until you're married. That'll cure a lot of the problems in America today. Of the six that have a husband in the home, half of them split up before that child gets to school. It is fundamentally changing this country. It is. While back, a few summers back, the Supreme Court sanctified and justified and legalized same-sex marriage. God never did. Marriage is an institution not created so that two people can have all their benefits and be happy like the rest of it. Marriage was created for families. Historically, all down through the ages, any child that is born the product of a legal marriage union, any culture, any time throughout history. That child is considered withstanding before the law that they have rights It might not be that daddy's child, but if they're married, the law sees that child as being his. Marriage is for the children. And divorce is the gift that keeps on giving, and it gives at the expense of the children more than anyone else. If you want an example in the Bible of what happens in a blended family, it is in the life of Jacob. He has children by four women, and it's a plague. I'm gonna ask uh Kim Ewe. Kim Awe, is that you, right? Am I getting the name right? You're gonna help me. Come on up here. Hey, hey, this is your time. Come on. Put this robe on. Look at him. Don't he look good? That's it. It's a coat of many colors. This signified that he was daddy's favorite. You should not have favorites. Told my grandkids, you're my favorite. Told Alex when she was born, you're my favorite firstborn grandchild. Her sister comes along. Angley, you're my favorite baby granddaughter. Then my grandson came along. Griffin, you're my favorite grandson. And it was getting tough when the others started coming along. And now when one of them calls me That'll tell you that you're my favorite. Right? Yeah. You're my favorite. Yeah. This means that you're special. This means that although you've got 11 brothers, I'm choosing you to head up this tribe when I'm dead. And what happens is this, verse 2, look in here, chapter 37, Joseph being 17 years old. How old are you? 18? Yeah, 18. Oh, you're past date. Just by a year. Just by a year. Okay, we'll let you play like you're Joseph. Now Israel, verse three, loved Joseph more than all his children. And I'm going to tell you that sets you up for nothing but family problems. And when his brother in verse 4 saw that their father loved him more, look what it says. They hated him and could not speak peaceably to him. I bet you guys wish that you were the favorite, right? That's right. You ain't got no coat of many colors. Let me tell you something, Joseph. You're my favorite so much. I'm fixing to give you not a twenty, that's for sure. I found a dollar in there someplace. He can have a dollar. You don't get nothing. You don't get nothing. He's the favorite That's my favorite. They could not speak peaceably to him. And there's a lot of family problems that are going on because of these situations. You got blended families. You got yours, you got mine, his, theirs, everybody's. And that sets you up but nothing but problems. Look what the Bible says here. Stay up here. You ain't going nowhere. You ain't got to read this. Okay, I'm reading this, okay? Just trust me. Play cool. Okay. He has the dreams. Verse 5 it says, and they hated him yet the more. Look at the end of verse 8. And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. Verse 17, and the man said, They are departed hence. I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brothers and found them in Dothan. And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him. Tell you there's a biblical principle that anger that is unresolved turns to bitterness and anger kills That's the story of Cain and Abel. Anger kills. Yeah, but Brother Monk, the Bible says, be angry and sin not. Yep. Straighten it out before the sun goes down. And I'm going to tell you, there's a lot of people eat up with anger and bitterness. And because of these blended families, I've seen what divorce does. I've seen close-up in my own family. My daughter was married for 15 years to somebody in the ministry. Fifteen years divorce wrecked the family. And my two precious grandbabies are still paying the price. I can't tell you how that's hurt our family. They said one to another, verse 19, Behold the dreamer cometh. Come now therefore, and let us slay him. And cast him into some pit, and we will say some evil beast hath devoured him, and we shall see what becomes of his dreams. And Reuben heard it, and he delivered them out of their hands, and said, Let us not kill him. And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness. and lay no hand upon him that he might rid him out of their hands to deliver him to his father again. But while Reuben's away, and it came to pass that when Joseph was coming to the brethren, that they stripped Joseph out of his coat. His coat of many colors that was on him, and they took him and cast him into a pit, and the pit was empty. There was no water in it. They stripped him out of his coat. That was your coat. That was your coat. Get out of here. Get out of here and give me that dollar back. No, don't don't give me the dollar back. You don't have to give me the dollar. We move from the parents' house now to the pit. I don't know how many of you in this room would seriously consider giving your life to Christ and being used of God. I don't mean giving your life to Christ and salvation. I mean A lot of you have given your soul to him in salvation. God wants your life. Joseph is a type of Christ. But now Joseph, it's no fault of his own. It was not his fault, but his daddy liked him best. It's not his fault. He was obeying the Father's command. He said, go give me a report from your brothers. He was just doing what his father told him to do. He had been given two dreams of God, and he was just going in the faith of those dreams. And 17-year-old boy goes out there and his older brothers, these are grown men They have families of their own. And they're so mad at him. They take him, strip him out of his coat, and they throw him in a pit. They almost were going to kill him, but they decided just to throw him into a pit. Now I'm going to tell you something right now. There is a biblical method that God uses to get the gospel to other people. This biblical method we're going to discuss in just a moment involves the pit. The pit is a different experience. The pit is something that if you're going to serve God, you're going to go through, I guarantee it. I'm not going to tell you what that pit is going to be. I don't know if it's going to be a broken relationship. I don't know if it's going to be financial loss I don't know whether or not it's going to be a long face from the doctor giving you some bad news. But I do know this. There's a biblical principle involved in this. Take your Bibles and turn, if you will, with me to Matthew chapter 14 Matthew chapter 14 is the story about the feeding of the 5,000. Matthew chapter 14. Are you there? Read one verse, verse 19, and he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass. This is good. This is God's divine method. And let me tell you something. God's divine method is just as important as God's divine message. Don't you ever forget it. This is the method. How do you know that, Brother Mock? Well, I'll show it to you. And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass. Look at this. And took. The five loaves and the two fishes. And looking up to heaven, he blessed and broke. And gave the loaves to his disciples. And his disciples to the multitudes. Now let me say something. Am I allowed to come down? Is that okay? This is proof text. It's the only miracle that's in all four Gospels. This proves that these men were not independent Baptists. Proves it. Because if you read them all together you'll find out that they were organized. They had them sit down in companies. It's true. They fed five thousand in one meal at one time. All independent Baptists, when you ever have a meal You've got a table. You get your forks and all that stuff first, right? Your utensils? Tell me if I'm wrong, ladies. Then you start going through the table, right, guys? There's the entrees That's a French word. Means the main dish. Then you start going through the side dishes, right? I'm always told when I visit these churches, you go first, Brother Mot. I don't want to go first. I want to go midway. Because these people know who's cooking and who's not. Who's good and who's not. So if there's two of the same dish there, the one that's been dipped in, the one that ain't been dipped in, I know which one to get If you wait to the end of the line, the good stuff's going to be gone. Get right there in the middle. They know who cooks the best green beans. They know who cooks the best chicken. They know who cooks the best anything. Follow their lead. Then you go through that, and what do you do? You go to a separate table to get your drinks and your desserts And all of the sin here are overweight, most of us are diabetic, and you don't never bring no sugar free The progressive churches, they go down both sides of the table. But they still could not feed 5,000 in one day that way. What happened that day is Jesus took Five loaves and two fishes. And let me tell you something. Anything you give to God and offer Him, He'll take it. And he'll even take you. Just as you are. Anything that you have, anyone that you have, any talent that you have, anything that you have, if you offer to Jesus Christ, he will take it. And if he takes it, everything that he takes, he always blesses. Every time. There's nothing that you can't put into the Savior's hands that he will not bless. But we don't like this part. He breaks it. And he broke it, and he gave it to them, and they broke it, and then they gave it to that one, to this one, and the next one. And that's how the bread and the fish got out. And the gospel gets out the same way. And all of that sounds fun. We want to be used. We want to be taken. We want to be blessed. but we don't want to be broken. Number the mock, are you telling me, are you for sure that that's God's divine method? Well, let me tell you, it is also found in Matthew 26, 26. It is found in Mark 14, 22, Mark 6, 41, Mark 8, verse 6. Matthew 15, 36. It's found again, I didn't write these in order, it should have. Luke 24, 30, Luke 9, 16, Acts 27, 35, and 36, Luke 22, 19 And 2 Corinthians 11, verse 23 and 24. If you don't go through the breaking, God's not going to use you. I'm running out of time and straying from my points. This will help me. Better get back on the notes. Joseph wanted I'm gonna come down here because I like the young people. I know these guys look like they're losers, but I'm I'm I'm praying God's going to do something with them. Joseph, above all things, wanted his father's approval, and he wanted his brother's acceptance. But he was rejected by them all. But God's about to show Joseph something before he could use Joseph. He's trying to show him that the only thing that he needed was God's approval and God's acceptance. So if you want to uncomplicate your life and you want to simplify your life, guys, learn to serve one master. Folks, if you learn to serve one master, forget what else thinks, what others do, serve one master. Get the presence of God manifest in your life And follow your master. And don't worry about the rest. God deals with all of us as individuals. And some things might happen in your life, and only God will be able to give you the understanding of why they happen. I would love to tell these young people that you're going to have a fantastic life and everything's going to be good and everything's going to be rosy. I look at some of these precious girls who are going to grow up and they're going to be mommies I wish I could guarantee you they wouldn't lose a baby. I wish I could guarantee them that they won't have a husband that would leave them. I wish I could guarantee them that they're going to have no bad illness come up in their lives. But I can't do that. I can't guarantee that there won't be times that these young men, when they get up in life, won't be done wrong while they're climbing the corporate ladder. That they may stand at an altar one day and somebody break a vow that they made before God to them That their hopes and their dreams might seem one day like they're never going to come about. God deals with us all as individuals. And sometimes you will be the only one that has the understanding why things happen in your life. And I'm looking out here at young people, and I don't know whether or not you've ever been in a pit experience, but I guarantee you some of these old folks could amen me right now and say, Brother Mark, if you knew the pit that I went through. I'd love to be like Joel Osteen. Something good is going to happen to you. The liar is not always good. And just because you get saved, your problems don't go away, and you're not going to be free from the troubles that come in this world. Joseph's life is going to be forever changed by the sins of others. But you want to know something? He's not responsible. It's his brothers that wanted to kill him But God is more interested not in Joseph's feelings, but in what Joseph will be one day. And we need to get to understand that you cannot live a victorious Christian life and do anything for God if you live it based on your feelings. And you're not always going to feel good. And happiness depends on happenings. But the joy of the Lord is something totally different. God is going to rid Joseph of some things. And it's going to start with that coat of many colors. In the pit, this is how you know it's a pit. In the pit, you're always alone. That's a bad feeling. That's bad. Sometimes men You're in your family with your wife and your kids around you and you're all alone. Because there's things that's going on in your life you don't want to have them know about Sometimes when that doctor gives you the long face and tells you you've got cancer or whatever it is, you're alone. And there's some may even experience the loss of a lifelong mate, and they're alone. And that hurts. In the pit, you're always alone. In the pit, it happens fast, unexpectedly. Boom, it's fast. Joseph never expected it. He walked up, hey guys, how are you doing? Boom, he's stripped and thrown into a pit. Something else about the pit It's confusing. Joseph's saying, why? What have I done? I'm just doing what daddy told me to. Go find your brothers and give a report. I went to where they were, they weren't there, I went the extra mile. I go on to the other place and I find them and and here I found them and now they threw me into a pit. What in the world did I do? I didn't do nothing But the pit, this is the good news, is always survivable. Remember Joseph's dreams? That was a promise from God He was thrown into the pit, but it was going to be final, it was going to be survivable because it was there to teach him something. And when you're in the pit experience, God is teaching you something Now I know right now I may only be talking to a few people that understand anything about what I'm saying. But there are some here that I'm sure have gone through that place. God has taken you and broken you. I was in business. I'm in a mill town. I'm out splitting wood. My good buddy who works at the Lumber Mill and was the life below that little town. We loaded up the truck, it was getting dark, and we started seeing a glow. And when we got there, Beard and Lumber Company was on fire. You could see the fire from 16 miles away. They rolled every fire. I I've never seen anything like it. That was my business burning down just as well. That year at Affiliated Foods, I won the Goldbuster Award for selling the most private label surefine and sure fresh products. Greatest percentage increase. They kept me up on the front of everybody and gave me a golden plaque. I didn't have the heart to tell them that they didn't have money to buy Del Monte, they had to buy the short the store label. About lost everything we had. I didn't know what we were going to do next. I didn't know how God was going to deliver. It was sudden. It happened. We didn't expect it. But God brought me out of that. And while I was in that pit, God taught me something. Because he taught me that I don't rely on the supply. I rely on the supplier. The pit always reveals two things. It reveals those who are seeking the favor of God and those who are the enemy of God. And make no mistake about it, young people, if you really get business with God and you want to serve God, the crowd's going to divide into two. And there's going to be enemies against you. And in our ranks I've seen many a person, son serving he said, I I think God wants to be a missionary. And his parents said, What a waste. You could be a lawyer. You could be a doctor. Why do you have to be a preacher? Why do you want to do that? You're wasting your life. God help us. There is no greater calling. My wife went to college, Mike Huckabee. When she became governor of the state, she cried, I'm as old as the governor of the state. Mike Huckabee was a pastor. A Southern Baptist pastor. When he was running for president of the United States, in my opinion, he was stepping down if he would have gotten the job. There is no greater calling. We need to start getting off of being like the brothers and being the enemy of those that are trying to follow God, and we need to start doing something to try and help these young people to learn to serve God. And there's a joy in it, and there's honor in it, and it's the best choice that they could ever make in their life. When he was in the pit. He was alone, except for God. When he was in the pit, he was stripped of that coat of many colors, his most prized possession. He didn't go anywhere without it. It's the thing that identified him. It's the thing that he prized the most. But he got in the pit and he was stripped from that. And know this that when God throws you in the pit He is likely to strip you of everything that you hold dear and that you put between you and him. Because he wants to teach you something. In the pit, he had no strength to get out. He could not climb those walls. He could not get out of that pit on his own. It was going to have to be somebody pull him up out of that pit And people who don't serve God don't like people who follow Him and serve Him. His family rejects him. His brothers sold him. They said he was worthless, but they sold him for 20 pieces of silver. And don't let anybody tell you you are worthless. Satan will tell you you're worthless, you're not worth anything. But I'm going to tell you this: you are worth something because God gave his life for you. And when you're in the pit and you're all alone and the things that you prize most have been taken away from you, and you have nothing in the pit as an ability or the strength to get out of it. And young people, I hate to tell you, but one day you will find yourself in that pit if you've not already been in one That when you're in the pit and you're all alone and you have nothing and you have no way of escape God's teaching you this truth that when all you have in that pit Is Jesus Christ. That's all you need Pastor and I taught. I think I'm understanding some of his heart. I don't know anything that's ever happened to you. I don't know about you and your wife. I don't know about your family circumstances. But if I was to talk to you long enough, you'd probably say, Brother Mark, I can tell you about some times I felt like I was in a pit Some of you know what I'm talking about. In the pit, as in all things. It's going to make you better. Or it's going to make you bitter. Young people. It's my heart's desire. See God move and work in young people across this country, young couples God can still call men and women today. God can still use them. I can't remember who it was. Ravenhill said that it is doubtful that God will ever use a man greatly until he has wounded him deeply. But I must be honest with you. I must be honest with you. If you choose this path, there'll be a pit in it for you But praise God, the pit is not the end. And the pit is not the end, because the palace is his destination. There's times in my life that I wanted to draw back. Because I knew that if I stepped into that refiner's fire, it was gonna burn. But God's wanting to do something with us. And it starts with changing our will or His will. In the garden, my Lord, heavy, alone in prayer, because the disciples wouldn't even stay awake and pray with him Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, thy will be done. Young people, if God's dealing with you about something, and let me tell you something, God wants every one of you I'm not saying God wants every one of you to be a missionary to Zambia, but God wants you and He wants all of you. And He wants these young ladies and He wants all of them. And he wants to protect them from some things that would harm them. He wants to keep these boys usable. There's young couples in this church right here. God would love to abuse you mightily. Don't draw back because the pit is in your future. It'll come. But deliverance will come also. I saw a way one traveler in tattered garments clad and struggling up the mountain. It seemed that he was sad. His back was laden heavy. His steps seemed very slow. But he shouted as he journeyed, Deliverance will come I cannot tell you that the Christian life is easy But I can tell you this, there is joy And in the pit, you can find that Christ is all you need I'd like for us to stand to our feet, bow our heads, and Pastor is going to finish out again like I did this morning. I'm just going to pray for you. Father, we thank you for the patience of these folks. I know I kind of went after eight, and Lord. I thank you for their listening, tolerating an old man. Lord, especially the young kids listening to me and these teenagers thinking, what's that old man got to say? But Lord, I'm praying right now they'd be listening to you and the Holy Spirit. I don't know. I'm going to finish this prayer in a moment, but I'm going to ask this one thing. Is there anybody here that said, Brother Ted, I want you to pray for me because I am right now in the pit? I feel like I'm in the pit. I just want to finish this prayer with you. Anybody like that? I see some hands. Anyway, let's be honest with God. Thank you. I appreciate that. I appreciate that. Father, these folks that are so honest, ask me to pray for them. Lord, remind us all that you will take us just as we are. And Lord, you will put your hands on us and bless us. Lord, bless them. Lord help us to learn though that those hands that you we put you in. They are nail-scarred hands. Lord did us yield to that breaking. God, so that you can give us to others. I pray, Lord, that maybe you'll touch some young person's heart. God, move mightily amongst us. Lord, we long to see you do a work which we could not do. Lord, when it's done, we'd like to be able to say only God could do this. And now, Lord, I beseech you, do that which we cannot do with our words. Lord, touch and change hearts in Christ's name operate. Pastor, won't you finish?