Psalm one twenty-six, I tell you that was the most fun youth activity I have ever done yesterday. There was a couple of them two feet away from me, made eye contact with them, and there was, where's Pastor Matt? Poor Xander, about a half hour and a half into it, he got so desperate, he texted me and said, Pastor Matt, where are you? I said, I'm in the mall. And then right after that he found me. So Psalm 126. They say um every good sermon should should should uh start with a joke. So I'm gonna try to tell one. Two peanuts were walking down the road and one was assaulted. So I thought it was funny too. I told that joke this morning and nobody laughed, but uh I appreciate you guys for laughing. Except for Jacob, he forced to laugh. So I appreciate that, buddy. Psalm one twenty-six. Just gonna read a couple verses. Verses five and six. Verse five says, They that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seeds, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing Bringing his sheaves with them. Heavenly Father, thank you again for this day that you've given us, Lord, and I thank you for the service so far. What a blessing it is to be in your house, Lord. I ask now that you would uh Speak to our hearts, Lord, and I ask that you would use me tonight in the in the way that you see fit. And uh Lord, if there's anything that I'm about to say that's contrary to your word, I ask that you would uh keep me from saying it. And if there's something That you would have me to say that that maybe I don't have in my notes or something, that you would bring it to my mind. Lord, I want to yield my will to yours, and I just want to be a a vessel that you can use tonight, Lord. I thank you for everything you've done for us. I thank you for this church, and I thank you for the teens that we have, and I thank you for just the good family that's here. And Lord, just you you use me now in a great way that you see fit. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen Psalm 126, 6, I think it's a familiar verse anyway. It says, He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. Now the psalmist describes a picture here in verse 6 of a man that is going out into his fields, going out into his fields and he's he's working, he's laboring, um, and he's putting forth effort and he's planting seed and taking much care of his fields and he eventually reaps the fruit of his labors, um in which case it is she's Now what sheaves were were uh bundles of of wheat that were that were tied together. They didn't have any fancy balers like we do today. Um so what they would do is they'd have to get bundles of straw or bundles of wheat or whatever they were harvesting and they'd have to tie them together. So we see a man working and toiling in his field, and eventually after much work, he reaps the fru fruit of his labor, his sheaves. Now I want you to uh notice that it's a very good picture here, verse 6, of us today. Um the man working in the field, I think, is a very good representation of us, a good picture of us. The field that this man is working in is a great representation of this world that God has us working in And he has each one of us working in a different field. Um he has different tasks for us to accomplish, you will, and each one of us are are are in different areas. Each one of us come across Different people. We live in different places. We work in different places. But this field that is, I think, is a good representation of where God has us working at today. And the fruit of this man's labor, his sheaves, are a wonderful representation of the fruits of our labor. Excuse me. So the question is. What is the fruit of our labor that is being described here? And you could doubtless make many, many applications. But uh what is the fruit that a righteous person can bear? The very first thing that came to my mind was Proverbs 1130. And it's a verse again that I think a lot of us have memorized. If you've taken the soul winning class we have here, you've memorized it. It says, The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. So the fruit of the righteous are souls that are one to Christ, people you share the gospel with, whether one on one, one-on-one, or maybe attract, or uh maybe even talking to a group of people. But the fruit of the righteous, and I think it is even what's being described here in Psalm 126, is souls that we have one to Christ. Like I said, maybe it's someone that you personally sat down with and led to the Lord, or maybe someone you gave a tract to or or whatever. And maybe some what someone else later on led them to the Lord. But either way you had a part in it And the fruit of the righteous described here is people that are one to Christ, I believe. So if we go back to verse 6, he that goeth forth and weepeth. Bearing precious seeds shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. So the fruit of this man's labor, his sheaves, are I think are an amazing representation of souls. That we have won to Christ, and I think we could all agree on that. So the question is, how are we going to reap the fruit of winning others to Christ? And now i i if I read this right, this man had a very successful harvest. He didn't just have one or two stalks of wheat or whatever they call him, but he had bundles, whole sheaves. And we know that he had it more than one, at least two, because it's plural. So this guy had a very successful harvest. Now, how can we have this kind of success where we see folks saved? And maybe not just one here and there, but where we can see repeated success even. Well, I think the good news is right here in the rest of this verse. And it's very convenient because it happens to be my exact outline. He that goeth forth And weepeth, bearing precious seed, will come again, doubtless will come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. Now let me clarify: a successful reaping, a successful harvest, doesn't always necessarily mean a lot of people. But we do know that there is rejoicing in heaven when one person comes to Christ. And I think a lot of times we get so caught up with how many people are saved at one time. Anytime someone's saved, that's success. And I think we understand that. So, but I believe any any reaping, any number of souls is is a successful So what are the steps that we must take in order to reap souls for Christ? Well, first off, the text says he that goeth forth. You gotta go. You've got to go out and work. You gotta go. You gotta tell people. You cannot expect to harvest any wheat. You cannot expect to see anyone Saved if you don't go out in the field to start with. Mark 16, 15. Turn there with me if you would, real quick. Mark chapter 16, verse 15. And again, this is a verse that we've heard many times. We've called it the Great Commission, and there's several accounts of it. Mark 16, 15, and he said unto them, Go, go ye into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved, but he that believeth not shall be damned. Now, God gave the commandment to us to go. You're not gonna come again rejoicing, bringing sheaves if you don't go out and plant something. And you're not going to see fruits of your labors if you don't labor. God gave the commandment for us to go and work in the field that He has given us. To preach the gospel. And it's our job to do what God has told us to do. We might think, you know what, I'm just in elementary school. Tell your classmates. I'm just in high school. Tell your classmates. You know, I I work in a very rough job. Well, then you probably ought to tell the people you work with. There's no excuse For not going wherever you are, for not doing the work. And sometimes we say, you know, it's been a long time since I've led someone to the Lord. Well let me ask you, are you going? Are you working? Could be one reason that maybe you haven't seen many souls saved is because you just flat out haven't gone out into the field. to do any work. I think it is kinda silly to expect bundles of harvest or bundles of fruit if we never even go out in the field to work. How can you expect your neighbors to come to church if you never invite your neighbor? You don't go across the street or go next door. Now, in order for us to see people accept Christ as their Savior and then grow as a Christian, we must, must go forth. Before we can bring the sheaves in and to the time of harvest, we have got to go forth. Now, going And praying about going aren't the same thing. Should we pray about going? Yes. Should we pray before we go out soul winning? Yes. But if all we do is pray and not go, well then we didn't go. We can take classes that teach us what to do when we go. But if all we do is take the classes and don't go, well then there's no work done. We can talk about going soul winning all we want. We can talk about all the various ways we could plant a seed. But if we don't go, the seed won't be planted. We've got to go. We have got to go. Now, lifestyle evangelism isn't going. The idea that now if I just act like a good person, people will come to me. I I've never had anyone come to me and say, You're such a good person, how do I get to heaven? I've never heard anyone say that. And I I doubt many of you have ever heard that either. We have got to go. Go into all the world and preach the gospel. And if we look at our text, Psalm 126, 6, the end is joy. We'll come rejoicing, but we will not come rejoicing. We will not be bringing people with us if we don't go. Now, with that being said, I think just from hearing people's conversations around here and seeing how busy everyone is here, believe me, this was not meant to be a beat-up type message because I'm surrounded by a lot of people that go We um went to the hospital and just bumped into someone that had a blanket that one of you ladies made. That's a form of going. Getting the gospel out. That's a good thing. I'm looking at bus workers right now. I'm looking at soul winners right now. I'm looking at workers, teachers right now. And and and just by being a around you tonight, I'm surrounded by a lot of people that go. Now it could be That you're going, but for some reason, listen, we go through dry periods. Sometimes you're going and you're thinking, man. I've been going slow winning, I've been passing out tracks, but it's been a while, a long time, since I've seen someone saved. And that happens. Okay? So Look at the second point here. First of all, yes, in order to reap fruit of our labors, we must labor. But that isn't all. The Bible says, He that goeth forth and weepeth. It means cry. Now think about this. What are we doing? We are talking about lost souls, right? That we are trying to win to Christ. And we'll go all day long, and that's good. We'll pass out tracks left and right. It's good. It's what we should do. Well when was the last time that you wept over someone you were trying to win to the Lord? Do we remember the last time that we actually cried, shed a tear, or were at least stirred up? To where we thought, man, if I don't get the gospel to this person, and they don't accept Christ as their Savior, Spend an eternity in hell. That ought to get us. In the heart. Let me ask you this way: do we have compassion over the ones we are going after? Now, sometimes we'll go, we'll work, we'll witness, but is it really out of compassion? Or is it just out of obligation? Um Matthew chapter nine, you can go there with me real quick. I actually debated preaching this tonight. I wasn't sure if I should or not, because Pastor preached from this passage this morning. But he said, go for it. So here we go. Matthew chapter 9, verse 36 and 37, it says, But when he saw the multitudes, speaking of Jesus, when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them because they fainted. And were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd. Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. It maybe it could be, I don't know. I'm I'm just speculating. But maybe it could be that one reason we might not be in great success in our soul winning efforts is because e even though we are going, we really aren't going. With compassion. We're going out on visitation, we're knocking on doors, fulfilling our obligation, and that's good. We hand out tracts, and that's good. But do we have compassion on those souls? Do we really care about that soul? You know, if you're an employer and you have someone that works for you, excuse me, if you have someone who works for you And he's just doing it because he has to. He has the attitude of, well, I'm just doing it to pay the bills. But he doesn't really like his job. He hates his job. His heart's not in his job. He's doing it, but he's probably not doing it as effectively or as efficiently as someone who really does care about his job. I mean someone who's not just doing it because of obligation, but someone that is doing it because he loves what he does. Does that make sense? The person who loves what he does will do a better job and have more success in his job Now are we doing the things that God wants us to do? And this could be very generally speaking. But are we doing the things that God wants us to do because we have to or because we love Him and love other people? Do we have compassion? A lot of us go, but how many of us go with compassion? If we could only see them like Jesus sees them when he said there's so many. They're scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. There's so many to harvest, man, we we gotta get to them. And if we really looked at them like Jesus looked at them, I think we'd have a little more success. And don't misunderstand me, I'm not saying we're not having success, but we could always do better. We could always do more. Next time you go outdoor knocking or soul winning or canvassing, maybe you go to a big apartment complex or something like that. Take a minute and look at the people and see them like Jesus saw them. Man, these people are lost. Allow God to work on your heart and give you compassion for them. And let me say this as well. People can tell if you're doing something because you have to, and people can tell when you really don't care about them. And people can tell when you really do care about them. You knock on the door, hey I'm Matt, I'm from the church down there, I just want to give you this. Like, oh, okay. They probably won't read it. Maybe they will. I don't know. And God can do things, sure. But if they can tell that you're serious and man, you u you actually are doing this out of compassion, they'll probably be more likely to read it. And maybe even invite you in the house and you'll have a chance to witness to them. We want to see people say, we have got to go, but we have got to go with compassion for the souls we're trying to harvest. And again. I can tell by looking at the people I'm surrounded by. This is a church full of very compassionate people. I don't want anyone to misunderstand me. I'm surrounded by a lot of people tonight They have compassion for souls. Everything we do here is is so missions-minded. Everything we do here is with the emphasis of reaching more people with the gospel. When we came here in July to visit, that's one of the things that we talked about. Like man, people here they love they love the Lord and everything is missions-minded. Everything is about reaching more people. I mean, we saw Bible time banners all over town. That's awesome. There's buses that go pick people up and a van. I mean and we could just keep on going. I'm surrounded by people that have compassion for souls, and I'm just thrilled to death that I get to be a part of it. So, first, in order to reap the fruit of our labor, to see people say we must go forth, we must actually do the labor. But secondly, we must go forth weeping, that is, having compassion on the souls we are trying to win to Christ. But the third thing In this formula that we see here in this verse, is we must be bearing precious seed. And the precious seed we are to bear is the Word of God. It is the Bible, God's word, the gospel. Now listen, when we go forth to win people, we have got to use God's word. We've got to use the Bible. We can go forth, we can work hard, and we can have compassion on someone, but if we're using reader's digest, we're not going to be able to show them how to be saved. Right? And that sounds silly, but it's true. Hey, my reasoning is not going to win anyone to the Lord. Human logic is not going to save anybody, right? It pleased God through the foolishness of preaching. The save them which believe, right? I mean, we have got to use the preaching of the Word of God as we go forth. My reasoning, my logic. Is not going to convince anyone to be saved. The gospel is the power of God into salvation. Not me, not you. It's the gospel That's the precious seed to bear. That's why I like tracks, because it's so easy to just fold up a little precious seed in your pocket, right? It makes life easy. Easier than handing out whole Bibles at a time. But that little tract that has just a few verses on it, that is precious seed. And I always wonder how many times have we handed a track to someone or just left someone somewhere. I wonder how many people get saved. I bet you it's way more than we think. I bet you there's a lot of people that read that and make a conscious decision in their heart. And God works on them. And I've heard stories of people who have been saved just picking up tracks in places. But we have got to use the Word of God as we go. That's why it's important to learn God's Word, right? That's why we come here Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. That's why we have master's clubs. That's why we have teens live. Sunday school. That's why we we emphasize scripture reading because it's putting the that precious seed in your mind. So as you go out, even if you don't have anything on you, you can still leave that precious seed throughout that whole field you go through Pretty cool. But are we doing it? I think a lot of us are. We're doing it with compassion. I think we are. Are we using the precious seed? Again, I think we are. Now it may be that you're going forth and you've been going forth with compassion and you've been doing it the right way using the Word of God. Again, in sometimes we go through periods, I call them dry periods, where we don't see many people saved. Are we doing the right things? We begin to question ourselves, at least I do. Am I doing right? Well according to this we are. If you're going forth, you're going and doing the work and you're with going with compassion. And you're and you're spreading God's word using precious seed, then yeah, you are doing it right. And here's one thing I want to share with you before I'm done. Go to Galatians chapter 6, verse 9. I'm going to break wrap it up all together here Galatians 6. 9 Excuse me. And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. In due season, we shall reap if we faint not. We have a promise here, both in Galatians 6. 9 and in Psalm 126. That we will reap the fruit of our labors if we faint not. Now, the word if can be a big word sometimes. Sometimes I think we Again, maybe this is just human nature, but we expect everyone we witness to to get saved, right? We think how could they refuse the gospel? How could they not accept Christ? It doesn't make sense to us. And sometimes I think Every time we hand a track to someone or invite them to church, we expect them to come. And sometimes we wonder why they don't. But if a man goes out into his field, And he goes forth and he has compassion and he works hard in that field But he only goes for one day out of the year and only works hard one time. Is he going to have a successful harvest? Well, no. It's consistency, it's constant work. And I just want to be an encouragement to everyone tonight. Keep doing what you're doing. Keep doing what you're doing. We saw, I think on the report it said two saved this month. That's phenomenal. That's a successful harvest. People are being saved. People are being baptized. This is good. Just keep at it. Just keep at it. Keep going forth. Keep going forth in your in that class, in that school that you're in, that field that you're in, that whatever position you have, maybe at work or your ministry, whatever it is, just keep plugging away and doing what you're doing. Keep working hard. Keep having compassion on those souls you're working with. And don't faint. Keep going. Keep going. And you invite someone to church this week, maybe they'll come. If they don't, invite them again. By someone else. That person that you've been praying for. Be praying for him. Witness to him again. Keep going. Now it says in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Hey, we don't know when our due season is. Like I was saying earlier, I think there's people that are saved that we won't even know about until we get to heaven. People that have trusted Christ as their Savior, we won't even know about it until we get to heaven. But whenever our due season is, whether here, today, tomorrow, or in eternity, we'll reap if we faint not. Just keep laboring, keep going with compassion, keep bearing that precious seed, and don't faint. He that goeth forth and weepeth bearing precious seeds shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him. It could be also that there's someone here. That you've never trusted Christ as your Savior. You're one of those people that we're praying for. And we're going to keep praying for you. And it could be that you you you something happened to you. You don't know where you would spend eternity. Well, Christ died for your sins, so you don't have to spend eternity in hell. Christ loved you enough to suffer your punishment for you. And I don't understand why anyone would want to reject the the gift of eternal life. So if you're here and you're not saved, don't leave here tonight before you know for certain where you're spending eternity. And for those of you who are saved, keep going. Keep doing what you're doing. Keep working for the Lord. Keep loving those people. Keep loving the Lord. And and and don't faint. Due season will reap if we faint. Faint not. Heads bowed, eyes closed, no one look around for just a minute. As the pianos comes to play. It could be there's someone here And you say, There's something that God spoke to my heart about tonight, Pastor Matt. I want you to pray for me. But if there's something in the message tonight that God spoke to your heart about, you just slip your hand up. I just want to pray for you. Amen. Me too. My hand's up. Could be that there might be someone here that you're not sure you're saved. And if you're here and you say, Pastor Matt, if there's something that happened to me, I don't know where I'd spend eternity. I want you to pray for me. Just slip your hand up. I want to just pray for you. Pastor Matt, I'm not sure I'm saved. Dear Heavenly Father, thank you again for everything you've done for us. You have done so much for us. Lord, I thank you for giving us this encouragement tonight of sometimes we go through periods when maybe we don't see someone saved or there's a dry period. Lord, help us to just stay consistent and stay faithful to doing the things that you have us to do. And help us to stay compassionate for the souls that are lost. And it's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. You can stand to your feet. If God's dealt with you about something