Chapter twenty-three Job chapter twenty-three in Darlington, Maryland, there was a lady, and as far as I can tell, this is a True story. As I always try to point out, if I ever tell a true story, I'll point I'll mention that. lady was visiting, she had eight kids, imagine that. And um uh she was over visiting the neighbor's house, the kids were at home And uh when she came back, she noticed that she came into the yard that five of her youngest kids, the little ones, were all in the backyard and they were all huddled around something And they were all very, very quiet. And if you've had children, and the children are very, very quiet, you know something's up. And uh so she came across the yard and uh she got curious, what in the world are they all so captivated by? And she came sneaking up behind him and she looked and right in the middle of those five kids was a uh bunch of little baby skunks And the mother panicked and she yelled, children, run! And each one of the kids grabbed the skunk and ran So kids make life interesting. Uh Job chapter 23, and I just want to read verse number 10. Job 23 and verse 10. Just a little personal note about this verse here, this text for the message, is uh years ago, shortly after I got saved, my dad and I were talking of the Lord and growing, and he told me how many times that he had cleared And notice what the Bible says in Jobs 23 and verse 10. But he, speaking of God, he knoweth the way that I take. Tried me, I shall come forth as gold. What a great verse. I came across a quote. independent of my preparation for this message, but it fit beautifully, and I used it for the title of the message this morning. And it was this, and I as some ancient philosopher said this or something, but it says this, gold does not fear the furnace. Gold is not afraid of the fiery trial. Now, why would that be? It's because the furnace makes the gold better The furnace makes the gold pure, of greater value. And so that's the title of the message. Gold Does Not Fear the Furnace. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would take this truth that's presented here in the book of Job, a short statement made by a great man of God many, many years ago. But I pray your Holy Spirit would apply it to our hearts and lives. Lord, you know the way we take. God, you know what our lives consist of. You know what the issues in our lives are, what we're dealing with. And I pray that you would help us to be in such a frame of mind, be such a situation spiritually that the issues of life that we're dealing with would make us better. Would make us gold. And we would not fear the fires of trial, but rather we would embrace them as you work in our lives. I yield myself to your Lord as best I know how I submit my will to yours. I present my body anew. I ask you to take me and fill me with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now let me say this. I believe the message this morning will help. I really don't have a three-point outline, poems, and all that stuff. Just some things as God spoke to my heart from this passage that I jotted down and I believe will be a help to all of us. You might want to this morning especially take a pen, maybe a paper, the fly leaf of your Bible, and as God Impresses things on your heart, truths from this passage. You might want to jot them down to meditate on and carry into the future, but uh I believe this message will help us. I don't know if a lot of people would say that the book of Job is their favorite book of the Bible. Probably not a lot of people would do that. Psalms, John, some other books of the Bible people would claim. But there's something about the experience of Job recorded for us in the book titled By His Name. There's something about his experience that whenever I read through it, it touches my heart. Job's experience as recorded here, and and I this has this no doubt goes without saying, but I want to say it. This is not just some fairy tale. This is a true experience that a very real man went through. And there's something about it that touches our hearts as we see here Job is having to deal with some aspects of life that often cause Christians to stumble. Causes people to stumble, even non-Christians. I make this statement, but I want to qualify it. Job deals with some issues of life that are common to all of us. But probably not to the degree that Job experienced. I made the statement I think there's only uh one other person recorded in Bible that has suffered as Job suffered, and I think that person was the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross, is the only one that suffered more than Job So this is an extreme situation of some issues that are common to all of mankind. For instance, unexplained sorrow. When something happens that absolutely crushes us And there's no human explanation for it. Unexplained sorrow. Job lost every one of his children. And there is no reason given to him by God. No explanation given. They're just taken. Now, I can't imagine losing one of my children. It would be devastating. But to lose all, Job had 12. Everyone taken in a moment, in one day, and no explanation. You get to the book end of the book of Job, and God does not tell Job why it happened. That's tough. And I would venture to say, every one of us sitting here, at some point in our life, maybe even you're going through it right now, there are things that have happened that have broken your heart, that have hurt deeply And to this day, there's no logical reason for it. Don't know why. So, unexplained sorrow. Not only did he lose his children, he lost all his possessions. Now, I'll be honest with you, and I think I can speak for Job here. I think this is just common sense. I would far rather lose my possessions than my children Either one is devastating, both of them together is overwhelming. Here's another Aspect of life that Job deals with in an extreme that really all of us, all of mankind deals with some degree, and that's unexpected unkindness. Job had three friends. And in fact, he makes this statement in various words it various ways throughout the book, but he makes this statement several times. He says to his friends, hey, if you if I was you, I'd be talking nice. I'd be trying to help you and encourage you. But his three friends, rather than encouraging him, and most of us know the story, they turn on him In the midst of his sorrow, overwhelming heartache, confusion as to why is this happening to me, his friends start throwing accusations. And they say things like to the effect, you know why this is happening? Because you're such a wicked sinner You treat people so badly, and you're this, and you're that, and you don't do this, and you don't do that, and that's why this is happening to you. Unexpected unkindness I'd venture to say the majority, not all of us, had been treated unkind by people who we did not expect them to be that way. Huh? People we thought was a friend. People we thought was close to us. And man, here they turn on us and say and do things that hurt us deeply. Job dealt with that. Um and not only that, but even Deeper in chapter two, not only do his friends turn on him, but uh we find his wife turns on him. him. If anybody in the world would stand beside Job, it would have been his wife. If anybody would have stood with him and supported him and tried to help him through this, surely it would have been Mrs. Job. But she says to him, why don't you just curse God and die? Now maybe I'm reading too much into this. But I almost hear this in the sound of her voice. I almost hear this. I want you out of my life. Huh? I don't know about you, but m uh from what I can tell of Job, that that came, that was a broadside. I don't believe he saw that coming God says Job was a good man, upright, just in all his ways. He obviously loved his family. I think we can surmise from that that Job treated his wife justly and fairly. It's good to her. It's a faithful man, and she could love him and trust him. He provided for her. And so for her, out of the blue To turn on him like that and say, in effect, I want you out of my life. You brought nothing and no doubt, and my wife uh often says this She says, you've got to remember, Job's wife was hurting just as bad as he was when the children were taken. And I understand that. And perhaps she's saying something like this to him: you have brought too much heartache and sorrow into my life. I don't want it anymore. I want you out of my life. Folks have had what they thought was a good marriage. What they thought was a lifelong relationship. And out of the blue, husband, the wife, says, I went out. I don't want you in my life anymore. I want to pursue my own life. And the devastation that comes by that. That was on top of the unexpected sorrow. And then, and I made reference to it a moment ago, not only is there unexplained sorrow, unexpected unkindness, particularly from his wife, but you have unjust accusations. And as I mentioned a bit ago, his friends suddenly turn on him and make an accusation after accusation. In fact, the majority of the book of Job is his friends accusing him of things. he did not do. His friends accusing him of being something he was not. And so he had to deal with that. Job learned several things. And again, as I said, I really don't have an outline this morning. I'm just sharing what God Has spoken to me and taught me, I believe, from this passage. I think Job learned several things here. I think Job learned that even God's greatest Most godly saints sometimes suffer very deeply Keep your place here if you will. We're going to look at this a little bit, but come back to chapter 1 of the book of Job. And again, for many of us, this is a very familiar passage. What I'm saying here for many is nothing new But look with me at chapter 1 and verse number 1. Now, this is God's assessment of Job. This isn't what man says about him. This isn't what Job is saying about himself. This is what God says about Job. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job. Now look at this And that man was perfect and upright. Now let me qualify this Whenever the Bible refers to a human being as being perfect, it does not mean sinless We're going to see that. But it does mean Job was operating at his full potential. He was, to a degree, everything God expected from him. Now, for God to say that about a man, that's pretty significant. I seriously doubt. In fact, uh I don't doubt it. I'm sure God could not say that of Dennis Leatherman. I'm afraid. He's operating at his full potential. He's everything I intend for him to be. God said that about Job. And upright. Look at the rest of the statement. And one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Now that word escheweth is an unusual word for many folks. Simply means he despised evil. He hated that which was wrong. He wanted nothing to do with something that God had declared was wrong. So that's God's assessment of him. Look with me at verse 8. Here God is in a debate, so to speak, with Satan of all people. And God makes this statement about Job to Satan. Look what he says. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in all the earth? Well, that's pretty exceptional. A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil And the interesting thing about that is, in verse 9, Satan does not dispute God's assessment of Job. Huh? Job doesn't come and say, oh no, he ain't. I know Job. No, the only thing Satan can do is try and assign false motives. He cannot dispute God's assessment of Job. Amen. No, I I here's where I seriously doubt any of us could stand up and say, hey, I'm anywhere close to what God said Job was. Huh? Come on. And yet he suffered incredibly Sometimes we think, man, I'm trying to do right You know, I'm trying to be a good Christian, I'm trying to be a good spouse, I'm trying to be a good parent, I'm trying to be a good child, I'm trying to be what I'm supposed to be and this happens to me What's the use of trying to do right? What's the use of trying to live for God? My spouse has turned against me. My children have turned against me. God has taken this. God has lost. Whatever scenario you want to put yourself in. Where your heart is crushed, your world is shattered. And we think, man, I'm trying to do right, and I still have to deal with this. Wait a minute. Here's Job. One of the most godly men, perhaps, that ever lived. One of the highest praises from the lips of God, so to speak, ever made about a man. And yet he suffered incredibly. So Job learned that even the godly suffer. Even good people have to deal with difficult issues. I think another thing Job learned in his experience here, and this is encouraging. God never acts arbitrarily. Now, what I mean by that is this God never acts without purpose God doesn't just let things happen. God has a purpose behind everything that He allows into our lives. In fact, as I pointed out before, Job never finds this out till perhaps he got to glory, eventually died, went to heaven, went to be with the Lord. But as far as we can tell, during his lifetime, he never realized that all these trials and uh heartaches he was going through were actually the result of a Battle, so to speak, between God and Satan. That God was using him to be a testimony to Satan As to the type of person man has the potential of being. And God says, look, in a very real sense, and this is a whole nother message, and I've been tempted to preach on a number of times. But God had faith in a man. God was trusting Job to do right. So that God could illustrate to Satan that man has the potential of being everything God intends for him to be. So Job through this at some point learned, you know, and at the end of the book he learns he doesn't find out what the purpose is But he finds out that God does not just act arbitrarily, but God has a plan, God has a purpose for everything he allows into our lives. Doesn't matter what it is You can come to me and say, Preacher, God has let this happen to me. Surely there's nothing in this that God no, no, no, God has a plan and purpose. Now, I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. It may not necessarily be, let me put it this way, not everything that happens is God's will. Are you with me? Not everything that happens is necessarily God's will, but everything that God allows to happen can Work out for his glory and for our good if we react properly, if we respond in the right way. Alright? Is everybody out everybody with me still? I feel like some losing some of you a little bit here. Hang in there. It gets better, alright? But God always allows things and works with a purpose, and it is always for His glory and for our potential good. So God allows something into your life or my life that is absolutely horrific. It is devastating. And we look at this and we say, I can see no good reason for this happening in my life. But nevertheless, we look at the story of Job and we find that Job realized, when it was all said and done, that there was a reason. God has a purpose for what he allows. God can take the most horrific situations, and if we will trust him If we will do what he says, if we will just wait on him, he can turn that thing around and bring something good out of it. And we see that in the experience of Job. So even the most godly saints suffer deeply. God has a purpose for what he allows in our life. It may not necessarily be his will, but he allowed it. Therefore, if I'll trust him, if I'll do what he says, he can turn that around and produce something good out of it. Another thing that Job, I believe, learned in his experience, and this is very important, this is where you and I come in. How I respond to the trials that God allows determines if my character will be purified or poisoned. Now let me read that again, then I'll try and explain what I'm trying to say. How I respond to the trials that God allows in my life Will determine whether my character is purified or if it's poisoned. Now, what do I mean by character I discussed this with my wife. I said uh I I bounced some some definitions that I came up with off my wife, and um she said they were good, so that means they must be good. What do we mean when we talk about a person's character? We're talking about uh there's there's several ways to put it. Our core person. Alright? Our core person. What what does that mean? I'll put it this way. This is this is my definition. By our character we mean, now you gotta think a little bit this morning, but you got an extra hour's sleep last night. So you should be very alert, right? How many people are alert? Raise your hand. How many people are not alert? Leave your hand down. Alright? Here we go. What do we mean by our character? The strength, by our character, we mean the strength of the principles and motives that control my life. The values I have, the values, the reasons I do what I do. That's what my character is. What I value, why I do what I'm doing. Now, the stronger my character is, the purer my values and my motives will be The weaker my character is, the less pure my motives and my values will be. For instance, I'm trying to illustrate what I mean here. A person of strong character, that person will have a principle, the value of honesty. Will be very important to that person. A person's strong character, that means honesty is very important to them, being honest. A person of weak character The value of honesty is not valued very much. And they'll be dishonest. And they will lie and they'll put on show and be dishonest. So a person of low or weak character, their values Are very weak, are very low. Honesty, integrity, those types of things are not important to them. Their motives will be more self-serving, will be impure Rather than pure and godly and upright. So, there's our idea. How many folks kind of grasp what I'm talking about by character there? Alright? Alright. I know there's a lot of thinking this morning, but I really believe this will help us. I really do. So, how I respond, how Job responds to the death of every one of his twelve children in less than an hour's time. The loss of all his property. His wife comes and says, I don't want you in my life anymore. His friends come and say, You're a hypocritical liar, you cheat, you do all these things. And Job is sitting there completely alone. And how he responds to this is very much going to determine whether his character is pure and good. Or whether his character is poisoned and he becomes bitter and he becomes dishonest. And he drops his convictions and his values that were very high at one time. And it all depends on his response to the trial. Let me throw this out. Trials do not destroy a person. How I respond to trials is what either destroys me Or makes me better. Follow what I'm saying? The trial itself, whatever situation, scenario that you can closest relate to what we've been discussing. describing for your own personal, whatever, whichever one of these issues Job was dealing with, that you can relate to the best. How you respond to that is going to determine what type of person you are, what your character is. You get bitter, you become self-centered, you become defensive, you become all this, your character is diminished Through this trial, you respond in faith, and you're saying, I'm going to trust God, I'm going to be a better person as a result of this, I'm going to be more honest, I'm going to be kinder, I'm going to let this God use this to improve me. Your character Becomes stronger. And it all has to do with how I respond. You've heard it said this way: you can become bitter, or you can become what? Better It's up to you. It's up to Job what he's going to be by chapter 42. How he responds to this. Job determined, and this is where our text comes in. Job determined that the trials that God was allowing him to experience would purify his character. He said in Job 23 and verse 10, When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. I'm going to let God make me better. His values in life would be purified. His principles that he lived by, the things that he considered to be right and wrong, would be more in line with what God says is right and wrong. after it than before the trial. You follow what I'm saying? His motives would be purer. He would be more in life what God intended for him to be after this trial than he was before the trial. And he was a pretty good guy before the trial. Now it's interesting. You're back at Job 23 there, verse 10. This is interesting. When he had tried me, the last part of verse 10, when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as what? Gold. Why did he say gold? There's any number of things that he could have used here. But he mentions gold. I got my word studies out and I did some research on the word gold, and you know what I found out that word gold means? Gold. There's no other definition for it. I thought, oh, I'll get some deep meaning out of this and we'll mine out all these wonderful truths. And I looked it up, gold. Everything, gold. It just means gold. A metal called gold. A very valuable metal that's gold colored and gold. So, all right. Now what is it about gold that he would use that term to describe what he's wanting to be accomplished through this trial. Why would he say gold? Well think about it with me. Gold is very attractive, right? Um when when Solomon built the temple There was gold all over the place on that thing. When God gave instructions for the the uh uh candlestick and uh different items of furniture in the tabernacle and later in the temple. Man, they were overlaid with gold, overlaid with gold, overlaid with gold. It is beautiful. Gold is very, very attractive. Job says, in so many words, I don't understand. God knows the way I take. God knows what I'm going through. God knows what I am. I'm going to trust him. I'm going to do what he says. And when God is done with me I am going to come forth like gold. Now one thing about gold is this. It is very attractive. People like gold rings. Gold earrings. Gold this, that, and the other. I believe one thing he had in mind, of course, under the inspiration of God, but one thing he had in mind was this. I'm going to be more attractive to people. My personality, what I am, is going to be more pleasant to people It's going to be more of a blessing to people than what I was before. Can I suggest to you, people are attracted to folks of moral integrity. That attracts folks. Um people respect people who are of pure character Let me say a word. Now this is true anymore, not just for young people, but it's true for adults also. What you are is more important than how you appear. We have too many young people, and I'm afraid a lot of our young ladies place all their value on their appearance. And if I look good, if I'm attractive, I look like a Hollywood movie star or a model, well then I then I'm very attractive. I'll tell you this: what you are is far more important than what you look like. And Job was concerned that when I come out, my character is attracted to people what I am. is more attractive than what I look like. So gold is very attractive. It draws people. You see something gold, boy, it gets your attention. You have a Christian that's for real, integrity, honest, pure. Tell you what, that gets people's attention Now, there's a second thing about gold that I jotted down is this. Gold is very valuable. Right? In fact, with our economy the way it is, a lot of people are investing in gold. It's valuable it and it maintains its value. It's a good investment. There's debate there, but it's a good investment about you're not going to lose a lot of money off of it. It's valuable Now, I want to be very careful about this, how I say this, but I believe what I'm saying is true. Now, God loves everybody, right? God loves everybody. But can I suggest to you someone of good character? A Christian that is pure and moral and honest and has integrity? Is of greater value to the cause of Christ than the person of poor character. Now I'm being very careful in saying this. I'm not suggesting God loves one more than the other. Right? But the one of good character, the one that is that is aligned with God's intention for their life is of greater value in the cause of Christ, in the work of God, than the one that's dishonest, the one that can't be trusted, the one that's inconsistent. The one that's not faithful. That one is not going to be as invaluable in the cost of put it in the workplace. If you're an employer Who is more valuable to the success of the business? The one that's on time, the one that's faithful, the one that's honest, the one that's a hard worker, or the one that's lazy and lies and unfaithful? Which is more valuable to the success Success of the business. It's the one with character, right? Strong character. And I believe it's true in the cause of Christ. And Job said, When I come out of this thing I want to be, I determined that God will make me more valuable player in the cause of God's kingdom. Gold. So gold is attractive. Gold is valuable. And I put this down. It kind of relates to, oh, by the way, let me illustrate about this being valuable. Jonah. How many people remember Jonah? Jonah built the Ark. I was just testing it. God wanted Jonah to go where? Nineveh and preach the gospel. Before Jonah went through the trial of the whale's belly And by the way, being swallowed by a whale and being in the belly of a whale for three days and three nights would be a trial. How many people agree with that? Yeah, I think so Was he of more value to the cause of God before the trial of the whale's belly or after? Obviously after. Now he still had his flaws But God could use him after the trial in ways he could not use him before the trial. Job became more valuable to God. After the trial. Now he still had his issues. But he increased in value as far as serving God And that's what I'm trying to say. Listen, God may have allowed you, or is allowing you, or is about to allow you to go through perhaps a horrific trial But if you will take Job's approach, God, when you come out of that trial, you can be of greater use in the cause of Christ than you were before the trial. If you respond correctly. So gold is very attractive, it's very valuable, and this last one, this third one, as I was saying, apply, kind of overlaps the second valuable, but is very beneficial. If you have lots of gold, you can do more things than if you don't have lots of gold. Now that's very profound. Here you have a person that only has uh doesn't have any gold. Here a person has lots of gold. They both get sick. They both need surgery. This one can't afford to pay for the The surgery. This one has the money, can pay for the surgery. Is that gold beneficial to that person? Absolutely. It opens doors, it gives it greater opportunities. I'm speaking humanly. So Job says, I'm trusting God that this horrific thing that has happened to me, I don't understand it. It's overwhelming. My life is devastated by this. But God knows me. He knows what I'm going through. He knows the way that I take. He knows where I'm at. He understands. And I am trusting God to bring this, bring me out of this, that when I come out of this, I can be of benefit to other people. I can help other people. I say this so often, and 2 Corinthians chapter 1 confirms this. When I counsel with people in different things, I always try and point this out. One of the reasons God has allowed you to go through this, and for sake of time, I can't go to Corinthians, 2nd Corinthians. One of the reasons God has allowed you to go through this is so that you can help others. Down the road who go through maybe the same thing or something similar, you can take the things that God has taught you the way God has comforted you, what God has helped you to do, you can take that and share that with others, and they can benefit from your experience. Does that make sense? Maybe a good godly Christian is going through a divorce. For whatever reason he said, I don't want you in my life anymore, I'm going. Whatever reason she said, I don't want you in my life anymore, I'm going. Your world is devastated. And there's, I don't think there's anything as heart-wrenching as divorce and unfaithfulness. And you say That's over. I'm done. I'm sitting on an ash heap. I'm just straight myself. But Job says, wait a minute. If you respond to this scripturally, if you'll deal with this the way God instructs you, if you'll trust him, when you come out of this, there's still going to be people going through what you just went through And God can take you. And the lessons you learned and the comfort that God gave you through this difficulty. You can turn around and find someone that's going through that same thing and say, hey, I know what you're dealing with. Let me tell you how God helped me. Let me tell you what God showed me. And maybe this will help you deal with it. in a w uh uh also. Does that make sense? You know, there's some situations that I cannot honestly say I know how you feel Right? I've never been through that. I've never, you know, we uh we did uh you know you do a funeral sometimes for maybe a spouse. Or a parent or a child. When I do a funeral for someone, I try my best to put myself in the shoes of the people that are sitting down here. That lost that loved one. If it's a maybe a mother, then I try and think, what if that was how would I feel if that was my mother? But you know what I cannot honestly say, at least not this point in life? I can't honestly say I know what it feels like to lose your mother. I can't say that. I don't know what that's like. I can't honestly say to someone, I know what it's like to lose a child. I can say I feel for you, I pray for you, I try my best to put myself in your shoes and understand it, but I don't know what it's like But there are some things that God has allowed me to go through difficult that I can come and say, hey, I know what that's like. And let me share with you what God taught me through that. Let me testify to what God has done for me when I was in that same valley, when I was in that same situation, when I was in that same heartache. And you become of benefit to others in ways you were not before that trial. Is this making sense? And so Job comes out of this. And think of the benefit Job would have been to people after all this is said and done. This is all history in the life of Job and imagine he comes across someone who lost some children in a tragic accident. And he can sit down and say, You know, I know what you're going through. Let me testify to you what God taught me and how God helped me through this. And I can share with you, because I've been Through this. He comes across someone whose wife says, I don't want you in my life anymore. I'm out of here. Now, obviously, Job's marriage was salvaged. By the end, everything came together. But for a period of time he knew what it was like. You find nowhere from chapter 2 on, Job's wife doesn't show up. She's out of the picture till the end when they have kids again He can say to somebody, hey, I know how lonely that is. I know what it's like to cry myself to sleep. Cry your, you feel like you're gonna cry your stomach out your throat Let me tell you what God taught me through that. Let me tell you the lessons that God showed me and how God helped me. me. So it becomes of great benefit. A person of pure character can do more for God than a person of poor character. Now you go through that heartache, you go through that trial, that difficulty, and you get bitter, and you get self-centered, and you get angry. And your character, rather than being purified, is corrupted, poisoned, and you diminishing character, you're not going to be of any benefit to anybody. You know what you're going to do when you come across somebody that's going through the same thing? You'll spread your bitterness to them. You'll infect them with your anger. You infect them with your self-centeredness and you'll diminish their character and hurt them. Job said, I'll come out like gold. I'll come forth as gold. Now here's the question. And then we wind it all up with this. And this was my question, I read it. How in the world? How in the world do I come out of this trial like gold? How in the world do I come out of this heartache, this horrific event that has happened in my life, how do I come out of it a better person More valuable to God, benefit to others, stronger in who and what I am. How does that happen? Well, several ways I know it doesn't happen. It doesn't happen by me just gritting my teeth and saying, I'm going to be better because of this. Because I'll be very honest with you, you and I, in of ourselves, do not have what it takes. To come forth as gold. Doesn't matter how strong your determination is, doesn't matter how much you set your mind to it, you and I do not have what it takes to deal with the issues of life and be better because of them. That's not the answer. Can I tell you what I believe the answer is? How do I come out of my trial with gold? It's very simple, but then I'll elaborate. Simply this: cling to God through your trial. Cling to God through your trial. Sometimes it is so overwhelming Sometimes we become feel so guilty. Sometimes we think, and I don't know, no doubt, uh and the implication is through the book of Job. Sometimes Job uh thought, you know, if I'd have done some things differently, maybe this wouldn't have happened. Me, maybe, if I'd have not done this or done this, oh, if I could only go back and do things differently It's devastating. What I've got to do is I've got to cling to God through my trial. God, I can't go back. I can't change this. I need you. I need you in my life I need you to help me show me what to do. Assure me that you're in control. God, I need you through this. Trial. That's what Job ended up. Clinging to God. Trust God. Obey Him. Now If Job had any faults, I think I see one fault. Now this is easy for me to look back and read this and say, oh, here's Job's fault. So don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But I do see maybe one flaw. As he got into the, and believe me, I understand it completely. I am not suggesting I would do any better. In fact, I'm suggesting I wouldn't. But I do see something. As he got into this, I think there was a period of time where his eyes got off the Lord and got onto his situation. Where he became his his his sight of God, so to speak Was clouded by the overwhelming horror and sorrow of what he was going through. And he starts making statements like, oh, I wish I'd never been born. I wish I'd never seen the day of light. I wish I'd have died in my mother's womb. And for a period of time He didn't see God and all he saw was himself. And he went down into an abyss of sorrow and depression. But the amazing thing is, at the end of the book, God does some incredible stuff. God starts asking Job questions. Oh, where were you when I made the earth? Where were you? Ah, yeah. And then finally Job makes this statement. I think it's chapter 42. He says, I've heard you with the hearing of the ears, but now I've seen you You know what he was saying, I think? I got my eyes back on the Lord. I'm back in fellowship with God. I'm clinging to God again. And when that took place, God changed everything. Troubles, the accusations ceased. He had 12 more children, and he got back up on top of things. Cling to God. See God. See what God's doing. See God in your experience. You say, well, this surely my wife leaving me is not Part of God's will. No, it's not God's will, but he allowed it. And if you'll trust him, he can change that and turn that around and make you and I a better person as a result. Now, how do I cling to God through my trials? Well, I need to make sure of my salvation. That would be a good place to say amen. If you're still waiting. Make sure of your salvation. How horrible would it be? What a tragedy it would be for someone to go through sorrow and heartache. And then never trust Christ and die and go to hell. How horrific would that be? Listen, one of the purposes, God brings trials into our life and difficulties in our life so that we open our eyes and see that we need Christ. I need someone in my life that's not there. I need the Lord to be my Savior from my sin, and so that the Holy Spirit can indwell me, and so I have the strength to cling to God. The very first question I should ask myself, do I know Christ as Savior? Do I know for sure that God has forgiven my sins? That Christ has come in my life, that when I die I go to heaven and not to hell. That's the very first issue that needs to be. Be settled. So make sure of your salvation. Let me ask you a question this morning. Wherever you're at, whether you've been through trials, you're in it now, maybe things are going good, but there's one down the road. Let me ask you a question. Do you know for sure that Christ has forgiven your sins, come in your life, and save you from sin and Do you know that for sure? Or is it just the hope so, think so? You need to settle that. You need Christ. You need him to be your Savior. So make sure of my salvation. Understand that God is my only source of justice. Job's friends gave him no justice. Listen, if you're looking to sinful man to give you justice, you might as well forget it. God is our source of justice. God, I like this statement, God never falsely accuses us. Amen. Now don't raise your hand, but I'm curious I would be curious, no, I don't respond, but I'd be curious to know how many of us have been falsely accused of something. Very few of us have escaped that. But God never does it. And I can come to God, and He's going to be straight with me, He's going to be honest with me. If God accused me of something, mark it down, I'm guilty. Not necessarily mankind. One thing we can be sure of, clinging to God, He is our only source of spiritual strength. I like that. In fact, I almost preached this message on the first statement: He knoweth the way that I take. God understands what I'm going through. That word know there has the idea of understanding, relating to. Whatever your situation is, however horrific it may be, maybe you say, but preacher, it's all my fault. I'll tell you, God understands. And you say, well, how would God know what it's like to be in my shoes? How would God know what it's like to be guilty of something? How would God I'll tell you how? Because when Jesus died on the cross, he took the guilt of the world on himself. He took responsibility for all the world's sin. He knows what it's like to be condemned by others and by sin. So God understands, He knows where we're at, He understands it, He can help us in that, He can give us that strength. And I like this one. We cling to God, knowing that God limits the trials I go through. There's a statement here that is great in this verse. When he hath, what's that next word? Tried. Everybody with me? Everybody alright? When he hath what? Tried. That is what tense? Job said, when this is all said and done, you know what he was saying? It's not always going to be this way. It's not always going to be this hard. My life is not always going to be this. It's not there's going to be a time when God says, alright This trial is done. The heartaches are past. The difficulties are behind you. It's over. God limits the trials we have to go through Job understood that. When on tried, when God said, This is the end. God will bring you out of that trial when the time is right. And someday I look back and say, boy, that was the hardest thing I've ever gone through in my life. But God has brought me through it And God was faithful. And God strengthened me. And I feel like coming out of it, I'm a better woman for it. I'm a better man for it. I feel like I'm closer to God than I ever was before. I feel like God has made me into gold. That's what Job said. How many people recognize the name Horatio Spafford? Does anybody recognize that name? Horatio Spafford was a businessman in Chicago in the 1800s He was a very close associate with D. L. Moody. The Chicago fire wiped out Horatio Spafford's business. I mean, burned it to the ground. He was so devastated, he said, now he wasn't bitter, but he was just devastated, he was trying to regroup. He decided, I'm going to send my wife and kids to England. I'm going to take care of business, I'm going to join up with them in a few months, and uh we'll start over in England, we'll re-establish ourselves, and we'll get up and go. And he was a godly Christian man. He took his kids, wife, to New York, put them on a steamer, and send it sent them to England, London. Halfway across the Atlantic, and I don't know the details, but apparently, somehow, in the middle of that gigantic ocean, two ships collided. And the ship that Horatio Spafford's wife and kids were on sank. He had heard of the tragedy, but no word from his family. Finally, he got a telegram from his wife in London. And it said something, and I don't know that I have the words exact, said something to this effect. I alone. am alive. He lost both, I believe, daughters, drowned. Lost his business, he lost his possessions, his wife. He's a couple thousand miles away, and he gets word that all his children are dead. He's devastated. How's he going to respond? Get bitter at God? I'm trying to live for you! I'm involved with DL Moody. We're reaching souls. I've given my life to the cause of Christ, and you do this to me Doesn't do that at all. Rather, he sends back, I'll be over there on the next ship. Rushes to New York, gets on the ship, travels across sweeping, and he went to the captain. He said, Captain, whenever we get to the place where the accident was and my daughter's drowned, I want you to tell me. Finally, knock on his cabin door. Mr. Stafford, we're approaching the place where the accident was, where the children were killed He rushed up on deck. The story goes as he stood on the side of that ocean liner and looked down into that dark, cold waters of North Atlantic. Knowing his children's bodies are on the bottom, laying on the bottom of that ocean somewhere, began to write, When peace like a River attendeth my way. When sorrows like sea billows roll, it is well, it is well with me. My soul. And that song has been a blessing and encouragement to people hurting for over a hundred years. It is well with my soul. He knows the way I take. God, you know what I am. You know what I'm going through. You know me. This is more than I can handle, God. I don't know the answers. I don't know why. But God, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to do what you say. I'm going to be honest and faithful to you, God, through this trial. And when I come out You can use me somehow. You can be glorified through this. You can somehow use me to be a blessing to others. Gold is not afraid of the furnace. Gold is improved, purified, made more valuable. Father in heaven, please bless us. Help us, Lord, in the trials of life and the difficulties, the shadows of life. Help us to trust you and cling to you. Pour our heart out in prayer, to have faith in your promises and believe you can bring us through this. And when it's all said and done, I'll be a better man for it. I'll be a better woman for it. Doesn't diminish the tears, doesn't diminish the heartache, but it gives us hope. Gives us something to look forward to. Our heads