I'd like for us to look together at verse number ten and verse number eleven. Proverbs chapter eleven, verse ten and verse eleven. And I'd like for us To read this together in unison. Proverbs 11, beginning in verse number 10. Would you read it with me? When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth. And when the wicked perish, there is shouting. By the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted, but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked. This is God's word we just read. The eternal word of God. These statements here are just as true as John 3. 16. than any other verse you find in the Bible. And if you would, notice in verse number 10, the first statement there, verse 10, and verse 11 kind of rephrases it a little differently, but it's the same concept First part of verse 10 says, When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth. In other words, it is good for a country to have good Christians. It is good for a city and a community to have good Christians. And the title of my message is simply this: Good Christians are good for our country. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, I thank you for what a blessing it has been to be in your house today, fellowshipping with your people. It's been such encouragement to me. And uh Lord, have visitors in the service and regular folks so faithful. Lord, the music's been a blessing. I'm just grateful for your hand a blessing on our church. And now we've opened our Bibles, Father in heaven, and we are anticipating, God, we are looking to you to speak to our hearts and to help us. And I pray that you would challenge us in our spiritual condition, wherever we're at spiritually, I pray, dear Holy Spirit. That you would challenge us, convict us where we need conviction. Lord, encourage where there's need of encouragement Give us direction and wisdom in our lives. Help us to be sensitive, Lord, to your speaking, your voice, and your leadership. I yield my will to you now, Lord. It's best I know how. I yield my will over to you, and I present my body to you anew, Lord. And I ask you to take me and fill me with your spirit and speak through me this morning And have your way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Tomorrow, of course, is July 4th, the birthday of the United States of America. And what a privilege it is to be a citizen of such a great nation. United States of America. Um hundred and forty-six years ago, uh our nation, our the second continental congress, signed that declaration of independence and we became A sovereign country. And God has blessed our country in so many ways. Let me just make this statement up front. God has been good to the United States of America. God has been good to us. God has blessed our country in so many ways. Here's the thing. I think we have to be careful about. Our country has problems. I'm going to touch on that here in a little bit. There's no doubt about it. We have issues that need to be dealt with. There's no doubt about it. But we must be careful that we do not allow the problems of our country to overshadow God's goodness to our country. We have much to be grateful for. We have much to thank God for. If you would, keep your place here. Now we're going to look at a number of verses this morning, but I want you to come to the New Testament with me, just off the bat here. Come back to the book of Romans. The sixth book, I think, of the New Testament. Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, Acts, Romans. Sixth book of the New Testament. Chapter number one. Romans, chapter number one. And I could just read this, read it off to you, but I'd like for us to look at this in our Bibles, because I think this is a very important truth here in Romans chapter 1, and particularly verse number 21. Romans chapter 1 is what I've often referred to as a dark chapter in the Bible. It gives the steps to depravity. Beginning in verse number 20, he says the invisible things, uh he says, for the invisible things from the creation of the world are clearly seen. being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead, so that they are without excuse. In other words, what he's saying there, no one has an excuse for not believing in the Lord. I mean its evidence is all around us And to deny the existence of God, to deny the power of God is to deny the obvious. And then he goes on verse 21 and he makes this statement. I think this is what I'm trying to address here in our introduction. Because that when they knew God, they glorified him not as God. Now look at this next statement. I circled it in my Bible, the next three words. Neither were what? Thankful. Neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. We have to be careful. We have to be very, very careful that we do, that we let the problems of our country overshadow God's goodness to our country And we cease to be thankful for what we have. We have a society, a certain element of our society, a growing element of our society, that has become ungrateful for what God has done for our nation. And I'm weary of hearing people tell us how awful America is, and how terrible America is, and how rotten America is and how evil America is. No, we're not perfect. And yes, we do have sins that must be addressed. But I'm telling you this morning, America has been blessed of God. We have much to be grateful for. We have much to be grateful for. Ingratitude is the first step down the road that leads to depravity. Read the rest of this chapter here. Study it sometime. Begins with ingratitude, and it ends with the most perverse form of depravity known to mankind. And it begins with ingratitude. So let's this 246th birthday of the United States of America, let's just resolve in our hearts that we're going to be grateful to God for his blessings on our country. We ought to be grateful for the form of government God has given us. Uh a uh a free democracy I'm telling you, I believe apart from the Lord Jesus Christ ruling from Jerusalem during the millennial reign, this form of government that God has given us is the best form of government man has ever come up with. It has produced a free, powerful country. Free democracy, as it spread across the country, has uh been good for countries that adopted it. It has been good. So we can be grateful to God for our form of government. Is it exercised and is it operating the way it was first designed? No, that's a problem But the concept itself is the best there is. I think we can be grateful for God for our tremendous freedoms we have The First Amendment is one of the greatest uh statements in any uh political document, government document in all of history, that we have the right to free speech The right to say what we believe is true. Any attempt to control free speech is an attempt to control your thoughts. That's what it gets to. In our country, and we have we have the right to free speech, the God-given right to free speech. Hey, thank God we have the God-given right to freely assemble and worship God as we believe. And we can do that freely. Not every country has that. And we do. We can be grateful to God. We can be grateful this morning that we're able to assemble here together, sing these songs. I can preach this book as it is. And no fear, at least at this point, people coming in and uh any repercussions. Isn't that something to be grateful for? I'm grateful for that. First Amendment in our Bill of Rights. How about that Second Amendment? The right to keep and bear arms. You say, what's the so big deal about that? God has given us the right and the responsibility to defend ourselves. We're not to be dependent upon the government to for me to depend to defend my family. And that r you say, well, I don't see what's so important about it. I tell you what, listen, I'm getting a little political here. Bear with me. But I tell you what, we lose that second amendment, we'll lose the first one. I guarantee it. I guarantee it We better fight you say, well, I don't know about the guns. I just want the free speech. You lose your guns, you're going to lose your free speech. You mark it down And so thank God that we have that in place. And, you know, just uh I'm starting out, I'm not going to be political the whole thing, but I'm starting out with this I'm grateful for our Supreme Court saying uh making that uh deal with about the guns and standing up for the Second Amendment. I'm grateful for that. I'm grateful for the Roe v. Wade. Praise the Lord for that. We're going to talk about that here in a little bit. And so our form of government, our freedoms that we have as a nation, the tremendous resources God has blessed our country with. What a fertile land. You go out in the Midwest and those anybody here ever drive through Iowa and Nebraska? I mean Cornfield County, Illinois You drive forever, and it's just cornfields, and it is uh uh just tremendous. God has blessed this nation with a fertile land, and uh we could we're the breadbasket of the world in many ways. Our mountains are filled and our mount our land is filled with minerals. And West Virginia of coal mines. And only to do that. Thank God for coal miners. We got a few of them here. And um and uh we have tremendous petroleum. Uh again, just bear with me now, just let me get some stuff off my chest. But uh I don't see any reason in the world we're buying petroleum and fuel from other countries when we got more than any other country in the whole world. My motto is drill, baby, drill. D get that coal and use it. But God's blessed us with phenomenal resources. Everybody bearing with me here a little bit. Just bear with me. And God's been good to us. And uh in uh blessing our resources of our country, the the great forests of our land, and the beauty of our country. I get the opportunity every couple years, uh Brother Hal has me come down to New Zealand And Lord will, and next February we'll be down there again over Australia preaching. He say, ah, a preacher goes on these little vacations all the time. Ain't no vacation. You get out. He preaches me to death. I mean we show up there as good night. I need a vacation when I come back. But uh I tell you, New Zealand's a beautiful country. You fly over those southern Andes, I think they call them, the mountains. What? Southern Alps down there, just beautiful I tell you what, you travel across America, I don't think there's another country in the in the world has the the uh can top the beauty of America What a beautiful country God has given us. You say, well, you really think you're something. No, we're just a bunch of sinners that God has been gracious to in His mercy, His sovereignty. God's blessed our country. I'm not too keen on trashing the United States of America. We do need to address issues. But God's been good to us. We have much to be thankful for on this 246th birthday of our country. I came across some statistics. I thought they were interesting. I don't know. They might bore you, but I think they're interesting 246 years ago on this day, July 3rd, our country is about to be born, and it consisted of 13 struggling colonies. Brother, they were trying to get their act together. They were trying to assemble somehow a way to have a form of government. And they had debated and discussed and prayed and sought the Lord. And there were 13 struggling colonies. They say at that point in time there was approximately 2. 5 million people in what would become the United States of America, those 13 colonies. 2. 5 million people Here we are, 246 years later, we have 50 states, 14 territories, with over 330 million people. This country has grown. It has grown explosively. God's been good to our country. In 1776, the child mortality rate In other words, every child born, and those that died, the child mortality rate in 1776 in the 13 colonies was 45%. In other words, 45 of every hundred children born died at birth. In 2022, child mortality rate is less than 1%. Less than 1%. We now have four million miles of paved roads in the United States of America. Four million miles. And I think uh Ron Wagner's driven about half of them, and some of our truck drivers. We have, Elizabeth, we have 5,000 public airports Yeah. She's excited. That way when that plane starts runs out of gas, she'll a lot of airports she can land in. We have two point seven million miles of power lines. How about that? We've got electricity at every corner of this country. Over 800 manned visits to outer space. Over 800. What I'm trying to say is this. God's been good to the United States of America, and we have much to be grateful for. Now, having said that We are painfully aware that we are a nation that has gone astray. We are a nation that is adrift on a sea of confusion. A sea of uncertainty, and a sea of depravity. What America celebrates as a society What America promotes as a society is an absolute shame to how good God has been to us. A number of years ago, a couple of us, or uh I had the opportunity, I should say a number of years ago, I had the opportunity to go on a mission trip to Mongolia. I had some pastors invite me to go over, went over there and we were working on um uh translating the scriptures. I was just kind of uh there's support, I guess. But um well it showed up I was uh roomed in a motel there with uh one of the professors at down at Crown College, one of their seminary professors, and we were paired up. I didn't know him before we became good friends. We got in the motel room there, and of course they had a television there in Mongolia. They had a television there in the motel room and we were sitting there. I didn't pay any attention to it. I never turned them on And uh but anyway the the other my roommate sat down and he says, I wonder what in the world kind of shows they have on Mongolia. I said, probably Mongolian, I would guess. I don't know. So he turned it on, and the very first thing that came up was some perverse, ungodly rock and roll song off of MTV in Mongolia. And I tell you, my heart sank. And I thought, this is the impression of our country around the world. Just a rock and roll perverts. is what the impression I had. And we looked at each other and we said, that is a shame that that's what's coming out of America. We've got a lot to be grateful for. God has been so good to our country. God has blessed us in so many ways. But we've become confused. Our nation has become spiritually blinded. We're not what we used to be. Anybody here living in a different country than what you were born in? I mean, as far as society is concerned, we're not what we're used to be, and we're certainly not what we ought to be. So here's my message for this morning. Here's my challenge. What can you and I do as Christians? To turn this thing around. Is there anything that you and I, as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, is there anything we can do To stop this and and uh uh turn this around and bring revival. See this thing change back the way it ought to be. Is there anything we can do? Look with me if you would. Come back to Proverbs here and keep your place and we're going to jump around a bit for the next few minutes. Proverbs chapter 11. Pastor Matt read this passage in a bus meeting a week or so ago, and boy, it just struck me. Proverbs 11 and verse number 10 It says, when it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth. So, in other words, the condition of God's people, the righteous, has a profound impact upon the city they live in. I want to suggest to you this morning, you and I, as individual Christians living here in Garrett County or surrounding areas Up in the hills of Western Maryland or West Virginia, you and I can make a difference in our country. When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth. There again in verse number 11: by the blessing of the righteous, by the blessing of the upright, the city is exalted. Good Christians, here's my message. Good Christians are good for America. Good Christians are good for Oakland. For Davis, Grantsville, Cumberland, uh Bardin, um where else Friendsville, accident. Fill in wherever you live. Good Christians are good for that. Alright, how do we do it? Number one, let me give you some suggestions. How we can help our country get back on track. Number one, we ought to get involved. Christians ought to get involved. And again, I know maybe I'm being a little political this morning, but I'm saying Christians ought to vote when it's time to vote. We ought to speak up. You say, well, it doesn't make any difference. It does in my heart to know that I stood for something that was right, whether it ever gets across or not, I stood for it. And we ought to vote. You say, well, we're outnumbered. Yeah, but stand. Do you know Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were outnumbered? And they voted for God by standing. And God honored that. And God honored that. We ought to vote. And by the way, when we vote, we ought to vote principles, not personalities. Well I'm and none of them are perfect. None of them are perfect. If you're looking for a perfect politician, you're never going to find one. By the way, when a church looks for a pastor, if they're looking for a perfect pastor, they're never going to find one Now you guys got awfully close, but uh no man I don't know why I say stuff like that. You know I'm joking. But we ought to provok principle, not personality. And I'm looking for that one that stands as close to the principles of this book as I can possibly find. I can possibly find. I can't and if there's none of 'em, I'll write somebody in. I'll write Ed Davis in there or something, you know But we ought to vote principle. You know what we need? We need state we got enough politicians. We need some statesmen. That stand on principles. Principles. So what can we do? Get involved. And by that I mean vote. By that I mean communicate with our elected officials. The mayor The county commissioners, the school board, the representatives, the senators. Write them letters. Call them up If you can, go by their office. Introduce yourself. Talk to them. Ask them questions. Tell them you're a Christian. You believe the Bible And you want them to rule according to the principles of Scripture. Just tell them. It's still a free country. We can do that. And communicate with those who make the decisions that affect us. Write them letters. Write them lots of letters Call them up. Stop by and visit them. When they do wrong, when they vote wrong, or they introduce something that's not right, let them know. It's not right. Give them biblical basis for it. And if they do right, by the way, we forget this sometimes. If they do something right, let them know. Thank them. So appreciate that you did that. And so we can be involved by voting, by communicating respectfully. Are you here in Proverbs? Come over, if you would, to chapter 29. Proverbs chapter 29. And look with me in verse number 2. Proverbs 29 and verse 2. Back towards the end of the book. Proverbs 29 and verse 2. The Bible talks about this. What I'm talking about, the Bible talks about. How many people want a preacher that talks about what the Bible talks about? Yeah. Verse 2, when the righteous are in authority, the people what? Rejoice. Rejoice. But when the wicked beareth rule, the people what? So our leadership has an effect. Elections matter. They affect things. So communicate, vote, communicate. Let me throw this out there under this idea, getting involved in our country. Consider running for office. I mean, I just think good common sense biblical Christians in office is a good thing. It's a good thing. Um now make sure it's the will of God. And I say uh to young men, young preachers, sometimes they get caught up in The country and politics they get involved and that's good. We want that. We've got to be careful. We need to make sure it's the will of God Before you run for something. I would never advise someone that's called to the ministry. I would never advise them to lower themselves to get involved in politics. It's a far greater calling to serve God in the ministry, preaching the gospel, than it is to serve in politics, although God does call people to that. You follow what I'm saying? Is everybody alright? Everybody with me? If you aren't, don't say anything. But uh So number one, get involved. How can you and I make a difference? Get involved. Number two Write this down. Pray. Pray. Pray. If you would turn with me to 1 Timothy chapter number 2, way back in the New Testament, towards getting towards the second half of the New Testament. First Timothy chapter number two. First Timothy is right before Second Timothy. Chapter 2. And I want to read the first four verses of 1 Timothy chapter 2. I say, number one, get involved. Vote, communicate, consider running. If it be the will of God, pray about it. But number two, pray. Look at verse one Of 1 Timothy chapter 2. I exhort, therefore, that's a strong plea, Paul is saying. I'm exhorting you. That first of all, supplications, prayers, Intercessions and giving of thanks be made for who? All men, but look at verse two. For kings For all that are in authority. We are instructed by God as Christians to pray for those who are in authority. Can I throw this out to you? If we would pray for those in authority, as much as we gripe about those in authority, we might see some changes taking place. Huh? I want to suggest to you, until until prayer meeting, until the midweek prayer meeting starts filling up with God's people, there's not much change going to take place in Washington. It's not going to be much change take place in the White House. Oh, we want America to stop. We want change. We want revival. But I tell you, if we're not willing to pray for it, you might as well hang it up We're told by God to pray for those who are in authority. We go down march and we visit with our representatives and senators. We try to get in and talk to them personally. Sometimes we can, not always. But one of the first things we tell them is we tell them we are the followers of Jesus Christ. And as a follower of Jesus Christ, we're instructed by our God to pray for you. That's funny, sometimes they're like, uh, huh? You know, they're not used to hearing that. But by the time we're said and done, I've never yet had one that didn't say this. Thank you. No matter how liberal they were, they said, thank you for praying for me. We're told by God to pray. We're told by God to pray. Let me ask you a question: how much time in the last seven days Have you spent before God in prayer for our country? Seven days, five minutes Two minutes? We're told by God to pray. I like what Charles you say, oh praying, that doesn't do anything. Praying won't change a thing You don't know your Bible very well. In fact, look at the next verse here. Look what he says. For kings, verse 2, for kings and for all that are in authority. Why? that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. How many people would like to have that kind of life? Just be able to live in peace, quietness, just doing right, worshiping God, serving Him For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. We pray for these men and women in authority. We're doing exactly what the will of God is. Who will have all men to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth? For there is one God and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus We ought to pray. Charles Spurgeon said this, I would rather teach one man to pray than ten men to preach. The power of prayer. The power of prayer. My grandparents had uh I still remember as a small child, uh, they had over the little uh Uh there was like uh between the um hallway back to the bedrooms and the living room, they had this little like a um there was a doorway. And um Over that doorway, they had a little placard and said this, prayer changes things. And that was there for them as a reminder all the time. Doesn't matter how bad the situation is, if we get a hold of God, God can change things. God can change things. We're told by God to pray that we can live peaceable, quiet lives. Prayer is better than protest. Now I think we ought to protest, speak up. Something's wrong. We ought to protest about it. Amen. I'm not talking about burning houses down. I'm talking about speaking up Against it. Anybody with me at all? But I'll tell you, prayer will do as at least as much as protests, probably more. Probably more. So number one, get involved. Number two, pray. Here's my last point. Number three, be a good Christian. I think one of the best things we can do for our country is just be good Christians. Come back, Proverbs chapter 11. When it goeth well, verse 10, when it goeth well with the righteous. Now here's the interesting thing about that phrase. I got studying that You know what I found out? That little phrase, when it goeth well, those two words, goeth well, when it goeth well with the righteous, I looked that up. You know what that has the idea? To be healthy. The whole idea is this: when the righteous, when Christians are spiritually healthy, When we are what we ought to be, when we are good Christians, it goethway the city rejoiceth. It affects the city. I want to suggest to you one of the best things can happen in America is every Christian get thoroughly right with God. Get thoroughly right with God. When the righteous are spiritually healthy and spiritually prosperous. You say, how can I be a good Christian? How can I get spiritually healthy? Well, I put a I'm glad you asked. I put a few things down. Number one Forsake hypocrisy. Forsake hypocrisy. You know what's time? You know what America needs? America needs for Christians to be real Christians. And we put on a show. And we have this outward facade that we are some side of great Christians But yet behind that curtain, behind that, we're sorry and we're proud and we're self-righteous and we condemn others and we live in sin But yet we put this show out here. I want to suggest to you, hypocritical Christians have done more damage to the United States of America than any liberal politician ever has. We're killing ourselves by not being for real. Take your Bible, if you would. Turn with me to Matthew chapter 23. Matthew chapter 23. I'm telling you, I I've felt this for years. I believe this. What I'm saying, I'm telling you, I believe That the cause, the root cause of America's problems is not found in Washington, but in the church house, forsaking our walk with God. And putting on a show and playing Christian. Look at Matthew chapter 23 if you would, and look with me at verse number 12. Matthew 23, verse 12. Jesus here. Is speaking and uh Matthew 23 verse 12. Look what he says. But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. Now look what he says. But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites For ye shut up the kingdom again of heaven against men, for ye neither go in yourselves, neither ye suffer ye them that enter in. Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretense make long prayers. Therefore you shall receive the greater condemnation. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he is made, you make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves And he goes on, you blind guys. And he's rebuking the religious leaders. Now listen, he's rebuking the religious leaders of Israel. For their hypocrisy. And he's telling them the condition of Israel, the reason that Israel at this point in time was in such a sorry spiritual condition was because of the hypocrisy of those who claim to know God. Now what I'm praying, uh you asked Pastor Matt, we pray My wife, we pray. I'm pleading with God to send revival to the churches of America. That we would get right. And we have these little sins hidden in our lives. And we have these, and we condemn, uh, you know, we preach and condemn, and we should, and uh Perversion of the family and the home and marriage and even what men and women are. We pervert all of that. But then we turn around and we watch garbage on our television And we watch garbage on our computers. We gossip and we lie And we try to put this big show up. Oh, we condemn all that, but we don't condemn our own sins. It's time for judgment to begin at the house of God. And us clean up our act, and us get our minds pure, and us get our hearts sincere and honest and true. We need integrity in the church house before we'll ever have integrity in the courthouse. We need revival. That's what America needs. Forsake this hypocrisy. Let's get thoroughly right. We have a form of godliness, but we deny the power thereof. Jesus' most stern warnings were to his own disciples, warning them of hypocrisy. He says, Don't be like the hypocrites, don't be like the hypocrites. Jesus' sharpest rebukes were against the Pharisees for being hypocrites, putting on a show, saying one thing and living something else. It's time for revival in the house of God. Hypocrites only have a negative influence. We must confess and forsake hypocrisy. I read about these old revivals in the churches years ago, back in the early 1900s, late 1800s. Great revivals back in the 1700s, Jonathan Edwards and George Whitfield and John Wesley would preach And people would come under God's people come under conviction, and their hearts were broken over their own sin And their heart and they they weep and sob, not because of the sins in the capital, but because of the sins in their own hearts. They say, God, have mercy on us And revival began there, and that's what changes a nation. Are you with me? We need to forsake hypocrisy. We got to get real, young and old. We gotta quit put quit putting on this Christian show and be real Christians. I'm telling you, good Christians are good for America And we need revival in the churches. We need revival in the churches. I put this down. Number two, love the Lord supremely. Love the Lord supremely. In Mark chapter 12, Jesus was asked what was the greatest commandment? And you know the answer. Jesus responded without hesitation. He said, the greatest commandment is this: that thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength. And he tacked on. He says, the second is like unto it, love your neighbor as yourself. You know, the problem is, I think, in a lot of cases, Christians have fallen in love with the world. We love our possessions, we love our houses, our money, our income, we love our toys. We love our vehicles We love all this here. And oh, we want America to stay free, not so we can worship God, so we can keep getting more stuff. We need to fall in love with God again. Amen or not. We need to fall in love with God again We preach against the sins. We preach against the sins and the hypocrisy of the politicians. I think it's time for preachers to start preaching against the sins and the hypocrisy of God's people. And then that'll change. And then that'll change. We need to fall in love with the Lord Jesus Christ again. We must not oh, by the way, in Revelation chapter 2, verse 4, the church at Ephesus God addresses the church there and he says, oh, you've got a good show. Boy, you've got you're using that King James Bible and you're running buses. And not exactly the way he worded it, but But in our context is what he's saying. He says, Man, you're standing for the truth and you're preaching against the sins of the of the the the government, you're doing all that. He says, but I've got something against you. You've left your first love. You've fallen in love with stuff. And things are more important to you than I am. And your pleasure is more important to you than I am. You've left your first love. You've left it. You've walked away. Listen, I think it's time for Christians to fall back in love with our God again. I think it's time for church to just fall in love with God again. Fall in love with God. Um uh number one, uh forsake hypocrisy. Love the Lord. I love my country I mean, you can't drive in the driveway here this weekend. Say, man, these guys loved our country. I don't want that I told my wife yesterday I was putting those flags out I love putting those flags up. I did the Pledge of Allegiance, each one. Pledge of allegiance to No I didn't. That would be silly. I told my wife, I said, I'd love for our community, when they think of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, I'd like them to think three things. One, they preach the Bible. Number two, they try to get people saved. And number three, they love their country. I'd be okay with that. But I want to caution us myself. We must not allow our patriotism to become idolatry. If I love my country more than I love my God, my country has become an idol. You follow what I'm saying? We must love the Lord supremely. And as I see my country turning away from the Bible and turning against the things of God. My loyalty is to my God. My loyalty. We need to fall back in love with Jesus Christ. And love him supremely. Let me give you a third one here, real quick. We need to resist pride. Resist pride. Are you there in the New Testament? Come over to James with me. James chapter number four. James chapter 4. My my whole point is this. Good Christians are good for our country. How do I be a good Christian? Well I forsake hypocrisy. Don't quit putting on a show. I fall back in love with the Lord God. By the way, while you're finding James there, Jesus said in John 14, he says, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. He that loveth me is he that keepeth my commandments. Over and over and over he says that. Now look at James chapter number four. Look with me at verse number six. James chapter four and verse six. But he giveth more grace, speaking of the Lord. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the what? But giveth grace to the humble. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil. He'll flee from you Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify ye hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness. Look at this Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. We have got to resist pride. We cannot allow pride. To creep up in our hearts and minds. Look there at verse number six. He giveth more grace, therefore God say he res uh He resisted the proud. Look at this. But giveth grace unto the humble. How many people agree with me? Our country needs grace. That's the unmerited favor. God blessing us in ways we don't deserve. We need God's grace. There's only one way to get it. It's to humble ourselves. Confess our pride, forsake our pride. Pride is the number one enemy to spiritual well-being Um, we desperately need God's grace. Hey, excuse me. We don't need pride bunt We don't need no Pride Month. You know what we need? We need humility month. Humility month. Maybe it's time for God's people To just say we need to humble ourselves. Humble ourselves. God resisteth the proud, but he giveth grace to the humble. God's been good to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, amen or not? You know why He's been good? Because we're such great people. Oh no. God's been good to us. We're just a bunch of sinners saved by His grace. God's been good to us not because we're wonderful. God's been good to us because He's wonderful. And God has blessed our country, and God can and will bless our country if God's people humble ourselves. Humble ourselves. Don't ever forget When we're standing against the sins that are overtaking our country, don't ever forget when we stand against that, you and I are just as much a sinner as they are. You and I are saved no differently than anybody else. You and I have no more merit or righteousness of our own than anybody else has. We are only sinners saved by God's grace. We need to remember that. We need to remember that. We need to forsake hypocrisy. We need to quit putting on a show and just being phony. We need to love our God more than anything else. Love the Lord God with all our heart, soul, and mind. We need to humble ourselves and put away pride. And let me end with this one. Number four, I put this down. We need to start winning souls. We need to win people the Lord Jesus Christ. Proverbs chapter 11, verse 30. We won't take time to go back there. Same chapter our text is in. But he says this: the fruit of the righteous is a tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. I think one of the most patriotic things you and I can do as a Christian is to win our fellow countrymen to faith in Jesus Christ as their Savior. That will do more good for our country than about anything else we can do. Winning people to Jesus Christ. 2 Corinthians 5. 17 says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. We need a transformation of society's values in our country. I hope you all are bearing with me on this. I am very grateful that the United States Supreme Court overturned Roe v. Wade. That is a good, I never dreamed that would ever happen. And I'm so grateful for that. And we praise the Lord for it. But wait a minute. That doesn't outlaw abortion. Puts it back to the states, which is a good step. That's the right direction. I don't know about you, but I don't think there are uh uh I long for the day when there's not one abortion takes place. Ever. Not one child's life taken from his mother's womb. Listen, we can outlaw abortion till the day is long There's still going to be abortions because people have that in their heart. This is what I'm trying to say. I'm trying to word this the way I'm thinking What we need to develop in our country is a culture of life. What we have now is a, in certain elements, is a culture of death. Well, this is an inconvenience. This isn't what I planned. And even it may be horrific circumstances, but that's a life. That's a life. People risk their lives. People give their lives so that someone else doesn't lose their life. Well, that little child in the womb is a life. And until our society has a value of life, it's not going to change. You follow what I'm trying to say What we need to do is nurture and develop within our society a culture of life where life is valued. You say, well, how do we do that, preacher? Vote for conservatives. I'm old for voting for conservatives, but I tell you how we do that is we introduce people to the author of life. Jesus Christ. He said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. He's the one that gives life. And when someone comes and they trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, the author of life, and they receive eternal light, my Bible says they're a new creature. And there's old values, and that old way of thinking, and that old self-centeredness fades away, and now I have new values. I hope I'm communicating this. Life. I think the best thing we can do for our country, one of the best things, is start winning people to the Lord Jesus Christ. Winning souls. Lester Roloff said, if you want to save America, get Americans saved. America was born in 1776. In the year 2022, America needs to be born again. We need to get we need to win people to Christ. We need to win people to Christ. Let's pray together. Father in heaven. I pray you take these thoughts. And God, if you could just send revival, spin our plea. Send revival that we can just be what we ought to be. Father, there's some of us have to make hard decisions to make things right. Maybe we've gotten ourselves in circumstance situations that we know are hindering your grace. Are hindering you, your spirit. I pray you'd help us make those hard decisions to make things right in our homes, in our workplace, in our community, in our church. Help us, Lord, to humble ourselves and pray, seek your face and turn from our wicked ways. And we can have your hand upon our church and our nation again. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know how God might have spoken to your heart this morning. But I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, God stirred my heart. My Christian life, my spiritual well-being needs attention. I need to maybe get some priorities rearranged, and maybe I need to get some pride dealt with. Maybe this hypocrisy needs to be done away with. But you'd say, preacher, God spoke to my heart this morning. Any like that? By the uplifted hand, God spoke to my heart. God bless you. All hands all around. Listen, that's the Holy Spirit of God speaking to you Don't resist him. Say yes, Lord. I agree. Let him have his way and let him lead you and trust him. Follow his leadership. God can do great things. Is there some this morning say, preacher, I have some friends that are unsaved? My witness needs to be uh amped up here. And uh you'd say, preacher, pray for me. I've got friends and family need Christ. I need to be a better witness. Any like that by the uplifted hand? Sure. One of the best things we can do is point people to Christ With our life and with our lips. One last question. Is there any this morning? Say, preacher, I'm not saved. I can't honestly say I know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. Listen, you don't want to go to hell, trust me. You need Christ. You'd say, Preacher, pray for me. I need to get my salvation settled. I want to know that God has forgiven my sin. I have a home in heaven. Any at all like that? But the uplifted hand, preacher, pray for me. I need the Lord as my Savior. Any at all? Father, bless our invitation time now. Lord, stir our hearts. Help us to act upon what you've spoken to us about in Jesus' name Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James playing that invitation hymn. And I tell you, good old-fashioned alders throughout the history of our country have been a powerful place.