1 Peter 4 verse 10, Peter's writing to persecuted Christians. And um We just have to watch the news a little bit and we get a little idea of what the people that Peter's writing to, what they experience. You read about Christians in some of our Muslim countries and some of North Korea and those types of things, the intensity. of the persecution they face. And he's writing to these believers. He's trying to encourage them. He's instructing them in some things. And notice in verse 10 He makes this statement. Now, this is still kind of in the context of the end of all things being at hand. In other words, he's reminding them, listen, we're in the end days. Lord can come back at any moment And he makes this statement in verse 10. He says, As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another, as good stewards Of the manifold grace of God. Erased these believers, persecuted, they run out of their homes, they're scattered, they're sending this letter back and forth, passing around, no doubt making copies and sharing it with one another. And he says, minister the same, this gift you've received. Minister that. Use that gift to minister to one another. As good stewards. And that's my title, Good Stewards. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless the few moments we have now as we finish out the day. I ask you to speak to our hearts And Lord, again, in this hour I I take very seriously the importance of preaching of the Word of God. And so I ask for your help and I ask, dear Lord, for the filling of your Holy Spirit. And I yield my will to you, present my body anew, that you would use me as a tool, as a conduit for your Holy Spirit to speak through me to our hearts and minds, and that we can do exactly what we're instructed here in this verse. And so help us now speak our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Someone has said, made this quote. This is a good quote. In fact, I seriously I recommend you jot this quote down Says this, the greatest ability is dependability. I would far rather have somebody that maybe isn't that talented, but I can depend on them than to have some most talented person in the world and you don't know if they're going to show up or not. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And I know some of you employers know what I'm talking about. The greatest ability is dependability. And I want to suggest to you what is true in the workforce is true in the body of Christ, is true in the Christian life. The greatest ability that you and I as a Christian can have in our walk with God is God just being able to depend on us. Just being in our place, where we ought to be, when we ought to be there, doing what we ought to do. Dependability. The greatest ability is dependability. And that's true. I think that would be uh a characteristic of a mature Christian. They can be trusted. They're dependable. You can rely on them. How about this? You can trust them, depend on them to be honest at all times. Did you ever deal with someone you didn't know if they were telling the truth or not? Uh, you just don't know. Dependability. Dependability. It's a characteristic, I believe, of a mature Christian. You find somebody that's faithful. I've said this before, let me just throw this out. I think I think one of the best things you and I can do for the well being of our church, one of the best things we can do uh to make our church a good, strong, healthy church is just one thing, is just be faithful to the services. That's huge. Dependability. How many people will think it would be a good thing? Uh how many people think it's a good thing we have Sunday school teachers that are in their place week by week I've been in churches, you don't know if they're going to show up or not. Bus workers. We're very confident every week that bus is going out. Dependable. Dependable. Soundroom. Choir. I think dependability is a characteristic of a mature Christian, also a characteristic of a growing Christian. Sometimes we notice young, not necessarily young people, but somebody trusts Christ and they're young in their faith, regardless of their age. And I tell you, they start showing up. Do you ever pay attention to this? They'll start coming Sunday morning. I'll think, amen, that's good. Trust the Lord, they'll show up Sunday morning. And then sometimes it's not long, they start coming Sunday night. And then before long you watch a little bit and they start showing up Wednesday night. That's a growing Christian. You know what's happening? They're developing dependability. They're growing. They're going to be in their place. They want to be where God wants them to be. And so the greatest ability is dependability. I believe that. Now, the Christian life is designed by God to be a life of service. The Christian life is not a life of luxury and ease. The picture I get as I study the book of Acts And again, Chloe was asking me about preaching, you know, 3,000 people get saved. She got that from Acts chapter 2, when Peter preached his first sermon, and 3,000 people got saved. And you study the church in the book of Acts, and then you study places where Paul and the epistles reference the church. And the picture we get of that New Testament church. is not a church where people are just sitting around taking it easy. You know, luxury and ease and drinking iced tea and eating twix The picture you get as you study the New Testament church is everyone's involved Everyone is engaged in the ministry and the purpose of the church. I mean the whole thing. Everybody's on board. Everybody's in the ring. Everybody's getting after it. And I was going to go to you'd go to various places in the book of Acts, and Paul ends, particularly Romans, a couple other of his letters that he wrote, he ends them thanking these long lists of people for all their investment and all their involvement in the cause of Christ and the advancement of the gospel and the well-being of the church. And so the pictures we study the New Testament church, we get this picture that everyone's involved, everyone's engaged. I put it down this way: the Christian life is not a life of luxury, ease, and comfort. As I look in the Bible, I see the Christian life is that of a spiritual service. And effort and combat, spiritual combat, and even danger, as they pressed on with the gospel. And so the Christian life. Now Peter's reminding these persecuted Christians that they are to use their gift. Look at verse 10 with me here. He's assuming they're involved. He's addressing people who are actively involved in serving God. And notice what he says: as every man hath received the gift And so he's reminding them: listen, you've been gifted by God. And to use that gift, exercise that gift. Now the implication is if you look at this carefully, and I don't know if you've come to this conclusion or not, but as I look at verse 10 very carefully, I get the impression they were aware of the fact that they were gifted Look what he says there. Now, as every man hath received the gift, to me it sounds like they're aware, yeah, I've got that And he's motivating them, he's encouraging them to make sure their focus is, listen, use that gift to minister one to another. And he wants them to understand as good stewards And so I want us to consider just quickly this idea of having being gifted by God And then using that gift for the Lord and to advance the gospel. Number one, I put this down, the presentation of gifts. Look there at verse 10. He says, as every man hath received the gift. The word receive there means to take possession of. To have something bestowed on me. And the whole idea is this. God has given to them, God has Presented to these New Testament believers, and many of these were very young in the faith, and God has presented to them, God has gifted them with abilities. That's what the term gifts is referring to. Abilities, an endowment to do something that God has given to me, an enablement by God to exercise some specific ability So, two thoughts under the presentation. They've been given these gifts. First thing I put down, these gifts are given comprehensively. And what I mean by that is everybody gets a gift. Everybody has an ability, some talent, some skill, some endowment by God that they can use and they are instructed to use for the glory of God. If you would take your Bible and turn with me to Romans chapter 12. Now keep your place here, but if you would come over to Romans chapter 12. Every Christian has been given at least one spiritual gift. And but the fact that it refers to it as a gift tells me it's not something we earn. Well if I do this, then God will give me a gift. I think we're going to see here, the moment a person trusts Christ as Savior, God endows them with some specific ability that they can use to advance the gospel and the well-being of the church. These young people sitting up here, young man baptized, others of us all around here, every single one of us. Now, let's bring it home. You and I have all been gifted by God. I'm tempted to make everybody say, I have a gift that God has given me, but I'm not going to make you do that. But I want you to think that way, because it's true. Every single one of us, little where'd Nikita go? She's asleep. She's been given the gift of rest. But little Nikita, God's given her a gift. Everyone has trusted Christ, she's trusted the Lord, I think. And uh she's been given a gift by God, an ability unique to her. That God intends for her to use for the good of the church and the advancement of the kingdom. I look out and I see a whole crowd of people, every one of us that know Christ is Savior, you and I have been given a direct Given directly, a gift by God to be used for his glory, for the well-being of the church, and the advancement of the gospel. If you notice, and I failed to point it out, but back there in verse 10, we'll see it when we go back. But he says, every man, every single person, no one's exempt Comprehensive, everybody in the church. Look at Romans 12 here, and notice with me verse number 6. Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us. And then he goes on, he lists whether prophecy or pro of whether prophecy let us prophesy according to the portion of faith or ministry. Let us wait on our ministering, or he that teacheth on teaching, or he that exhorteth on exhortation, he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity, he that ruleth with diligence, he that showeth mercy with cheerfulness Now, my purpose tonight isn't to study each and every individual gift, but what I want to point out is every one of us here have some gift. Go over, if you would, to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. And again, he's writing to the church at Corinth. Now they were messed up on gifts. They had distorted him and perverted it, and it was just chaos. So Paul's writing there under the inspiration of God trying to straighten it out. And he makes some statements there in verse number 4 of 1 Corinthians 12. Notice what he says. Now there are diversities of gifts. There's a lot of different gifts, but the same Spirit. There are differences of administration, but the same Lord. There are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all. But look at this. Speaking of gifts, he says the manifestation of the Spirit. Now, the context is the Holy Spirit giving this gift to you or me, look what it says, is given to what? What's the next phrase? Every man to profit withal. Then he goes down and he expounds on that. Every single person. How many folks here tonight you're saved? You know it. Say amen. You know what that means? The Holy Spirit of God has given you a gift, at least one gift, one ability, one skill. One talent, you might want to say, that is designed to be used for the well-being of the church, the advancement of the gospel. So it's comprehensive. Nobody's exempt. Say, well, I never went to Bible college. It has nothing to do with whether you're gifted of God or not. Well, I don't have much money. It doesn't matter whether you're getting whether that has nothing to do with whether you're gifted of God or not. Well, my IQ isn't there. That has nothing to do with it. I'm glad God uses people that don't have real high IQs. Praise the Lord. Thank you, Lord. So we all have it. It's been presented to all us. I put down it's a comprehensive. These gifts are given comprehensively. But also I want to add this: they are given with variety. Look at verse 11 of 1 Corinthians 12. Jump down there. But all these worketh that one and the selfsame spirit. Now he listed some here, some different gifts, and he says they all work together. It's the same Holy Spirit that gives it. But look what he says. The capital S there, Holy Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will. Now, what's he saying? He's saying the Holy Spirit, as God, in his sovereignty, in his understanding, and his wisdom He gives to each individual a differing gift. We don't all get the same gift. We don't have the same. And again, my purpose tonight isn't to study what the gifts are, but the fact of the matter is Every one of us are gifted by God, supernaturally gifted by God, and it's various types of gift, various types of abilities. Some people are very gifted at teaching. Uh, you know, Robin was mentioning tonight her Sunday school fast, and uh Brother Mark pointed out, you know, a good teacher. She makes her kids cry. And um stuff like that. Apparently good teachers make their kids cry. But God gives us, but we're what a point I'm trying to make is this, we don't all have the same gift What God has gifted, Pastor Matt, may be very different than what God has gifted Brother Steve, or Brother Randy, or Brother Jed. What God has gifted, Jane is not necessarily the same gift as Erica or Mandy. God knows us. He has a specific individual plan and purpose for my life and for your life. Within the kingdom of God, within the purpose of the church, we each have a role, we each have a purpose. And then God enables us In various abilities for us to fulfill that purpose and be our part in this building called the church. And we're the materials that make up the body of Christ. And he goes to great length in Corinthians explaining this. But the point is here, Peter is reminding these young believers that they have been gifted. They have been presented a gift. And they are to use that. God knows us better than we know ourselves. Huh? Yes or no? Do you ever go into a revival service thinking, yeah, I'm pretty good. I think I'm alright. You get in and the preacher rips your face off You walk out saying, I'm the sorriest Christian I ever met in my life. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And you know what we say? Man, that was great. Because God knows us better than we do, and He shows us where we're at and where we need to grow and what adjustments need to be made. And He knows us better than we do, and He knows what gifts are best fitted For our personalities, our intellect, God gifts us. So the presentation of the gifts It's comprehensive, everybody gets one, but it's various. We don't all get the same one. Sometimes some people have more than one But God in his wisdom and his sovereignty. By the way, I should never be envious of somebody else. Say, well, they're so gifted. Don't think that way. We're not to compare ourselves among ourselves. God has gifted you and I in very individual, specific ways, designed just for us, so He can use us in a very individual, specific area of the church. And so don't get comparing yourselves, praise God. I you know I learned something a long time ago, this is just a little off the radar here a little bit, but I learned something a long time ago. I can be just as obedient and I can be just as committed and I can be just as in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. with the limitations and abilities that God has given me as the most talented, gifted, intelligent person in the world, I can love God and serve God and be committed just as much as anybody else, regardless of what talents I have or don't have. And so God in His wisdom gifts us according to His plan for our life. Number two The purpose for gifts. The first is the presentation. Why are gifts given? Come back to Peter here real quick. You might want to keep a mark or something in there. We'll jump around a little bit. But notice in 1 Peter 4. 10, he says, as every man hath received the gift. They all got him. Every man, everybody's got him, they're varying. Even so minister the same one to another. Now that word minister is your tremendous word. It comes from the same word as deacon. It means this, to serve one another. It means in fact, one of the definitions I was looking up, it said domestic service. Now what does that make you think of when you say, well, this is a domestic service? What does that anybody what is that, what do you think of? What? Housekeeping, a maid, uh, you know, taking care of somebody else's stuff for them, um, cleaning the floor. In other words, it's not it's menial. Sometimes very humble type of service. And so God gifts us For the purpose of very humbly serving one another. Very humbly serving one another. I had a preacher years ago when I was traveling in youth evangelism, and there was a little situation, and the preacher made this statement, and it stuck in my mind all these years. He said that is below my dignity. And I thought, hm. I don't know that that's a good attitude for a Christian to have, let alone a preacher My Bible says God has gifted us, enabled us for the purpose, domestic service to one another. Very humbly serving one another, helping one another. And so the purpose of gifts is to serve. One definition was to wait upon another. Again, you think of that, you think of a waitress. Can I help you? I'll go get this for you. I want to do that for you. I want to make your experience here pleasant. My wife made a statement, she came across a statement, she said, she said, always, she says, I don't trust somebody that's unkind to the waiter or waitress. And the reason being is because if I was the waiter or waitress, they would be unkind to me. That's pretty good thinking. And so we need to be very, very careful as Christians, God has gifted us to serve others like a waiter or a waitress. How can I help you? How can I make your life better? How can I help you be stronger in your faith? How can I enable you? How can I be a blessing? It's funny, we preachers joke about sometimes the guy the person walks in the back of the church, throws their shoulders back, puts their head up, and says, All right, bless me if you can That is not what God gives us for. God gifts us to be a blessing, to give of ourselves and to serve. Back in uh 1 Corinthians 14, we should have looked at it while we're there, verse 12. He says, The gifts are given to edify the church. Somebody help me. What is the word edify? We've touched on this before. The word edify means to what? To build up, to lift up, to strengthen, encourage, want to edify that person So God gives you and I gifts and abilities that are given to us by the Holy Spirit, and we are to use them to lift and build up. What I'm trying to say is this. Gifts are never given to us, abilities are never given to us so that we can exalt ourselves. Gifts and abilities of God are never given to us so we can promote ourselves or to exalt ourselves. Well, I want to see, I want everybody to see how gifted I am Brother, you better watch out for that type of thinking. I want everybody to know what a great preacher I am. I tell you what, you better be careful in that. Oh, I just uh I'm uh just uh I wish everybody appreciated what a tremendous teacher I am. Or whatever. God's gifts are never, ever given to us to bring glory or attention to us. Our gifts are always, without exception, given to us to help others bring glory to God. It's the purpose. It's the purpose. And so I have to be very, very careful about that. And I end with this. Number three, we had the presentation of the gifts. The Holy Spirit gives everybody these different abilities and You know, he knows what they are. We figure them out. By the way, let me throw this out real quick. Somebody says, Well, how do I know what my gifts are? Well, they've got all these formulas and everything. This is the way, this is my approach. I just try and do everything I can for God. Just every opportunity I have, jump in and try and do that. And I'll find in the areas that God has gifted me, those like cream will rise to the top. You follow what I'm saying? And maybe I'll get involved in something and I'm just not gifting that area, and that kind of fizzles out. And then uh all of a sudden one boy it clicks A bingo. Ah, that's working. I said, ah, there it is. So I guess what I'm saying is don't just sit around on the pew waiting for God to show you, I don't know, God's I'm waiting on God to show me what my gift is Well, good grief, get up, join the choir, work in the buses, go soul winning, do something. And God will lead you and direct you, and you'll it'll it'll rise up. It'll become obvious You'll know over time. Last of all I am with this, the privilege of gifts. And I don't want you to miss this point. Look here in Peter. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another. It's for the good of the church, for edifying, building up the church. Then he says this: as good stewards Of the manifold grace of God. Question, what's a steward Okay, we think of a servant, somebody said, a steward is somebody who takes care or manages someone else's possession. Follow what I'm saying? It's like um today we have, and it's not exactly the same, but today we have what we call property managers. They don't own that house. They don't own that property. Somebody else, usually downstate Baltimore, some rich person owns this house and this place on the lake. And um, but they hire someone, somebody is given the responsibility to take care of that in my absence, on my behalf. And it's to be used, and whatever, sometimes a money manager. We give some money money. We have a little account that we put aside for our granddaughters, and we've hired somebody to handle that for us. It's not their money. It's not your money, I don't want to remind them that. It's not their money. But we entrusted that money to them for them to manage it and invest it. Anybody know what I'm talking about? It's not theirs. This is what God is saying. He's saying, I've given you gifts, I've given you some abilities. Those aren't yours. They're not to be used for your Your own end, not to be used for your glory or for your purposes They're to be used for my glory and for the purpose I've entrusted you with them. You are steward of that ability. And you're to use it For the purpose God intends. And I tell you, this is what my point, the privilege of these gifts, if you'll stop and think with me, it is a phenomenal privilege For God to trust me with an ability and to use it for the way He wants me to use it. You follow what I'm saying? Question, do I deserve God giving me any ability? You know what I deserve? I deserve to be burning in hell. God looks down, He looks at you and me. And He says, You know what? I'm going to give that person this gift and I'm going to trust them with it. I'm going to make them a steward of this ability for them to use it to advance the gospel and build up the church. And what a privilege. What a privilege. Sometimes people get in their head, I have the right to teach this class. No, we don't have the right to nothing. It's God's grace. I have a privilege of serving the Lord in whatever capacity. I'm saying teacher, but in whatever capacity. And it's very humbling. It's very humbling. My abilities are not mine. God trusts us to use our abilities that he has given us for the purpose he gave them. It, and so what I'm trying to say, it is a privilege to serve God. I think the others up here, I think you'll understand what I'm saying. I consider it a phenomenal privilege to stand behind this pulpit and preach this old book. It is a joy and privilege of God and to teach a little Sunday school class and to run a Sunday school bus and to go out in a neighborhood and say, I'm going to God's giving me this opportunity to be his ambassador. What a privilege. What a privilege. It's a great privilege to serve God. And He's given us a new week. Today's Sunday. Just starting off a new week. He's laid before us a tremendous opportunity to use whatever abilities I have to bring glory to the Savior and win others to Christ and build up the church. They reference two seas over in the Middle East. One is the Sea of Galilee. If you'll study it very carefully, the Sea of Galilee has a river flowing into it And then there's another end where it flows out. So the Sea of Galilee takes in, and then it gives it out. It's a very fertile sea. There's a lot of fish. People make their living there. It takes in, it receives the gifts of the water and the nutrients coming in, and it puts it out, and in so doing, it's a tremendous blessing to a lot of people. There's another sea in the Middle East. It's called the Dead Sea. You know why they call it the Dead Sea? Because it's dead. It's usually why they use terms like that. You know what the Dead Sea does? The Dead Sea takes in the water, the nutrients But it never gives it out. And it stagnates. And the water evaporates and all that mineral and salt and nothing lives in it. Nothing lives in it. In fact, they say It is so filled with minerals that are designed to move on that you can lay out there and actually float in the Dead Sea. It's so It's so full of uh minerals and stuff that you become buoyant. Here's what I want to end with. What are you and I? Are we a gat see a Galilee Christian? Or are we a Dead Sea Christian? God's been good to us, amen, or none? God's given us phenomenal resources. God's given us abilities, and God's given us so much. And if we're not careful, we tend to take that. It's for me, it's for me, it's for me, and we end up being a Dead Sea Christian. Or we can take these gifts, these resources, these abilities God has given us And we use it to serve others. And you know what? We become a great blessing. And we become and we're alive. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to help us. To be good stewards of these gifts, these abilities you've given us. And I pray that in these next seven days that we as individuals and as a church would commit ourselves to serve you and serve others. Now look for ways that we can build up and encourage and share the message of Christ so that we can be alive in a nutritious and a helpful church here in a very needy community. Their heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, uh maybe you say, I don't know exactly what my gifts are, but whatever it is I just want to serve God. I want to give myself and whatever opportunity I have, I'm going to get involved, and then let God sort that out. I just want him to use me. Any like that, preacher, I want that. God bless you. Of course, what Christian wouldn't feel that way? I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I'm going to commit myself this week to be a to minister to others. Whatever opportunity I have, to be a blessing, to be an encouragement, to be an to edify and build up others, believers. So our church can be more effective in our witness. Any like that, preacher, I want to give myself to do that. God bless you. Now, if you hear you've never trusted Christ, that's the most greatest need you have. To come and trust Christ. But those of us that know him, let's give ourselves to the Lord and ask him to use us. Father, bless the invitation I ask now tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed