Number one. I mentioned this Sunday morning, and for a lot of us, what I'm saying here is nothing new. But I thought it'd be good to uh just kind of refresh it a little bit. Romans chapter 1. Anybody want to guess what verse I'm going to? 16. Romans chapter 1 and verse 16. Again, I mentioned this Sunday morning, and this stirred my heart the other day. Uh Zout Visiting. Get everything turned on here. Am I on? Good? Alright Uh uh stirred my heart the other morning, uh last Thursday or Friday, or it might have been Saturday, it could have been Monday, Tuesday, or Wednesday But one day last week, um I was driving around, I got thinking about these little gospel tracts, and and again I mentioned the study school, but Romans uh one sixteen says, For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the Power of God unto salvation. That thing has stirred my heart. If God says something is powerful, mark it down, it's powerful. Right? If a little kid says something's powerful, you know it may or may not be, relatively speaking. But when God says something's powerful, good night It's pretty powerful. So the gospel, get this, the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. So here we are, April, our track month. And we've got tens of thousands of these little gospel tracts, and it has the gospel in it, which is the power of God unto salvation. And we're putting these things out all over the place so we've got all these little gospel messages that is the power of God unto salvation. It's kind of like I got thinking it's like napalm, you know? And uh they'd fly over and just cover a whole area with this stuff that that I don't even know what napalm is, something in af they used in in uh is like m mo motor oil or some kind of jelly fuel that just burns everything. That's not exactly what a gospel track is like, but The concept is we're putting all these little tracts out that have the gospel that is the power of God unto salvation. And I don't know how you picture that in my mind, but I to me that's pretty cool And uh so I want to give some thoughts and then we we we had our verse here, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, it is the power of God into salvation. So we're talking about giving out tracts. Let's have a word of prayer Then I'll give you the things I jotted down. You might want to put some of these in the back of the prayer list there, that little note section, or somewhere, because I think they'll be encouraging to you. Let's pray first. Father We come to your word and we come to the time when we try to encourage and help and share some ideas that help us in our witness. I know the book of Acts says they went everywhere. The members of the church went everywhere, preaching the gospel to everyone. And so uh we want to follow the pattern you've given us in your word. So please fill me with your spirit. Lord, I present my body anew and ask that your Holy Spirit would stir us and give us Lord, give us creative minds in sharing the gospel, biblically creative minds in sharing the gospel and sharing these tracks with folk. And I know there's already several thousand going out in the l last few days and we pray Lord that um they are bearing fruit they are being read and uh hearts are being touched and Lord perhaps some souls have already been saved in the last few days we don't know. But uh we trust you and we believe in the power of your word. So please uh challenge us and help us in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't get out in as many other churches as I did back when I was traveling Bible time. We were out all the time in different churches, but um I'm convinced in just my experience and my exposure to other churches that there are very few churches. Now when I'm talking about churches, I'm talking about our straight Independent fundamental Baptist Bible-believing churches, I want to suggest to you that there are probably very few that really realize How important and how uh and the potential of gospel tracts Now I've been in churches and they have a little gospel track rack in the back, you know, and they'll have three or four back there and most of them are yellow and curled over. You know what I'm talking about? and they're covered in dust and they've been there ninety-five years and the ones that some that you get in and the tracks that are there are talking about tithing or you know or some abortion and that's all fine. I'm not trying to be critical of that. But what I'm saying is, if that's the case in a church, that church does not fully realize the potential of the gospel tract. And I hate to say it, but I think a lot of Christians don't really comprehend What a gospel track, how a gospel tract can enhance my personal witness and how a gospel tract can enable me to be a vital part of fulfilling the Great Commission. Getting the gospel to people all around the world. The potential of of these little uh gospel tracts is phenomenal And uh now I appreciate, I think our church gets it. I really do. I think our church folk get it. We understand. I've I've never been a part of a church uh that gives out tracts, not just track month, but throughout the year. at uh at the percentage that ours does, it's it's tremendous. And I think I think we get it. I think our people get it. But I think there's a lot that do not. And there's a few other churches. Brother Hamel, the churches he gets in that are involved, they understand they're they're very aggressive with that. And so uh I've learned or I learned early on in my Christian life. Did I ever tell you when I got saved? May 7, 1971. But the church I was going to then, they had tracked. They were in the back. The one that I attended right when I got saved. And um, you know, they talked about witnessing and they preached about it, and so I wasn't saved very long and um They talked about Thursday night visitation. I thought, you know, I want to get out on that. I had been telling people that God saved me and things like that And uh I thought I'm gonna go out Thursday night and go visiting. I showed up Thursday night and it was me and the preacher. I mean, this is a church running 600 plus. Visitation night I showed up. The preacher was there. I came in and he was like, oh, hey, uh Dennis, what's going on? They called me Denny then. Uh he said, what's going on? I said, well, I was going to come out visiting. He says, oh yeah, okay. And so we went out and made a few visits. And so I started going. And then every now and then one or two other guys would show up. And uh one night I showed up by myself. Nobody was there. I stood around the lobby for a while, nobody showed up. So um, you know, I'm maybe three, four months old in the Lord. I'm growing like uh crazy. And um So they had the track rack there and had these tracks. I thought, well, I'll just grab a bunch of these and go give them out. And I learned In that experience, I learned that even though I was a brand new Christian, I mean I couldn't, I would have been hard-pressed to find Romans in the Bible You know, as a brand new Christian, with a gospel tract, I could have an impact in people's lives for eternity. I didn't have any plan of salvation memorized. I had no little spiel who I am, where I'm from, what I want. I didn't have any of that And so but I learned early on that with a gospel tract in my hand, a stack of gospel tracts, I can be an effective witness for Christ, regardless of how limited my experience or uh my knowledge of the word of God was. People around the world, and I'm not telling you uh anything you don't know, but people around the world are being saved by gospel tracts in prisons, in their homes, in their workplaces, um, in their cars, sitting in a car, reading a gospel tract, sitting on a front porch. Um, I was thinking I started writing down testimonies, and I got thinking just the ones here, and I repeat them all, you'll gotta memorize. But just a week ago, Brother Lewis Howe wrote and said how a lady visited their church because they're doing track month right now or they just finished up And um how a lady's working out in her garden, one of their tracks somehow got came off a door and blew across the her yard into her garden, she found it. Picked it up, saw who it was from, called him up, came to church, and she said, I went to church when I was a kid. I really need to get back in. And so he's asking prayer that she'll be saved. From a gospel tract blowing through a garden Um I got a whole list of them here. Um down in uh and I mentioned this one before, down in Mexico, a fellow was giving out tracks at these uh markets and fairs and this was through BIMO, one of the BIMO missionaries. Actually it might have been Central America. But anyway, this guy's drunk and he gives him a track and he tries witness. I mean the guy is just drunk out of his head. It's He's unreasonable. But he takes the track, sticks it in his pocket, gets home a day or so later he finds it, and I don't know the exact how it played out, but he finds the track, reads it, ends up getting saved Gets into their little Bible institute there, gets trained, his life has changed, he's delivered from liquor, from reading this little gospel tract. Goes to their little Bible college they got, ends up starting eleven churches. Because somebody handed this guy a gospel tract. And I would venture to say the person that gave him the tract probably never knew what the results of giving that track was. Amazing thing. And we could just go down. Uh I told you the other night in Mexico when Brother Hummel was here, that that fellow's mother picked up one laying on a sidewalk. Um oh I thought of this. This happened to me a few years ago, a number of years ago. I was teaching over Brother Lee Bowman had a Bible college, a little Bible college over at his church in Mannington So I drove over there every Monday night or whatever it was, Tuesday night, drove all the way over there, teach for an hour and a half, two hours, and I'd come back. And a lot of times it's like 9 30, 10 o'clock, I've been te speaking for an hour and a half just a typical message that I preach like but uh not really. But uh anyway, I'm coming back through Morgantown. It's like nine o'clock it's like ten o'clock at night. It's late. I'm tired And there's a Burger King there at the Sabreton exit, you know, right by sheets. There's a Burger King. So I pulled in there. I ordered uh something not fattening, ice cream and double cheeseburger or something like that And uh I gave the lady a tract. I said, here's a little gospel tract I'll leave with you. I said that would be a blessing to you. And she thanked me and never thought anything more over it. I sat down there, I had a little book, and so I'm reading my quadruple cheeseburger with uh and drinking my eating my ice cream and drinking my milkshake and I'm reading my little book and this girl gal comes over that was behind the counter. She comes over and says are you a preacher? I said, uh yeah, by chance I am, sure. She goes, Can I talk to you for a minute? I said, sure, have a seat. So she sat down across from me. She starts pouring her heart out, all these problems and everything, and she thanked me for that track and it meant so much. And I said, Well, did you get a chance to read it? And she goes, Yeah, a little bit. I said, Well, let me let's go over what's in there. And we sat in Burger King at by now it's 1030 at night And with an open tract, and I got my Bible out, and that gal bowed her head and trusted the Lord Jesus our Savior. I just gave her a gospel tract, just giving it out. And so anybody could have done that. I read, I was reading some testimonies online of people that got saved. Listen to this fellow. I'm just going to read a little part of it Says uh he's this is quoting this sixteen-year-old boy. He says, the best thing I can do is just enjoy the pleasures of this world, for there is no hope for me beyond the grave. Sixteen-year-old boy said uh said that. He was raised in a devout Methodist home, but he was frustrated by doubts about God. He said he was acting like a Christian by doing all the right things, but he was failing miserably And he came to this conclusion, for some reason I cannot be saved. However, his name is James One afternoon, he found a gospel track on the bookshelf of his home. While reading through the track, a little phrase, the finished work of Christ, struck him. As he began, as he went on reading it, God stirred his heart and he trusted Christ as Savior. This guy's name was James Hudson Taylor. Phenomenal missionary to China. One hundreds of thousands of Chinese people, Lord, started churches. Profound impact on God. You know why? Because his folks had a gospel tract laying on a shelf in his home. Isn't that an amazing thing? And we could just go on and on and on. Uh the um the uh the captain Uh Mitsu Fushida. Anybody recognize that name? I can't even say it. He was the lead pilot on the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. He was the guy. He was the lead one. And um after the war, he got, I was reading about him, after the war, he felt so terrible about war and what they did. He wrote a book about peace But he said, I don't know any I have no peace in my own heart. So he's trying to promote world peace, but he doesn't have any peace in his own heart. Somebody handed him a gospel tract He read the gospel tract. The fella got saved and became an evangelist in Japan in the years following World War II. A gospel track We could just go on and on and on. I was in um I think it was um the last time I went to New Zealand a year or two ago or a year ago, whenever it was, but I was going through security, I think it was at uh down in DC going through the the security there and putting all the stuff on and it was either early in the morning or late at night I don't remember it was but there was hardly anybody there. I was like the only one going through And so the fellow's standing there, I said, here, let me give you a little gospel track. And he said, Thanks. And while my stuff is going through, he's standing there, he's looking at it And he realized what it is. And he says, hey, and he yells about three of those conveyor belt things down, stations, about three or four of them down. There's another guy standing. He goes, yo, hey, and he says the guy's name. He says, this thing here is what we were talking about the other day, what you were talking to me about the other day. This guy gave me this paper. It's about what you were talking to me Well by then I was through. And I thought, I know what happened. That guy had been witnessing to this guy And I gave him a track and it struck a chord, and what it did was, no doubt, reinforce that fella's witness to this guy. So, I mean we could go on and on and on. I've got a paper here about five pages of testimonies of people that were saved by gospel tracts. I thought about Stuart Harvey Anybody remember Stu was we drove for southern states? Anybody recognize the name Stuart Harvey? Um drove for uh southern states And back this was ten years ago or so, I don't remember when it was, but uh it was hot summer day and old Stu's pretty creative. So he got some soda pops and he rubber banded gospel tracks to all the soda pops. Remember him telling about this? And uh he pulls up to a construction site and the guy's holding one of those stop go stop go signs, you know, or slow, stop, slow. Uh Sue Tegarn told me one time, she goes, I felt bad for them holding up the sign slow. That poor man's slow, and he's holding that sign. But anyway, Stuart says, hey, uh I got something for you. A guy came over, he says, here's a soda pop with a little gospel track going. I said, thanks. A couple months later, Stu's coming by, the guy's standing there, and I've checked with him. I think I got this story pretty correct correct. The guy's standing there holding a sign. Stu pulls up. The guy says, Hey, I got something for you. He reaches his pocket, hands him a gospel tract. Same guy. Stu says, I gave one to you a few months ago. He says, Oh yeah, I read that and got saved. I ordered a bunch. Now I'm giving them out. I'm telling you, you can't beat these things. You know, uh a a soldier I would imagine would have his favorite weapon He's got a certain one he likes the best, a hunter, you know, he's got a certain uh caliber of gun or a certain arrow or a broadhead he likes to use in hunting And uh I'm telling you, gospel tracts are a tremendous weapon in our arsenal of reaching people for Christ. So I want to give you a few tips here. Now here's I said all that to get you stirred up even more than what you already are. Number one, and I don't think I need to belabor this point. I think we've got this one. But number one, I put this down. Believe in their effectiveness. You know why I think some churches don't use gospel tracts? Because they don't think they don't think they're very effective. They just they don't they don't see it. They don't get it. And so if I'm going to effectively use gospel tracts, I've got to believe that they are effective. Somebody put it this way, nothing costs less, goes farther, or lasts longer, or speaks clearer than a good gospel tract. Anyone can use them, all ages and all stages of their Christian life. And I think I've illustrated that in our opening statement. So, number one, believe in their effectiveness. Number two Drop this down. To use tracks effectively, number two, use quality accurate Attractive and appropriate tracks. Now let me, I'll give that to you again. I must use quality, accurate, attractive, and appropriate tracks Now I'll read that again here in a moment, so I'll jot that down. But let me just go through those different adjectives I use there to describe the kind the tracks we want to use. We want to use quality tracks. We don't want stuff that's shabby or shoddy. You know, years ago, back before we had the technology we do now, we used to run stuff off on old um uh what were those mimeograph machines Yeah, and you're running it off and it was the best we had at the time, but you know the quality wasn't that great. And uh today we can get some pretty good quality stuff for very, very inexpensive So the tracks we want to use, if we're going to be especially effective, now God can use the handwriting, you know, a sloppy handwriting of a person can read it. But we want to use quality. And so we want to want to use quality tracks. I believe That we have quality tracks. We try very hard to make sure we have quality tracks. Then accurate. We want tracks that accurately can communicate the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's meaningless. If it doesn't accurately give the gospel, then it's not helping anything. It's a waste of time and effort. So we want its quality. We want accurate, we want to make sure it's presenting the gospel very clearly, very accurately, biblically. I put down attractive. Use quality, accurate, attractive. We want uh tracks that are appealing to people. That would be attractive to them. Uh we try, and I think Brother Hummel does a good job at trying to make the tracks very appealing, very attractive, what's on the cover. I learned something. Um, this last time we were in New Zealand, we were in Auckland, there was about, oh, twenty or maybe twenty-five of us giving out tracks on the streets of Auckland. Auckland is a huge city I mean it's like Philly and downtown it is just bustling. People are every which way going. You've seen the pictures. And I learned something. We had some tracks. That were very attractive. I'm not suggesting they weren't attractive. But the cover of them was the ones that have the gravestones on the front. You know what I'm saying? You remember that when we had that gravestone? And it's good. I'm not disparaging that track in any way, shape, or form. However, I noticed that handing them out I want to say often, but that's not really accurate, but it was more than just rarely. People would see that cover and they would say, oh no, thanks. No, thank you. It's attractive and I think it it's fine and we use it and I'm not against using it. But after we were done, I thought, you know, if we had something that was a little more appealing on the cover I think more people would have accepted it and at least looked at it. It got shot down before they ever looked at it. Now you follow what I'm saying. I'm not trying to be critical of that. It's a fine track and I think we're going to use that one of the weeks for here But what I'm simply saying is I might need to think about, hey, how is this perceived? How is this appealed? Does this appeal to anybody that they would want to take it? When we were in Indianapolis, we would go to the uh Indianapolis Colts Games. They would have a Sunday afternoon game. We were able to get down there after the game when the game ended, before church started in the evening We go down, we had these just tens of thousands of these little blue and white tracks that are you 100% sure? They were perfect because the team's colors are blue and white. So we stood outside of that stadium, and I mean it is just floods of people coming out and as fast as we could and they'd see blue and white. Oh yeah, thanks. And they just took em took 'em, toke em If we'd have had something that was purple and white, nobody would have taken anything that's purple and white. Who would want to support anything that's purple and white? But um other than that, uh Purple and black is what it is. That's even worse. But anyway, but you follow what I'm trying to say, I'm trying to be silly here, but you follow what I'm trying to say. It's appealing. Something that appeals to people uh and uh appearance. And appropriate. Um like I said, we've uh we have tracks back there are for children, they're designed for children So I don't know if it's a good idea to give them out to adults. Now, can adults read a children's chat and get saved? Sure. But um I might want to think that through a little bit. What is appropriate for this Um and so if I'm going to be effective in tra oh by the way, um we got tracks back there on hell. I think they're very effective, and I think God can and does use them. But I might want to think that through if I'm giving out tracts at a funeral, I might not want to be doing that. That might not be appropriate. You follow what I'm saying? Or I'm sending them out as Christmas gifts You know, in a Christmas card. I might not want, can God use it? Sure. But I might want to just consider, is this appropriate for the occasion? My wife gives me a hard time because a few years ago on Valentine's Day, I preached a message on hell on Valentine's Day. She goes, seriously? I said, well, I thought that's what God wanted me. So it was either listen to God or my wife. And so, you know But you follow what I'm trying to say. The thank you tracks, those are appropriate for a tip after a meal, but you're not going to go door to door and give them out So just some things to think about. Number three, if I'm going to effectively use tracks, I've got to believe in their effectiveness. I need to have quality, accurate, attractive, appropriate gospel tracts. Number three, carry them with you at all times. I found the most ineffective track is the one I don't have. If I don't have tracks, I can't give them out. And so I've got to have tracks with me at all times. I cannot give away tracks I do not have. So I gotta have them with me. Now think with me, and I'm gonna I'd like to get a little input from some of you. Think about where we ought to keep tracks. Obviously, ladies, the first place you'd think to keep tracks in your Purse. Keep a good stack in your purse. Fellas, keep them in our shirt pockets. I have my wallet, my New Testament, and a stack of tracts and my keys. They're all together in the morning. I put them in my pocket. So put them in your purse, keep them in your shirt pocket. You can stick them in your wallet, maybe. You could stick them in there. I keep an emergency stash. Uh in my little New Testament. I stick them in there. Now they get a little beat up from sitting on them and everything. I can't get my New Testament out. And I keep a little emergency stash right in there in case I run out, or for whatever reason if I forget to stick them in my shirt pocket, I always got a little stash there, and uh I can get them out. Uh in your car Or to keep tracks in your car, in the glove box, and the m console in between. Can anybody think of other places a good idea to keep some tracks so that we have them when the opportunity arises I will find it. Yeah. And your suit coats maybe or overcoats in the wintertime, keep some in there. Yes. That's what I was looking for. People come to the door. If Mormons or somebody comes by the door I want to leave them. The mailman or a UPS guy comes by. I've got some right there. I can hand them to him. Can you think of other places? Connie. Excellent. Have them at work there in the desk or somewhere at work where you can get one very easily. Anyone else? Kieran? Yeah. Oh yeah. Perfect. Yeah, perfect. That would be appropriate. That would fall under that. Cindy. Yeah, keep 'em in your backpack uh is a good place. I thought if I was a farmer, I'd have them in my tractor. You know, just anywhere you think of, somewhere where I have a stash of 'em, stack of 'em. I can give them out. Like I said, we can't give out tracts we don't have. And so I want to make sure I have them with me at all times. Number four, write this down. Pray earnestly over our efforts. Pray earnestly over our efforts. Now, what are some things I'm praying for when I want to give out gospel tracts? I think one thing is that God would direct me. in giving these out. Lord help me not to overlook anybody. Lord help me if there's somebody I need to single out and go. Lord direct me in giving these tracks. I know during a track month, like today I was out. I had to make some visits downtown, so I said, Lord leave me. Took a neighborhood and just took twenty minutes and went up through the neighborhood. And so I pray and ask the Lord to direct me. Where would be where would be the place? What neighborhood should I go to? Pray about, I jotted a few things down, pray about that God would give me a genuine love and concern for the people I'm giving it to. Now we have a lot of fun with the competition, but I want to go beyond just beating the other team. I want to be actually, God used me to win people to Christ. And so every door I'm leaving it, every person I'm handing it to, every gas pump I'm sticking it on, Lord, whoever picks this up, please open their heart, open their mind to the message. Let them be saved. Lord, give me a genuine concern for the people that I'm trying to get this to. Uh pray that, as I said, their hearts and minds would be open. I've been praying over my track distribution takes track distribution to a whole nother spiritual level. of spiritual warfare. I'm glad. You know, we do the competition and I love it. It's a lot of fun. It motivates us. And uh if that's all the level we ever get to, praise the Lord. There's a lot of tracks getting out. But it would be good if we could get beyond that and actually give them out not just so I beat Team Salt. But give it out so that man God uses me and people would be saved. You follow what I'm trying to say? So pray for that end. And I think prayer does that when I asser when I when I Saturate my tract giving out with prayer, it takes it to a whole nother spiritual level. Number five, uh jot this one down. Read them carefully and be familiar with their content. Be familiar with what we're giving out. Now, you know, uh you know say, well the preacher read them and ordered them. I'm sure they're fine. Well, I'm glad you trust me However, you may hand that to somebody and they'll say, well what is it, what's what is this or something? Or you know, what's in there, or something like that. And so it'd be good if I knew exactly, well, it's the gospel. Well, what do you mean? It'd be good if I was familiar, and what I like to do, on the occasion when somebody does ask something like that, they say, well, what is this thing? I'll say, well, let me take a moment. Let me show you here. And you can share it, you can preach the gospel to them right there, right here. Realize we're all sinners. See, that's right from the Bible. And so if I'm a little familiar with it Uh I'm I'm ready if they do want to engage in a in conversation over it. I'm ready and you can actually use a track to lead people to Christ, just the track itself And so um uh and especially uh uh and especially with specialty tracks, if it's a certain subject it's dealing with, like the one on hell. How to know what it says and be able to address that. So be familiar with it. And being familiar with the content sometimes helps you give them out a little better. I was thinking about at the Autumn Glory Parade I like to get some tracks that are very attractive and that have a subject that might appeal. The one year I was using the ones that we have back there about the coal miner. Do you anybody remember that one there? I think we still got a few left But it has the coal miner on there and I forget the title of it, something about One Last Chance or something like that. Do you remember, Betty, what that one, the title is? Something like that. But it's a story of a fellow that was almost killed and he had a chance and get saved and it goes into the gospel. Well, I was familiar with the track what it said so I'd go around and there would be a little group of people there, maybe older folks, I mean old guys like Randy's age and different ones like that, and uh elderly sixty year olds And uh, but if there were folks there looked like they might be coal miners, that type of thing, I say, hey, you got any of you guys here coal miners Nah, my uncle is. You'd be amazed at how many people say, nah, my brother is, my grandpa was. And uh I say, oh listen, here's a story about a coal miner. This thing's fascinating. You ought to read it. He almost killed Hey, I'll take one of those. Here, I'll give one to my uncle. And just because I knew a little bit about what was in the book in the track, I was able to open it up. That one, how to get to heaven from Maryland I was giving that out down there that says, here, this will tell you how to get to heaven from Maryland in five steps. It's just the five points of the gospel. And one guy says, Well, I'm from West Virginia. I said, I got news for you, it's the same way from West Virginia as Maryland. Here it's Oh yeah, thanks And so sometimes if you know a little bit about the tract and you're familiar with it, it actually opens the door to conversation a little bit more. So number five, read them carefully and be familiar with their content. Number six. How many people say, preacher, I already knew all these already? Anybody? Oh, one person. Good. Read them carefully. Number six, give them out pleasantly. Give them out pleasantly. I like to look at the gospel tract as the bullet and the individual Christian that's giving it out is the gunpowder. Right? That gunpowder, boom, too. There you go. I have very visual in my mind. But um The better that gunpowder is, the more effective that bullet is, right? And I'm telling you, being pleasant in giving out a gospel tract is like having good dry powder Boom! And I found that doing one thing, people will take a track from me more by doing just one simple thing. Anyone know what it is? Smile. Hey, put a smile on your face. I do not naturally smile. I don't know why. It's just I have I have to try to s I have to smile on purpose. I'm happy. I just But um but I found if I put a smile on my face, you know what most people do? They smile back And say, here's a little gospel track. Here's a little something for you. And put a smile on your face. Man, that makes it so much more effective. I found being kind. to people. Just being nice, opening a door, helping, just whatever. Just be kind. By the way, that's a good characteristic of Christians across the board. But especially when I'm giving out gospel tracts, be gracious. Talk to the person. Now I would rather have somebody not say anything just Give it out like that, then not give them out at all. But if I can smile and say, hey, how you doing today? Hey, here's a little song. Anybody ever give you a gospel draft? I started doing this traveling I go to a restaurant, I'll ask, has anyone ever given you a gospel tract? A what? A gospel tract? No, I never got one. Oh here, I'll be the first. And you'd be amazed how many people will say nobody ever gave me a gospel tract before I said, here you ought to read this thing. Oh, well, thank you very much. That this, oh, well, God bless you. Oh, thank you. Read it. And just talk and smile a little bit, and it makes a world of difference. Makes a world of difference. Be kind. Talk to them a little bit. By the way, if you're le if you're have a meal, if you're out to eat, and you're going to leave a tract with your tip, what am I going to say? Leave a good tip. Right? Don't give one percent of your bill for a tip and then leave a gospel track. They're gonna wad that thing up and throw it. Leave a good generous tip with them. You say, what? What if the service was terrible? Still leave a good generous tip. You don't know what's going on in that person's life. They might have been groupsy. They'd have come down and threw the plate down. Here's our coffee. You know. They might have found out that morning their husband just left them. You know, you don't know what's going on in their life. So be nice and be sweet and be g leave a generous tip for them, regardless of what the service was and get those thank you tracks or whatever. And I've even done this before, wrote a write a little note on there. Appreciate your service today. Just something. Doesn't cost anything to be nice and be patient with people. What if somebody refuses it? I don't want that. Well, then you'll burn in hell. Don't do that. What do you do? Oh well, that's fine. Well, God bless you. Uh, you know, if they don't if they don't accept it, don't try and force it on 'em and find some way to sneak it into their pocket or somehow. Don't do that Uh just say, okay. And by the way, in the area we're at, sooner or later they're gonna come across one. You know, they're gonna go down to the gas station, there's gonna be one there that they'll go up to Walmart, be one in their purse. Ah You know, they're going to come across them. So don't try and force it on the person. And if they're rude, be kind back. Do good to them that despitefully use you. Bless them that curse you I don't want none of that religion. Alright, well God bless you. Move on. And don't get in an argument with them. Don't fight with them. I tell you, just a simple little statement is tremendous. Well, God bless you. Have a good day. And just move on. Number oh, let me touch on something else under this, being pleasant. If you're out going through a neighborhood or in a parking lot or somewhere giving them out and the authorities show up Or the manager of the apartment shows up, or the manager of Walmart shows up and says, hey, you can't be doing that. Do not argue with them. Do not get in a debate with them. Just do what they tell you If there's legal issues involved, if they're wrong legally, then we can deal with that at another time But don't get in an argument, don't get a fuss. If you're in a parking lot giving them out, and manager, somebody comes out and says, you can't do that here, say, okay, well God bless you, and leave. And then if there's, like I said, if there's some legal issues, we can get the COA, we can come back and talk to them. We've done this in the public schools, where kids were giving them out legally And the schools forbade them. We contacted CLA. We discussed it. And actually, we were talking the other day. We actually, because they tried to forbid it, we actually have greater access in the schools now. We have to go a little rigmaro, but Um we actually have greater access and I think we help the schools comply a little bit legally with what uh the kids can do. So but don't argue, don't fuss with them. They say you gotta leave, then just leave. We had an issue Uh in the uh housing here, uh the public housing. Um I forget who that was was living in one. It might have been Niner, somebody But they put little placards and things on their door on the outside. Well they were letting them put anything up except religious stuff. And they said, if it's religious, you can't put it on there. Well what's that called? That's discrimination. We're in America. We don't discriminate people because they're religion. And so I called CLA and they said, that's baloney. They wrote a letter. I sent it to the property manager and a little while later They came back and says, uh you can put anything out there in verses and whatever you want. Because they were it was illegal for them to forbid that. And so don't fuss one point I'm trying to make is don't fuss with them. Be pleasant They come out and want to challenge you, that's okay. And if we need to deal with it legally, we can do that at a later time. Number seven, I gotta finish these up. I got a few more. Number seven, be tactful. Be tactful. Put them where they can be found. Don't just litter. I'll just throw them out there. There was a show, a movie that going around in churches back when I first got saved. I think it was called the Gospel Blimp. I never saw it, but all I know about it was apparently some they were promoting some blimp would fly over city and just drop gospel tracts out by the tens of thousands, they'd just come floating down. And you know, I guess uh I'm not gonna fuss with them, but I just not sure that's really the best way to go about it. Uh we don't want to just litter. Um so be careful. Place them where they can be found. When you're putting them on doors or cars or whatever You know, be tactful and don't damage the door trying to get it tracked on there. And put them so that they're secure, so they're not blowing off and blowing everywhere. Try and secure them as best you can. Uh handing them hand them out respectfully. Be tactful. If there's some people and they're talking and you're coming up and they're engaged in a conversation, don't just rudely interrupt. Watch for appropriate time. You can step in and say, here I'd like to leave something with you. Kids in school, and this is reasonable, they can't give them out during class time while there's teaching going on. You know, you've got to be tactful, maybe at lunch or after the uh after the th classes are over, in between maybe. And same thing on the job. I don't want to hinder my emplo fellow employees' work and interrupt them in giving out gospel tracts. I don't want to not be doing my job, what they're paying me to do to witness and be giving out tracks. So I gotta be tactful on the job, maybe on the lunch break, before and after I can give them out and and that type of thing. And so this is a lot of this is obvious, but we want to be tactful about giving them out. We want to do it appropriately. We had a thing a couple years ago where people got caught up in the competition. I understand that But they were putting packs of ten on windshields, you know, a whole pack with a rubber band on. Well that's not tactful. That's that's foolish That's defeating the purpose, and they'll just take the whole pack and throw them away. One, they might look at a whole pack like that's not going to work. So be tactful. Number eight, try and engage them in conversation if possible I mean that's just taking it to another level. But if I can engage them in a little conversation about what it the tract is, that's tremendous Try and have an opening line, something I can say. Think ahead of time. What would be a nice thing to say? Here's something breaking your day. Here's something to change your life. I like to say, here's a little gospel track. I think it would be a blessing to you That's kind of my line, I say. And sometimes they'll respond back and sometimes they won't. Uh invite them uh in in conversation if you do. Invite them, say, listen, if you have any questions about that, or if you make a decision as a result of this, contact the church on the back there. The phone number's there, uh, the website, or you can come and visit If you want, you could, if you feel comfortable with it, say, hey, if you got any questions about this, here's my phone number. You can give me a call. Here's my email. Email me I'll try and answer any questions. So try and if you can take it to another level. Number nine, I gotta finish this. Number nine, be generous. A lot of them are going to get thrown out. Preacher, a lot of these are going to get thrown out. Yeah, we know that, but not all of them will Some of them, probably more than we realize, are going to get red. And so be very, very generous. Give them out everywhere. Just saturate. Now again, don't litter. Don't be foolish about it But be generous, be generous, be generous. Here's something you can do and I do this occasionally but at the counter if they're not busy at a fast food or something, I'll give the lady there and I'll see a bunch of others and say here can here's several others. I did this in Morgantown just a couple months ago. Um uh uh at McDonald's, I got a coffee. I said, here's a little gospel track, and there's about five there's always about ninety-five people behind the counter and one at the register But um I said here's one. I said, hey, can you give one to all your workers back there? Oh yeah, sure. Okay. And so be generous. And so she took it and I was sitting there and she was giving them out to everybody all back through there Number 10. If you can, pray with the person you're giving it to if opportunity arises. Just have a little prayer with them. You say, what if they're not saved yet? Pray with them. We had a lady about four years ago. We were in Morgantown, saturated place with tracks. We got back. About Monday or Tuesday the next week, I got a phone call, this lady from Morgantown. Because I got one of your papers on my windshield wiper and they on my windshield and they broke my windshield wiper. Whoever put it on there broke it. Someone from your church broke my windshield wiper So I was skeptical. I said, well where when was it? She said Saturday. So what part of town? She was so told us and that's where we were. We were up there, I said, okay. I said, well tell you what, we'll replace your windshield wipers, but I'm gonna come up and see it. Can we meet somewhere? Come and you show me the damage And she goes, okay, and sheets there I think is where it was that at the exit. And so I drove up to Morgantown. And lo and behold, there she was. She had her car and It wasn't just the windshield wiper broken, that whole car was broken. And so I walked up and she goes, I said, Well where's the damage done? And it was obvious this thing had been trashed and it wasn't our track that broke her windshield wiper. I said, well, we looked at it and said, all right, well tell you what, I said, um we'll we'll replace your windshield wipers. As soon as I've done that, I said, by the way, did you get a chance to read the little paper? She goes, yeah, I did. And I said, well we give these out all over the place as it tells people how to get saved. Do you ever think about that? And she and she starts crying And so I was able to go through the whole gospel with her, and I don't think she prayed to trust the Lord, but I went through it, and she had all these problems going on, and I said, well, let me pray with you. And we pray, and I asked that God would help her, and I don't remember if maybe she had said she had gotten saved or something. I don't remember what it was, but I prayed with her That God would help her with the problems, and through the problems, her faith would be strong, and God would show himself to her, and she would know how much God loves her and what God is doing in her life. By time she's sobbing. By the time we're done, I said, now let's get these windshield wipers fixed. She goes, Oh, don't worry about it. They were broke for months. But uh I forget why I was telling that story. Oh, pray with people. Pray with people. Yeah, you can do that and and I want it to go over a long list of ways to do tracks, but we don't have time But an even better way is if they had the door handles with the little gap, rather than put them the windshield wiper, slide it down the door handle, then it's not even an issue. And you just fold that thing, it slides right in there And so, but anyway, if you can, if the opportunity comes up, don't hesitate to pray with people. Just say, well, can I say a word of prayer? Say, what should I pray? Just pray God blesses them. God meets their needs or whatever. Number 11, put this down. Pray earnestly over your efforts. You say, preacher, that was number three on the list. I know, I repeated it Because I want to pray constantly, before I give them out, after I give them out, while I'm giving them out, I want to pray, pray, pray. That God blesses and uses our efforts. So number 11, pray earnestly over our efforts. And number 12 is this: pray some more over the efforts. Pray some more. I believe, and we brought this out in the message a couple weeks ago, I believe every effort we do to serve God must be saturated in prayer. Praying, praying, praying, praying. Alright, that's my 12 suggestions on giving out gospel tracts. For most of us, those are probably redundant. We've heard it a thousand times, but They're very, very effective. They're very, very good. You know what I found out the NRA does? They teach gun safety, five basic principles of gun safety, over and over and over and over and over. We're not talking about gun safety. We're talking about salvation of souls. So sometimes we just have to go over it over and over and over and over because we want to see people saved. Amen? Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would use these tips for giving out tracks tonight. Lord, I know I need it. I'm not arrived, that's for sure. I pray you'd stir our hearts to be creative, to be aggressive, to be tactful, to be kind. And that you would use us to bring a great harvest of souls into the kingdom. And we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen.