Peter Chapter 1, I want to begin I want to read verse 1 and 2 to get us started, and uh really all we're gonna get to is verse number 1, and really all we're gonna get to is the first part of verse number 1 tonight, but I want us to meet Peter. Who this fella that God used to record this book for us. Look at 1 Peter chapter 1. And in fact, you know what I'd like to do? I'd like for us to read this together in unison. Verse 1 and 2. You got it there? And uh let's read together. Ready? Here we go. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia. Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ, grace unto you and peace be multiplied. I've entitled the message, and really it's kind of like my title for the whole book is Grace and Hope. Grace and Hope. Let's pray. I just want to share a few thoughts, and then we're going to have the Lord's Supper. So as we're preaching God's word tonight, let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts, prepare our hearts for the Lord's Supper, and that God would be glorified. Father, uh, come to you tonight. We as a church come to you And as has already been expressed, we're so grateful for your blessings on us and your hand upon this body of believers. Lord, this is your doing. It's marvelous in our sight We give you all the glory for any and everything good that has come out of this church right here. Now we ask as we finish up this Lord's day and we look into a new week, I ask, Father, you'd calm our hearts. I pray you'd clear our minds. And that you would open our hearts and minds to the Word of God as it's declared. Prepare us spiritually for what we're going to take part at the end of the service. I pray you prepare us to serve you this week and to be a witness for you in our workplace, our communities, wherever we end up Now, Lord, I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I ask that it would be you, by your grace, speaking through me, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Do you ever remember, now we don't watch a lot of TV, in fact, we don't even have a cable hooked up or anything But I remember years ago when I was younger and and different times see on TV. Do you ever see those commercials where they're trying to raise money for poor, depraved children in third world countries? Do you ever see that And they play real sad music, you know, real mournful music, and they have these children and they're very starved and depraved, deprived. And uh their bellies are out, and they always have these big brown eyes and this sad face. And they put it anybody you ever see them? You know what I'm talking about? How many people when you watch that, it just rips your heart out You know, it just stirs your compassion. That's the whole design of it is to do that. And then they came out a number of years ago, they came out with these uh commercials raising money for sad little puppies Do you ever see them, some little kitten they got big eyes, and they're there and they're behind a cage, you know, and they're s all skinny and there's anybody ever see them? And man, they just rip your hearts out. I I don't like for my wife to watch them because she gets stirred up and sends them all our money right away. Just, there, oh, help them out I just turn it off. And um. But those those commercials are designed to appeal and stir up our compassion. compassion for others. And as I'm studying First Peter, those commercials came to mind because For this reason, I see in Peter's writings here, of course, this is all under the inspiration of God, but I see in his writings a genuine compassion For the people he's writing to. I don't believe you can read the book of 1 Peter and then 2 Peter also. I don't think you can read that, pay attention to what you're reading and not come to the conclusion That Peter loved the people he's writing to very, very deeply. He cared, he had compassion for them He is writing the book of 1 Peter, and again the 2 Peter, we'll probably end up studying that then. But uh he's writing to young Christians. Notice with me, if you would, chapter 2 and verse number 2. He's addressing them, and in the coming weeks we'll get into more detail exactly who he's writing to, but look at chapter 2 of 1 Peter and verse 2. He says, as newborn babes. Desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. As newborn babes. That tells us that his audience, at least a significant part of the audience that he's addressing Our young believers, our young Christians. And he has a heart for young Christians. I don't know. I think we ought to, if we don't, we ought to ask God to give us a tender, compassionate heart for new believers. For new believers. If we're not careful, and I've read I've run into this over the years, if we're not careful I've had people who had the attitude, well, they're not everything. And get critical of young believers and not even give them a chance to grow. Sometimes we have folks in the service and I'll have to say something, hey, give me hey, give me hey, give me your attention. I'll have to say something like that. Anybody want to take a guess who that was? Georgia. I tell you what, if she was a guy, she'd be a preacher. I'll tell you that right now. But sometimes I have to call on him. And listen, I'm asking our church to be very careful. When the preacher has to do that, don't get hard and critical of the people he's addressing. Some of these are folks coming in, they've not been in church before. They're not in homes that they're taught and whatnot. Some of them are just new believers and they need a little chance to grow. And we need encouragement. Sometimes people come in and they're not dressed the way an independent fundamental Baptist might dress. Say, well, what a uh you're you're gonna come here, you're gonna get no no no uh as newborn babes. I love our our baby our blankets for babies ministry. What a great ministry. You know those little babies? Sometimes they throw up all over you. Anybody who knows that? Sometimes they make sounds that aren't very pleasant. You know what I'm talking about? And um, you know, we could get into detail, but we won't. But you say they're just a baby. Give them a chance to grow. And as I'm reading and studying 1 Peter, I sense in Peter this real heart for these young believers, these new believers And he cares deeply for him. He has this compassion. Among these young believers and the general audience he's writing are also, here's another factor. These are people who are facing intense, severe, in many cases, violent persecution because of their faith in Christ. Now these are many of them are young new believers, just newly saved. And because of their faith in Christ, because of their commitment to the Lord Jesus Christ, Because of their determination to live by the Word of God, they are facing intense opposition In some cases, they are being violently tortured and beaten and thrown in jail. Did you notice in verse 1, and we'll look at this in another message, but he says to the strangers, scattered He uses the term scattered. That has the idea that they're not out there willingly, they're being driven out, out of their homes, out of their families, from their jobs. And as I read and study 1 Peter, I pick up in Peter's heart, I pick up a real concern, a real compassion for these Christians who are going through it. Now Peter knew what persecution was. Peter knew what it was like to be in the minority and everybody telling him he's wrong. And everybody hating him and everybody trashing him. He knew what that was like. And his heart goes out to these believers. So he's writing to young Christians. He's writing to, let me show you some scripture to support my last statement there. Look at chapter 1. Look at verse 6. He says, wherein ye greatly rejoice. Now he's talking about their attitude. Ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, look at this, ye are in what Heaviness through manifold temptations. Now, the word temptations there is not referring to enticement to sin or do evil. It's talking about trials, hardships, difficulties. That the trial of your faith being much more precious than of gold that perishes, though it be tried with fire Might be found under the praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. If you come over to chapter two, look at verse number 19. He says, For this is thankworthy. If a man for conscience' sake toward God endure grief, suffering wrongfully? For what glory is it if when ye be buffeted for your fault ye shall take it patiently? But if ye when you but if when ye do well and suffer for it, that's what was happening And you take it patiently, this is acceptable for God. And so he's writing to these believers who are new in the faith, they're young. They're facing intense persecution because of their faith, because they're living for God, because they're holding to biblical morality and biblical rights and wrongs. They're facing intense persecution. And this whole book just oozes with compassion. I'm telling you, I I believe every every Christian, young or old, we ought to become very, very familiar with 1 and 2 Peter. It will help us. It would help us. Now I'm just throwing this out. This is my thinking. You know, I uh this is just my thinking. But I I can't help as I look at this world, I look at the situation I can't help but think that we are right on the verge of, perhaps right on the verge of facing some intense persecution because of our faith in Christ. You can kind and does anybody else feel this way? You can kind of sense it. You can kind of feel it in the air. That hatred that is building for the Lord Jesus Christ and his disciples. And so this is an important book. This important book. It will help us. In working with young believers, it will help us in facing perhaps persecution that very well may come upon us I believe 1 and 2 Peter are every growing sincere Christian should be very, very familiar. Now I want to get to my point very quickly. I want us to first of all consider the pen of this book Later on, we're going to look at the persons who it's written to. I've touched on that a little bit, and then we're going to notice the purpose of the book. I see that in the first two verses here But let's notice first of all the penman. Look at verse 1. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ. So the penman we are told very clearly, very simply, very obviously, is who? It's Peter, the apostle of the Lord Jesus Christ. If you were going to describe Peter, if you were going to use one word to describe Peter, what word would you use? Somebody help me. What would be one word to describe your picture, your understanding of Peter from what we read in the Gospels? What? Bold, roughneck? Impetuous is the word I was thinking. Now, Brian and I, we're we are college graduates, so we use big words like that a lot. The word impetuous simply means this. It means impulsive. Impulsive. It has the idea of very brash. Just kind of, if you read the Gospels and pay attention to Peter, he's a piece of work. I'm telling you right now. Peter is a is a character. And he he uh now some of us can relate to this, he has a tendency to put his mouth in gear before his brain is engaged. He's impetuous. He's uh I use these words, brash, he's abrupt, he's hasty. Um he had a he had a recurring case of foot and mouth disease And so you think about Peter. In fact, if you would, take your Bible and come over to Acts chapter number four, and we get People's view of Peter. Now, these are the enemies of Christ and of Peter, so, but nevertheless, this is how they viewed him, and it's probably his image in the society where he was, people around him that knew him. Acts chapter four and look with me at verse number thirteen. Acts four thirteen It says, now when they, now this is the Pharisees and the folks that have been watching and hounding Peter and John, it says, now when they saw the boldness Of Peter and John and perceived, the word perceived men, they understood, they realized that they were what? Unlearned and what? Ignorant men. We might put it this way. We might they might put it this way. These guys are just a bunch of dumb fishermen When I was young, my dad and sometimes my mom would say, ah, they're just a dumb farmer. That might be insulting to farmers. I'm sorry, I didn't think about that. But uh they just, ah, they're just dumb facing our man. They're ignorant. And so we see this picture of Peter in the Bible as somebody unlearned, ignorant, brash, impetuous. And then we come to 1 Peter and 2 Peter, we read it, and we say, this is not written by somebody that is ignorant. This is not written by somebody unlearned. This is not written by somebody brash and hasty and impetuous. This is written by a very mature man of God. This is written by a man of tremendously strong faith and insight into the Christian life. And you wonder, how in the world does somebody like Peter, and the way we understand him to be in the Gospels, how does somebody like that End up being the penman of a book like this. Well, I think there's two answers to that. Number one, Peter is not the author of this book. Peter's not the author of 1 Peter and 2 Peter. Who's the author? God's the author. And God is using Peter to record this down. Now it's not just he's not just dictating him and Peter's some uh like a m uh like a human typewriter God uses all that to record this down exactly as God wants it. So one of the explanations for a brash, loudmouth, talk without thinking, act without thinking, ignorant, uh unlearned, God can use someone like that because God's the one that's actually the author of the book. Fact of the matter is God could use a donkey if he wanted to to record a book. Dog could use a chicken, Chester. Not I mean he has chickens, so Every time I think of a chicken, I think of Chester because he's got chickens. But God, God can God can use anything To accomplish his will. Do you know God used the Babylonians to chasten Israel? Ungodly, wicked pagans But he, in his sovereignty, was able to use them to accomplish his will in chastening Israel when they were away from God. Somebody put it this way, I like this, I like this statement. Somebody said God can use a crooked stick to draw a straight line. I'm glad for that. Because I tell you, most of the time I feel like a pretty crooked stick. I don't know how you are. Although how can God use somebody like me? How can God, but the fact is, God can use anybody that will simply yield their will to Him and say, here I am, Lord, use me. Use me. So how does somebody like Peter, impetuous, proud, self-confident, self-righteous to some extent early on? Uh ignorant, unlearned, no training, and yet God uses him to record such a profound, spiritually mature insight. Well, well, one reason is because God's the author and he's using him. But I think there's a second aspect to why and how God could use Peter, and that is this. God changed Peter. God changed Peter. Look with me, if you would, to John chapter 1. Way back to John chapter 1, and here we are introduced to Peter. And verse number John chapter 1 and verse 41. And verse 40 says, one of the two which heard John speak and followed him was Andrew. Simon Peter's brother. Now I like Andrew. Andrew, every time you read about Andrew, he's bringing someone to Jesus. If I wanted to be like somebody in the Bible, there's a lot of them I would like to be like, but Andrew's one of them. I would like to be like Andrew, bringing people to Jesus. And look, it says, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, verse 41, and he first findeth his own brother Simon. Who's Simon? That's Peter. Simon Peter. And he saith unto him, We have found the Messiahs, which is being interpreted the Christ. And he brought him, Peter, to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, when Jesus saw him and looked at him, he said, Thou art Simon, the son of Jonah. Thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation a stone When Jesus saw Peter, he changed his name. He says, You're going to go by a different name. Your name is Simon, Simon Peter, but you're going to be go by Cephas. Which by interpretation is a stone. Now, I'm not a Greek scholar. I don't know Greek. I've got some pretty reliable resources I can go to and find the meanings of words and where they come from. And as you study this, you learn when he says thou art Simon, the word Simon there means a small stone, or maybe you would use the term pebble. In other words, he is saying your name signifies a something, a stone, it's solid, it's stone, it's rock, but you can move it very easily. You can pick it up and throw it around. And that kind of described Peter because he was very reactionary. He well he he didn't he was he wasn't stable. He would react to things. Jesus would say something, oh not me. Then next thing he's denying the Lord. I would never I'll die before and then he's denying the Lord to a little maid. And the Lord says, You're gonna go by Cethas. Now this word named Cephas by interpretation means stone, and that word stone there is referring to a very large, immovable stone. And I believe what the Lord is saying here in his renaming Peter, he saw what Peter was going to become. Right now, Peter, you're you're easily kicked around, you react to stuff, you uh speak up before you think, you you uh you're impulsive But Peter, you're going to change. And by when this is all said and done, you are going to be a rock. You are going to be strong, you are going to be stable, you're going to have insight, you're going to be spiritually mature. You're not going to be driven about reacting to every little thing that's said and done around you. You are going to be stable. And I believe one of the reasons that a man like Peter, who our introduction to him is impulsive, he's brash, uh, he's a little bit irritating. He's unlearned, he's ignorant, and he's able to write a book like this because God completely changed him And to another man. And by the way, that is one of the things God does best is change people. How many people hear you're a different person now than you were before you got saved? Maybe not outwardly so much. Some of my dad was a very good man before he got saved, but God saved him, but he changed him inwardly. I wasn't very good inwardly or outwardly. And God changed my life. And one of the things God is an expert at, among everything He does, But one thing God can do, He can change people. And that encourages me several ways. Number one, that encourages me in that God can still change me. How many people say I could still use some change and done in my life? Now I know it's warm in here and it's tend to doze off, but I hope you'll hear me out because I think this is important God's not done with us yet. And one of the most encouraging things I find in Scripture is God doesn't always, God doesn't look at me necessarily the way I am now. He sees me what I can and what he's going to ultimately make me to be. One reason Peter could be able to pen something like this, write a book like this, because God changed him. God changed him. When Jesus was finished with Peter, he was grounded, he was tender-hearted, he was compassionate, he was wise. You know what? I like this thought Peter spent three years in the Jesus School of Discipleship. I would like to be in the Jesus School of Discipleship. And it completely transformed him and made him into a new man. The Lord saw Peter what he could be. I want to suggest to you, and I like this thought, the Lord saw in Peter something that perhaps no one else at the time saw. And the Lord invested. Here's something interesting, and I don't know that I can give the exact answer for this. I can speculate a little. But every time the disciples are listed, Peter is always listed first. Did you ever notice that? Peter's always the first one listed. Now why is that? Peter's the first preaches the first sermon after Pentecost when the Spirit of God falls. Peter's the one that preaches that first sermon, and the power of God is there, and 3,000 people are saved and baptized on that first day. Now, why was that? There's a part of me that wants to say, I wonder if Peter wasn't one of the Lord's favorites. Now, I have a hard time thinking that God has favorites. But there was something in Peter that the Lord Jesus Christ saw that perhaps nobody else saw. And I wonder if God looks down at Mount Lake Independent. I know this. I believe God looked down at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church in September of 1993. And there's a handful of people coming here discouraged. There's a preacher who shows up, young preacher, scared out of his mind, has no clue what he's doing But I wonder if God didn't say, hey, I see something down the road there that we can do something with that body of believers there, and I can use them to have an impact on this whole world. I like to think that. I wonder if God doesn't look down at your life. I don't know how you are. I I have a tendency to look and say, man, how I can't do this, I'm not. I wonder if God doesn't look down at us and say, hey, I see something there that I can use That maybe you don't even see. Other people might not see it. But you just trust me. You let me mold you. You let me take out of you the things that need to be taken out. You let me put into your life the things that need to be put in. You let me stretch you and break you and mold you and pull you and push you. I'm done. I can make something out of you. I look at these young people. I thank God. I thank God for these pews right here. I thank God for these pews right here. I wonder if somebody does look, ah, that guy, he's kind of mouthy, that guy, she's just ah and we see all these things, but I wonder if God doesn't look beyond that and he sees something ten, fifteen years down the road that he he can make out of these. Some preacher, some missionary in Kazakhstan or somewhere around the world. Us folks that are on the on the upper side of life. Say, well, it's not much. I'm kind of not much God can do with me yet. Hey, don't ever, don't ever say God can't do much with me. Because it's not you and me, it's him. It's him. I would never if they if they would have asked early on, if I was there and early on Say, how many of y'all think Peter is going to write two powerful books under the inspiration of God that are saturated with compassion and strong in spiritual maturity and spiritual insight? How many people think Peter will write that? I wouldn't have raised my hand. I say, good grief. He'll probably write some book on how to beat up your enemies or something. But he didn't. God changed him. God changed him Mel Trotter. Anybody recognize the name Meltrotter? What an amazing story. Meltrotter lived, I think it was outside Chicago somewhere. Meltrotter drank. He started drinking when he was young. Just a little bit. Maybe get together with some other people, drink. Maybe get out, a couple fellas, let me get a bottle of beer, or maybe I don't know, they whatever they had, whiskey or something Mel Trotter drank liquor. He ended up getting married. He had a decent job. But that liquor took over him as it will. Can I stop here and say a word? If you have never put liquor to your lips, I'm telling you right now, you ought to hit an altar and say, God help me never, ever, ever in my life put liquor to the lips of my body. And if you have already drank liquor, if you've already put that devil's poison into your body, it will affect your soul every single time. I want to say to you, you ought to hit an altar, confess that as sin, and forsake it, and before God, make a vow, I will never, ever touch that again. And by the way, smoking pot and all that is just another level of wickedness. Mel Trotter began drinking. And he started taking out on his wife. It wasn't long till he'd be drunk just about all the time and lost his job. Because he didn't have a job, he didn't have money. When he did get a little bit of money, rather than buying food for his wife, by now they had a small little infant. Rather than buying food for his wife and home, and rather than providing for his family and taking care of his family, as a husband ought to do He spent it on liquor, spent on liquor. And finally, the story goes, he gives the testimony. He's with the Lord now many years. One night he was out of money, he was out of liquor. And that wicked devil of liquor demanded that he drink some more And he rifled through everything. He couldn't find a coin. He couldn't find a dollar. He had nothing to buy liquor with. And he got home. It was bitter cold winter night. He got home and his baby His small child had died in the cold from lack of food and lack of care and came home to a dead baby He tells the story. He took the shoes off his little dead baby, went down to the pawn shop, got a cut little bit of money for it, went to the bar and got drunk. How many people like me you'd say there's no hope for somebody like that? God could never use somebody that who what in the world, how low does a person get To do something like that. Old Mel Trotter said, he said he said to himself, I don't want to live this way. He said, try as hard as I would, I could not break liquor. One night he stumbled to the old Pacific Garden mission. Chicago. And he heard a man preaching the gospel. And he came to the altar and he bowed. And he trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. And God changed his life. Delivered him from liquor. He began preaching and winning people to Christ. The hundreds and thousands of people came to Christ under the ministry of Mel Trotter. You look at Mel Trading and you say, there's no way, God. How in the world could somebody like that influence thousands of people for the gospel? I'll tell you how. Jesus Christ changes lives. Jesus Christ, don't ever give up on anybody. Don't ever say they're hopeless. Don't ever say God can never do anything. God specializes in changing lives. God changed Peter and used him in phenomenal ways. Don't ever say this. God can never use me. You knucklehead, don't say that. Say, God, I'm not much, God, I'm nothing in and I'm myself. But what I am, I give to you. You take me in however you want to use me. Here I am. Take me and use me. I tell you, God will do something with you. God will do something with you. I read that phrase, Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, and I read the book of 1 Peter, paying close attention. I thought, how in the world does somebody like that write a book like this? God's the author, and too, God changed him into a man he could use. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, dear Lord I ask, dear Lord, for your presence. I pray for your power to be in our midst. I pray that your presence, your power be in our ministries, and that we could see you firsthand with our own eyes. Change people's lives. I ask that you would change us and keep working on us, keep discipling us, Lord. And we can be the moms and dads and husbands and wives and young people. That you saved us to be, that you created us to be. Help us to yield ourselves to you and trust you. God changed lives. With our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many tonight, before we go to Lord's Supper, would say, preacher, There's some areas in my life I really need God to change. There's some things I really need for Him to take out. There's some things I need Him to add to my life. I want God to be pleased with me. You'd say, preacher, pray with me. I want God to keep working on me and keep changing me and molding me. Because I need that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I want God to make me into that man, that woman. Young and old, how about it? I want the Lord to make me into the person he wants me. God bless you I wonder if there's some tonight say, preacher, I've got some folks that I've been trying to be a witness to, I'm trying to be a testimony, and humanly it just, I don't see how in the world it could be. I'm going to trust God. And I'm going to believe in His power to take someone that is hard-hearted and stiff-necked and a rebel. And God can get a hold of them and break that hard heart and break and bow that stiff neck and make them into something that is a blessing. This little world. Is there anybody like that, preacher? I know someone. I'd like to see God do a work in their life. I'd like to see God change them. Amen. I tell you, our role is to pray. Courage and let the Lord change us. Is there someone this evening say, preacher, I'm not sure I'm saved? I'm not sure I'm part of the body of Christ, part of the in the family of God, and you say, preacher, pray for me. I need to know that I'm saved. I need to settle this matter of where I spend eternity. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not saved. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven. I need that settled. Any at all? Any at all. Now, Father, bless our invitation. We have Lord's Supper. Stir our hearts. Help us, Lord, to humble ourselves before you. And we ask you to have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.