1 Peter chapter 1, I want to read verse 1 and 2. We're working our way through here. Tonight's going to be Peter gets a little bit doctrinal here in a statement he makes in verse 2. We're going to look at that this evening. So doctrine is good. That's where I would say amen. Doctrine is good. The doctrine of the Bible is what makes us Christian, the teachings of the Bible And so there are some doctrinal truths and there's a lot of practical. The book of Peter, we're going to find out, it's similar to Paul. The book of Peter is similar to Paul's writings, except for one exception. It's similar in this fact that has doctrinal teaching and practical teaching. And I think those two go hand in hand. If you try to be practical without doctrine, you can get off in in socialism and all of that stuff, social salvation and social gospel and all of that. If you're doctrinal without the practical, you get dry as dust, dead leaves Christianity. So we want the doctrinal teaching of the Word of God, but we wanted to live it out in our lives in a practical way. Uh Peter's writings and Paul's writings, of course it's honor and inspiration of God, but are similar in that they have both those aspects. The difference is Paul will usually take the first part of a letter, Ephesians, Galatians, and just about all his writings. The first half will be very, very doctrinal. He'll go to great de he'll go in great depth in doctrinal teaching. And then the last part he will make it practical. And this is how we live it out. This is how it affects our lives. Whereas Peter kind of mixed the two all through. The doctrinal statement, practical, doctrinal So we're going to get a practical, a doctrinal uh aspect of uh of Peter here. Look at verse 1. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered throughout Pontius, Glacia, Cappadocia, Asia, Bithynia. Now look at verse 2. Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father through sanctification of the Spirit unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ, grace to you and peace be multiplied. Boy, you talk about doctrinal words Did you get that? Elect, foreknowledge, sanctification, sprinkling of the blood. These are all doctrinal words, theological words that many times, I'm sure many of us we read them and we just brush over them, didn't give them a whole don't give them a whole lot of thought but they are tremendously important. And Peter is beginning this book by addressing some of these and uh and and so let's pray and uh we'll we'll look at these here real quick. Father in heaven I thank you for a good day, as is already mentioned by several folks. What a blessing to be in your house with your people. What a privilege to be part of the body of Christ. And so now as we finish this day out, this Lord's day, and begin a new week, I pray that you would take the things you've done in our hearts today and uh uh the experiences we had singing and fellowshipping and the teaching we've had and we'll get here in a moment and prepare us to live for you this coming week. I pray that our witness this week would be effectual And we could see some people saved this week. We could see some lives changed, you working through us. And so we need you, Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew with all my heart, dear Lord. I ask you, fill me. With your Holy Spirit and speak through me and help us, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. We pointed out, first of all, a couple weeks ago that the book of Peter was penned by who Peter, that's very obvious. It's named after him. Peter's an unlikely uh subject to be the penman of a book of such tremendous insight, such tremendous spiritual maturity and such doctrinal teaching. Peter, we re if you remember, we re reviewed his life a little bit And Peter initially was a very uh uh ignorant and unlearned man. He was very impulsive. He'd get stick his foot in his mouth, he was a bit proud He said several times, I'll never forsake you, I'll never deny you, and he ends up doing that very same thing. He got in fusses with the other disciples as to Who was the greatest? Oh yeah, I'm greater than you. No, you're not, I'm greater than you. Uh-uh, I'm the greatest of all the apostles. Can you imagine that? If you can't, just stick around Christians for a while and And so you have this Peter is a little bit uncouth. He's proud. He's impulsive. Yet God, listen, God is an expert at changing people's lives. It's one of the things he does best. And all across this auditorium could people stand up and testify. My life was a mess. I was running with the devil. I was on a highway to hell. And Jesus Christ came in my life and turned things around and changed me and made me a believer in Jesus Christ. The power of the gospel to save a soul and change a life. Don't ever underestimate that. And so Peter's an unlikely prospect to pen a book of this caliber, but God changed his life, God uh pro uh through uh through uh events and circumstances, discipleship He uh changed him and made him a usable tool in God's hand. Then we noted the persons who are addressed, and that's where we're picking up tonight. Remember, the last time we noticed in verse number one, he says, Peter, the apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers. And that word strangers there, we pointed out, means a sojourner or a Foreigner traveling through a land, a citizen of a foreign country who is either traveling through or temporarily living in this country And what Peter is doing, he's addressing Christians, believers, folks who have been saved, their lives have been changed dramatically. And he's addressing them as strangers, foreigners living in a land that they are not citizens of. And the point we brought out here was: as a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ You and I, this world is not our home. We're just a passing through. We are citizens of a heavenly country. Citizenship is with the Lord in heaven, and our time down here is just temporal. So listen, if how many folks here you're saved, you know it. Say amen. Let's not put down roots here. This world's not our home. We're strangers here. We're sojourners. We're passing through. Don't get too caught up on that. So he referenced them as strangers, and then we pointed out he also referenced them as strangers who were scattered. Strangers and scattered. That word scattered means to be dispersed. And the idea behind it was they went then of their own free will, scatter out through these regions, these five areas he mentions here in Asia Minor. They didn't have their own free will just say, oh, let's go on a trip. No, no, no. They were driven out. They were driven out of their homes by their families. They were driven out of their jobs by their employers. They were driven out of their communities by society. Why? For no other reason than the fact that they were believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. You mark my word. This world is no friend of Christianity. Now they'll tolerate us and they'll use us and they like our money, maybe they like our work ethic, maybe they like those types of things. But Jesus said, don't be surprised, this world hated me, it will hate you. And the sooner we accept the fact that we are not going to be heroes in this world, the sooner we'll understand what the Christian life is like. Now we live in a in a country where for many, many years, Christianity has been a major influence in this country. And so you say, well, I don't see it. I don't see a world that hates me so much. Wake up. This world's changing, it's changing. And so he addressed them as strangers, just foreigners passing through this old world or citizenship is in heaven. They were scattered. Now we get here to verse number two. And I want to and I know I see our time, so I won't try and respect that. I notice he refers to them, and this is the word I'm using as selected. They're strangers, they're scattered, and they're selected. Look at verse 2 with me. He says now he's addressing these believers, elect according to the foreknowledge of God through the sanctification of the Spirit unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. Elect Now what does that word elect mean? If you're going to, if a country elects a president or a state elects a governor, what are they doing? What's the simple simple definition is what? What's that? They're voting. They're choosing that person. The word elect there simply means, the definition of it means to pick out or select something or someone. So Peter's writing to these believers, they're saved people, they've been driven out of their homes, they're scattered through all this region, Asia Minor. all spread out. He's writing this letter out to them to try and encourage them and help them under the inspiration of God. And he refers to them as people who are elect, people who have been chosen. People who have been selected by God. Now here's the problem. That word elect is awfully abused in some theological circles to make it mean something it does not mean Now, when God says that these believers, and I'm going to try and illustrate this, I hope it works, when God says to these believers, you are the elect, according to the foreknowledge of God, there's a difference. That's okay. There's a difference between being uh God elect uh let me let me try and get my uh thoughts back in line here. Uh God is choosing them God has chosen them. Let me get back to my notes here. To pick out, to select. That word is used 23 times in various forms in the Bible. And it means to choose or select people, kind of select people out of a crowd. Now we got a crowd here this evening And I'm going to ask Bobby. Would you stand up right where you are? I am electing Bobby. I am choosing Bobby. Look at that. What a specimen of a man. Wow. And uh Dave, well you I'm selecting Dave, I'm choosing Dave out of this crowd. He loves it when I do this. How about Vern back there? Go ahead, stand up there. And uh how about uh we need a couple ladies here. How about uh Carol, would you stand up there? I'm choosing Carol. And uh Cindy, would you like there? All right, so I have selected, I have chosen these people. Now notice what the verse says. The next phrase says what the basis or the principle of this election is, this choosing. God chose them. He uses, what's the next word? Elect according to the foreknowledge of God. And that word according to means the criteria by. This is the reason, the basis of him choosing these specific people. According to the what? Foreknowledge of God. Now bear with me if you would. What does foreknowledge mean? I know I'm being a little theological. I'm going to try and get practical here in a minute. But if some if what is foreknowledge? It means to what? Just break the word down to know before time, to have knowledge of something before it transpires. I have foreknowledge of of something. Let me ask you a question. Does God, is there anything God don't know? No, God knows what? There's a theological word for that. It's omniscient, all-knowing. God knows everything. Does God know everything that happened in the past? Does God know what's going on now? Does God know what's going to happen? Did God always know what's going to happen? So the criteria for God choosing out these believers, these elect, these believers who Or say the criteria for that was based upon the fact that he knew something about them before they ever existed. He had foreknowledge about them. Now here's where that word gets distorted, that word elect. There are certain teachings in churches in our town. Some of it's creeping into some of our circles even. It's known as Calvinism, is the terms usually used. And it it misconstrues that word elect, and it misconstrues the word chosen. In other words, the the teaching of predestination says this, that God chose these people just arbitrarily according to his will. Nobody knows why. There's no basis upon anything they did or did not do. And he chose not to choose all the others. Now think about that for a minute. Now, this is a pitiful example, but let's suppose I'm God and this is humanity And I've chosen these people to be saved. As God, could I choose? On that criteria, could I choose everybody to be saved? Sure. If I could choose five Based of completely upon my sovereign will, I could choose a hundred and five But I chose not to choose you. I chose not to choose any of you all. I chose not to choose any all y'all over here. I only chose those. So by not choosing these people to be saved, what am I choosing them to be? Lost. They're doomed for hell. Calvinism is predestination, says that God has predetermined ahead of time. That certain people will be saved to go to heaven based on God's choice, and certain people are predetermined to go to hell based completely on God's choice, the sovereignty of God. When Peter is referencing here, he says, elect according to the foreknowledge of God. There's a difference between foreknowledge and predestination. Predestination is to predetermine ahead of time that something is going to happen regardless. God predetermined ahead of time that these people are going to be saved no matter what. It's written in there, there's irresistible grace. They're going to believe whether they know it or not. And it's predetermined that that's going to happen. By God predetermined that certain people are going to be saved, he is by fault predetermined that other people will not be saved. And they will go to hell. And you can read Calvin's writing, and he says flat out, some people will never ever be saved. They were created to burn in hell. No choice. Now that is a tremendous distortion of the teaching of God's sovereignty and the teaching of that term elect. When Peter writes here, he says elect, and then he gives the criteria for that election. He gives the basis or the principle that God is electing them. He says it's according to the foreknowledge of God, not the predestination of God. That's a whole nother subject. It's the foreknowledge of God. God knew before time, let's get back to my little illustration here. God knew in eternity past something about these people That would prompt him to choose them to be part of his family, choose them to be part of to be Christians. Now, what did he know about these, that foreknowledge? What did he know about them? That and and what did he know about these that would prompt him to choose them and not them? Now we're not told in this passage He just references it according to the foreknowledge of God. But if we compare Scripture with Scripture and we look at other passages of Scriptures very carefully, we find out that there is something unique about believers that sets them apart from unbelievers. And that is this. They have, of their own free will, chosen to trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Are you following me? God in his foreknowledge, God in eternity past knew that on May 7, 1979, Dennis Leatherman would kneel by his bed and out of desperation calling the Lord Jesus Christ to be his personal Savior, to forgive him sin and deliver him from sin. God knowing that chose Dennis to be one of my children, knowing he would believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. The criteria for God's election is the individual trusting Jesus Christ their personal Savior. Am I making sense? You follow You follow what I'm saying? Thank you. You guys can sit down. So Peter is saying here to these believers that are scattered all over, you've been chosen by God. But it's not just an arbitrary choosing by God on God's secret will, and others are left unchosen or doomed to go to hell, then they're saying, no, no, no. It's based upon God's foreknowledge, knowing that there was a time and place when all you believers out there that I'm writing to that you would trust Christ as Savior. You would believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. The only time election and predestination, the only people that applies to in the Bible are people who are saved. People who have trusted Christ as Savior. I hope I'm making sense. I hope I'm communicating this correctly. But the principle of this election, the basis of it is according to God knowing who would believe on him. We're not told what he knew for about the uh what he foreknew about these people that prompted him to elect them. But if we go to John chapter 3 verse 16, for God so loved the world, he gave his only begotten Son that Whosoever believeth on him, whosoever. Here, let me come back to my illustration. Let's say I just choose these people I did before, and you guys are saved, and none of y'all have any choice Now let's do it a different way. This is the Bible way. God says, any of you all that want to be saved, now I'm going to set this up, just the people I called on before, you be the only ones that stand up. Alright. So don't just stand up, just only the people I called them before. Alright? Here's Calvinism. All right, these people I called on, you're the only ones who can be saved. I'm choosing you to be saved. I'm not choosing your ass. That's the way it is. I'm oversimplifying it. That's the way it is. This is the Bible offer. Alright, anybody that wants to, you want to accept Jesus Christ as Savior, stand up right where you are. Anybody that wants to accept Jesus Christ as No, don't do what I said. You guys, just the people I caught on before. All right. I'm illustrating something. I know you all want to know the look This is a rough crowd, Dad. All right. Anybody in this room that wants to know Jesus Savior, stand up! Ah, all right, I choose you, I'd give you eternal life, and I choose to give you eternal life, I choose to give you eternal life, I choose to give you eternal life, I choose you to give life. That is the choice. That's the election taking place Now of others, some people are, yeah, I want, uh, and then I would choose you and choose you and choose you, whoever, whosoever will! Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. And whoever does, God says, those are the ones I choose. D. L. Muni put it this way: He said, the elect are the whosoever wills, and the non-elect are the whosoever won't. Pretty good way of looking at it. Thank you guys can sit down. So Peter's writing these people, and there's a reason for this, I believe. He's saying you all have been ch have been elected, you've been chosen by God based on his foreknowledge, knowing that you would one day be saved And then he goes on, he adds another section to that. He says, uh, and then he gives the process. He tells how that election takes place. Elect, according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through The sanctification of the Spirit. That word through means by the process of or through the means of, by the means of. How? Does God, these people, trust that Jesus Christ the Savior? Alright, I'm choosing you. Your part, I knew you would do that. I've chosen you to be uh Christians. I knew you would believe in the Lord Jesus Christ And the process that that took place was through the sanctification of the Holy Spirit. Boy, there's a theological word. The word sanctify simply means to be set apart. It has this idea to be set apart for God So the people that God knew in time past that would accept Jesus Christ their personal Savior of their own free will, accept Jesus Christ their Savior for forgiveness of sins God sent his Holy Spirit to take those people that would do that and sanctify them, set them apart in the eyes of God, set them apart to be God's people, God's children, the body of Christ. So it is the Holy Spirit of God. So the moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, the Holy Spirit of God indwells that person. And in the eyes of God, they are sanctified, they are set apart from the rest of the world. Here's a statement I want to make. As believers, you and I are different than this world. We're different than the unsaved. We have dwelling within us the Holy Spirit of God. And that Spirit sets us apart, the presence of the. If you're saved, you do not have to ask God to give you the Holy Spirit. He indwelt your body the moment you trusted Christ. And from that moment on, we are sanctified through the Holy Spirit. We're set apart in the eyes of God. So he's writing to all these folks under intense persecution. God chose you. He knew you would believe, and he chose you to be his people, and he sanctified you through the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit set you apart. Then look at the third thing he says to him. He says And uh unto the obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. That was the purpose of this whole choosing God, in time past, foreknew who all would believe in him. He chose them to be set apart and sanctified by the Holy Spirit. so that they would uh uh so that uh for the purpose of unto obedience and the sprinkling of the blood. Now I'm trying to rush through this But at salvation, the Holy Spirit dwells us, sets us apart, and then God creates in us a new spirit, a new attitude within us. Let me ask you a question. Is everybody with me? I know this is, I don't know. I hope you're with me. How many people, when you got saved, after you got saved, you saw the world differently than you did before you got saved? How many people after you got saved, you had different values, different perspective, different priorities? Sure, you know what that is That was being sanctified by the Spirit unto obedience, unto the sprinkling of the blood. God changes us from the inside out. If any man be in Christ, he's a what? New creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, old things are come. God begins changing our lives. God begins cleaning things up. God begins adding things we need added. He takes things away that need to get taken away. And he changes us into the image of Christ and He gives us a new life, a new heart, a new mind, a new spirit, a new attitude. He changed us. I get that from that word obedience. The word obedience there has this idea, submission and compliance, a willing submission, a willing compliance. And then he cleanses us from sin, the sprinkling of the blood of Jesus. And we don't have time to look at that, but if you'll study that in Scripture, it has this idea, God cleansing our sin from us. The blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. Doesn't make us sinless. Not one person here is sinless. You say I'm sinless, you're either lying or you're messed up If somebody ever tells you, if you ever have a fellow come to you and tell you, oh yeah, I've reached sinless perfection, ask his wife if she agrees with that. He doesn't make us sinless, but he cleanses us. He cleanses us. He gives us sinless standing before God. God has chosen believers to live clean and holy lives. Say, preacher, I got saved. Preacher, I trusted Jesus as my Savior, my s and uh I accepted him as my personal Savior, and I believe He's forgiven my sins, He's given me eternal life. What does He want me to do? I tell you what he wants me to do. He wants me to be submissive to him and live a clean and holy, pure, godly life. How he wants me to live as a Christian. And Peter's writing out to these people who are being persecuted. Many of them had family members who were killed for no other reason than they trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. They've lost their jobs. They have parents. Many of them had parents who disowned them. You're not my child. I don't know you. Get out of here, you follower of Jesus. They wanted nothing to do with them And they're out there in a strange land, they're out there in a strange society, and they're trying to live for God, and many of them are new believers and they're trying to do right, and they're in a pagan world, and they get a letter from Peter, and Peter says, Hey! You've been chosen by God. Because of your faith in Christ, God has chosen you and He's indwelled you with His Holy Spirit, and He is leading you and working in you to live a pure and holy, godly life. And he's establishing the framework for the rest of this book that in the midst of persecution, that in the midst of Rejection by this world. We need to understand God has not rejected us, He has chosen us And we are his through faith in Christ, and the Spirit of God indwells us, and He is leading us and directing us to live clean and pure and holy lives. I imagine, I tried, as I was preparing this, I tried to imagine how did those young, persecuted, maybe discouraged believers suffering, how they respond to that message. God I'm God's. I'm not a this world's not my home of just passing through. And God's chosen me To be his and to live for him. And he has chosen my body to be the temple of his Holy Spirit. I think what Peter's doing is this. He's getting their eyes off of their persecution. And he's getting it back on their Lord, God, and Savior. And all he's done for him. And when people reject us, I'm sure I'm talking to folks, you've tried at work or different places, you try to give a little gospel track. And somebody cussed you up one side and down the other. Can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Maybe somebody made fun of you, kids at school, you bow your head, or you bring your Bible, and kids give you a hard time. I want to say, don't get focused on all. Don't let that ruin you. Get your eyes above. Say, oh no, no, God's chosen me. I'm one of his. He set me apart in his eyes by the dwelling Holy Spirit. And he wants me to live clean and pure life. I tell you, that'll help us. That'll help us. I had when I got saved, I worked at a meat packing plant. It's kind of interesting. I butchered meat for four years. I got saved, went off to Bible college, and I got a job in the surgery department of a hospital. I just wondered if there was some relationship there, cutting me and working in surgery But when I worked that meat packing plant, I'm telling you, those guys turned on me. I still remember a fellow's name was Bob. He hated me for knowing we were best buddies before I bought drugs off of him, sold stuff to him. We went to parties. When I got saved, God changed my life. I mean, God changed my life. I was sanctified by the Holy Spirit. Not sinless, but man, God set me apart and he cleansed me. Oh Bob couldn't accept that. He'd he'd threaten me one day. He says, I'm gonna Leatherman, I'm gonna I won't use the words he used, I'm gonna beat you so bad after work today. I said, Bob, what's the problem? What am I doing? You just get on my nerves So I thought, all right, God, I'm gonna die today. I walked out, Bob's standing there by his car, you know, I'm like 20 years old, he's probably 25. Bob stand by his car and me being the brave man I am, I walked in the shadows around and get to my car. Finally I just said, Bob, what's the deal? He cussed me out, jumped in the car and drove off. I tell you, and I'm not trying to lift myself up, you know that. I tell you, I could have let that get to me. I could have said philly on this. This is what God saved me for? To get cussed out and threatened? Is this what? Lose all my friends? Is this what God saved me for? Now it wasn't it at all. God, I was chosen of God because of my faith in Christ. And the Spirit of God dwelt in me. And God had a plan, a purpose. He wanted me to live right and do right. live for him. That's what Peter's telling these believers. You know what this world needs this week? You know what Oakland, our area, needs this week? The members, the saved people coming out of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. To be a testimony of the grace and power and goodness of God in a believer's life and point people to Christ. Did I make any sense tonight at all? I hope so Pretty theological thing. Listen, if you don't if you've never trusted Jesus, well, God didn't choose me to be saved, so that's just the way it is, that's a lie of the devil. God wants everybody saved. God's not willing that anybody perish. God's calling everybody. God is not slack concerning his promise, as some man count slackless, but is not willing that any should perish, but all should come to repentance. God wants you to be saved. God wants to forgive your sin. God wants to give you a new life. God wants to give you eternal life, and you can know for sure your sins are forgiven, accepted by God. But it's only through faith in Christ. Don't throw that back on God's face. He's given us the option. And when we make that decision to trust him, And he does these things in our lives. This world will turn on us. They're going to hate us. We're going to study that. We'll see it. But God never turns on his own Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd take these stumbling words of mine tonight. And Lord, I'm not that smart to understand all these theological stuff, but I know what your book says. I know what this verse says. I pray you'd help us to trust you. In spite of how this world treats us, help us just trust you. Understand what we are to you and what we mean to you, what you're trying to do in our lives. Our heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, Preacher, I want God to use me this week? I want to be a testimony to this whole world I'm not a part of, I'm so different than this world, what God has done in my life, but I want to be a witness. I want God to use me to bring others to Christ. That they can know what God is, they can experience God do for them what He's done for me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? That's my heart and desire. Maybe an old altar tonight would just kneel and say, God use me. Make me a good testimony. I pray I'd have that obedient, submissive spirit. I pray that your Holy Spirit would work through me. That folks could see a difference. And they'd hear the gospel. There's some here tonight say, preacher, I'm not certain that my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. You say, I don't want to die and go to hell. I want to know for sure that God has forgiven me and saved me. And I have eternal life. I can experience God's blessing. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure my sins are forgiven. I'm not sure when I die I'm going to heaven, not to hell. Is there any at all like that? God says, Whosoever will, whosoever will. Father, bless our invitation now as we finish up this Lord's day. We go into a new week. We want your fresh blessing on us, Lord. We want a fresh anointing of your Holy Spirit So hear us as we humble ourselves and pray and ask you to use us. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.