Well okay, thank you. Good. Good to see you this evening. I hope you had a good day and got some rest and And also maybe got alone with the Lord and talked with him a little bit about decisions you made today. And I want to preach to you tonight and it and and it's I'm going to be honest with you, sometimes it's a little bit of a hard message what I'm preaching tonight, but I want you to understand some things before I preach it. I want you to understand I know who I'm talking to. I'm talking to the Sunday night crowd at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. It's a great church. And it's a going church, and it's a doing church, it's a serving church. And I know that you are the backbone of this church. And here's what I want to say to you tonight. If God is going to send revival, I don't believe God is going to send it to the bar or the pub over by the lake, do you? Now, bless God, he may save somebody out of that bar, and that and that guy and that woman might develop into being great Christians and someday preach revival. But if God is going to send revival today, He's not going to do it, I don't think, from the churches that met for an hour today, had a rock concert, and went about their way in art meeting tonight or this week I don't think God is going to send revival to denominational churches that are afraid to even preach the gospel. I think God, if God is going to send revival, and I know God can send revival, if God is going to send revival, now I want you to understand this. He's going to send it through churches like this, through people like us. Because we care about God. We care about the things of God. We care about the Word of God. We're here tonight because we care about the things of God. Preacher, what are you going to preach hard to me for? I'm here on Sunday night and care about the things of God. Because we're who God can use and God will use to send revival. But sometimes We let our doing kind of paper over our being. Can I say it again? We kind of get prideful about all that we do. Sometimes we turn an eye away from what we are. And God needs vessels that are right. God needs vessels that not only do some right things, but from the heart love Him. And from the heart want to grow in him and be used of him, and especially in this matter of revival So that's why I'm preaching. I'm preaching to me tonight. You know, there's never a day I go without being convicted by the Holy Spirit of God I mean, I don't know whether I've got a sensitive conviction button or not, but I'm just telling you, I I go through the day and I say, yes, Lord, yes, Lord, I'm sorry, Lord, yes, Lord, I saw, I I hear you, Lord, I know that, Lord And I just want you to know that I'm like you, you're like me, and we need God to just get down into our hearts and root it all out, bring it all to where we can see it. And all to where we can be honest with God about it, and then I'm telling you, God can do great things Through our lives and not for us, but through us. Okay? Turn with me to the book of Hosea. Hosea chapter 7. Now, Hosea hangs around there with Jeremiah, Ezekiel, and Daniel. He just loves being in that crowd. So if you find Daniel, you'll go past Ezekiel and you'll find Hosea sitting right against Daniel. Hosea chapter 7. And I want to preach to you on this subject tonight. It's a subject I know much about. Gray hairs. I got your attention, didn't I? Yeah. I bet he's going to preach on Grecian formula 33 or whatever it is. Amen. Notice with me Hosea 7, and let's look at verse 8. Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people. Ephraim is a cake not turned Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not. Yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, yet he knoweth not And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face. And they do not return to the Lord their God, nor seek him for all this. Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart. They call to Egypt. They go to Assyria. When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them. I will bring them down as the fowls of the heaven. I will chastise them as their congregation hath heard. Woe unto them They have fled from me, destruction unto them, because they have transgressed against me, and though I have redeemed them, yet they have spoken lies against me. And they have not cried unto me with their heart. When they howled upon their beds, they assemble themselves for corn and wine. And they rebel against me. Let's pray. Father, as we come before you this evening, I pray now that you would use this hour. Lord, I love these people and I love this church and I am grateful to be amongst people like them. This is my crowd. And yet, Lord, we know the truth about ourselves. We know that though we are busy in your service, there are yet corners in our heart. Little things here and there laying around that need to be rooted out, brought up, gotten rid of. Father, I'm thankful for the work of the Holy Spirit in my life. I would cover those things. I would push them back in some deep recess of my heart and never deal with them. But oh Holy Spirit, I thank you for exposing me to me. And I pray tonight, Lord, that as we consider these things That there would be a real sense of being open with you and honest with you. And there would be a sense of humility that God, when you show us something, you're not showing it to everyone else, but you're showing us. Something in our heart that needs to be fixed. That God, even as we prayed this morning in humility, we would get on our face before you. And with your help, fix that thing in our Christian life. I pray for those who are here this night tonight that are not saved. And I don't know the heart, I don't know each and every person, but it wouldn't surprise me if there are some that have papered over a need, a need to be saved in their heart. They know the right words and they go through the motions and they do some of the right things, but every time a gospel invitation is given, their heart is pricked. Because they know the truth. So Lord, I just pray that we'd be open and honest and deal in truth with you tonight. I pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. You know, in the Bible, gray hairs can be a sign of real wisdom age and experience that really brings with it something that can teach and help. That's not the kind of gray hair that's being mentioned in this passage tonight. Gray hair can also be a sign of decay. I don't want to be depressing tonight, but I'm good at it. But every one of us was born to die. From the time we come out of our mother's womb, we grow, we age, and we are moving towards death, and death is an appointment with God. And the time from our mother's womb until the time of our death is a time where, number one, we are to prepare to meet God. But number two, we are to be used of God in serving Him and glorifying Him and trying to reach others to know Him. I can't do what I used to do. I said this morning I've got a metal knee. And I've got I've met a friend, I've got a good friend, his first name is Arthur and his last name is Idis. Anybody ever met him? I'm telling you, everything hurts. My good friend Don Sis told me one time, Brother Edwards, after 65, if you get up and something doesn't hurt, you didn't really wake up I think that's the truth. I used to be able to dunk a basketball. Do you believe that? You'll believe anything if you believe that. No, I can't I never could dunk a basketball, but I could shoot a basketball and I can play. Now now here's the truth. I just can't do what I used to do I can't walk as far as I used to walk. I can't drag a deer as far as I used to drag a deer. I'm just not able physically to do the things that I used to do. And you know what? That's the way it is And that's part of life. We just age and we decay. We started out as dust and we're headed back to dust. That's true of our physical lives, but now I want to tell you this. It does not have to be true of our spiritual lives. I want you to know that on the day of my death, I can be as strong in my walk with God as I am on the best day. in in my mature days of serving the Lord. I don't have to grow cold. I don't have to grow distant from God I can be strong for God and I want to be strong for God and used of God and walk with God Every day of my spiritual life. I never want my testimony to be, he used to I never want my testimony to be, where is he? He walked away from the Lord. I've pastored a long time. And here's one of the things I've noticed. Sometimes when people show up at church, you'd think it's Billy Sunday that came through the door. But give it a year or two or three and then look for them. And they're not in the classroom anymore. And they're not in the pew on Sunday morning and Sunday night and Wednesday night. And they're not at men's prayer meeting, and they're not going soul-winning. Because they started strong, but they didn't finish strong. Now, all I'm saying to you tonight is this that though I cannot stop this I do not have to decay spiritually. And I want to be strong for the Lord. And if I see a gray hair If I see a sign of decay in my spiritual life with the help of the Holy Spirit, I am going to pluck that thing out. I am going to get right with God Because I want my testimony to be, he finished strong with God. Now, as I read this passage, I see that Hosea says, and God says in verse 9, strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth not. Yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, yet he knoweth not. Did you know that there's a way that your spiritual life and vitality can decay and you don't even notice it? You don't even notice it I want to give you four thoughts this evening on gray hair's decay that can slip into every believer's life, and it is so subtle, it is so. Secretive. We don't even know ourselves sometimes that it happens until the Spirit of God gets a hold of us and says, you need to get that right. Here's number one. The gray hair of a false testimony. The gray hair of a false testimony. Look at verse 8. Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people. Ephraim is a cake not turned. Now you have to understand a little bit of customs from the Bible. And you and I in our day, uh uh some have convection ovens, you know, and You put something in that convection oven to bake and man, I mean the temperature is the same on the bottom as it is on the side as it is on the top And it blows through there and it just cooks perfectly even. You don't have to even think about it until it's time that dinger goes off. You go back and man, it was perfect. But that's not the way it was in Bible times. They cooked on a hot rock or on an open flame, and uh they had to be very careful when they baked their bread, they had to go turn that cake. They had to turn that bread. Because if you just put it on that rock or over that fire, then it would get very done very fast on the bottom But it might even get brown on the top, but it would get so done on the bottom, you'd have to take it off and couldn't cook it any longer. and and when you would bite into it, man, it was done on the outside, but it was mush on the inside. The whole point of that illustration and saying that Ephraim Is a cake not turned. He has mixed himself, is to say this. When God looked at Israel, you know what he saw? He saw somebody who was one thing on the outside and something different on the inside. And can I tell you tonight, church, there is nothing that sickens God more than people who have an appearance when it is not true on the inside. It's called being lukewarm. God says he so hates things that are lukewarm that he spews them out of his mouth. I want you to understand about this Ephraim. That's the reference to the ten tribes of the northern kingdom. The kingdom is split, and Rehoboam has taken two tribes and is the nation of Judah, and Jeroboam has taken ten tribes and is called the nation of Israel. Ephraim, the largest tribe. And Jeroboam understood something. He understood that if his people were allowed to continue to go back to Jerusalem to worship in the temple, he would really never have their loyalty. And he knew that he had to stop them from making that pilgrimage three or four or five times a year, because over that time they would become loyal again to the temple in Jerusalem and to the king of Jerusalem, he needed to stop it. And so here's what he did. You know what he did? He built a false temple, two places. He built a false temple in Dan and a false temple in Bethel. And then he went even further. He patterned it after the temple in Jerusalem, but much smaller. But he went even further. He put a golden calf in both of them. And then he said to Israel, hey, or to Israel, Hey, it's too much for you to go all the way to Jerusalem. I want you to worship in Dan in Bethel. We're going to make it convenient for you. And you just worship and Dan and Bethel and go in and worship the calf, but we're going to call the calf Jehovah. And we're going to observe the times of Jehovah. And so Israel said they worship Jehovah. But if you followed them to the temple, it was a false temple. If you went into the temple, it wasn't Jehovah and the Ark of the Covenant and the Holy of Holies. It was a a pagan golden calf. It wasn't the worship of Jehovah at all, but they said they were worshiping Jehovah. Now, I'm sure not accusing anybody today. Of worshiping a false God. I don't believe that. I'm not accusing anybody of wanting to go to a false temple, but I am saying this. That one of the afflictions of the church today is that we want to appear to be something on the outside when it isn't all right on the inside. A pastor of church a long time. Preacher, you may understand this, but I've had people, we've got four main doors to our church. And I'll watch somebody get out of their car and walk all the way around to another building, another door, and come in that building that that way. And I stopped one man one time and I said, why in the world do you park there and walk all the way over there? And you know what he said to me? Because so-and-so is at that door. And I haven't spoken to him, and I don't like him, and I don't want to get right with him, and so I just walk all the way around. I want to tell you, you know what that is? That's wickedness. That is wickedness. I'll have people and preacher, I'll start preaching a message and I'll I'll know I know my congregation. I've pastored them for 37 years. I'll start preaching something and And uh I'll know I know people's lives in my church, and I'm not trying to discover anything, but I'm just saying I'll start preaching on something that I know they're struggling with. And you know what I'll hear from their lips while I'm preaching? I'll hear Amen. But I know full well that in their life they're struggling with the thing, if not resistant to the very thing I'm preaching But they don't want to be seen as that. They want to be known as that. And so they say amen on the outside while they're saying oh me on the inside I know that people can get sideways with God and they go right on teaching their class, right on smiling at church. How many times have we heard this illustration? A family, a husband and a wife are fighting like cat and dog before they get to church. They pull in the parking lot, open the doors. And it is funny, and we do chuckle about it, but I want to tell you, when that stuff lodges in our heart We have a false testimony. We are not what we are presenting ourselves to be. And we may chuckle at it. And we may think it's an innocent thing. We may think it's simple. But I'm telling you this, God says that's a mixed cake. Especially when he convinced us by the Holy Spirit that we need to get right and we don't get right and we just keep on acting as if we're right. We have a men's prayer meeting every Saturday morning at Heritage. We take our boys, and I can remember when my boys were little, didn't matter what their age was, I think I started them off at three years old. They'd go with me and they'd learn to pray with other men and we'd sit there and pray. We'd take requests and then pray and man then we'd have we we did it up big. We had donuts and coffee and the boys would go play, you know, and And uh as we went, I I wanted to kind of reward them for going with me and just make it a special time. And and uh when you're planning a church, you don't have a lot of money, and so what you can do to make it special is kind of little, you know And we went past a 7-Eleven going to church and going back from church. And so we'd go to prayer meeting and every week when we'd go home from prayer meeting, 10, 11, 12 o'clock, I'd stop at the 7-Eleven and we'd go in and by what is a real godly drink called a slurpee. And we'd get them slurpees and we'd go out and sit on the curb because next to that 7-Eleven, I don't want to overdo this, but next to that 7-Eleven was the most beautiful oak tree I've ever seen. I mean that oak tree, it had a big girth to it, and the and the trunk was just as straight as an arrow. I mean straight, big and straight. And then it was one of those symmetrical trees. I mean every branch was matched. They went out the same distance. It went up and curved in, and boy, when it was full of leaves, it was a beautiful, beautiful tree And I'd sit there on that curb with my boys and we'd be slurping our slurpees. And I'd say, sons, now I want to tell you something. Your dad wants to be a man like that oak tree. I want to be strong like that oak tree, and I want my life to be straight like that oak tree. And I want I want people to be able to find protection and help and security under that oak tree. I I want my life. I want your mother to be safe and I want your sister to be safe and I want you boys to be safe and and we're going to be a straight family. They'd sit there. Boys, I want you to be like that. I want you to follow me and I want you to be like that oak tree, just like I want to be like that oak tree. We had a horrible windstorm, a rainstorm. Boy had ripped through that town and we were getting up on a Saturday morning to go to men's prayer meeting and I came around that corner at that 7-Eleven. And I slammed my brakes on. Called my assistant pastor and I said I'm not coming in. Said I got something else to do. Take care of prayer meeting I whipped into that 7-Eleven parking lot and I took my boys out and we walked over and sat down in wet mud. That tree had blown over, preacher, and it was rotten to the core inside. There was nothing inside. It was nothing but a big hunk of bark. I don't even know how it supported that stuff. And I put my boys down there and I looked at them and I said, Boys Understand this, your dad never wants to be like that. Your dad never wants to be like that tree. I never want to have the appearance that I'm one thing and be rotten inside And I don't want either one of you to be like that. If you are something, be what you say you are I want to tell you, there's no room for falseness in the kingdom of God. There's no room for putting on a show. And I challenge you tonight, is there someone you're not right with? Someone that you're bitter against, someone you haven't forgiven. Is there something in your life that you've let go? Nobody else knows it. You've let it go. Be careful. Here's number two. And they build on each other because it leads to, number two, a fruitless life. The false testimony, being something different than we are, leads to a fruitless life. Look at verse 9. Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not. Yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him. Yet he knoweth not. Man, what an arresting statement that is. Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not. Hosea sees the spiritual decline of Israel. And in essence, he's saying, well, what they used to be, what they used to could do, they can't do anymore. Now hear me. A consistent theme in the Word of God is that the loss of God's power is rarely obvious and violent, but more often it's a subtle process of decay. It happens a little bit at a time until you're so distant and so cold you're not walking with God at all. I want you to think about it with me Samson stood up to throw off his attackers. He had done it before. He had been able to do it before, but this time when he stood up, he didn't even know that the Spirit had departed him. He wasn't even aware that he had no help from God. And when he stood up, he couldn't throw them off. It had been a process. He had had opportunity after opportunity to turn it to get it right But he had lost the Spirit's power. King Saul remained as king long after God had removed his hand from him. Hey, David was anointed to be the king, but Saul stayed on the throne for year upon year upon year. You say, preacher, what's your point? God wasn't blessing him. God's hand wasn't on him. God had already made another choice, but he still went right on doing the things that kings do and acting as if it was as it should be Did you know that David continued for a full year from the time he sinned with Bathsheba? Till that day that Nathan came in and with that finger pointed him and said, Thou art the man David continued to go to temple. He continued to lead the people. He continued to issue decrees. He continued to act like a king acted. And yet all the time in his heart he knew it. He knew it. He knew it. He knew it. He couldn't sleep at night. The Bible says his heart was torn up. It was almost making him physically sick because he knew in his heart, but he still put his king's robe on. Hey, how about this? He still taught his Sunday school class. He still drove his bus route He still did what he was supposed to do. I don't want a Christian life that goes through the motions Ichabod was written over the temple. Did you know that services went right on? They didn't close the temple. God just left them. The truth is that the loss of God's power has to be cited not in violent things, but subtle things. Let me give you two things. How do we know when we're going towards being fruitless? Number one, we notice that our appetite for what is good is kind of waning. Our appetite for what is good is kind of waning. You start to notice that you're infrequent in your prayer. Not what it used to be. You start to notice that your Bible study isn't as rich as it used to be You remember those times I do when you would take your Bible and you would almost think God wrote it for you You would look at that thing and it would jump out at you and you would say, Man, I didn't know God. You'd go to somebody else and say, Did you know that God so loved the world he gave his only begotten Son? Nobody's ever seen that before. But it was precious, it was new, and God was speaking to you When's the last time God just jumped off the pages through the Holy Spirit and showed you something new and vital for your life? Hey, that's the normal Christian life. It is not normal when we grow and we get so cold and distant that all we do is read it and check a box and say, Well, I read through the Bible in a year. Every day God wants to speak to us. Every day God leads us through His Word. How about this? the services of church, you just notice that you're not as excited about it as you used to be. Just go, but man, it's kind of like think he'll ever talk about something else? Think he'll ever get with it? Think this preacher will ever get done? And we just notice in our hearts that where we used to be excited about learning and preaching and being with one another, now it's kind of something like we just kind of endure it. We hope it gets done quick. Careful. How about this? You just notice that you begin to forsake service. You used to love soul winning, but now, well, you really do have to go do that other thing. You you used to love giving, but, well, you know There's always a justification. You used to love to sing in the service, but you just find yourself saying, I don't know if I want to sing that or not. All I'm saying to you is this. You don't just right away know that you're fruitless. It happens over time. It happens a little bit at a time. And God says to us at any point in time, we can pull that gray hair. We can say, God, I know that that's different. There's something different. in the way I'm thinking about it. There's something different in the way I'm studying. There's something different in the way I'm praying. And God, I don't want it to just leak out. I need your help. Here's another way. The lack of sensitivity to what is evil. How do I tell I'm on my way to fruitlessness? My appetite for what is good isn't as strong as it used to be. My appetite for what isn't good is getting stronger. You become content with a lower standard of Christian living. You used to care about modesty, you used to care about appearance, you used to care about where you went, how you went, what you did. But now you're starting to question, well, maybe that's not so bad. You know what I've learned? If God says it's wrong, once it's wrong. You become flippant about faithfulness. You become indifferent to conviction. You hear that? You become indifferent towards conviction. You used to, when the preacher would preach on witnessing and winning other souls, it would tear your heart up. And you'd say, man, I need to do that. I know that's what God would have me to do. But to be honest with you, you've been in Mountain Lake 20 years now, and you've heard this guy preach how long? 25 years. And to be honest with you, when he starts to announce that topic, you just kind of tune him out. Because you've heard it all. And I want to tell you something. This church, you've heard the greatest preachers in America. And I ain't talking about me. I'm talking about Shelton Smith and Sam Davison and Lou Rossi. I could go on and on and on. And and and the truth is you've just heard the best, man. You've heard the best, and you've heard it for 25 years, and where you used to hit the altar about it, well, you've kind of matured now. Hey! We do not mature out of the altar. That's not called maturity. It's called cold-heartedness. Somehow we convince ourselves that we've just grown up in the Lord And we just don't get convicted about those things like we used to. That's not a source of pride. That's a source to be concerned, my friend. Because you are on the path to a fruitless life. I am convinced many of these modern churches are filled with fundamentalists who left living churches Because they had grown fruitless in their walk with the Lord. And they want something that covers and says, I go to church. They just don't want to pay a price to serve God in church. Just saying sin makes us insensitive. And I don't know about you, but I don't want to get insensitive to sin because it leads to this third thing, and here it is. We get a calloused heart. First, we let things just lay in there that we ought to get right. We paint ourselves as right, but there's a little something in there we know needs to be right. And before very long, we feel ourselves becoming fruitless because we're enduring what we used to enjoy, and we're not getting as much out of what we used to just live for And before very long that fruitlessness becomes a callus on our heart. Look at verse 10. And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face. And they do not return to the Lord their God, nor seek him for all this. The pride of Israel Pride will send more people to hell, and pride will marginalize more Christian lives who just refuse to admit they need to get right than any single thing the devil could possibly do. The truth is, they just became callous. They'd heard it and heard it. They'd heard it and heard it. They had tried it and failed and tried it and failed. They heard it and got convicted And tried it and failed, and it went on year after year after year until finally that callus just grew over the heart. And now the preacher could get up and drop a nuclear bomb, and it wouldn't get through to our hearts. As we've become callous. We've heard it, and we've heard it by the best, and we're not moving. That's dangerous. If the Holy Spirit of God is good enough that he's going to come into this room and walk this aisle and go up and down each aisle and find Mike Edwards and say, Mike Edwards, I'm talking to you. My reaction ought not to be I'm too old. My reaction ought not to be I'm too proud. My reaction ought not to be I'm better than someone else. My reaction ought to be, Holy Spirit, thank you for exposing that to me. If this guy'll shut up, I'll get to the altar and get right But we know it won't happen. Because we've built that layer. That layer of that layer. Here's number four, and I'll hurry to get done. We become silly. Look at verse 11. Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart. They call to Egypt. They go to Assyria. Now just give me two minutes to tell you what's behind that. You hear what that says? Ephraim, that's Israel. That's God's people. Those are the Jews. And they're in trouble. because there are enemies marching against them. And do you know what their solution was? Let's go down to Egypt and see if they'll help us. Let's go over to Assyria and see if they'll help us. Hey, Israel, how about turning your face towards God and seeing if he'll help you? But what happens is this: we become so callous and we get so cold towards the Lord that we become silly. We start looking for things that will never help, but They can allow us to feel like we're doing something. We need something new, preacher. You know what we need, preacher? We need new music here. If we had new music, oh, I just think it'd be great. You know what we need, preacher? We need a new schedule. This thing of free to thrive, preacher, you just don't understand. Gas is expensive and boy it's cold and preacher you you realize how much you don't understand anything. Yeah. I don't understand anything Preacher, you know what we need? We need a new version because these these and thoughs, they're they're just, I mean, I know that people for thousands of years read it and got it, but we can't We become silly. We've got people, sixty-year-old preachers, trying to clap to the music and they can't figure out how to do it. And they're doing this because they think something new. You know what they need? They need a revival in the old paths. They need the Holy Spirit to just wake up their hearts, revive their hearts Turn again to the Lord and say, Lord, I'm walking with you and I'm not holding a corner in my heart that is mine. It is all open to you. Show me God, what you reveal to me, if you reveal to me that there is some little something in there, I will get it right. And I don't care if it means I have to go to somebody and confess or ask their forgiveness or offer them forgiveness. I don't care if it means I have to humble myself and get something right. I don't care if it means I've got to get something out of my life or into my life. Holy Spirit, if you will show me, I don't want to be false. I don't want to be that. I want to be what I say I am. Because God, I don't want to go through the motions. I don't want to be fruitless. I don't want to teach a class but teach it in the flesh. I don't want to drive the bus just and put the wheels on the road. I want you to work through me. And God, most of all, I don't want to be callous towards you. I don't want to claim that I'm a Christian for 30 years, 40 years, and I've learned it all and know it all. And have a cowus on my heart where you can't grip me and rip me and tell me that I need to get something right God, I want to respond to you because I don't want a new way. I don't want to be silly and run off to this. I just want revival power in my life I heard your testimonies a minute ago. We've got families that need us to walk with God. We've got adult children and grandchildren that need us to have the power of God all over us. We walk past people and see people, and we need the Spirit of God behind the track and behind our words and motivating our heart. We talk about divine appointments. Some of us are so cold in our walk with God, we wouldn't know it if he put it on our calendar. But we teach, we drive the bus, and we carry a KJV And we sing the hymns. We just don't like that one. And we just don't like that way. And we just think this and that. I want to tell you if there's ever going to be revival in this church and revival in your heart, it will be when us, to include this preacher, say, God, it's an open book to you. I'm not gonna act like I'm all okay. Because God, I know in my heart, even as this preacher preached this message, you reached down and you poked my heart. You poked it. Maybe you poked it about Bible study and prayer. Are you praying? Maybe he poked it about witnessing. Maybe he poked it because there's something hidden there towards someone or bitterness. Maybe you've even thought, man, maybe I need to find someplace else. Hey, you know what the answer of God was? Here was. He said, if they would just cry unto me If they would just cry unto me. He said, I've sent them prophets. Hosea, I've sent them you. I sent them others. Amos has been there. Jeremiah's preached. They won't hear the prophets. I won't tell you, and then I'm done. I really am. I believe revival meetings like this, thank God, preacher, for scheduling this. Because I think these are on purpose by God for us. And may our testimony never be, well, he sent Sam Davison, but they wouldn't hear. And they sent Lou Rossi, but they wouldn't hear. And and they sent this one and that one, but they sat and they said amen, but they didn't hear. They didn't change. Well, they even sent The late great Mike Edwards. And I poked their heart. Well, they knew I poked them good But they didn't humble themselves. And some people will say they left the same as they came in. Oh no, no, no. God pokes you and you don't respond, you leave a lot worse than you came in. Cry out to God. God says, I've sent prophets. If you cry out to me, I'll hear you and we'll get it right. And we will live again. I'll speak to you from my word again. I'll answer your prayers again. I'll walk with you again. You'll see victories again. Just cry. Out. One verse said they sat on their beds, they had their corn and their wine, but they refused to cry out to God. Oh, we got our warm houses, we got our cars, we got our jobs, we got our life all lined up. We've just forgotten God. Would you pray with me tonight Father, I come to you tonight, and first of all, as this preacher, I pray that every person would understand But this rest this message was written to me. This is what you gave me about me And Lord, I don't ever want them to think that in pride or haughty spirit I'm preaching down to them or preaching hard to them when I haven't dealt with it myself. God, I absolutely do not want to be false. I don't want to be false Because I know that being false will lead to me being fruitless in God. I do not want to live a fruitless life. I don't want your word to be a blank page to me I don't want my prayers to bounce off the ceiling. I don't want my family to need a man of God to lead them and not have one. God help us. Help us not to be so callous, so hard in our hearts, that we'll hear you and know you poked our heart. And just swell up in pride and say, well, I'll deal with it my way. How about dealing with it God's way? Cry out to Him. Because God, I never want to be a silly old man who runs off to find something new when right in his hand is the Word of God, right in his view is the Church of God. So Lord, I pray for every believer here. That Lord, if your Holy Spirit walked up and down their row and touched their heart, that they absolutely would respond to you. I pray for anyone here tonight that is making the ultimate false testimony. They're here acting as if they're saved. Maybe they've got some experience they're holding on to, but they know every time they hear it, their heart is tore up. They know they don't know Christ. May they come tonight and let us take a Bible and show them how they can be saved. Lord, you've worked in us. You've done your work. Holy Spirit, it's up to you, and I pray that you would speak to hearts, and I pray that each and every one of us would respond. I pray it in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand to our feet. The pianist is playing if God's spoken.