I want to read verses 2, 3, and 4, and we're actually going to look at verse 4, a little statement there, actually the verse itself, but there's a statement in verse 4 I want to zero in on. Verse number two of 2 Peter 1 says, Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus Christ our Lord, according as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue. Now verse 4 is what we want to look at tonight. Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises, that by these, these exceeding great and precious promises, that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust. I've entitled it great and precious promises. Let's pray. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for a good day. Lord, if we just love the Lord's Day and the privilege of assembling together in your name and sing praises. Lord, having all these little babies and their families here this morning. What a joy. And now we've come together tonight, Lord, one more time today. We're asking, I'm asking you, Lord, to meet with us I pray your presence would be here. I pray, Father, you'd speak to our hearts, take your word, apply it to our lives as you know we have need. Prepare us for the week ahead. To be a good witness, to walk with you, to honor you with our lives. We ask that you would bless us each day as we do walk with you and seek to please you. I ask now that you would fill me with your Spirit, Lord, and that you would speak through me the truths that are given in this passage here And open our hearts and minds that we'd be receptive to it. I ask all this in Jesus' name. Amen. The Bible is full of promises. Years ago, my father was when he was still living back in Pennsylvania, was up visiting one time, and um we got talking about the Lord and different things, the Bible, and He he said, I want to show you something. He went and he got a little he got a notebook out from where he sat he sat at the kitchen table. He had a little place there. Of course it was just him, so he'd spread out the kitchen table And he got a notebook, he said, I want to show you. He said, last year I went through and he read his Bible through, he'd read it at least once every year, and uh he said, I wrote down in this notebook every promise I came across And I'm telling you, he had a notebook just full of promises that he wrote the reference and then wrote that verse out. From Genesis to Revelation, a whole notebook full of promises. I came across some statistics. I can't prove these. I assume they're true. I've seen no reason not to think they're not. But they say that in the Old Testament there's over 2,800 promises. Throughout the Old Testament. Somebody came up with that. In the New Testament, they say there is over 1,000 promises of God in the New Testament. Over 3,800 promises given to us throughout Scripture. Oh, what an amazing thing The first promise, one of, I should say, the first promises in the Old Testament is found in Genesis chapter 3 and verse 15. And there God promises, he's addressing Adam and Eve and the serpent. after the fall of man. And he promises there that one day a virgin-born Savior Would show up and he would crush the head of Satan. Now the term used in the Bible is bruise his head. He says this seed of woman, this virgin-born Savior, would one day bruise the head of Satan. I did a little study on that word bruise there. It means this, it means literally to crush flat. Now we think of a bruise, you get a little spot in your arm, you know, you bruised your arm or you bruised your eye or something. The word there is much more than just a little bump. It means to crush Now I think it's interesting. One of the first promises in the Bible is that one day Jesus Christ is going to crush the head of Satan. Crush him. At the cross he did, actually. Crush the head of Satan. Seems like Satan's alive and well on planet Earth, doesn't it? He's walking about seeking whom he may devour. There's no doubt about that. But I'm telling you, he's a defeated foe And one day we'll see that firsthand. So one of the first promises in the Bible is that this virgin-born Savior, Jesus Christ. Would crush, bruise, crush the head of the serpent of Satan. It's interesting, one of the first promises in the New Testament Was given to Mary when the angel announced the birth of Christ. And the angel instructed her to name this virgin-born baby Jesus. Why? For he shall save his people from their sins. The first promise in the Old Testament, one of, one of the first promises in the New Testament references Jesus Christ defeating Satan and making salvation possible. Man, what great promises. One of the last promises, perhaps the very last promise in the Old Testament It's found in Malachi chapter 4, verse 5 and 6, and it's associated with the first coming of Christ. He's prophesying of the ministry of John the Baptist as he prepares the way. For the coming Savior. As John the Baptist prepares the way, a voice in the wilderness preparing the way for the coming Messiah, the coming Savior, the coming Christ. The last promise in the Old Testament talks about Jesus Christ coming the first time. The last promise in the New Testament Revelation chapter number 22 and verse 20, Jesus promised this, behold, I come quickly. Last promise in the Old Testament references the first coming of Christ. Last promise in the New Testament references the second coming of Jesus Christ. I'm glad God has promised that Jesus is coming back again. We look forward to that day. Promises. 2,800 and more in the Old Testament over 1,000 in the New Testament. Great promises. Now The promises given to us in God's Word. Some of these promises come in the form of warnings. For instance, and uh um in Genesis back there actually Previous to the reference we had of uh of uh the steed of woman bruising the head of Satan of the serpent Just before that, Jesus God made a promise to Adam and Eve. You know what that promise was? The day you eat thereof, thou shalt surely what? Die. It was a promise in the form of a warning Some promises are conditional. In other words, God will promise something if his people or whoever it's addressed to, if you do this Then I'll do this. Some of God's promises are conditional. For instance, Matthew 6. 33, seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and what? All these things will be added unto you. But there's a condition there. You seek first my kingdom. And then all these things will be added unto you. So some promises in the Bible are in the form of warning. Some promises in the Bible are conditional. I have to do something. You have to do something to receive that promise, claim that promise. Some promises in the Bible are unconditional God made promises to Abraham and to David concerning the kingdom and the throne of David. And these are unconditional promises, whatever they say or do. God says, I promise this is going to happen. Would you agree with me? The second coming of Jesus Christ is an unconditional promise. He doesn't say, well, if you do this and don't do that, then I'll come back. No, he says, I'm coming back. Doesn't matter what you do or don't do. Unconditional promises. Some promises in the Bible are unconditional. Some promises in the Bible are given to specific individuals. God's talking to a specific individual and make a promise to that person. Some promises in the Bible are to the nation of Israel. And it's specific to them. It doesn't apply to the church. It doesn't apply to an individual person. It applies to the nation of Israel. Some promises in the Bible are given to all mankind in general. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be what? Shall be saved. That's to all mankind. Some promises are to sinners. The soul that sinneth it shall surely. It's a promise of God. Promises, promises. And so let me just throw this out there, just a caution. Whenever we claim a promise, is everybody listening? I have your attention. Whenever we claim a promise We need to look and see who's it addressed to. I can't claim some promises that God gave to Abraham. God promised Abraham that his offspring would be as numerous as what Stars in heaven, the sands of the sea. I can't claim that promise. How many people are glad there's not infinite number of Dennis Leathermans running around? Praise the Lord for that. I heard that. Amen, somebody So promises of God. Now we come to our text. Peter says here, whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises. Now I got looking at this and I'm saying, all right, what promises is he talking about? What specific promises are exceeding great and precious? And you know what I found? I can't find any specific promises he references. I think in studying this and looking at it and the context and everything I think he's not referring to any specific promise of God. He's just referencing the promises of God in general. Just these promises that God has given to us, particularly as believers. And they're exceeding precious. They're exceeding great and precious, he says. Three thoughts real quick, and uh we'll get to Lord's Supper. Number one, I want us to notice the channel. of these promises. And I get that from the first word of verse 4. He says, whereby are given unto us. Whereby. That word whereby means has this idea, the channel through which they flow. Whereby are given unto us these promises? How are they given to us? Where do these promises, what's the source and how do they get to us? The channel or the conduit you could say that these ch these promises come to us. We were looking, we got a stump out here or a tree we had to cut down for uh uh did we cut it down for the building or was it dead We cut it down for the building. It's dead now. And um but there's a stump out here and Byrne was talking to me. He said, I'll get a grinder, we'll grind that stump up and get out there. And he said this. He says, Are there any lines that come up along that stump anywhere that I gotta watch out for. And I said, yeah, I know there's a water line comes right up there. Somebody said, how in the world does the water get from the road to up into our building? It has a channel it goes up through. There's some uh uh what do you call it? Just wait uh There's a pipe that runs from the road up to the church, and that's the channel, that's the conduit through which that water gets here. and uh and uh uh meets the needs in the church. What's the channel, what's the conduit of these promises of God? Notice what he says, whereby he's referring back to a previous statement When he says whereby, he's referring back, and I believe he's referring back to verse number three. And look at the first part of verse three. He says, according as his what Divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain to life and godliness. I think he's setting the stage for his reference to these promises And what he's saying is this, the power of God is behind the promises of God. The power of God. Do you ever anybody here ever promise someone someone something and then you realize, man, I can't do that. I I I'm not able to even do that. You promised something, but then you thought about it, I'm not even able to do that. Anybody Can I get anybody? We do that sometimes. Oh yeah, well, oh yeah, we're going to go to California. So wait a minute. How am I going to go to California? I'm glad for this. When God makes a promise, He has power behind it. To keep that promise. Whereby are given unto us exceeding great. Whereby what? By His divine power. His divine power. Whatever troubles may assail, of this we can be sure. God's promises never fail, they always will endure. The power of God is behind the promises of God. We don't have to worry about whether God's going to keep a promise or not. His power, his divine power is behind it. Number two, I want us to notice the character of these promises. He uses a few words to describe what these promises are like. Notice what he says. He says, whereby are given to us, notice that next statement, exceeding great. Would you agree with me? If he said these promises were great, that would be great. If he just said these are great promises, you know, we'd be all excited about that. But he doesn't say, just say they're great promises. He said they're what? Exceeding great promises. He is emphasizing the fact that these promises are over. In fact, the word itself, exceeding great. I love the definition of that phrase. It comes from a word that has this idea, the greatest of the great. My first thought under the character of these promises, number one, they are paramount. What does the word paramount mean? Anybody? The highest, the paramount. The word paramount means superior to all others The highest available. The Paramount Point in Maryland is just out here by Silver Lake. You climb up there, highest point in Maryland. You can't go any higher and be on ground and still be in Maryland The paramount. Peter says these promises are the greatest of the great The promises of God, there is nothing. There are no promises above or greater than the promises of God. Over and above the greatest. There are no greater promises than God's promises. I tell you, man likes to make promises, doesn't he? Politicians like to make promises. Sometimes preachers make promises. Sometimes parents make promises they didn't even know they made the promise. Child says, Can we go to Dairy Queen? You say, Well, maybe. That's in their mind. We're gone. Right? We promised. I didn't promise, I said maybe. I tell you, there's no promise man can come up with that's greater than God's promises. His promises are the greatest of the great. Paramount. Not only are they paramount, exceeding great, but then he says they're precious promises The word precious, we talked about it in the message this morning, it means to be highly valued, greatly valued, highly praised, very costly. The word precious is used 14 times in the New Testament. Peter uses it three times, if you would. Come back to 1 Peter, come back to chapter 1. Of 1 Peter, just a page or two there before. Chapter 1, look with me at verse number 7 Peter uses the word precious three times in his two letters. Verse 7, he says that the trial of your faith Being much more precious than of gold that perisheth. I think he's referring to our faith. It's very precious. Our faith is more precious than gold. You know it's better to have faith in God than it is to have money in the bank? Faith is more precious than gold. Even when it's tried. In fact, when it's tried, it gets stronger. And then if you would, come over to ch uh verse number 19 of chapter 1. But look at 18. For as much as you know you're not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from the others. But with the what? Precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without spot. Oh, the blood of Jesus Christ is precious. Then here he talks about these precious promises, precious promises. Let me give you a few promises that God has given to you and I as believers. How many folks here tonight you're saved to know it? Say amen. Here's a couple promises that God, by his divine power, has given to you and I. Now I want us to think how precious they are. Let's in your mind, when I list one of these promises, picture it on a on one side of a sheet of paper, you draw a line down the middle, on the other side, we're going to give a financial value to this promise We're going to put some sort of material value to this promise. See which is greater. Alright, for instance, first of all, if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, all of our sins are forgiven. Now how much money is there that's worth having my sins forgiven? Infinite. There'll never be enough money. I tell you what, you can die a multi-billionaire, but if your sins are forgiven, you're a poor man. I mean, sins are not forgiven, you're a poor man. Right? I'm telling you, right now, man, this whole world, man, I don't have lots of money, lots of money, lots of money. Tell you what, having our sins forgiven is far greater value, much more precious Than having lots and lots of money. Let me give you another one. If we're saved, if we know the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, God has promised answered prayer. A little conditional there. There's some ki conditions. How much is worth getting our prayers answered? If I had a choice between getting my prayers answered or having X number of dollars or of this type of house or drive this kind of car or wear these fancy clothes. If I had a choice between the two, I'll know about you, but I'd take answered prayer Brother, that's infinite resources. Say, oh yeah, if I had five billion dollars, I wouldn't need God to answer my prayer. I got to tell I hear to tell you, God has more than five billion dollars And not only that, if you had $5 billion, you'd probably be messed up. Right? Mess us up. And so we have forgiveness of sins. That's a good promise. Amen? That's a good promise. There we go. Answered prayer. How about this one? The gift of the Holy Spirit. I think we forg miss this. I can't get over it. The Holy Spirit of God lives inside me. Never alone. I'm I'm reading when I like to come in, listen to the choir, practicing, and uh they sound pretty good. And I like to sit back there and I got a book, uh a couple books on my phone I like to read. I'm reading right now about love stories of missionaries. How about that? How many people for a moment there you thought love stories? And uh I'm reading love stories of missionaries. I was reading one uh tonight and uh I'm not familiar with the missionaries in Mongolia. These are good guys. And uh he went alone. And he's in Mongolia by himself, young man in his early, mid-twenties Sold out for God. He wants to reach people with the gospel. And he said this in his story. He said that he got so lonely. In Mongolia, so lonely that he thought of taking his own life. Now, here's a young man dedicated to Christ, sold out for the Lord. He's lonely. And then he said, This, but I found comfort. In the fact that the Holy Spirit of God indwells me, and I'm never really alone. I'll tell you, that's worth more than all the money in the world. That's worth more than the biggest, fanciest house. That's better than owning an island in the Caribbean. Holy Spirit of God indwells within me. Promises, exceeding great and precious promises. How about this one? Assurance and security of salvation. Brother, I wouldn't give that up for all the world. What's it worth to know, to lay my head down at night on my pillow and to know that God accepts me? God accepts me in the person of Christ and He will never ever abandon me. He'll never leave me. He'll never forsake me. My salvation is secure. And let me ask you this. What does this world have to offer that's more precious than that? Nothing. Nothing. Uh how about this promise? Um resurrection from the dead. Um I'm I referenced my daddy. I've been thinking about my daddy a lot lately But I read, uh I tell you, what a wonderful promise that someday rise from the dead, we'll be together in physical bodies again. Won't that be a wonderful thing? Resurrection from the dead. Say, well, I'll give you $10 million if you abandon the hope of ever seeing your father again. I wouldn't take it. I wouldn't even think about taking that Nothing's worth. Nothing is more precious than the promise that one day our bodies will rise from the dead. That a wonderful promise? Exceeding great and precious. Hey, I want to remind you, this life is not all it is to life. Our time here on earth is just a very small segment of our existence. And God promised that one day our bodies will rise from the dead. We'll have him back again. Um an eternal the promise of eternal life. I give unto them eternal life. What is that worth? I'm here to tell you. I'm here to tell you, and I tried to say this this morning, there is nothing in this world worth going to hell for. If you could have anything material, anything and everything you wanted materially, or you could have eternal life, let me ask you which is more precious? I'll take eternal life any day. Remember a fellow in the Bible named Lazarus? He's a poor man. He was covered in sores. In fact, he was so poor that he ate the crumbs that fell from the rich man's table. Everybody remember that Luke's in Luke? That rich man had everything. He fared sumptuously every day. There was nothing that his heart wanted that he could not or did not have. Oh little Lazarus, I'd see them all skin and bones, bray skin, eyes sunk in, hair maybe real thin falling out. Just trying to find a little bit to satisfy the overwhelming cravings of hunger. That little poor man, Lazarus, that poor Lazarus. He had something that rich man, I guarantee you today, wishes so badly he'd have had. That poor Lazarus had eternal life through faith in Christ, and he died. The Bible says the rich man died. Here's one of the saddest statements in the Bible, and in hell. He lifted up his eyes, being in torments, and he said, Father Abraham, send Lazarus that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and call my tongue, for I'm tormented in these flames. Let me ask you a question. You think the promise of eternal life is precious? Man, it's exceeding great. It's the greatest of the great promises. And so Peter references the character of these promises. I put this down. It's better to go through life as a poor sick beggar than to miss the promises of God. My last thought is this. I want us to consider the creation of these promises. Now here's what I mean by that. What is the objective? What do these promises accomplish in my life? These exceeding great promises, these precious promises. What do they accomplish when I get them? Look what he says here in verse 4 2 Peter 1. Whereby are given to us exceeding great and precious promises. The power of God is behind it. Their character here is their bet better than the best They're precious. Alright, what do they produce? That ye by the that by these ye might be, and he mentions two things that these promises will do for us. Number one, he says that ye might be partakers of the divine nature. I think it's interesting. What do these promises produce? Nowhere does he say they'll produce prosperity. Well, God's promised everybody to be rich. I'm telling you, that is a bunch of baloney. That's Greek for nonsense. This stuff on TV. He doesn't say you're going to be prosperous. Is there anything wrong with being prosperous? No. But that's not what these promises produce. Prosperity in my life Say, well, I'm going to claim God's promises, I'll be rich. You're barking up the wrong tree, my friend. He doesn't say it'll be great pleasures. Oh, I claim the promises of God, it's just going to be great. That's not what he says In fact, some of the people in the Bible that claimed the promises of God were very poor and suffered, persecuted intensely, but they had something exceeding great and precious. So what do these promises produce? What do they accomplish? Well notice he says here, as I said, partakers of the divine nature. Word partaker there means to be an associate, to be a companion with, to share in. It does not mean that we become gods. Says we're a partaker of God's nature. When we claim God's promises, when we meet the conditions of God's promises, it alter our very nature. It changes who and what we are. I'm convinced when we come to the Word of God and we get some instruction or we get some warning or we get some These promises of God, and we claim them, and we follow the instructions, and we heed the warnings, God begins to change us. Being transformed by the renewing of your mind And we begin to take on the characteristics of God. Not the omniscience, we're not going to be all-knowing, not all-powerful, but the moral characteristics. What did they call those early believers at Antioch? They called them a name. What did they call them? Christians. The believers were first called Christians at Antioch. Did you know that name was given to them by the enemies of God? It was a derogatory name. They're making fun of them. You know why they called them Christians? Because the way they behave and the way they talked and the way they interacted and the way they lived their lives, it reminded them of Christ. The word Christian means little Christ. I wonder how many people in the job watch you and listen to what you say, watch how you live, what your values are, your attitude. And I wonder how many say, boy, you know, he reminds me of Jesus. I wonder how many in the office or in the market watch us. How we behave, how we dress, our attitude, how we treat the waitress. Boy, that she's just like Jesus She has the characteristics of Jesus Christ. Wonder how many people say that. How many people think that of us? Wonder how many people come visit our church. Listen to us. Talk to us afterward. Watch us. See how we behave. What our attitudes are. What our countess is like. They walk out and say, boy, that church, that reminds me of the Lord. Those folks remind me of Christ. Peter said Peter said that God has given to us these phenomenal promises. In his word, some are warnings, some are promises to claim. He said, God has given to thee so that We can be a partaker of God's nature. We can be altered in our very nature. Not be the way we were. I wonder how many children grow up and say, boy, Daddy reminded me so much of Jesus. Mommy just seemed like God was in her. That's what he says these promises will do. I believe we need to get in that old book. We need to meditate on that. We need to memorize that. We need to ingest the Word of God, the promises of God, claim them, follow his instructions. And God says he'll develop in us, he'll change our nature. We'll begin to pick up the characteristics, the attributes of God, partakers. Of the divine nature. Wow. Wow. Early Christians were called little Christ. There was a, when I was in Bible college, there was a fellow in the seminary there, and this was back Lesterolo. How many people are familiar with Lester Olaf? Yeah. Uh there was a uh fellow there and he was an avid disciple of Lester Olaf, and Lester Olaf had some strange eating convictions. And uh if you listen to the radio, they'll come out uh every now and then. And he was on this kick for a while that all you should drink, all you should eat, all you should ingest in your body is uh uh is uh carrot juice And he had these um not liquefiers. What is something you put it in and it grinds up? What is it? A juicer And so he was advocating uh and so this guy in seminary, this young fellow, he's on fire for God, Lester Rolf said uh uh uh carrot juice. So he got him a juicer and he made a decision. All he was going to do was eat carrot juice, drink carrot juice in the morning for breakfast, afternoon for lunch, and all he did for like weeks was drink carrot juice And uh my one professor, he says, I'm telling you, the old boy turned orange. He said it got in the pigmentation of his skin, and he literally turned orange. He eventually became president for a while there, but uh no I'm kidding. That was a joke, that part But uh the first part was actually true. Now listen, this is what I want to suggest to you, according to this, according to Peter here in verse 4, that if we will ingest the word of God We will take in the promises of God, follow his instructions, heed his warnings, claim his promises. We won't turn orange. But we will become partakers of the divine nature. It'll change us. It'll make us different. We're more like Christ and less like the world. So partakers, and then last of all, and notice he says one more thing, these promises, these exceeding great and precious promises. Look what they'll do. Partakers of the divine nature, and then he says this: having escaped The corruption that is in the world through lust. Number one, partakers of divine nature. That's what these promises produce. Number two, prevent the world's corruption. From coming in my life. The word corruption means to uh decay, to ruin. It means to break down. You got an old dead possum laying along the road. It sets there for a week And uh man, that thing begins to break down and uh uh it begins to corrupt and decay and uh stink. And your dog gets loose and gets in that thing and comes home smelling like it. And he says, the corruption that is in the world If I get to these precious promises, if I claim them and hold on to them, make them part of my life, I can escape. It'll prevent that corruption that is out in the world or prevent it from beingcome a part of my life. Would you agree with me this world is characterized by moral corruption? Morally corrupt. There's so many good things in this world. There's so many amazing things in this world. But at the root, it is morally corrupt. I was watching this afternoon Nassau um had uh they shot a rocket up into uh to the space station. They got four Astronauts are shooting up there. Anybody see that? They had it. It's about five o'clock. It came on live. You could watch it. They got cameras in the cab, in the is it cab Uh where they wherever they're sitting, they got cameras in there. They got cameras down along the side. It's amazing. You'd see that whole thing and the pieces, uh, the the set the sections, the um uh what are they called Uh the sections break off and one came back down and landed and uh then they went up and then the last capsule came loose, uh shot loose, it was supposed to, and it's going in, there are people in there. I was walk I was captivated by that. I said it's just phenomenal that we're able to do this And he could watch it all live. They're up there now. They went from zero, sitting there on the launch pad, they went from zero to over a thousand miles an hour in like a minute It's phenomenal. And I said to my wife, I was watching that there, I said, you know, man is capable of doing such incredible things. But we're so morally corrupt. And Peter's writing to these believers, and he says, God has given us his word. He has given us exceeding great precious promises and those promises his word has given to us can help us keep us From being becoming a part of the moral corruption that this world is. Prevent corruption. Prevent corruption. The world's characterized by moral corruption, by spiritual decay. Peter said in chapter 3, verse 1 through 5, then again in verse 13, he said this corruption is just going to increase. In the last days, evil men and seducers will what? Wax worse and worse. And our defense Protecting our heart, guarding our lives, our minds from this corruption that is in this world, our best defense is the promises of God. Our best defense against sinful lust is the precious Word of God. Word of God. I've been pushing this since day one. We were talking about in Sunday school. I've been pushing this since day one. Every child of God ought to spend a little bit of time every day in the Word of God. Ought to be taking that thing in. We push to memorize verses. I want to get the Word of God in my mind. I want the promises of God to permeate my heart and soul and mind. Word of God. It'll change my very nature and make me more like Christ. It'll prevent me from becoming like the world around me. Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against God. Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his ways By taking heed thereto, according to the word. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the godly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the sea of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord And in his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, whose leaf does not wither, and um and uh God will bless it. Right there. Exceeding great. Precious. Given to us. The power of God stands behind this book. That's our defense against an old sinful world. An old corrupt mind, my own sinful lust. This book right here. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us. To love your word, to delight your word. Help us to learn and claim your promises. And Lord, whatever we go through in life, we know you'll never leave us, you'll never forsake us. I pray you'd help us to deliberately and diligently seek out these promises and let them change us. Seek out your word and let it change us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I need God's word to have a bigger place in my life than what it does? I need to get that thing every day. I need to. I need to get that book. Get those promises. Any like that, preacher? I need to be more diligent. I need to be more consistent And spending time with God in His Word. Father in heaven, a lot of hands raised. We need your Holy Spirit to help us, provoke us. To seek the Word of God, to love it, cherish it, memorize it, meditate it, study it, live it. Help us in Jesus' name. Amen