That's number 18, 2 Peter 2, verse 18. The Bible says Peter, of course, is pending this to these earl these early church believers. And the overwhelming majority of them will probably all of them are first generation believers, and so they are young in the Lord in many ways. And he says this. He says, for when they, and that's referring to these false teachers, we'll touch on that in a moment, when they speak great swelling words of vanity. They allure through the lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that are clean escape from them who live in error. Boy, what he uses these powerful words, tremendous words here. Great swelling words of vanity That's what I want to talk about tonight and see if God will help us. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I asked you to bless now our study of this passage, this verse And Lord, we believe with all our hearts that you have given this verse to us by inspiration, the old book, and particularly this passage for us tonight. We believe every word of it is true. And so we ask that you would take the thoughts here, the truths that are given here, the ideas, principles, and I pray your Holy Spirit would apply to each of our hearts and lives and to our church as a whole. And that you would help us to be aware of the dangers, spiritual dangers facing us. I yield my will to you now, Lord, in this hour. Present my body anew, and I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and that you would speak through me and challenge and help us tonight. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen We're plugging our way here through chapter two of Peter, and he is just continually hammering on this issue of false teachers. it filtering into the church. And uh you know, you know, I I felt a little bad because in Sunday school it's almost verbatim the same thing as I keep saying But we're working our way through, and this is uh the Word of God, and so uh we keep looking at this, but uh Peter is just uh not pulling any punches here. Um he's uh uh he's warning them of various things. First of all, we warn them about their doctrine. Back in verse number one, it says, there'll be false teachers among you. They'll privily bring in damnable heresies. And so their doctrine is awful. Their doctrine isn't just in error. They're not making mistakes. These are damnable heresies. And then he goes on, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction. So he warns about their doctrine, their teaching. And we as a church, and we keep saying this over and over and over, we as a church, we've got to be very, very careful that we are not influenced by wrong doctrine. We have to be very, very careful. Doctrine is vitally important. Any church that says they're going to set aside doctrine for unity is making a terrible, terrible mistake. Doctrine is important. So he's warning them. There's going to be false doctrine coming. Then he warns them, and we've already looked at this, but verses 3 through 6, he's warning them, saying, listen, these guys are going to come under severe judgment And he reaches back into the Old Testament, gives illustrations of how God judged people who rejected his word. He judged people who rejected who uh mistreated the word of God and deliberately uh uh denied the teaching of the word of God. So severe judgment, and we looked at all that. Then in uh uh chat in verses 10 through 17 He addressed their behavior, these false teachers, their doc their behavior and their their conduct and uh their character, what kind of people they were. We looked at that last week And these are not good guys. These are not just innocent fellows that misinterpreted some scripture. These are bad men. They are they are Peter or in first in Timothy Paul tells Timothy that these are doctrines of devils Would you agree with me? That's a pretty strong statement. And I'm convinced behind every false doctrine there is a devil promoting it. I'm absolutely convinced of that. So these guys are not good guys. They're very, very bad guys. They know what they're doing. They're doing it deliberately, and they're doing it deceptively And he describes their character. Now we come to this verse, and he addresses, and the following verses, but we're just going to look at this one tonight. He uh addresses their words He's warning these believers about the words that these false teachers are using. Look at, oh, go back to verse 3. He actually touches on it earlier in the chapter. He says, who through covetousness shall they with, what's that next two words? Feigned words. What are feigned words? That's not a real common word. False, phony, they're uh putting on a show, it's fake. In other words, they they're saying one thing, but they're actually pursuing something else. They're putting on a facade with their words. Then over in eighteen, notice what we just read, he says, For when they speak, their words are great swelling words of vanity. They allured with these words through the lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that were clean escape from them who live in error. Then verse 19, he goes on. He says, while they promise them liberty, their words, what they're saying, they themselves are the servants of corruption. For whom a man is overcome, of the same he is brought in bondage. So he's addressing the words that these guys are you. And he says, watch out for their words. Words are powerful. We underestimate the power of the word. Now, I want to look at a bunch of verses tonight, so I hope you've got your Bibles handy. And I hope your page turning fingers are exercised up because we're going to but look at a bunch here. And I want you to turn to them. If you would, come with me. Keep your place here. We're going to come back to this Oh, in an hour or so. And um, no, I'm kidding. Uh uh Hebrews. Come with me if you would to Hebrews chapter 11. Just a few pages there towards the front of your Bible Hebrews, 2 Peter, 1 Peter, James, and then Hebrews. And look with me if you would at verse number 3. Hebrews 11:3. Through faith, we understand. Now look at this: that the words, the worlds, were framed by the what? By the word of God. So that things which are seen are not made of things which do appear. Paul is telling us here in this passage that God created the world through his words He spoke the universe, the solar system, he spoke it into existence. Wow. Words have power, don't they? God can just speak something into existence. Now you and I, I got news for you, you and I cannot just speak things into existence. Wouldn't that be great? I'm going to speak a million dollars into existence. I'm going to speak a record-breaking largemouth bass onto my hook. I tell you, if we were able to speak things into existence, this place would be in a bigger mess than what it already is So you and I, we we we don't have that power. God is omnipotent. His word is omnipotent, his word is all powerful. You and I, our words, we cannot speak things into existence, but Our words have tremendous effect on people, on one another. Words are powerful. Our words do a whole lot more than just communicate information. Sometimes we'll say things we're just giving information. Um I'm working on the bulletin, I'll Jackie's in the work in the office. I'll say Jackie What's our new building fund balance? So I can put it in the bulletin. She'll give me information. She'll use words, give me information. Words can be and usually are much more than simply communicating some information. They can profoundly affect the people around us. Words can profoundly affect us. Words are powerful. Words are powerful. The Bible talks a lot about the impact and the influence of our words on our families. on our coworkers, on our church, on our community. If you would, now here's where we're going to start jumping. Come back to Ephesians chapter 4 with me, if you would. Ephesians. And we're just looking at a handful of verses here. We could go for hours. There are literally hundreds of verses that either expressly say or illustrate the power of the words we say. Ephesians chapter number 4 and verse number 29, and actually the Ephesians says quite a bit about our words. Look at verse 29. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. If something's corrupt, what is it? It's bad, it's yucky, it's spoiled, it's it's uh uh it can be evil He's telling us here that you and I ought to be very, very careful about the kind of language we use. Come on now. We gotta be very very careful with that. No corrupt communication, no bad, uh, no, no, uh uh evil stuff coming off our lips. He says, let no, there's no exclusions here. There's no qualification. Let no corrupt communication. Every Christian's mouth ought to be pure But he goes on. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is what? Good. Now, why? What's the big deal? What's the matter? What words I say? Well, because look what he says. But that which is good to the use of edifying He's saying the words you and I say, we can either, that word edify means build up, strengthen, encourage. Our words can either build up, strengthen, encourage others, or if they're corrupt. They do the very opposite of that, and they'll tear down, and they'll discourage, and they'll defeat. Words are powerful. They can build up or they can tear down. And he goes on, he says, that it may minister grace to the hearers, our words. In other words, we say things and we say them in such a way that it can either build up the faith of another, strengthen their faith in God, or it can tear it down and diminish it and destroy the faith of others. Words are powerful. Words are powerful. Come with me, if you would, over to Colossians. Or back here to Colossians. Back towards the back of your Bible. A couple Pages Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians, chapter four Colossians chapter four and verse number six. Notice what he says here Let your speech be always with what? Grace. How do I let my speech be with grace? Grace is undeserved favor, undeserved blessing. He says, let your speech always be with grace. In other words, what I think he's saying is this, that the words we say and the words we use and the way we use them ought to be gracious to people. Grace helps us and strengthens us and helps us. Another way of saying it, our words ought to be kind and uplifting and helpful. Grace Notice he goes on, let your speech be always with grace, seasoned with salt. A little bit helpful there. It helps. And that you may know how you ought to answer every man. Why? Because it affects people. Our words affect people. If you would, come over all the way back to Proverbs. You're going to talk about words, and you're going to end up in Proverbs. You're going to look at what the Bible says about words. And again, it's all through Scripture. We could go to uh example after example after example where words were used to help and bless and build and encourage and words were used to tear down and and hurt and harm Proverbs chapter number 18, if you would. Proverbs 18. And uh two verses in this chapter, verse number eight. Proverbs 18, verse 8. The words of a tail bearer. What in the world is a tailbearer? Somebody help me. A liar could be, but there's something more specific. A gossip. A tailbearer. Tail bearer is somebody who says, did you hear about Nathan? Today is pick on Nathan Day. You're coming up on the platform you're getting picked on, brother. Oh, did you hear about Sister So and so? No, what did you hear? It's juicy Right? Do you hear what you hear what brother so and so said? No, what'd he say? No, I'm just saying this to pray for him, all right. That's that's Christian Gossip. The Bible says the words of a tailbearer, a gossip. Look what it says. The words of a tailbearer are as wounds. Look what it says. They go down into the innermost parts of the belly. I put in the margin of my Bible, gossip hurts deeply. Gossip hurts people. It hurts the one being gossiped about, and you're not helping the one you're gossiping to. You with me tonight? You guys are getting quiet on me here now. Look down at verse number 21. He puts it this way: Death and life are in the power of the tongue. Death and life. It's possible to say things that actually can lead to death. Or say things that lead to life We always like to see those news reports. I mean we don't like to, but we like the outcome is when somebody maybe is on a bridge and they're going to take their life or something, and somebody comes along and just talks to them And they're able, listen, they're able to use words to change that person's perspective about themselves and about their situation. And they can use words to change that person's view of their future. And they can talk them out of making a horrible, horrible, irreversible decision Words. Power of life and death. Life and death. Life and death. By the way, I just want to inject this here. That's why we ought to be very, very careful about the kind of music we listen to. Music contains words. It's communicating. The songs. We say, I just like the music. Yeah, but there's words connected with it, and those words are powerful. When I was growing up back in my teen years in the 70s, some of that music we listened to was absolutely satanic There was actually songs that promoted suicide. Big hits. I could name them to you. I tell you, I'll just throw this out. Those people stand before God We give an account for how their words and the music affected the entire generation. Words are powerful. Life and death, life and death are in the power of words. Come over, if you would, to chapter 12, Proverbs. Proverbs chapter twelve and verse six He said the words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood Well they want to hurt, they want to do damage. The words of the wicked lie and wait for blood. But the mouth of the upright shall deliver them He's saying words have an effect. Words are powerful. It affects people. Come over chapter 26, Proverbs. And notice with me if you would verse 20, Proverbs 26 and verse 20. It says, where no wood is, there the fire goeth out. So where the so where there is no tail bearer, the strife ceaseth. In other words, sometimes sometimes the best thing to do, now again, this this is worth the price of admission right here, okay? Sometimes the best thing to do is just keep my mouth shut. Sometimes we open our mouth, we say stuff. tail bear a little bit and man it and it and it becomes a big strife, becomes a big issue. The best thing I had someone years and years ago they were saying something and I kind of corrected them and they said, well maybe the best thing for me is just keep my mouth shut. And I just said, Amen. How many people here ever wished you'd have kept your mouth shut in a situation? Power of words, the influence of words. Peter's warning this church, these guys are coming in, they know how to use words. They can use it to manipulate and alter the direction a church is going. Look with me at verse 22 of chapter 26 here in Proverbs, verse 22. Again, this is a repeat of the one we read before. He says, the words of a tailbearer are as wounds. They go down into the innermost parts of the belly. Words are so influential. Our words are so influential that we, the Bible tells us, we will be held accountable. For the words we use. The words. Come with me to Matthew. Jesus says this. He pointed this out. Matthew, chapter number 12. And knowing the power and the influence of words, the Lord gives us a very serious warning. And I'm telling you, we need to take this seriously. I need to. Anybody uh and is there anybody here that in some in your throughout your life you you have words you regretted using Said things and you know you hurt somebody. Anybody here ever hurt somebody with your words? Now we always think of what other people say to hurt us But let's turn this around a little bit. We got a mouth and a tongue just like everybody else. And things that I and you and we have said. We've heard others and we regret it. We regret it. The Lord says, tells us that words are so influential, they are so powerful, that God's going to hold us accountable for how we use them. Look there at verse number 34 in Matthew chapter 12. Now, the Lord's using some strong language here. He's using some strong words. He says, O generation of vipers. Yikes. How can ye, being evil, speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh You know why a person tells lies? They got a dishonest heart. You know why a person tells dirty jokes and uses dirty words? They got a dirty heart. You know why people, you know why someone speaks selfish selfishly and all about me? It's all selfish, selfish, selfish. You know what? Because they got a what? Selfish heart. The tongue is directly tied to the heart. Somebody said the tongue is the uh project uh what were those things called? You put a thing on there and it speams it up What is it? Oh, I was right. Somebody said the tongue is the projector of the i uh of what's in the heart. So he says, Ye generation of vipers, how can you be in evil speak good things? For out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth good things. Good words in the context here. An evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. His words are evil. Now look what he says. But I say unto you, now he's being very firm here, that every idle word that men shall speak They shall give an account thereof in the day of judgment. Who that's something we need to stop and think about. For by, verse 37, for by thy words thou shalt be justified, by thy words thou shalt be condemned. Our words are so influential, our words are so powerful, our words have such an effect, either for positive or negative, for good or for evil, for to help and heal or to hurt and harm. Our words are so powerful, the Lord says you're going to be held accountable even in the idle words you say. You're going to be held accountable. Now if you agree with me, that's sobering thought. That's a sobering thought. Now, with all that in mind, come back and I'll finish up in 2 Peter, these guys coming in. And Peter is addressing their words, how they are using words and communicating to impact the church, to introduce Damnable heresies, and to alter the behavior of the body of Christ, inject wickedness and sinful living in. Notice what he says there in verse number 18. For when they speak Great swelling words of vanity. I noticed three things. I'm going to give it to you real quick here about these apostates' words. Number one, they were arrogant. He says great swelling words. That phrase great swelling means to be extravagant, to be proud. These were big-headed men with an inflated sense of self-worth. We are somebody, and you need to listen to us. You need to sit down and be quiet and listen to what we're saying. Um Great swelling words. It has the idea of being over the top in the in a flamboyant and pride. There's a big difference between being arrogant in our words and being confident in our words. Sometimes people mix the two up. When I'm preaching, when Dr. Williams, and we're preaching the Word of God, we can be very confident that what we're saying is right. Right? When we're preaching the Word of God Arrogancy is, I don't care whether it's right or wrong, I'm saying it, therefore you need to follow me. Alright? You see what I'm saying? That's the way that Peter's saying these guys were that way. They weren't concerned about being true to the Word of God. They weren't concerned about the will of God for the church or the individuals. They had their agenda and they were using words to advance their agenda. Arrogancy, arrogancy. Proud words characterize false doctrine. Number two, uh uh number, oh, by the way, let's uh real quickly, if you would. Stay here. Come over to First Corinthians chapter two. Paul mentions this about his preaching. And verse number one, Paul's defending himself of sorts to the church at Corinth. They have been criticizing him and uh trying to undermine his uh authority, his leadership And verse 1 of 1 Corinthians chapter 2, he says, And I, brethren, when I came to you, now look what he says, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom. He said it wasn't all about me and how great I am. My great wisdom, but uh declare but uh uh or wisdom declaring unto you the testimony of God Preaching the word of God, what God says. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and Him crucified And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in trembling. That doesn't sound very arrogant to me. Paul, fearful, Paul trembling. Paul. And he goes on, he says, and my speech And my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom. That's exactly what these apostates were doing. With enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power, that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the what Power of God. Power of God. You see the difference? These guys were coming in. Man, they had all the answers. They had their agenda. They were very arrogant. Paul said, I didn't come in that way. I was fearful, trembling. All I wanted to do was tell you the will of God, the testimony of God And get us, and I did it in the power of the Holy Spirit. This is what I was talking about in Sunday school this morning, the importance of being filled with the Holy Spirit, having the power of God upon us. It's not our great swelling words It's the power of the Holy Ghost using the power of God's word. He says they that's not what they're doing. That's not what they're doing. Come back, and the the second thing about their words is they were empty Great swelling, they speak great swelling words of vanity. The word vanity means to be devoid of truth, to be devoid or without any morals To be, in fact, the one definition was inappropriate. The words, great, swelling words, very arrogant, and their agenda, and what they're talking about was immoral. It was it was uh without morals. It wasn't true, it was inappropriate. Unclean words, untrue words, and we saw what the Bible says about that. That's the way these guys were. These guys were were using impressive, boastful words that were spiritually worthless. They did nothing to build up the faith of God's people. They did nothing to strengthen the the church of God and make it more effective in reaching the lost. They did none of that. It was empty, devoid of biblical truth, immoral. And then the third thing about their words is it was alluring. For they speak great swelling words of vanity, the allure through the lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that were clean escaped From them who live in error. The word allure means what you think it does, to bait, to beguile, to deceitfully trick somebody into something. To entice, to deceive. You know I enjoy fishing and I've got my some of my favorite lures and uh and uh brother Nathan and I fish together, others, Derek and I, and you throw that out there and boy you do that thing just right And those fish think that's a real food. And I deceive them and I beguile them and I lure them into eating something that's a piece of plastic. With a big hook in it. And they regret it every time. That's what these guys were doing. What they were presenting wasn't truth, it wasn't the will of God, it wasn't the word of God. But boy, they made it look so good. Hey, bring that thing in. And the people of God were biting it. And they're following it. And Peter's warning them, they're liars. They're deceiving you What they're teaching you and the way they're leading you is not the word of God. It's not the will of God. Their words were alluring. Notice what their bait was They allured through the lusts of the flesh. That's the sinful desires that our flesh wants, but God forbids. The lusts of the flesh. Anybody here? Come on. We're just a little crowd tonight. Let's be honest. Anybody here, your old flesh wanted something, you knew it wasn't right? Anybody, yeah. If you're unless you're dead, uh that old flesh is alive and well. And they played on that and they knew the sinful desires of the old flesh And they'd play on that and they'd allure that. That was their bait. Hey, we can fulfill this lust. You can fulfill this desire. And we think of lust of the flesh, we think of sensual type things, but it's a lot more than that. It could be pride, it could be materialism, it could be any number of things that the flesh desires that God forbids. And that was their bait, that was their allurement through the lusts of the flesh. And they lure them over here to a false doctrine and living in ungodliness. And then he uses the word wantonness. They allure using their words through the lust of the flesh and through much wantonness. Now, what is wantonness? We don't use that word much. It means lawlessness. Here's one definition that helped me understand what Peter was saying here through wantonness. The word wantonness has this idea: the ability to sin. Without any shame. You can engage in sin, and you don't have to be ashamed of it. In fact, you could be proud of it. And that's how these guys were luring the church. How many people say no Christian would ever fall for that Oh yeah, they do all the time. I do all the time. And these guys were using the power of their words. And they were alluring people to live lives as professing believers, a church, these are God's people, they're fooling, they're infiltrating, they're deceiving. To live lives that are absolutely shameful, but convince them they don't have to be ashamed of it. Remember back years ago, remember long time ago when people used to blush Remember a long time ago when people used to be ashamed? Seems like we've lost that, haven't we? Even in our churches. Ashamed. And these guys were convincing them that you can sin and not be ashamed of that sin. Anyone, now get this. Anyone that suggests That there is no shame in sin. And anyone that suggests that a Christian has a license to sin is of the devil. There is shame in sin, and we do not have a license to sin. God never gives a license to anybody, especially his children, to sin. That is an affront to God And there's this idea, and you you it's not real big, but there's idea in it, even in some of our independent Baptist churches, a little bit was going around that since we're saved by grace. We're no longer under the law. We can live and we can sin and we can engage in anything. We don't have to worry about it. We're all under grace. And we have no restrictions and we can just live however. I'm telling you, that is nowhere in God's word. We're not under the law. I think I just preached this not too long ago. We're not under the law. Christ fulfilled the law for us, but we have a higher law as believers. We're under the law of love. And because of what Christ has done for us, because of this great salvation he's given to us, this great deliverance he's given to us, we want to live for him and be pure and godly and do right Not in to for we fear his wrath, but because we love him. And anybody suggests that someone saved by grace can live in sin and not be ashamed of it is of the devil. That's what exactly what these guys were saying. Oh, you can go ahead and enjoy yourself. Live it up You're saved by grace. God, you're free from all of that. In fact, if you notice there in verse 19, they use the their favorite word, liberty Liberty. Now I'm way ahead of myself, but liberty for a believer is not liberty to sin, it's liberty from sin. So their victims, notice who their victims were, and I'll end with this. They allure through the lust of the flesh and through much wantonness, that's their bait. You can give in, you can enjoy the desires of the flesh, the sins of the flesh, you ought to be ashamed of it. Now notice who they target. Those who were clean escaped from them who live in error. Now, he words it there in a way, but this is what I think he's saying. I think he's saying, new believers. They've gotten saved, they're wanting to do right, they're wanting to live for God, and these guys step in and they say, all right, listen, let me tell you about the Christian life. And they allure them away. They allure them away. Now, I want to be careful. I'm not suggesting that we be legalistic. Follow what I'm saying? Oh, you've got to keep these laws and keep By the way the Bible does have lists of do's and don'ts. But we follow that list, we carry out that list, as I said, because of the grace God has shown us. We love them. We want to live for them. And these guys were saying, throw the list out, throw the, throw the, just live it up however you want. And Peter says, you better watch out for them. You better watch out for them. These guys, I put this down, I don't know why when I was studying, I thought this. These guys are not clowns. They're not coming in just some buffoons that are saying ridiculous stuff These guys are very smart, they're very clever, they're very deceitful, and they know how to use words to undermine the fundamental doctrines of the faith and to undermine the godliness that Christians, that the grace of God is to produce in Christians. You follow what I'm saying Words. They're using words. And they're having a profound effect. And by the way, that crowd that was affecting the church, that churches that Peter's addressing, they're alive and well in 2024. And you need to be very, very careful. These stuff uh used to say stuff on TV, now it's stuff on internet. You better watch out for that stuff. And I said it last week, I say it again, you better watch out, watch out, watch out Because they're very effective and they're very deceitful. How many people with me We'll pray tonight as we go into New Week and pray and ask God to help me be wise with my words. Be gracious. Careful. With my words, discipline, my tongue, be careful. And then let's be careful with our ears. What we allow influence us. Amen? Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us now and help us we finish out this Lord's day. And I do pray, Lord, you would, like James talks a lot, about how we bridle the tongue. And we be very, very careful what we say to others and how we say it. And then Lord help us to be very, very careful what we allow said into our ears, and not be deceived and led astray. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher, I need God's help in this area. I need God's help. Sure, my hands raised all around. We want to be right. Bless our invitation, I ask now in Jesus' name. Amen.