Lamentations chapter number three, if you would, look with me there at verse number twenty-three. The first part of the verse, he's referencing A statement in the previous verse, he says previously, he says, um, thy compassions they fail not. In verse 22, verse 23 picks up they, his compassions Are new every morning. Then the last part of verse 3, that statement caught my attention. I woke up early in the week, Monday or Tuesday. I woke up singing, Great is thy faithfulness, that song. And I've been thinking about it, I was thinking about it all week, and I looked up in the Bible in this verse here, and that stood out in me. And I want to use that last phrase as the title for my message: Great is thy faithfulness. Great is thy faithfulness. Let's pray, and we'll look at this here this morning. Father in heaven, Lord, you are faithful. Many of us have known you for some time now And we've experienced your faithfulness. We've seen your faithfulness in our lives, in our church, and God in so many ways. And we thank you for that. We worship you for that, dear Lord. And I pray now, in this hour, as we consider your faithfulness, you would reveal yourself to us through your word Father, I yield my will to you. I just surrender my will over to you, Lord. I present my body, just give it to you now, Lord. And I ask. That you fill me with your Holy Spirit, dear Lord, and that you would speak through me this truth from your word Help us to trust you. I pray you'd encourage that one that needs encouragement this morning. I pray you'd convict those of us that need conviction. And I pray that you would save the lost, and God, that your will would be done in every one of our hearts, in every one of our homes, and in our church. So we're asking you to meet with us now, Lord, in a very real way. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I know I'm sh- I know I'm aware that No doubt most, maybe all of us understand, but I want to restate something that I believe we all understand, and that is this: God's word, the Bible, is our sole authority. In our lives as Christians and in our church as a body of Christ. We understand that, right? This book right here is our authority. Now, God has delegated authority in various areas in the government and in the home. God has delegated limited authority But all authority in in uh in existence is submissive, is so is um subject To the authority of God as expressed in the Word of God. Everybody on board with me? This book is our authority. In other words, if the God, if God, if the Bible says it's so, mark it down, it's so. Everything we understand to be, everything we understand about what is right and what is wrong, we get from the Word of God. Everything we understand about what is good and what is evil, we get that understanding from what God says is good and what God says is evil. Everything we understand about what is just and what is unjust, we get it from the Bible We don't, this is what I'm trying to say to start us off this morning. We don't determine what is right or wrong by what society says is right and wrong. We don't take the world's standard of good and evil and follow that. We take God's standard as expressed in the Word of God. I'm telling you, if you're going to follow the world's, if you're going to follow by what the world says is right and wrong, what the world says is good and evil, you're going to get messed up. Anybody notice things the world is saying is good and evil now are very different than what the world said was good and evil 25 years ago? When I was growing up, things are uh I'm telling you, I say this so often, and it's so true, this world has perfected the ability to take that which God says is good and make it seem so evil. And God can take that and this world is perfected ability to take that which God says is evil and make it seem so good. So our authority At Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and our authority in our individual lives as Christians is the Word of God. What God says is so. And we need to understand that. So a lot of churches in our day and age don't understand that. And they're allowing the world to influence them, they're allowing society I'm telling you, if you're going to let social media tell you what's right and wrong, you're messed up. You're messed up Everything we understand about God, everything we know about God, everything we understand to be true about God, we get from the Bible. God's Word. That is our source. That's our source of authority to reveal to us who God is. Who is this God? We look out in creation. We look around us. We see the stars. We hear the rolling thunder. We say that there has to be a God. We see design. Um, uh did anybody uh let's just enter my mind. I'm at the point in my life where if a thought goes through my mind, I better deal with it right then because if not, it's gone forever. Can I get a witness? Yeah, good. Anybody noticed they had uh uh in the news this week, they had this picture from Mars. Now I'm captivated, I'm fascinated by that little m rover. that they put up on Mars, going around taking pictures and stuff. Any anybody see any? And they had a picture this week and you can look it up. And of this of this hillside in Mars. Of course it's all barren And they have this picture of what looks like the entrance to a cave. It's a perfect square. Like it looks like it's cut out. And it's just some fault lines, an earthquake, or something took place there. But everybody's all worked up Good heavens, there's a cave on somebody carved a cave out on Mars. And one of the scientists made this statement. They said, that could not have just happened. It's too um it's too uh symmetrical. It's too it it couldn't have just happened by chance. And I thought these knuckleheads They found a little square knocked down the side of a Mars Hill, on a hill in Mars, and they say, oh, that couldn't have just happened. And there's a hummingbird flying outside their window and they say, oh, that just happened. I'm telling you, that little hummingbird has more design, technological design to it than anything man has ever cre come up with. And to suggest that that just happened, excuse me, that is a fool that looks around and sees the unbelievable, intricate, detailed design. of creation and say, oh, there's no designer. It just happened. It just happened. What I'm saying is this. We look in we look in creation, we look at the world around us. And we the logical conclusion is somebody made this. This is designed. There is a God Now here's the problem. We look around in the world and we come to the conclusion, if we're honest, we come to the conclusion there's a God. But we don't know anything about that God. We can say, well, he's obviously pretty powerful. He's obviously pretty intelligent if he's designing stuff like this. But that's all we can come to. But then we open up our Bible. And I learn about this God. I find out what his name is. I look in the Bible, I find out this God that created everything, his name's Jehovah. His son's name is Jesus. The comforters, the third person of the Godhead. I find out this God that created us is a Trinity. I find out I look in the world and I see God's power. I say, this whoever this God is, whatever he is, he's powerful. And I look in the Bible and I find out he's not only powerful, he is all powerful. I look around and say this this God has to be intelligent. He has to know something to design something like this. And I look in the Bible and I find out this God is all-knowing. He has perfect wisdom. The Bible is our authority to know God, who he is, and what does God want from me? This God that created this world, this God that gave me life, this God that designed this universe and everything in it, what does he want from me? What does God expect from me? I don't find that looking out in the world around me, but I look in the Word of God and I find out this God wants me to love Him with all my heart, soul, strength, and mind. The Bible reveals to me what God desires. The Bible reveals to me what this God that made you and I in the world we live in, what he loves and what he hates. We learn of God through the pages of Scripture, not through man's ideas and man's philosophies. I'm grateful. I enjoy history. I appreciate it. I respect it. The sciences, legitimate sciences, are to be highly respected and appreciated. But there's only so much this world can tell me about God. I need to come to His Word to find out what His plan and purpose is for my life. The Bible is our sole authority on what is right and wrong, what is good and evil, who God is, what he's like. What he expects from me, what he desires. I don't know about you. My simple mind is, you know, it's probably a good idea to figure out what God doesn't like. I mean he's God and I'm the creator. I better find out what he doesn't you know what I found out early on in my life, now I didn't carry through this as well as I should have, but a good idea for a young person is to find out what your parents like and don't like. Your life is a whole lot happier. Anybody follow what I'm saying? My daddy don't like when I do that. Well then don't do that. Amen or not? Find out what God likes and what he doesn't like, what God desires, what his plans are. We find out what God Himself is like, what his attributes are, what is he like? We find out about his power, as I said, his knowledge, his wisdom. And one thing the Bible tells us very, very clearly about God. I said all that to get to this point. One thing the Bible tells us about this God, our God, and that is this: He is faithful. God is faithful. Now we'll talk about what that all implies, what that means for you and I But we have s we have direct statements all through Scripture. Our sole authority, the Word of God All through Scripture telling us direct statements that God is faithful. Here in Lamentations 3. 23, great is thy faithfulness. By the way, the word great there means overflowing abundantly. God is faithful. In Deuteronomy chapter 7 and verse 9, God is referred to as the faithful God. 1 Corinthians 1 9. Direct statement. God is faithful. 2 Thessalonians chapter 3 and verse 3. The Lord is faithful. 2 Timothy 2 and verse 13. He, God, abideth faithful. 1 John 1 9. He, God, is faithful Direct statements repeated over and over and over throughout the Word of God that God is faithful. We don't get anything else out of the message this morning. Young or old, if we don't get anything out of this, I hope we walk out of here convinced in our hearts and minds that our God is a faithful God. Faithful. So we have direct statements. Then we have some, what I'm referring to as some indirect statements about the faithfulness of God. And there's scores of them. For instance, Numbers chapter 23, verse 19 tells us God never changes. That's a characteristic of faithfulness. Do you ever know somebody? Every time you meet them, they're completely different. You don't know if they're coming or going, if they're up or down, on or off, hot or cold. Anybody know what I'm talking about? God never changes. He's faithful. Malachi tells us that. 1 Samuel 15 and verse 29: God never lies. Would you agree with me? A liar is not faithful. Right? Uh if somebody if somebody lies, uh would you agree with me? It's tough to trust somebody that lies Somebody lies to me, from that point on, I'm always going to have a question mark in the back of my mind of every statement they make after that, right or wrong. Anybody here ever been lied to? Yeah, you know what I'm talking about. God never lies. We can trust him. He's faithful He's faithful. Isaiah chapter 51 and verse 6 points out that God has never failed in the past. Not one time throughout history has he failed in uh his people in any way. Numbers chapter eleven, verse twenty-three. God will do what he says he will do. Matthew 24, verse 35 God does what he says he will do. He's faithful. He's faithful. God continually called Israel to remember His faithfulness to them. I'm reading through in my personal devotions. I'm reading through Ezekiel right now. And Ezekiel, you know, some some things there are hard to be understood. What he's talking about. But over and over and over, I notice as I'm reading through Ezekiel, God is calling Israel, you remember, I have been faithful to you. They're running off to idols and idolatry, and they're running off to these other wicked countries around them, pagan, and adopting their practices and their morals And God's argument with Israel is, I have been faithful to you. Remember that. God is faithful. God is faithful. Three thoughts this morning. My first point is I'd like for us to consider the definition of faithfulness. We want to make sure we understand what the Bible means when it says that God is faithful. When the Bible says, great is thy faithfulness, what exactly does the Bible mean by that? Well, the word faithful itself, what it's translated from, means this: to be steadfast. To be firm, it's fixed in place. To be faithful means to be reliable. Somebody's faithful, we can trust him. The lady says, my husband is faithful. I can trust him. He's reliable. I can rely on him God is faithful. He's steadfast. He's firm. He's reliable. The word faithfulness also we get our word trustworthy from that. Stability, not changing constantly. This as I said in the opening of the message, our world standards change constantly Our world's standards and our world's morals contradict themselves. God is faithful, He's stable, He's dependable, unchanging What's the opposite of faithfulness? What's the opposite? One of the primary words that the word faithfulness comes from is stability. What is the opposite of stability? If somebody is uh is not stable, they don't have stability, they would be what? Unstable, yeah. Uh let's use a word that isn't the word that we're using. Um chaotic Would be the opposite of stable. See, I am a highly intelligent deep thinker. This was the word I was thinking of, wishy-washy. You know, somebody they're they're constantly changing. They're wishy-washy. You don't know what they're doing. You don't know if you can trust them or not. Wishy-washy or constantly changing. I'm glad, I'll know about you, I'm glad our God is not wishy-washy. He is stable. He's our rock, David says over and over. You are my rock. You're my strong tower. He's stable. He's faithful. He is what he says he is. He does what he says he will do. He's dependable. He's reliable. He's trustworthy. He's trustworthy. The opposite of that is, as I said, wishy-washy. Take your Bible if you would. Keep your place here, but turn with me to the book of Psalms. Go back towards the front of your Bible there. Run into Isaiah and then Proverbs. Run into Psalms chapter 119. I'm reading this in my daily devotions. Read Reading in Psalm 119 and in verse number 89, Psalm 119, very center of your Bible, smack, dab in the middle of your Bible. Psalm 119, longest chapter in the Bible. Look with me at verse number 89, if you would. Psalm 119, 89. Notice what the Bible says. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Boy, that's a good statement, isn't it, right there? God's word is settled. I I don't have much time for all these new versions they're coming out with. I think God's word is settled. Now that's where I would say amen. Right there, I would have said amen. Forever, O Lord, thy word is settled in heaven. Now look at verse 90. Thy faithfulness is unto all generations. Thou hast established the earth, and it abideth. By faithfulness, God's word is settled, it's unchanging, it's faithful. And God's faithfulness is to all generations. There's not one human being on planet Earth that is 100% faithful. Not one of us. Not one of us. Years ago, there was a well-known preacher. He got some rumors and accusations made against him. He denied them adamantly. And his followers came up with this little slogan. In fact, they got pins made and they're walking around. And the little button said this, 100%, and then it had the preacher's name. 100%. The whole idea was I'm 100%. He's 100% faithful. I'm here to tell you there's no human being 100% faithful. In fact, I like what Curtis Hudson said. He says, I'm not even 100% myself, let alone 100% for another person. Anybody with me? Anybody here ever anybody here ever l fail to live up to your word? Two people. Wow. It's an amazing crowd here this morning. My hands raised. I've failed to live up. You tell the kids, oh yeah, we're going to go do this, and then you forget or whatever. Come on now, talk to me this morning. Y'all are looking at me so pious like if you No human being is 100% faithful. David, man after God's own heart We're studying him on Wednesday nights. You know what we learned about David? A man after God's own heart. And we found out he wasn't 100% faithful. Abraham, I referenced him in Sunday school this morning. What a man of faith. You know, Abraham lied. Abraham lied about his wife. Not 100% faithful. You won't find one human being that's 100% faithful. But I'm here to tell you we have a God that is 100% faithful. He's faithful. Great is thy faithfulness. We're all sinners and we fall short of God's perfect standard, but our God is 100% faithful. God never falls short. I put this down. God's faithfulness is not determined by our understanding. Anybody here ever God do something and you didn't understand? Anybody know what I'm talking about? I don't understand, God. Why'd you allow this? I don't understand. We talked about Abraham this morning when God called him to offer up his son as a sacrifice on Mount Moriah There's no doubt in my mind, and Abraham's mind is this doesn't make sense. I don't understand this. And if we're going to come to the conclusion whether God is faithful or not, because of whether we understand what he's doing or not. We're going to have a faulty understanding of God's faithfulness. God is faithful even if I don't understand his workings Someone's put it this way. If you don't understand God's workings, then trust his word. God is faithful. God is faithful. We must not determine God's faithfulness by our perspective on things. God has allowed and done things that from my perspective, I say, well, I just don't see it that way. But I'm glad God has a clearer perspective on my circumstances than I do. We must not determine God's faithfulness based upon our circumstances I put this down. God's faithfulness is determined by his word. This is God's word. God says, hey. God's word says God is faithful, you mark it down, whether I understand it or not, whether my circumstances seem like uh uh it or not God is faithful because he has promised to be faithful. And by the way, time has proven him to be faithful. Can I get a witness? How many folks this morning would say, preacher, God has been faithful to me? Our experience tells us. Anyone here ever go through something at the moment, didn't make a lick of sense? Afterward you say, Praise God, I saw He did something for me. Anybody at all? I had a thing back years ago, I was praying. I wanted so bad. I just begged God, begged God, begged God. God said no, no, no. I thought, what in the world? Why would God uh not answer my prayer? I thought God answered his prayer. I went on and on Now, I look back, praise the Lord, he did not answer that prayer. Aren't you glad God does not give us everything we ask for? God's faithful. God's faithful. Don't determine whether God is faithful or not by your own understanding, by your perspective, or the circumstances you find yourself in. God is faithful. We walk by faith, not by sight. When we cannot see God's faithfulness, we trust His faithfulness. I have no doubt. I'm talking to somebody right now. You're in a situation, you're in a circumstance, maybe your head is clouded and overwhelmed. You say, I don't even understand what's happening. It doesn't even make a bit of sense to me. I want to challenge you this morning. You trust God anyway. You have faith in a God that is faithful, and you wait and see what God doesn't do and how God doesn't bring you through that. Amen or not? God is faithful. What do we mean when the Bible says, what does the Bible mean when it tells us God is faithful? It means He's reliable, He's unchanging, He's trustworthy, He's stable. We can trust Him Number two, my second thought this morning is first of all the definition of God's faithfulness. Number two, the display of God's faithfulness. All through Scripture, we have God's faithfulness displayed in the lives of men and women who trusted him, Noah. Do you agree with me? When God instructed Mo Noah to build the ark, it had never rained up to this point in history. There had never been any floods And humanly speaking, no doubt it made not a bit of sense. But Hebrews 11 tells us that God, that through faith Noah obeyed God. And he built an ark. And it made no sense. There was no obvious reason for it, but Abraham knew that God was faithful. Now we we talk about the world mocking him and making fun of them. That may or may not have been the case. They know they rejected his message. But I tell you, when that Abraham, when Noah crawled in that ark and God closed that door And that rain began to fall, and puddles began to develop, and creeks start rising, and valleys begin to fill with water. And people begin making their way up the sides of mountains and getting up out of the water and begin clinging on things as that water rose and rose and rose and rose. And the great earthquakes and the depths of the earth belched out water and the sky just dropped. Every mountain is covered Abraham could have looked out that little window of the ark and said, God is faithful. He did exactly what he said he would do. At the moment it didn't make sense. At the moment, it was not obvious. But God proved himself faithful in the life of Noah. And we could go all through scriptures. Abraham. God promised him that he and his wife would have a child in their old age. And that great ancestors and a nation would come out of the loins of Abraham. And Abraham laughed, and Sarah laughed. But Hebrews tells us they believed God, and God was faithful. And even in their old age, Sarah bore a son. Jacob. I thought of Joseph. God revealed to Joseph early in his life as a young man that he would one day, his father and his brothers, would bow down to him. His brothers mocked him. In fact, they became so jealous they sold him as a slave, going to kill him, and then sold him as a slave. He's falsely accused of rape. He's thrown in prison, forgotten for two years. At any point in time, Joseph could have said, God has not been faithful to what he promised me But God is faithful. Before you know it, old Pharaoh has a dream. God uses Joseph to interpret that dream. He's put number two in the great kingdom of Egypt. And guess who shows up? His brothers. What do they do? They bow before him. I'm trying to tell you this, God's faithful. We see it all through Scripture in the lives of men and women who trusted him, Moses, throughout church history. God has been faithful. God has been faithful. I jotted a few ways down. God's faithfulness is displayed in scriptures. Number one, I put this down. God is faithful to save all who will call upon him. Romans chapter ten, verse thirteen says, For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved God is faithful when he says, if you call on me, if you'll turn to me and trust me as your personal Savior for forgiveness, cleansing of sin, I'll save you from hell. I'll save you from judgment. I'll give you the gift of eternal life. God's faithful. Can I give personal testimony? I can testify the fact that Romans 10. 13, whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Many in here could stand up and give testimony, the same testimony. May 7, 1970, I knelt by my bed. I called out, God have mercy on me, God save me. And God kept his word. You've heard me say this before, but I didn't really understand all of that. At first, I didn't know anything about the Bible, a few little things. About a month or so into my new life, God changed my life just dramatically. But I didn't really grasp everything. And one day I read a sermon by John R. Rice It was on Romans 10, 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. And I got thinking, I know I called on the Lord that Monday night. I know I did, desperately. Sincerely on my knees, I was calling out to God to have mercy on me, forgive me, and save me. And if God didn't save me, then God lied to me Because he promised that whoever calls on him shall be saved. And I know I called on him, and if he didn't save me, then God lied to me. I'm here to tell you: God is not a liar. He does not lie, he cannot lie. And if he says that whoever will call on him shall be saved, you mark it down, whoever calls on him going to be saved. Sincerely, of course, they need to come sincerely scripturally. But God is faithful, and He displays that faithfulness. In forgiving and saving and giving eternal life to all who call upon him. Acts chapter 16, that old Philippian jailer is going to kill himself. Paul intervenes after the earthquake, and Paul says, Do thyself no heart. The old Philippian jailer at the end of his rope, at the bottom, as low as he could get. He cried out to Paul, what must I do to be saved? Paul said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. That old Philippian jailer believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, and guess what? God saved them. You may be here this morning, you may be listening online, you may be listening on the radio. I don't know how you're hearing my voice, but I'm here to tell you, if you've not trusted Jesus Christ as Savior If you'll come to him, acknowledge the fact that you're a sinner, that you're under the wrath and judgment of God because of that sin, if you'll believe that Jesus died on that cross for your sin, was buried, and rose again, turn to him, trusting him to forgive you and cleanse you. My Bible promises you will be saved. It's a promise of God. So God's faithfulness is displayed all through Scripture. When he promises that whoever calls on him shall be saved. I put this down. God's faithfulness is displayed when God is faithful to forgive any and all sins we sincerely confess. It didn't take me long after I got saved to find out I still had an old sinful nature inside here. Now God had saved me and changed me and gave me a new life, but that old Denny was still hanging around. And every now and then he would raise his head. How many people know what I'm talking about? I had to learn as a new believer, a young believer in Christ, that Even as a child of God, I could and still did sin. I tell you, it was devastating at first when I began to realize, man, how could I do that? Why did I do that? What in the world? I learned pretty quick that I can come running to my Lord. I can confess my sin to him and acknowledge it and confess and forsake that sin. And he promised in 1 John 1. 9 that if we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. and to cleanse us from all races. I wrote in the March of My Bible beside John 1. 9, I put down God's reset button. Anybody here have a microwave or something or or uh uh what else has a reset button? Um something. Burnace. But anyway, that thing shuts down, cuts off, say, oh it's not working. You go mash that reset button. Starts right back up. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And sometimes as a child of God, I'll say something, do something, as well, oh Lord, I can come before God and God's faithful to forgive us and cleanse us as God mashes that reset button. I get back up again. Amen. Are you with me? Listen, if there was one sin, if there was one sin that a child of God would confess And uh confess to the Lord and God didn't forgive it, God would not be faithful. Right? Would you agree with me? If I was faithful to my wife, 364 days out of the year, would I be a faithful husband? No. There's one day out of the year I wasn't faithful. I'm not a faithful husband. If there's one sin that God would not forgive, would he be faithful? No. You say, preacher, I'm saved, but you don't know how bad I've sinned. You don't know what I've done. I don't want to know. But I know this: God is faithful. God is faithful. So his faithfulness is displayed all through scriptures. He's faithful to save those who call upon him. He's faithful to forgive those who turn from their sin and come back to him. God, I put this down. God is faithful to make a way to escape temptation. I wish we had more time. 1 Corinthians 10. 13. Mark that verse down, would you? Every Christian ought to be familiar with 1 Corinthians 10 13. There's no temptation taking you, but such as is common to man. I had a person tell me one time Well, I'm I I've never been tempted in my Christian life. I said, oh brother. I gave my great pastoral uh answer to that. Oh brother There's no temptation taken, but such is common to man. But God is faithful, will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able. I wish we could look at this. Above that ye are able But will make a way of escape that you may be able to escape it. I didn't quote that exactly right. But it says this. God is faithful. He will not suffer me to be tempted. Allow me to be tempted above what I'm able to. In other words, this is what I'm trying to say If I'm being tempted to do something wrong, that is proof that I can have victory over it and I can say no to it. Because if I could not, God would not let me be tempted. He will not suffer to be tempted above what you're able. So the very fact that I'm being tempted to do something or say something or react some way, well I'm really tempted. Well, the fact that I'm being tempted means, hey, I don't have to give in to this because if I had no power over it, God would not let me be tempted at it. Everybody following me? And then he says, I'll make a way to escape. Every time you study your Bible, every time a person in the Bible was tempted, God provided a way of escape for them. Now they didn't all take it But every time you and I are tempted, how many people, anybody here ever been tempted to do something wrong? Raise your hand. Some of you are tempted right now. You didn't raise your hand Every time I'm tempted to do something wrong, there's two things I should do. One, I should say, all right, wait a minute, I don't have to give in to this or I wouldn't God wouldn't let me be tempted in the area. So I can't have victory over it. Number two, look for an escape route. Look for an exit ramp. There's somewhere there, because God's faithful. He said he will provide an escape. David had that. Remember when he was checking into Bathsheba? You've been our Wednesday night studies, you know this. He's checking into Bathsheba. He says, huh! And his servants came to him and said, David, that is Uriah's wife. You know what that was? That was an exit ramp. David could have right then and said, oh, oh, okay. Alright, shut her down. Every single temptation has an exit ramp. God will make a way of escape. So we just got to look for it. God is faithful to make a way to escape temptation. God is faithful to keep us from losing our salvation. I give unto them eternal life, and they shall never perish. In John chapter 6, Jesus says, I not lose one that come to me in faith, trusting me. He will not lose one. My salvation is secure, not because of my faithfulness. My salvation is secure because of Jesus' faithfulness. He keeps me God is faithful to save all who call on Him, forgive those who sin and confess, to make a way of escape of temptation, to keep our salvation. God is faithful to provide our needs My God shall supply all your need according to his riches in Christ Jesus. You mark this down. Here's a good little quote for you. God takes care of his children. A good father provides and takes care of his children. Our father is an excellent father, and he takes care of his children. You say, Preacher, I don't have everything I want. That might be a good thing Right? Say, preacher, I got these needs. Hey, be careful. We in America here, we've got it so good, we confuse needs and ones. Preacher, I really, preacher, I really, really need a coach purse. Seriously? I don't even know what a coach purse is, but I always reference them. Well, preacher, you know, that old bear boat, I need a new one Listen, God's not going to give us. . Sometimes God gives us even what we want. Huh? Anybody here got something you want? You really don't need it, but you like it, you want it? God made that possible. He's not obligated to give us everything I want, but God has promised that he would take care of our needs. Mark this down. Say this to yourself: God will take care of me. Faithful. Take care of us. Uh, God's faithfulness is displayed, and He sees us through trials. He that hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Christ Jesus. God will see us through the trials. He'll see us through the heartaches. He'll see us through the valleys and the storms of life. He will see us through. He is faithful. He's faithful. There's a whole bunch of promises given, instructions and warnings in this old book, and they're given to us by a faithful Heavenly Father And I'll end with this. Consider the demands of God's faithfulness. In other words, how do I respond to the faithfulness of God? You say, all right, preacher, you convince me God's faithful, so what? Well, that requires a few things on our part. I put three down real quick. Number one, because God is so faithful to us, number one, we ought to depend upon God's faithfulness. Depend on it. As Christians running around and I get guilty of this sometimes we run around and worry. We run around and get upset and anxious and oh we got ulcers and we drive ourselves nuts worrying about everything. You know what we need to do? We need to just stop and t and and uh be careful for nothing. But in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let our requests be made known unto God And because he's faithful, the peace of God will keep our hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. Depend on them. Trust them. You say, preacher, somebody's doing me wrong. I'm going to deal with it. Tell you what, why don't you just come and let God take care of that? Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. Let God deal with that. Amen. Say, preacher, uh man, everything doesn't make sense. Trust God. Trust God. Because God is faithful, I need to depend on him in every area of my life. Walk by faith. By faith. Depend on God to save you, keep you saved, depend on God to take care of you, depend on God to use you and help others Uh sometimes uh folks will say, Preacher, I want to be a witness, I want to I want to get involved in soul winning, or I want to have a ministry, I want to work the bus ministry, or I want to help in uh one of the ministries here, but I just don't think I can do it I'll be honest with you, I like to hear that. Because when we attempt something for God that we can't do and we depend on God, then God does it through us. Somebody said, preacher, do you ever get nervous when you get up there to preach? I'm telling you, I'm sitting there, I'm a nervous wreck just about every time before I come up and preach If you'll watch, a lot of times I'll bow my head while the special is going on, I'll bow my head and say, God, you've got to help me, God, you've got to help me. Paul put it this way, not that we are sufficient of ourselves But our sufficiency is of God. How many people here want God to use you? Anybody? I want God to use me. Just depend on it. Be faithful. Say, God, I don't know if I can do it. I don't know. But Lord, I just trust you. And God will use us. I put this down. We can depend on Him to lead us and direct us in life. One of the great verses, they're all great, all the verses are great. But I tell you, Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart. Lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge Him. And what He shall direct thy paths. God will lead you. God will direct you. He's faithful. Just depend on him. Number one, because God is faithful, we ought to depend on him Number two, because God is faithful, we ought to declare his faithfulness. Would you turn with me to Psalms 89 if you're still there in Psalms 89 Psalms 89 and verse number one tells us what we should do because our God is faithful. Psalms 89 and verse number one. Look what the Bible says. Psalms 89, one. Look at this. I will sing of the mercies of the Lord forever. Now look at this last statement. With my mouth will I make known thy what? Faithfulness to all generations. Anybody here is anybody here has God been faithful to you? Anybody? God's been faithful to me. I can testify that honestly with all my heart. God has been faithful in his promises and his work in my life to me. Now he tells us here in Psalms 89, verse 1, that we're to make that faithfulness known to all generations. You know one of the primary purposes of our youth ministry is to let this next generation know that God is faithful. Here's the thing, they haven't been around long enough really to experience a lot of the faithfulness of God. They read it in His Word. We teach it to them. But they need folks that have been around and come and say, hey listen, let me tell you, God is faithful. God has kept his word. God has taken care of me. That's we run the buses so that all the next generation can know that God is faithful. And he'll save them and take care of them and give them eternal life and lead in their lives. Our responsibility as a body of Christ here in Oakland, Maryland, is declare to our community Our God is a faithful God. He can be trusted. He can be relied upon. Declare the faithfulness of God. And then I put down, oh, I put this down. The devil convinced Eve that God was not faithful, Dindy. Oh, hath God said you can't eat of any of this fruit in the garden? He's getting her to question and doubt God's faithfulness. It's just this one tree. We can't eat or touch it. Tate says, uh, he knows. Yeah, you know why he said that he knows if you do that, you'll jump be just like him, huh? Yeah, you'll know good and evil. What? Really seriously? Yeah. They doubted God's faithfulness. And plunge this whole world into a sinful state. And the devil has convinced this whole world that God isn't faithful. You know what I get? I get out and knock on doors out this week a little bit. You know what sometimes people say to me? I don't have any time for that God stuff. Anyone ever get that? Ah, I'm not interested. Ah, I'm not worried about that stuff. You know why they say that? Because the devil's convinced them God's not faithful. If they understood from the Word of God that God was faithful, they'd be interested in who and what God is. So we need to declare how we live our lives and with our lips, with our mouth, we'll make known thy faithfulness to all generations. And last of all, number one, we need to depend on God's faithfulness. Number two, we declare God's faithfulness. And number three, we display God's faithfulness. You say, what do you mean by that? Because God is faithful, we must be faithful. 1 Corinthians chapter 4, verse 2. It is required in stewards that a man be found faithful We're told numerous times in the New Testament that we're to be followers of God, imitators of God. If God is faithful, it only stands the reason that his children will be faithful. Amen? Faithful. You say, what does God want from me? He wants you to be faithful. Just like he is. Keep your word, do what's right, trust him, be faithful. Be faithful. Be in your place. Do your duties. Love God with all your heart. Love your neighbors yourself. Just the whole list. Be faithful. Be faithful. There's a lady who attended church here for not a real long time, a year or so. And she used to sit right about here where Dorothy is. She sat in there Sunday morning, she'd come and she lived over in Mount Lake Park. One Sunday morning I preached and I don't remember what I preached on, but everybody's kind of going out and she sat there for a while and I came back in and most of the people were out, people were standing around talking. And uh I'm telling you, this church stands around and talks forever. Which is good. But uh I come back in and she's sitting there and she said, Pastor, I I need to talk to you. I said, okay, so I sat down beside her. She goes, Pastor, I she this is the way she started out. She goes, Pastor, I can't tithe. I can't tithe. I said, well, I said, well the Bible teaches tithing. And um I said, you know, it's just a matter of faith. You have to trust the Lord. But I didn't tell her, oh, you've got to tithe. I just encourage her, you know, trust God and you pray and God will help you, God will lead you. I said, uh God's been proven faithful to me. I tithed all since almost the day I got saved And God has been faithful, and I said, um, it's just a matter of trusting God. I said, I'll pray with you on that, but you know, you just trust God Never thought more about it. Oh, a month or so went by. She was in church, everything. I never addressed it at all or anything. I never followed up on that. I was out visiting, I thought I'll swing by and just to live down there in apartments in Mount Lake Park, I'll just go in and say, hey. I went in and knocked on her door, her face was beaming I said, hey. She said, hey, come on in. I'm gonna show you something. I said, okay, she was an older lady. And um She goes, I gotta tell you about tithing. I said, all right. She goes, I couldn't do it. I'm on a fixed income. She goes, I couldn't do it. But God worked on my heart and I decided I'm just going to trust him. I'm going to give my tithe to the Lord. I said, well, amen. Praise the Lord. She goes, guess what? She goes, all my bills are paid. And somebody gave me a new living room set. And she showed me the couch and the sofa and uh recline. I mean, it was nice And she said this. God is faithful. Now I didn't now listen, don't start tithing because you need a new living room set, all right? You missed the whole point. But God is faithful. And if He tells us to do something, if He warns us, If he promises something, we can trust him because he's faithful. He says, stay away from that. All right, I'm going to stay away from that. God's faithful. He says, make sure you do this. All right, I'm going to make sure I do that. Why? Because he's faithful. God promises, I'm going to take care of this. Don't you worry? I'm going to take care of this. I'm not going to worry. I'm going to trust him. Why? Because he's faithful. Adonairam Judson, missionary to Burma, was in prison. Everything seemed to be going wrong, and somebody yelled in the prison. There was a miserable prison condition. They yelled in and says, Adonairam Judson, what do you think about your God now? He answered back. He said, my future is as bright as the promises of God. I'm here to tell you our God's faithful. You say, oh, Washington, oh our country, oh the world. Yeah, I know it's it's going to pot. I know this. We have a God in heaven that's faithful. We can trust Him. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord. If we don't walk out of here with anything else, help us to be convinced in our heart and mind that you are a faithful God. You can be trusted. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I tend to worry. And I understand. Listen, you've got a witness for me. I tend to worry. Maybe this morning say, God stirred my heart and I need to just put things in God's hands. And just trust him to work things out. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand preacher? I just gotta learn to trust God. God bless you, hands all around. Just take and put in God's hands. Maybe there's some say, preacher, you know, God's been dealing with something. I need to make a change in my Christian life. I know it's not right. I know it's not what it ought to be. I gotta I gotta I gotta fix this. God's been dealing with your heart. I'm here to tell you you can trust God. If He's telling you something needs to be fixed, you mark it down. It needs to be fixed. God's faithful. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, you know there's some adjustments that need to be made in my Christian life. I've got to address it. I can't let it go on. Any like that? Uplifted hand, preacher. I need I need to just trust the Lord and let Him help me I bless you. God bless you. We could just go down a long list. So any this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I need to know that my sins are forgiven. I have eternal life. I'm here to tell you, you can trust the Lord. He can save you. He will. You come to any say, preacher, pray for me. I've got to get this settled. Any like that by the uplifted hand? I've got to get this matter of my salvation settled. Where I spend eternity, I've got to get that settled. Any at all? Any at all I know a lot of us have friends and family unsaved. Need to trust the Lord to use us to be a witness. Just trust the Lord. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads up