Let's all bow our heads and let's pray, may we? Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord, for your mercy. That's just been so fresh and good this morning. It is absolutely delightful and refreshing to be in your house. I'm so glad you raised up Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. And I'm thankful, Lord, for the good and wonderful and Amazing things that you've done here. Lives have been changed. Instruction from your Bible that's been given, that's been beneficial. Thank you for all our boys and girls being in here today, our young people. Thank you, Lord Brother George, is able to have seven here today. We want everybody in this whole area to be saved. We're thankful for family. We're thankful for church, and we're thankful for your good son, Jesus. Help us as we open your Bible. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Open your Bibles to Acts chapter 14. Acts chapter 14. I hope you brought your Bible. Always bring your Bible to church. Acts chapter 14. Be back tonight. Be here Monday. Be here all day Tuesday. Be back Wednesday. Every time this place is open, come, would you? Other time just come sit in the parking lot. But uh come keep coming. Acts chapter 14. I am delighted to be here. Uh looking forward to the evening choir rehearsal. We move that up fifteen minutes Then uh the evening service, looking forward to that. God willing, um I'm gonna preach uh out of a passage tonight that I've been thinking about for twenty-nine years. When I was seventeen years old This verse got my attention. I hope to preach from it tonight. Hope you'll be back. Make plans to be back. You're turning to Acts chapter fourteen. You know, uh we're about to get into election season, and I think people ought to try to vote and all that. Well tonight you get a chance to vote Get a chance to vote for the work of the Lord by showing up. You know what I'm saying? And so uh not showing up is kind of a vote the other direction, you know what I'm saying? So uh be in your place And uh thank you, preacher, for letting me be here. We do have CDs in the back. I hope you'll stop by. Uh Bible Songs for Kids, Volume 4. This is the fourth volume, and those Ten Commandments that we're committing to memory and I am so glad to see a church doing that. That's wonderful. Those Ten Commandments are on here, uh, set to music. I wish every boy and girl In Garrett County. I wish every family had this C D. We're doing our best to get these things out through bus ministries in every way we can think of. You help me, would you? I believe this will help America Acts chapter 14, this is a fantastic passage. In Acts chapter 14, the Apostle Paul, look what happens to him. Boys and girls, we're going to read about five verses I want you to try to look at the Bible too, and I want you to listen. This is outstanding this morning. Acts chapter 14 and verse 19. And there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium, who persuaded the people, and look at these three words. having stoned Paul. They stoned him. They got rocks up. These men were so angry at that preacher, Paul. That they got big old rocks and they stoned Paul. And it says they drew him out of the city, supposing he had been dead. These people thought that they had killed the preacher. They didn't like what he was preaching. So what happens? Verse 20. Howbeit, as the disciples stood round about him as they stood round about Paul, Look at this. He rose up and came into the city, and the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derby. And when they had preached the gospel. To that city, and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra and to Iconium and Antioch, confirming the souls of the disciples and exhorting them to continue in the faith. And that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God. And when they had ordained them elders in every church and had prayed with fasting, They commended them to the Lord, to whom they believed. Well, Paul, he's quite a preacher He's got some things stirred up. He's been preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ, and some people are getting gloriously saved, and some people are getting angry. So much so that some people wanted to kill the preacher. Ever been threatened? I've been threatened a couple times as a preacher. I was surrounded by men one time threatening me for what I was preaching. Now I'll just tell you, I like living and I'll tell you this, I don't like pain. You know what I'm saying? And I'll tell you something else. I want everybody to love me, just like you do. But sometimes people will not like you if you take a stand for the Lord. And this time the group had surrounded me and were so angry with me, several, several men threatening me. And scaring me, to be honest, I was scared on the inside, boys and girls. I was scared. In fact, here's one thing I said to them. I said, You may make me shake like jello. I don't know why it came out that way. That's what happened. I said, you may make me shake like jello. I said, but you'll never scare God. I wish I'd had Bill Barrens with me, you know what I'm saying? But they didn't do anything to me. They just had a bunch of words. And by the way, God diffused all that. I could tell you the story of what the Lord did. But here, Paul, I'm telling you, Paul, they said, we can't stand what you're doing. We hate what you're doing We want you to quiet down. We want you to be shut up forever. We're going to kill you. And they took and threw stones at him. And then you find in the next verse, the disciples are standing around, and man, it looks like Paul is dead, and he rises up. Now, did God raise him from the dead? I don't know. I don't know. Maybe he just wasn't hurt as bad as what the people had thought. Maybe, you know, they thought they'd killed him, but but maybe they hadn't. I don't know. But either way, he got back up, and what did he do? He went on preaching. He continued in the faith. Now that is the kind of commitment that I like. I like it when a man you just can't stop him. He's just going to keep going. Now that is what you call real commitment Now we have at our church, we give what we call invitation. And we invite Christians to come and make commitments to God. This morning in Sunday school, we were trying to make commitments about music. Having the right kind of music inside of our homes, having the right kind of music inside of our courts, having the right kind of music in our lives. So we're trying to make commitments Now, I've seen people make commitments and then go right out and nothing changed. They went right back to the same old stuff. Is that real commitment? No. I've seen people fake things. I was a soul winning one time with my good friend Jim. Jim's my insurance agent and my soul winning partner, one of them. And uh we're we're out knocking doors and telling folks about the Lord. And this one time about ten years ago, fifteen years ago is a long time ago, this one man said, I want to get saved. We said, Praise the Lord. We helped him pray. He was Look like so happy and all that. Well that was on a Monday. He didn't come to church Wednesday night. He didn't come Sunday morning or Sunday night. So me and Jim next Monday we're back over there saying, hey! Where were you? He said, I want you all to leave and don't you ever come back to my property. Doesn't sound like he got saved. You know? Sound like he faked it. There had been fakes before I hate fake. Only kind of fake I like is in fake potatoes. They're not too bad. They're better than they used to be. I like real potatoes better though, you know what I'm saying? I don't like fake. And I like real commitment. I like it when a man says something and he sticks with it. And Paul here, he made his commitment to God, and even though they stoned him and they told him to quit this man, I mean he stayed with it. Well, now, where does real commitment really come from? If you've taken some notes, here's number one in my outline. Commitment like this comes from a salvation that is real This man, Paul, had really been born again. And you see, this kind of commitment only comes from a salvation that is real. His name used to be Saul of Tarsus. Paul's name at one time was Saul, and he was from Tarsus, so they called him Saul of Tarsus, boys and girls. But one day He was out on this one road called the Damascus Road. It was this road to Damascus. And Saul was not a saved man, by the way. Do you know that everybody is either saved or lost? Everybody in the whole world. Everyone in the world is either a child of God. Or a child of the devil. And here was Saul of Tarsus. He was going down this road, and he was at this point a child of the devil. And he was doing bad things. He was hurting Christians. He was doing awful things. And he was on this Damascus road, and the Lord came and dealt with him. And on that road, Paul got saved. His name got changed, and he became the Apostle Paul. He was born again, and the day he got born again, I mean his life changed I mean his direction changed. He had been one of the greatest enemies of the cause of Christ. Now he became one of the greatest supporters of the cause of Christ. Amen. His doctrine changed. try to keep the law. Now now he saw that you couldn't keep the law, that it was just a schoolmaster to show you that you needed the grace of God. Uh he had a religious background But it was just a man-made religion. Now he had Jesus Christ as his Savior. His deportment changed, his duty changed, everything changed. Well, that's what happens when you get saved. Amen Second Corinthians five seventeen, therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new The reason that this man Paul could get back up after they stoned him and go on and keep preaching was because he had had a salvation experience that was real. So let me ask everybody in this room Do you have a salvation experience that's been real? Are you really born again? The Bible says in Acts 4. 12, neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. You know, we're having this sword conference Monday and Tuesday. You know, for revival. You know, there's a lot of what you call apathy in the church. For the boys and girls, that's a big word, apathy. That just means, you know, everybody just doesn't really care that much about what's happening in the church Just apathy, just kind of lukewarm, just half-hearted. I believe that it may be that we're trying to get people committed. That have yet to be converted. Are you saved? This man, Paul, the reason he can have this kind of commitment is because he's got a salvation that's real. Number two. The reason this man could be so committed was because he had a relationship that was personal. This man, Paul,'s got a relationship with the Lord that's personal. In fact, Paul said it this way one time. If you're listening, say amen. Let me try that again If you're listening, say real loud, amen. Okay. Paul said it this way, talking about knowing the Lord. Paul said it this way. Paul said, that I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his suffering, being made conformable unto his death. See, real Christianity that has this kind of commitment, real Christianity is not just a cause. Now, sometimes I call it the cause of Christ, and I know what I mean by that, but it's not just a cause. It's not just a movement. You know, in our country we've had all kinds of movements. We've had mothers against drunk drivers. And I'm not so against that group. All these groups I'm going to name for you, I'm not against necessarily. Uh down in North Carolina where all of tobacco is being grown, they started a group down there a few years ago called Teens Against Tobacco. I mean every kind of a cross that you can can name America's tried it. The Tea Party. Ever heard of that in the last few months? Yeah, we've all heard of that. I mean all these movements. But now wait a minute Christianity is more than just a movement. Amen. It's a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. You see, and Paul had that. Paul never got very far away from remembering his day of salvation. In fact, listen to a couple verses. 1 John 5:20. We know that the Son of God has come and hath given us an understanding that we may know him that is true. And we are him that is true, even his son Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life. Paul said it this way, Galatians 2. 20. Paul said, I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live. Yet not I, but Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. You see, Paul had a relationship personally with the Lord. The reason this man gets up after being stoned Is man, he's got a salvation experience that's real. He's had a relationship that's been developing personally with the Lord. And then, why did he have this kind of commitment? Because he's got a burden for souls that's overwhelming. This man, Paul, has a burden for souls that is absolutely overwhelming. They said, Paul, we're tired of hearing you preach this gospel of Jesus Christ. We're going to take these stones and we're going to throw them at you. I mean, can you imagine that? Rocks being thrown at you Knocking you down. I mean they're they're all of them throwing these stones at you. I mean they say quit it They knock you down, big cuts in you, bruises. It looks like you're dead. Paul gets up Again, and keeps going to preach the gospel. Why would he do that? Because he's got a salvation that's real. He's got a relationship with the Lord that's personal. And then he's got a burden for souls That just overwhelmed him. It drove him on. He absolutely felt like he had to keep going. I've had people tell me to slow down. I've had people say, Brother Fox, you're becoming a fanatic. You're just too wound up about this thing, soul-winning. You just, I mean, always wanting us to give out tracts and always wanting us to put on Facebook that we're saved, and always, anytime that we send out an email, put a scripture with it. Wait a minute. Should we not be burdened for souls? Paul was. In fact, the very cities that sent people over there to kill him, he went back to them and preached the gospel to them He took the gospel back to them. Why? Because he got a burden. Romans chapter 10 he talks about his burden. Paul said it this way. He said, Brethren. My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. He wanted everybody in Israel to be saved. God willing next November I'm going to Israel to preach. Listen, Paul wanted to see everybody in Israel. He wanted to see everybody in the whole world saved. Romans one, fourteen and fifteen, Paul said, I am a debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians, both to the wise and to the unwise so much as in me is I am Ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also. Man, Paul is just ready to go and tell someone about the Lord Jesus. They try to knock him down with stones, but he gets back up and he's going again Why? Because you've got a burden for souls. Do you know that everybody you see today Everyone you see today inside of this room, and then when we leave, everyone we see outside of this room. Everyone we see in this whole community today, everybody in our family, all of our friends, everybody's going to spend someplace forever. Either heaven or hell. Is that true? Yes, that is true. It's documented fact in the Word of God. It's fact. And so Paul, why does he keep going? Why has he got this kind of commitment? He wants to see people saved. Revelation 20, verse 12, I saw the dead small and great stand before God. And the books were opened. And another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the Bible in that passage says, Whosoever was not found written in the book of life. was cast into the lake of fire. What does everybody need? Everybody needs Jesus Christ as their personal Savior And the only people go into heaven are saved people. Psalm 126, verse 5 and 6, they that sow in tears shall reap in joy. He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringeth his sheaves with him. Paul just wanted to see people saved. That's why he got up and went on. And then a couple more reasons I think that Paul had this kind of commitment. Because he had an understanding of accountability. This man Paul, they knock him down, say, quit preaching. He gets back up because he knows One day he's going to have to stand before God and give an account for what he's done The Bible says it in Romans chapter 14, verse 12, so then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. Long time ago, when I was 17, I worked at UPS, United Parcel Service, the tightest ship in the shipping business. That's what we said. What can Brown do for you? Ups, UPS. I loved working there. I mean I had a great time. I was in Bible college and I I was working on them packages and all that kind of stuff. I had a great time. I uh doing all the college, working at UPS, lifting weights. I thought I was fat, I weighed 180 pounds I wish I was that fat right now. I had muscles. It was great, man. And uh I worked there at UPS. I had all these bosses. I had Mr. Lawson, I had Mr. Atchison, all these different bosses, and and they always test me. And we had the big boss, his name was Henry Henry was a big man and he was the big boss. Henry was the strongest man we had at UPS. At our terminal, at our our our UPS picnic, we had an arm wrestling contest. No one could beat Henry. Henry, the top man of our place, was the strongest man we had. He was a man of integrity, a man of honor. You know that verse that we had for memory verse this morning, thou shalt not commit adultery? I'll tell you what happened 29 years ago. Two of our drivers at UPS committed adultery, and Henry fired them both. He said, if they'll cheat on their wife, they'll cheat on me. That's what happened 29 years ago. Henry's a he was a tough man When I left UPS in Virginia to go to UPS in South Carolina, I had to go before Henry. Had to go, you know, I'm doing my exit, you know what I'm saying? I get in there and he's got a file on me. He's got records on me, man. He said, Mr. Fox, let's see how you've done. He said, Mr. Fox, you've not missed a single day of work. In fact, I had worked when I was sick, I'd worked with kidney stones. God had helped me work there. He gave me top ratings. I was glad of that. God had helped me work hard. My dad had taught me a work ethic. I'd gotten to work early every single day by the grace of God, and I had my review. You know something? All of us going to have a review. I'm going to stand before somebody a lot greater than Henry. I'm going to stand before the Lord. And I am going to give account. And Paul knew that. And they knocked him down, said, You quit. He got back up and said, I can't quit. I'm going to have to stand before the Lord. And I'm going to have to give an account for what I've done. One last thing. I believe why this man had such commitment was because he knew that eternity was coming. Coming. He said it this way. Philippians one twenty one. Paul said it this way for me To live is Christ, and to die is gain. Dr. John R. Rice, there's the sword of the Lord. One time somebody came post a gun to him and said, I'm going to blow your head off. Had the gun about right here. You're going to miss. But Dr. Rice said he wasn't really that scared. Well, what if he had died that day? He'd just go to heaven And Paul knew when those people were throwing them stones at him, trying to kill him, he knew that if he died, he'd just go on to heaven. He had an anticipation of heaven that's absolutely thrilling. There really is a heaven. Amen. Baptist preachers didn't make it up. And Paul knew there's a heaven. And he knew he was headed there. And if he died, it'd just be gained for him. Would you stand with me, heads bowed, and eyes closed? Man, this is the kind of commitment that our church needs. That's the kind of commitment bus workers need. That's the kind of commitment Sunday school teachers need. That's the kind of church I mean that kind of commitment church ushers need. That's the kind of commitment Choir members need, uh church members, all saved people ought to have that kind of commitment. Do you agree? Yes. I admire commitment like that. I love it Now wait a minute. How can you really be committed till you're saved, till you're converted? With heads bowed right now, I'm going to ask you a powerful question. Are you saved? If you know that you are saved, if you know that you are to die today That you would go to heaven. Wouldn't you slip a hand up right now and say, Brother Fox, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I know that I am born again. God bless you. You can put your hands down Is there some in this room who could not raise a hand that right now would say, Brother Fox, I'm going to be honest. See, you'll never get saved till you're honest. There's some right now who would say, Brother Fox, I want to be honest. I am not saved. And Brother Fox, I want you to pray for me. Is there some concerned about their souls like that this morning who raise a hand right now and said, Brother Fox, pray for me. I do not know that I'm saved. Pray for me. I'm scared, I'm lost. Would you raise a hand right now? Let a preacher pray for you. Me and Pastor Leathermore will pray for you. Would you slip a hand up right now? Amen. Who else would raise a hand Then let me ask the dads in this room and the young men in this room: what is your level of commitment to the Lord Jesus? What is your level? What level do you want to be at? Do you want to be committed like Paul? Whoo! That would be the right kind of commitment, would it not? Men, why don't you get to these altars and make some renewal of commitments today? Lord, please, whatever you want as invitation, I ask for it. I need it. All of us need it. Help us, please. I pray in Jesus' name. Little music starting play. Come on. These friendly altars are open. If you're here and you're not saved, would you not come right now? Come on. Come on.