If you would. And uh go to the book of Romans, chapter number one This verse of Scripture has already been shared with us this evening, and it's the verses that God has laid upon my heart. If you're able to stand in reverence to the Word of God, I would ask you to do so. If not, I understand. The book of Romans, chapter number one, I'm going to read a few verses, beginning at verse number 13. These are the words of the Apostle Paul. He was really struggling about a trip to Rome, wanted to go there And he says, Now I would not have you ignorant brethren, that oftentimes I purposed to come unto you, but was led hitherto. that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles. I'm debtor both to the Greeks and to the barbarians both to the wise and to the unwise. So as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are in Rome also. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God and to salvation to everyone that believeth, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith, as it is written, the judge shall live by faith. I want to bring a message that I've entitled Gripped by the Gospel. There's no doubt in my mind the Apostle Paul was gripped by the message of the Gospel of Jesus Christ. But I wonder if we've been gripped. Have we really been gripped? Taken hold of Captured by the gospel and the message the gospel delivers. I want to preach about that this evening. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father. We love you tonight and thank you for loving us. And I pray, as we look into the perfect law of liberty, the Holy Spirit of God will lead us and direct us and help us, Lord, to rightly divide the word of truth. May the Lord Jesus be exalted. And I pray if there's anyone here tonight, Lord, that has never been saved by the grace of God, that tonight would be the night of their salvation. Lord, it would sure be wonderful if you would speak to some young person and call them to the mission field as well. I pray tonight, Lord, that the Holy Spirit will have absolute liberty to work in each of our hearts and lives, accomplish your will and your purpose, and as we look to Sunday, if you carry your coming to the commitments and faith promise, I pray, Lord, that it will be a tremendous day of victory, a day of shouting and praise to you that others are going to hear about the Lord Jesus Christ. And we'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, may be seated. What really happens to a person when they are gripped by the gospel of Jesus Christ As I look at the life and ministry of the Apostle Paul, I can't help but think that there must have been a fire that was burning in his bones. As he thought about the needs of people and their eternal destiny, there was something in his heart, a burden on his heart that just would not go away And I believe when we're gripped by the gospel, the message of the gospel, there's going to be a fire in our bones. There is going to be a burden on our hearts And there's going to be a purpose in our steps and where they will direct us. And I believe surely there'll be a new burden in our prayers as we call uh upon the name of the Lord. The Apostle Paul was not driven by personality. The Apostle Paul was not driven by an ambition. The Apostle Paul was not driven by adventure. The Apostle Paul was driven by this great and glorious gospel and the message that he had to deliver to the peoples of the world. When you think about Rome and you look at history concerning Rome, it was the capital of the world at that time, but it was also the capital of paganism It was the capital of politics. It was the capital of power. It was the capital of heathenism and perversion. And the Apostle Paul had an unshakable desire, an unmovable desire to go there and tell these people about the Lord Jesus Christ. It was the last place a Christian would really want to go. But it was the first place that the Apostle Paul desired to go to deliver that message because he had confidence in that message that the people would be saved by the grace of God and liberated from their wicked ways of living. Paul was gripped by the gospel. Paul knew the power of the gospel. And it was too powerful for the Apostle Paul to keep silent about the gospel. But I ask you this evening, have you been gripped by the gospel? Has that message really taken root in your own heart and life? So much so You can't help but share the good news of the gospel with others. The gospel that gripped the life of the Apostle Paul kept him pressing even when he was persecuted. That gospel that gripped the heart of the Apostle Paul kept him praying even when he was in prison. The gripping of the gospel in the life of the Apostle Paul kept him praising in even in the midst of the pain uh that he experienced in life. So as you read these verses in Romans chapter one and beginning with verse number 13. It's really Paul's testimony. It's really the heart uh uh of the mission outreach for the missionary and for the Church of Jesus Christ. It's the blueprint for missions. As I look at this passage of Scripture, I'm moved by the fact how Paul was gripped by that gospel. I guarantee you this evening, when that gospel message grips you, you'll not be content to keep it to yourself. Can you say amen to that? Well, when the gospel grips you, you'll not be content to keep it just for yourself. When that gospel grips you, that message grips you, certainly it will move you to make sure that those who are in darkness receive the light that the gospel of Jesus Christ gives to them And it will certainly help us to be willing to go. It'll help us to be willing to give. It'll help us to be willing to pray that the gospel will get there in time. When I take a look at this passage of Scripture and the life and testimony of the Apostle Paul, the first thing that strikes me is the passion. of his mission. You'll notice in verse number 13 that he says to us, now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I purpose to come to you. Paul was not writing as a casual Christian, but he was writing as someone that was consumed by this message of the gospel that was able to set the captives free. Paul gives us in this passage of Scripture some marks of a person that is going to have passion in their life for others and reaching them with that glorious gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul had a purposeful desire. He said, I oftentimes desired to come to you. Hadn't got there yet. Wasn't able to arrive there yet. But the burning passion in his heart, he was moved to oftentimes wanting to go and looking for the opportunity that would allow him to go To tell those people about Jesus Christ. He was burdened for Rome. And there's no doubt that these couples this evening that are going to the field. You can't go without a burden You can't serve the Lord without a burden. Serve the Lord effectively without a burden. Paul had this passion, it was a purposeful desire to go and to tell these individuals about Jesus Christ. I have a pressing burden. The Lord has impressed upon my heart the need of the Word of God in the languages of the people. Uh i it's a clear burden that I have. It's an unmistakable burden that has gripped me and and drives me I'd have to say to you this evening that is a consuming burden. And I'll also say it's a costly burden as well. Costs are constantly going up. Just this past week our fuel bill for our tractor and trailer was fifteen hundred dollars. That's just one week. It's a costly burden. But are are we going to quit because the gas prices went up? Are we going to quit because the cost of paper went up? Are we going to quit because the cost of paint went up? Because the cost of things are constantly right? Are we going to quit because of that? I'm consumed with that burden to get the Word of God printed in the languages of the world. God's word did so much for me. And if it did so much for me and it's done so much for you, it's going to do a lot in other people's lives as well. So the Apostle Paul had a purposeful burden on his heart What's your burden tonight? I want you to seriously think about that. What's your burden tonight? Do you have a burden? Do you have a burden to see people saved? Wouldn't it be wonderful if every single service at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, somebody walked these aisles? Somebody knelt at this altar. Somebody was saved by the grace of God. Somebody was put into the pool of baptism, declaring their allegiance to Jesus Christ. Well, wouldn't it be wonderful? Do you have a burden to see people saved? You have a burden tonight to tell others about the Savior. Are you inviting people to church? Are you open to allowing the Lord to use you because you have a burden? What kind of a burden do you have tonight? Do you have a burden to see others go places that you might not be able to go? I don't know if you'll ever get to Guatemala I don't know whether you'll ever get to the Dominican Republic, but do you have a burden to see others go there and represent you on the field of service reaching others for Jesus Christ. Paul had a purposeful desire. But I also think that he had a persistent desire. He says, oftentimes, oftentimes, I wanted to come, but I was hindered. I was prevented. Is our burden, is our burden persistent that we can't let it go? He pursued to go there often to Rome. But for various reasons he was not able to get there. He tried again and again and again. What's your burden tonight? What's your burden tonight? Even though there were things that deterred the Apostle Paul from getting there, nothing ever deterred the desire for him to go there. Missions is not sightseeing, it's soul searching. Soul searching. Paul had a purposeful desire. The apostle Paul had a persistent desire. Then I would have to say that he had a productive desire. He expected fruit. He really expected that. He expected God to do something when he preached the gospel. I wonder if we expect God to do something when we hand somebody a gospel tract And by the way, just handing it to them is not the end of the story. You might not be able to deal with them there, but you can deal with it on your knees in prayer And remind the Lord of that individual that got that track today, or that track that you left to the particular place, that someone will find it that needs the Lord. Our desire ought to be that we see fruit as a result of our labor of love in reaching others with the gospel of Jesus Christ. Paul wanted the fruit of souls being saved by the grace of God. He wanted to see saints of God maturing in the things of the Lord. The Apostle Paul wanted to see churches planted. And I believe these missionaries, that's their desire, their burden. And it ought to be our desire as well. He had a personal desire as well. He said, I'm obligated I'm in debt. I'm a debtor. I'm obligated to go. I wonder how many of us really feel obligated to serve the Lord. If he searched us out and sought us out, and by the way, this idea that you found the Lord has no biblical foundation. My Bible says we weren't even seeking the Lord. We didn't even want the Lord. He found us. Paul said, I'm a debtor. I'm obligated. I'm bound by duty. It's my responsibility. It's my calling, and I'm compelled to preach that message. You remember what he said? Woe is me if I preach not the gospel of Jesus Christ. And not only said I'm a debtor, he said I'm ready. I wonder how many of us sitting here in this auditorium tonight, I'm ready to do whatever God wants me to do. I'm ready to get that card out. I'm ready to take that piece of paper. I've prayed over it. I've sought the Lord about it I I'm looking to him for guidance and I know the way that he's leading me and I can't wait to get to Sunday to put it down and put it in the offering plate and see what God is going to do. Debtor to do something. Are we ready to do something? The Apostle Paul was able to say, I'm a debtor. And he said, I'm not ashamed of that I'm just not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. So Paul had a purposeful desire. The Apostle Paul had a persistent desire. The Apostle Paul had a productive desire, and the Apostle Paul had a personal desire. The second thing that I see in this passage of Scripture. Is the power of his message. He tells us in verse number 16: For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation. Paul was confident. Paul was confident when the seed was planted, something was going to happen. And we need to have that same kind of a confidence. That wherever the seed is planned. Paul wasn't dependent upon his education. The Apostle Paul was not dependent upon his experience. The Apostle Paul was not dependent upon his endurance. He was confident. And he was dependent upon the power of the gospel to do exactly what it would do. I feel a shout coming on right now. This gospel that we have and has been committed to our care and our personal trust is the power of God onto salvation. It's able to do what God has purposed for it to do. You mark it down. You mark it down. Without that kind of confidence in the message of the gospel, a church won't do much. Missionaries won't go very far. But if you're confident that what this couple will do in the Dominican in preaching the gospel can do what God said it would do, you want to get them there just as quickly as they can get there If you're absolutely confident that the message that this couple will proclaim in Guatemala, you're confident of that That wherever they preach that word, wherever they distribute that word, that God is going to reap a harvest of souls, then you want to get them there just as quickly as possible I'm thankful that the gospel has saving power. It saved me. It rescued you. And it will do the same for others. We sing that song, Rescue the Perishing, Care for the Dying, Snatch Them Pity. This world is on a collision course to hell. We've got the message. It's the message of the gospel. I'm thankful that it will save the helpless. I'm thankful that it will save the hopeless. That addict that is stretched out on drugs. The gospel can deliver them. The gospel can save them. The gospel can snatch them out of that pit of destruction. That's what the gospel can do. The gospel can rescue the atheist, the one that says there's no God The gospel is so powerful and penetrating that it can take someone that is anti-God and make them an individual that is for God. That's the power of the gospel. It's the power of God into salvation. The gospel can rescue them The immortal. The gospel can rec recognize the religious lost conditions of people that have married themselves to a religion that is sending them to hell. Rescue them Pull them out of that. I remember on one of my trips to Mexico, I was absolutely amazed on a Saturday evening. We went down to the city square. There was five Catholic churches As I stood there, there was one, there was one, there was one, there was one, and there was one, all pointing to the center of the square where hundreds of people had gathered on a Saturday night. I slipped in the back door of one of them and I noticed the statues that they had there. I noticed the people that were giving their allegiance to those statues. Blind, blind, absolutely religious, but blind. And that if we don't reach them, they're gonna split hell wide open The gospel can reach the religious but lost. It saves the helpless, saves the hopeless, it saves the hardened. You look at the life of the Apostle Paul. He was a murderer. He was a persecutor. He was a blasphemer. God rescued him. God saved him. Paul said, this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. But it doesn't stop there, of whom I am chief. The gospel has saving power. And I'm thankful that the gospel has sufficient power Notice that to everyone that believeth. Well, that that word, everyone, that's a big word. That's a a lot of people. That encompasses the entirety of the world. All they have to do is believe the power of the gospel is sufficient. To save a person that just simply believes. He didn't say join the church. He didn't say do good works He didn't say get baptized. He didn't say depend upon the sacraments. He didn't say go to the religious institutions of the world. He said kneel, kneel at the cross. Just simply. Believe. I'm thankful he didn't say you had to have a certain amount of money in your pocket in order to get in. Glad he didn't say that you had to have a certain look about you before you got in. I'm thankful, he just said believe. Just believe me. Just have faith in me. The Bible tells us the gospel has sufficient power. I believe the Bible tells us that the gospel has supernatural power. That word dunymus. I I I I like it I I I define it this way divine dynamite. Every one of those booklets that you pass out that you made right here at Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, that's divine dynamite. And when we send it out to the missionaries, they spark it, they put it on fire, they pass it to the individual, and divine dynamite, the womb Every one of them. I thrill every time I see the post with all of those boxes lined up on the altar. I I I would imagine if if you were listening you would hear the shout all the way from Bedford. It's exciting because I know that's the vine dynamite that's going to rescue the perishing. And Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church cares about that. It breaks the chains of strongholds. The dynamite, the divine dynamite is able to break spiritual darkness, demonic control. The Spirit of God is able to do that because he's working with divine Dynamite. It literally transforms sinners, doesn't it? If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things pass away, and behold, all things become new. So we've seen the passion of his mission, the power of his message. But how about the purpose of the master? What does God want to accomplish? Well, it's right here. For therein is the righteousness of God revealed, from faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith. By faith. Paul wasn't just preaching a message. He was fulfilling a divine mission. He was carrying the gospel to Rome to tell those people about Jesus Christ. And God's purpose in doing that, he wanted to reveal some things to them. He wanted to reveal to them the true gospel. Saving power of God. He wanted to reveal to them why missions actually exist. He wanted to reveal to them what ultimately the goal of evangelism was all about. Revealing The righteousness of God. We have none of our own. None of our own. There's none righteous. No, not one. The law, Cannot provide forgiveness. The law can only show you you're a sinner. The law doesn't give you righteousness. It's only the gospel that can do that for you. The law shows us a standard, but the gospel supplies the righteousness. The gospel demands faith, not works, not rituals, not ceremonies. Not sacraments, faith. Simple faith. The Bible tells us in Romans 5 1, we're justified by faith. Not by works of righteousness which we have done. We're justified by that faith. And I believe faith is the engine of missions. Faith is the engine of faith promise giving. We have faith in God Faith that he can do through us, what he's able to do, it generates, it energizes us to do what God has called us to do. Faith is the engine of missions. The missionary goes in faith. These couples are gone out, trusting God to protect them. These missionaries are going out trusting God to provide for them. These missionaries are going out trusting God to empower them. These missionaries are gone for the very purpose of producing fruit to lay at the feet of our Savior, the Lord Jesus. And it's all by faith. All by faith. So I ask you tonight What will you do with the gospel? Has it gripped you? Laid hold of you? Won't let you go? What will you what will you do for the need of the missionaries? What are you going to do about that? Are you going to step forward and surrender to go yourself? Are you going to step forward and say, I'm going to increase my giving? Increase my praying? What are you going to do with the gospel? What are you going to do with these missionaries? What are you going to do personally? Go Give? And as I said last night, are you going to live in disobedience How dare we be silent when the need is so great? When the need is so urgent, the fields are white on the harvest. Because of that We need to speak up. Because of that, we need to offer ourselves to the Lord. And because of that, we're going to have to give and pray, or we're just surrendering to the fact of living in disobedience. What's it going to be for you? Let's stand with our heads bowed and her eyes closed tonight. I don't know what God is laying upon your heart, but maybe you need to come this evening and say, Lord, get a tighter grip on me. Get a tighter grip on me with the gospel. And recognizing that the time is so urgent and the time is so short, Lord help me to do all I can to get that message out to this world. Maybe you need to come tonight and just surrender. To do whatever God wants you to do I couldn't help but as I was looking at the missionary presentation last night, the missionary presentation tonight, I couldn't help but say, Lord, do you want me to go there? Do you want me? Could I go? Have you ever offered yourself to the Lord, like Isaiah did? Here am I, Lord? Send me. And Lord, if you're not sending me there, can you give through me that others might go? I trust tonight that God will give us a greater grip on the gospel message to do whatever He calls us to do. Father, Bless the Word tonight. May the Holy Spirit have the liberty to work in our midst tonight. May we, like the Apostle Paul, have that passion, have that power. Have that determination to get out to the gospel here, there, and everywhere. While her heads are bound and her eyes are closed and the pianist is playing. God's speaking to you tonight, this old