I I have a a different message and I want to pr thank uh he's not uh thank you for letting me in today. Uh I've been working on this message kinda humbling uh humming in the back of my mind for some time and so I I I finally kind of put it together. So this is the first time I've ever done this. I and and I I I got a couple of titles. I think I told the man back there in the back what's your name, Bob? What'd he say? Jamie, we're like a mobile, you look like a Bob. You know. And so uh Jamie. Anyway, um I was gonna I titled this, I think, Growing and Giving. Is that right, Bob? You know, uh you'll be known as Jamie Bob the rest of your life. And the other name I was going to give, and it'll make sense, is uh see that You know, and this morning when I got up in the cabin over here, I was looking for something to eat. And I looked over there on the counter and there was some Pop-Tarts. No, they were strawberry. They weren't blueberry. But I'll take any berry if I can't have blueberry. And you know that got my attention. And then I looked deeper at that cat, and there was all kinds of candy bars in there and stuff. I've been in there for 48 hours. I didn't even smell it. Man, I must be signed. There's cereal And man, when I got there's all kinds, there's potato chips everywhere and refrigerator, you know, I knew what was in it, but man, I I I I mean, I saw some stuff I didn't know was there. And how many has ever read a portion of Scripture And you actually the paper becomes alive and you actually see and sense what's going on. Illustration uh tonight when I Read some scripture to you. Go to 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Can you do that now? We're going to look at verse 7. And in there is a term, see that. And I want you to see that tonight. I want you to see that your giving is not a one-time thing and it doesn't stay in one spot, it grows. I want you to see that. Now today, there's another interpretation to see that All right, and I'm going to tell you what the Greek. I I've got a Thayer's Lexicton and and I've got a Strongston coordinates and I know a little Greek and Italian that owns a restaurant, but that's about it, all right. But I I I I wanna explain this and uh we're in we're in we're in Maryland, right? A lot of West Virginians in here. I want to explain it to you country people. So you'd understand it like I would. Now this guy's a farm boy. Used the farm term last night, and I used to milk seven cows every morning before I'd go to church school. And dad after we got out of school, he stole every cow he had. He just did it to keep us built. Used a couple terms. He's a real farm boy. He used a farm term tonight. I can't remember what it was, but Most people wouldn't catch up on it in Europe, New York City. Good night. They haven't even seen a cow. But anyway, I want you to see this tonight. I want you to see that. God has lined up and set up through the pen of Paul, the Holy Spirit, That our grace giving should grow. I want you to see that. Today you went up the mountain with the people, and you know, and uh I seen, I was watching Matt here, the big Matt, and he's on that riding lawnmower. I don't know what your conversation was, but only Americans and hillbillies understand it We have terms. Brother Bobby used to preach, I want you to get a hold of that. And I asked him one day, Brother Bobby, how do you still a holdta? We got some good words up here in the mountains, don't we? Now here's one term we use. See, Matt, see that you mow the yard. What does that mean to a Filipino? Somebody won't stand there and watch him mow it. How many know that's not what the preacher means? I want you to see that yard is mowed by time church starts. How many understands that phrase? Half of New York wouldn't understand it. The trainings wouldn't. What are we looking at? What do you mean looking at the yard? Then when you're done mowing the yard, see that ship and fertilize it. Well, what does that mean? See that you fertilize it? We all gonna watch him know what it really means is do the job, perform it. I'm going to give you a little Greek word, chapter 8, verse 7, a phrase. See that. And that means in the Greek it's a hireless word. It means to perform. It means to uh To uh make sure it means to positively do, it means to make it happen, complete the thought Complete the happening, just do it. And when you tell Brother Matt, see that to get the yard mode by church time See that you fertilize it when you're done. See that you wash that thing when you're done mowing with the yard. See that you put the tools up. See that you get the bus ready by the time go pick up how you all understand, don't don't you Tonight I want you to see that when it comes to giving and growing in giving. Second Corinthians chapter 8, verse 7. Lots in there. I'm going to try to unwrap that just a little bit for you. And I want you to catch this with me. The Bible says, therefore, as ye abound in everything, now watch this. In faith. That's one. In utterance, that's two. And knowledge, that's three. All diligence, that's four. And in your love for us, that's five See that you abound in this grace also. Say what? Can't find that. That's a little different phrase. What is going on here? Now as I unwrap this, what in the world is Paul talking about? I want you to catch this. And as Paul deals with grace giving, you'll look with me in verse 2 of chapter 8. They make excuses coming down the track here. They say in verse 2 and uh how that in a great trial of affliction, uh you know, the uh the uh you know uh the abundance of their joy and their deep poverty They abounded into the riches of their liberality. These churches of Macedonia, they could not afford to give. That's what it says there. Secondly, I see this in verse 2 again. We just can't do it. We're deep poverty. I mean, we are we're on the other side of poor. I mean Job's turkey was poor, but our turkeys they don't have feathers anymore. We ain't got much going. We're out of money. And look closer. Verse 4 says, this 3 and 4 says that for their to their power, and I bear record, and yea, beyond their power, they were willing of themselves to give. They didn't have any power to give any money, but they did it anyway. praying us with much entreaty that we would receive it. It probably won't work anyway. It will take upon us the Fellowship of Ministry of the Saints. I I I I don't know if they're going to give or not, but boy, I hope they do. It is just uh it's all about the money All the missionaries are after, then first five comes alive. And this they did. Not as we hoped. But first gave their own selves to the Lord and to us by the will of God. In the context of this message tonight, It gives us the importance of our abounding and our going beyond the norm. It's given the equal importance. Look at verse 7. It says this that faith When I look at this, it says, hey, listen, you need to abound in everything. And here's my list in faith. That's trusting God In utterance, that's preaching the Word of God. In knowledge, that's studying the Word of God. In diligence, that's working for God. And love, that's the essence of God in our lives. And it's then it says, abound in this grace also, or in the same way. What in the world Is he talking about? Well, it let's take verse 2 through verse 6 out Watch verse 1. Moreover, brethren, we do you the wit or know of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. The grace in verse 1 Is the grace you need to abound in in verse 7. All God's people said, oh, he's tying it together for us. And what does that mean in the Greek that you're going to abound in this? Man, read that Bible, man work for that church, man, get the knowledge. Man, get to love. I mean it's all right there, wrapped up like a Christmas present, ready to go. And then he says, I want you to abound in this grace also. It's one. And you just take those verses backwards, you'll come to that grace. And he wants us to know of the grace of God bestowed on the churches of Macedonia. So far so good? We ready? How many have ever heard of Jonas Hanway? He was buried in Westminster Abbey. And he he was there with the the dign dignitaries, uh the big shots, the guys uh like Queen Elizabeth I or Isaac Newton. Charles Dickens, uh other kings and queens, and what in the world is Johannes Hanway doing on the west side of Westminster Abbey, buried with a uh an a a relief of him, a statue, picture, of one of the greatest greats of all of England. Well, when you study his life, he was married into money, born into money, never did get married, and he owned several shipping uh ships, uh ships uh ships around the world and was was a multimillionaire. And then he found the Lord Jesus Christ his personal Savior. Now, he would fuss with anybody that drop of a hat He thinks drinking tea was a sin, you know. Kind of weird, but you know, I don't drink it either, by the way, preacher. I'm a coffee man. How about you? Amen. All right. And uh I don't even own a cat. How about you Well do you have a cat? I didn't know that. Your wife has a cat. I digress. Let's move on here. They're up my love offering, amen. Uh He was the first man ever in the world to use an umbrella. 1800s only girls used umbrellas. And uh real men in London would never use an umbrella Real men got wet. And he invented that thing. He put it together and Lady started using it and he started using it and people started laughing at him. He could care less and he'd laugh back and say, I'm dry and you're sitting there wet and you get all kinds of diseases and I'll be standing here when we're burying you in the ground. I in fact I'll have my umbrella out while we're burying you. Not only did he do that, but he sold all his belongings And he began giving to ministry. There's a thing called the Foundling Hospital in London. He was one of the founders of it. And it was a place, as the book says here, here's what's below his name in Westminster Abbey, the helpless infant nurtured through his care. The friendless prostitutes sheltered and reformed, the hopeless youth rescued from the misery and the ruin, and trained to serve his country and to serve his God, uniting in one common strain of gratitude. Bear testimony to their benefactors' virtues. Who was this man? This was the friend and the father of the poor of London. You know, most people have not heard about him. And he gave all that money to that hospital. And he was really famous for the umbrella, but he's more famous for doing that hospital. And for many years, 20-some years, he financed the thing. And God blessed him every step of the way. Now I want you to see that he made a statement, every penny I make from this day forward, I'm going to give into that ministry of that hospital in the streets of London. And boys and young ladies and girls and men, he made a lot of money. I want you to understand that's just the start of the night's message. But he not only started the hospital, his whole life abounded in paying for that hospital and reaching those lives. So tonight as we talk about grace giving, I want to jump right into it. And I just want to be an encouragement. And I wrote down why Why are we to grow in our giving? Are you ready to go? You want to write some things down? You can, we'll be quick and as fast as we can. Number one, giving makes us more like God. Now don't be scared when I say that. It makes us more like God. John 3. 16 said, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. Can we deny this fundamental truth that God is a giver? Amen? Aren't you glad he gives us H2O? Well, come on now. Aren't you glad he gives us air to breathe? This hold yours for about three minutes. Now not here like this. Aren't you glad that God built us in an image that like he is? Aren't you glad he created us as a peculiar for him? Can we deny this as Christians? We're to emulate God and those around us. We're supposed to be uh like well uh the term came up in the second century, Christians. What does that mean? Like Christ They used to call us soul winners back in the early days of Jerusalem and Rome way-ins. What's that mean? We was in the way trying to get people saved, always bugging people. Then the uh the Christian term came. See, growing more like the Lord means you grow in a grace. What's it say in Second Peter 3. 18? But to grow in grace and in knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ To him be the glory both now and forever. Amen. Folks, God wants us to be like him when it comes in our giving. Number two Giving draws me closer to the Lord. Matthew 6. 28 says, For where your treasure is, there will be your heart also. My wife said, Hey honey, graduation's coming and our kids are coming down from Canada and and some of the grandkids are coming over. You know from out west and uh I I know what she's going to say next. How much do you think I should give each of the grandchildren Well, I don't care. Just give what you I'll give them $500 apiece. Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Back up the wagon. Back it up. They're not worth that much. You know, and now I start to care. She said, well, I want to give them $100 apiece. Do we have that? I mean they're graduating, they're coming in, and we won't see them for about a year, and and I'll I'll give it so their parents can't take the money from them a charge card. I am telling you And well, you know, and I I I let's just give 'em twenty. Pretty cheap, huh? And and then she said, uh, well what what about thirty? And I said, Well, you know, I honey, you know, I love you and I know you love me, and they're all we got, we love them with all the okay, give them a hundred. Then I felt bad. There's only five or six of them. You know, and my wife's electric at Christmas time. She charges everything. And this year she didn't charge that much, so uh that'll sink in. So I said, you know what? Let's be a blessing to them. Let's give them 150 piece. And she said something on the phone. She said, Oh, I appreciate that. I'll get that and and hey, I love you, honey. She said, I should have gone for 500. You know, uh God will work in your life to draw you close to him. If giving wasn't important to God, he would not have spent so much time on it. He's always talking about giving Our attitude about giving reveals much about your spiritual growth. We become into this world like a little you ever want to see how selfish we are, go to a nursery in an independent Baptist church. and watch them fight over toys. You know, and a and and and then as we get a little older, we more mature, uh uh we learn that uh life isn't about us and And that's the same in the as a Christian, you get saved, you get baptized, you you get discipled, and man, you're glad you're a Christian and and then you hear about tithing and you're good with that. Hear about soul winning, you're scared to death, but you're good with that. And you hear about having a Christian home and and scared to death and you're still scared to death, but you you go to the Bible and how to raise your family for God in this wicked world and you're pretty good with that. But then when it comes to Giving a be of their above your tithe. Whoa, you need to show us that's in there. You know, and the same is true as Christians. We know that Jesus loves us. We know that Jesus dies for us, and God wants to bless us. At Bethlehem, he is with us. At the cross, he is for us. After Pentecost, he is in us, and he wants us to do something for him, and he uses missions to reach the world for For his cause. I want you to understand that giving it is very important here and it draws us closer to God. Thirdly, I wrote this down. Giving is the antidote to materialism 1 Timothy 6 verse 17 says, Charge them that are rich in this world that they be not high-minded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. Brother Matt and I were talking today about uh winning the lotto, right? Remember that uh happened to me about uh when I was a bus captain in Ferry many years ago when we both still had hair and and and uh uh It was a Christmas time and about nineteen eighty and I had I had about five or six bus families to the house for Thanksgiving and and the kids were most of them were saved and I had five or six college kids. We had about thirty of us sitting there at our house and And we had the dad and mom and uh moms come with the kids and and man and I got ready to pray and I prayed and put the gospel out there for five minutes and I'm just thankful for all the people in the room. And one of the dads of the ki uh uh girls stood up Uh and he said, I I'm thankful to be here too. And you all mean so much to me that when I win the Indiana Lotto If I win, whatever I win, I'm gonna give half of it to Brother D Long here and his bus ministry and and the church. And they all clapped and I'm going, this is not gonna work. And I didn't say anything and he he gave his little speech and and we prayed and we ate and two weeks three weeks later he won two hundred thousand dollars. In the Indiana State Lotto. I have not seen him yet. In fact, he left his wife and the bus kids uh a week after he got it. They hadn't seen him yet either. You know, a lot of us think it's all about us. It's about the materialism. It destroys families, focusing on money and things instead of people. destroys relationships. Money is the not the root of all evil, but the love of it is. And I'm telling you, I never have I ever had a buyer's remorse I've never had never had a second thought about every penny, every dime I've ever given to God. Last month I had an opportunity. I was preaching at a place and they were having a uh a uh uh a conference thing to r raise money to have bibles made in the Caribbean. Twenty thousand Bibles in the countries down there. And uh a little Child of a pastor asked me, I think she's in fifth grade, she said, Brother D Long, since you're preaching here, what can I put you down? What what what do you want to what do you want to give to God on this? I mean she was straight up right out front And I tell you what, whatever God gives me tonight, I'm going to give to you. She said, that's great. How much would you think that's probably a dollar, fifty cents? I walked outside going to my vehicle. The man walked up and said, Hey, I want to give you something tonight. For the ministry you have, whatever you need up whatever you have in need of. And he laid out five one hundred dollar bills. I'm not making this up. I said, sir, you should give that to the church, but I'm going to give it right back. Thank you. I'll take it in. I hand that little girl in front of her parents and said, now you give that to that Bible project and God bless you. I got a phone call a week later. Her class won the whole contest and they got a day off of whatever. You know, it pays to give. Now watch this. Some of us give to get. That's not what I'm preaching about. Giving strengthens our faith. You've got to trust God with this. Malachi 3 says this verse 10. Bring ye all the ties into the house storehouse, and there may be meat in mine house, and prove me. Now therewith saith the Lord of hosts If I will not open you the windows of heaven and pour you out a blessing, there shall not be room enough to receive it. And you see that? It's better to give than to receive. Acts chapter 20, verse 35. I preached that last night. Did you see that? Then where it says in the book of Matthew, or John, chapter 6, I think, verse 38, pressed down, shaken together, running over what I put in your heart to give. I want you to see that. I want you to catch that. I want you to catch that. Paul said you don't give to give, but don't that I get a big account But he said it goes to your account. I want you to get that. I want you to see that. You can never out give God. Now catch this with me That is why we're supposed to do it. Giving strengthens our faith. Faith is taking God at His Word. Faith is believing the promises of God in His Word. And what are some of the other promises God gives us concerning giving? But my God shall supply all whose need, your need, according to what? His riches. In glory, through who? Christ Jesus. Giving is an investment in eternity. I'm telling you, ring up the interest, okay? You know, some people say, well, Brother DeLong, how are you doing? I'm doing okay. Do you lose anything in the stock market? No, I don't have any stock. Well, I lost sixteen, eighteen, twenty-five thousand last year. I said, you know, I I didn't lose a penny. I said, what do we do with your money? Give it to the Lord He gives the increase. Now you know I want you to understand something. I look at money different at 70 than I did at 17. Y'all know what I'm saying about that. I learned to trust God along the way. And 1 Timothy says this chapter 6, verse 18, that they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in the store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. That's all talking about giving and missions and and investing Things do not last. They aren't meant to. How many you folks in here get up stiffer now than you did when you were 40 years of age? If you're over that. How many got parts in your body falling apart you didn't even know you had parts? Am I right? How many when you like me you get up in the morning, you used to get up in the morning, hey boy, I'm ready to go! You get up in the morning, it's like okay, what day is it? You know? And but with that left leg it hasn't woke up yet. Whoa! You know, and and and you know sometimes I'll get up and Uh I'll be standing there in the kitchen, I'll be leaning up against the thing. My wife, Well, how's your day going? Uh it's not started yet. And she she goes to the she goes to the refrigerator and she's a cocaholic, diet cocaholic, and she will not drink coffee, but she does three or four diet cokes before seven, you know. She just and I'm drinking my caffeine And I love coffee. But coffee don't take the stiffness out of you. You cannot stop aging. There's only one thing you can invest in as you get older and slower, but smarter, watch me now, and wiser about the grace of God, I want you to see that That you're doing investments and eternal things that'll not only bless you, but your people to come. Understand, what you do now will help you even after you are gone. Time and time again, I won't go that deep tonight, but I want you to see that. It says there in my text in chapter 8, verse 7. See that you abound in this grace also. He doesn't tell us, look at verse 7. He doesn't tell us to abound in faith. utterance and knowledge and all diligence and and and your love. He says, see that you abound. Now this great, this is one thing you've got to really jump in on This is one thing you've got to see. This is one thing you've got to put to work. What is that grace? That's giving. And I want you to understand giving is an investment in eternity. And I want to give you the second thought tonight in a hurry. That is this How to give. How to give. Look at 2 Corinthians chapter 9, verse 7. Every man according as he purposed in his heart. You know too, can I say this? Number one, give willingly. 2 Corinthians 8, verse 12 makes this statement. You've got to first have a willing mind. You've got to have that willingness. Verse 11 says, now perform the doing of this grace giving, do it, that there was a readiness to will, so there may be a performance also out of that which ye have. But the first you gotta have you gotta be willing to be part of this. Willing hearts giving to the Lord is what Paul's talking about. Ungodly preachers and ungodly doctrine says whatever you decide to give, that'll be fine with the Lord. Are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? Illustration. Last time the Lord was checking that giving before his crucifixion was, guys come in. And pontificated and had thousands of dollars and they put a hundred in. Maybe a hundred and ten. Watch this. Here she comes, a little old widow widow woman Walks in there and the Lord knows what He the men had in their pockets and he knew exactly what she had in her pocket and how many mites did she give Cheap, but she gave what? Everything. You tell me he doesn't watch it. You need to see that. You need to see that to get that yard mode. You need to see that to get that thing fertilizer. You need to see that you get those things too. And you need to see that when you give to the Lord and you give it in the right way. I want to get this thought across to you. You give it willingly. All God's people said. Mean that's harder to do than you think, preacher. Willing hearts Is what the hearts of God bless us. Paul isn't talking about amount of money here in chapter 9, verse 7. He's not talking about amount of money in 2 Corinthians 8, 12. He's talking about an attitude It's not the amount, it's what God puts on your heart to give, and it's the spirit of that. And I touched on this offering on our first night that I spoke in 1 Chronicles chapter 29 verse 9, the greatest offering ever taken. Listen to what David says about the word willing. Then the people rejoiced for they offered willingly, because the with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord. And David the king also rejoiced with great great joy. Hey, you want to make God happy? Willingly, willingly do it. Amen. Made my wife happy. I started at 20 and she got 150 and she should have asked for 300. My God is just waiting to add to your account. But you're the one that has to be the one willing to grow in your giving and trusting with it. You can keep at the same old level for the rest of your life, but just try try this out. Try to try the scriptures out. Try God's word out. Try God out. He will never, ever let you down on this. Amen. I want you to catch this with me Now note this too. Number two, not only willingly, number two, give thankfully. I am so thankful. I could not have the ministry I have if it was not for churches like you That give. And I want you to understand, it says in Psalm 116, verse 12, What shall I render unto the Lord for all his benefits towards me? I can't outgive him. He got so many benefits coming my way. I can't ever outgive him. It says in Matthew 10, 8, heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out the devils. freely have received and freely give. And when you live a life like that, God will freely bless. Number two, in our thank being thankful in our giving, our giving should be an attitude of thanksgiving for all that God has done for us. How many in here know what the value of one's soul is? Remember you getting saved? Remember people investing in you? How that somebody had to give? So usually somebody has to give to get that preacher there, to get that tract there, to get that missionary there. And do you have that attitude of thanksgiving? Psalms one hundred seven says this verse twenty one O that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and for his wonderful works to the children of men, and let them sacrifice the sacrifice of thanksgiving And declare his works with rejoicing. Hey, refusing to give what God wants us to give is an unthankful heart. Now are we thankful what God has done for our lives? Amen And amen and amen. How many remember when you made twenty five cents an hour as at working? How many remember making fifty cents an hour How many remembers when gas was 25 cents a gallon? Then we got 75. So kids listen to this. We worked. for fifty cents an hour and you work today at McDonald's making fifteen dollars an hour. I'm just that's that's that's where it's at That's exactly where it's at. You know, and I'm telling you what, that 50 cents back in those days would go a long way, wouldn't it? 50 cents can't get me out that door. I want you to understand it's not about the value of the money, it's the value of the heart. And I want you to catch the thankfulness here. And with this comes the next thing is cheerfulness. All cheerfully. What does 2 Corinthians chapter 9 says, take a look at verse 7? You should be sitting there. The Bible says, so let him give not grudgingly, or of necessity, for God loveth what kind of giver? Cheerful. Not grudgingly, not with sorrow or grief. Of necessity. That's what I was kind of doing with my grandkids. God is looking for those that will give with an attitude of joy. Cheerful means this. In the Greek it's harous. And that means preacher, I can't do this. I can't pronounce the Greek word right. But it means I I wanna do this, I wanna give it, I wanna give more. I'm putting this on my card. I'm doing my faith promise I'm so happy to do this. I could care less about everybody else what they're giving, but God's put on my heart to give this. And I am so excited to do it, scared to death Has he ever let you down? Well, yes, yes, I didn't win that lotto. That guy didn't come back to my house and give me that hundred thousand dollars. I had a flat tire after that, had a dog bite me, got holes in my shoes, ended up in the hospital with cancer. Come on. Get it off of you and get it on him as he speaks to your heart. Paul says, see that ye abound in this grace also. What is that grace? Verse 1, grace giving. Missions giving, faith promise, that's exactly what it's talking about. Now you've got to see that. And when you do that, I guarantee you, God will bless you. How do you know that, preacher? Well Expectantly is the last word I got here. It says in 2 Corinthians 9-6, take a look at it. But this I say, he which so sparingly shall reap also sparingly, and he which soweth bountifully shall reap also bountifully Expecting to harvest. Man, I'm telling you, you paint one put one grain of corn in the ground, going about to get two ears, about six hundred kernels Put two two pieces of corn in the ground, you probably get about five to six ears. You put four, you might get fifteen, twenty. How many understand you reap what you sow? In the corn business, the more corn you put out, the more corn you're going to get back. And it runs about 300 to 400 to 1 profit for that farmer. Isn't that great? Listen to this thought. This isn't to give the get, and some of our the name it and claim it crowd, this is what they preach. But when you do what God puts in your heart to do, you've got to expect and trust He's going to do what He said He would do it will be added to your account. This is what Paul meant when he says in verse 9, uh a man purpose verse 6 says, You purpose it in your heart, so let him give. Not grudgingly. But you give willingly, you give thankfully, you give cheerfully, and you give with the expectance you're going to reap what you sow. When we give We need to do it with a purpose, expecting God to take what we give and bless others. You know, giving is an important value In your life and mine. And not that we expect a return, but giving is getting close to the heart of God. The scriptures fill with examples of great givers But none so vivid as Christ. As we seek to grow in our relationship with Him, you as a church, as you seek to grow in these biblical principles of giving, understand we need to be reminded about This grace also. Now you gotta see that. You gotta see that you abound in this. Not just have the knowledge and the well. You see that you take care of this. So as I look at it. That verse that I give you in verse 7, I think the last thing is the most important thing. Now, how would you come to that, Brother D. Long? Well, if I have faith in verse 7, And I have utterance in verse 7, and I have knowledge in verse 7, and I have diligence in verse 7, and if I love in verse 7, I'll all come out in what I give. Will I abound in it? Will it be skinny in it? Will I do extra in it? And Paul writes, and the Holy Spirit says, See that ye abound. And that grace also. As you close your Bibles tonight, I want to challenge you tonight in the invitation. See that you abound in this. You know, that word Greek in the Greek C means make sure. Positively do, make it happen, complete it through. Do it at a higher level. Make sure you just positively do and take care of what puts on your heart to do. We can talk about Brother Mac. The preacher tells him, now see that you mow that yard See that you fertilize that thing. See that you clean up. He's telling him to do it. And I want you to understand, God always blesses You know, how many's ever set through Handel's Messiah? How many's ever heard of Handel's Messiah? Kids, who wrote Handel's Messiah? They never get it. Handel did. He's 53 years old. He's washed up. His life's about over. And Sir George Frederick Handel, he'd done 42 operas, 29 ortorios, 120 cantatas. Of handle, Beethoven said, I bow the knee to him 'cause he's the greatest writer ever. He had a stroke at the age of fifty-two. Now at fifty-six he was past his composing crime. He was depressed, he was in debt, he was broke And uh he was not musically relevant anymore. He got right with God And made God a promise. He sat down on the last day of July in 1741, and for thirty-one, I mean August 22, and he composed nonstop Fourteen hours a day stayed in the same room. They brought him food, restroom, and everything was in there. And over three weeks he wrote a 259-page masterpiece called The Messiah. It was his tribute to the Lord for saving him from his sins. And the first act in that is the Messiah's coming. The second act of Hanel's Messiah was the passion of Christ. And finally, the last act is he is with us forever and ever. Salvation. Amen. When he finished, he signed these three words, Soli Deo Gloria, SDG, alone to God be the glory. Now the first time I ever heard this thing, I was at Bob Jones University And uh we're gonna watch Handel's Messiah. What is that? I could care less. I'm a freshman, you'll Billy. I couldn't spell Handel or Messiah, but I was in Bible college. And I sat down there and the workers had started playing, and that thing took two hours and nine minutes, and I couldn't take my eyes off what was going on. And I began to cry. Realize what was being said. It comes with that last song. That last song forever and ever and ever. Hallelujah. If you're a Christian when you hear that last song start, it usually takes two minutes and thirty-two seconds to play. What's the first thing you're supposed to do? If you know Christ is your personal Savior. Stand up. Now don't do it tonight. I want you to catch this. Handel heard about Jonas Hanaway's ministry in London. And uh he dedicated every penny of the first Messiah that was played It was played on Easter afternoon in the Great Music Hall in Dublin, Ireland, on April 13, 1742. The music mesmerized the listeners. It wasn't a concert. It was a benefit concert, every penny to be given away. to the family or to to free 144 men who were in debtor's prison in London. The money was raised, it was $86,000. The days value below $4 million. Every penny went to get those dads, 142 men from the debtor's prison. Isn't that amazing? And get him in church. That's not the end of it. You know, Handel left the full score of the Messiah in his will to the founding hospital. He left it to Mr. Jonas Hanaway. And from 1758 to 1752, Handel funded the hospital. of several million dollars per year, all proceeds from the music that was sold from the story of Matthew chapter 25 mission of feeding the hungry, housing the homeless, and caring for the sick. And I believe God blessed that because Handel said, I'll give every penny I ever make to the Lord and the ministry He puts on my heart to give it to. And when he was dead for 14 years after he died, Handel's Messiah. You ready for this? Fund about hospital in London. It's amazing what God can do. When you grow in your giving, I want you to see that. You ready? See that you abound in this grace also. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Lord, we come to you tonight. This church loves you. This church wants to do all they can for you. And they use missions as a venue, missions as a highway, missions as a as a ministry. And a lot of churches I preach at, Lord, they have a heart for missions. I pray this is the first message I've ever done like this, I've ever preached this. We need to know why we give. Not only that, we need to know how to grow in our giving. And God, we want to prove you. And Lord, let every man, according as he purposes in his heart, so let him give But before that, can we have this grace that not only in our hearts and in our lives may we abound in this giving for your honor and glory? Give us a heart that is willing. Give us a mind, Lord, that is not only thankful, but Lord, also wanting to invest. in i in heaven and eternity, or that that that investment will never go away, but it'll only only grow God help us in our decisions tonight. Help us in our ministry at the church here, that we may see that you want us to grow in our giving Whether it's for missionaries, whether it's for missionary projects, whether it's reaching the people in New York City, Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea. A Guam, the Philippines, no matter where it is, God may you give us a heart that'll grow in this. And we need to see that. That's how you got it set up. This is what you want and it pleases you in a great way. And the Lord, we pray these things in your name, Pastor