Second Peter chapter three and verse number eighteen. This kind of goes along with what Mark just sang. Let's see, I need to get to 2 Peter. Says, but grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory, both now and forever. Amen. I want us to look at this matter of growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless Our final message from this series in the book of 2 Peter, I trust, Lord, that you've been able to use our thoughts and our study and preaching on this book That we would grow in the Lord. We'd be stronger in our faith and closer to you. And I ask that tonight you would meet with us again God, I pray that your presence would be here. We know you're here, but I just pray it would be evident that you're here, that we would sense your presence as you work in our heart and teach us and confront us and challenge us and encourage us. And Lord, you have to do that. I cannot bring revival. I cannot cause someone to grow So your Holy Spirit has to do that. So I yield my will to you. I present my thinking, my mind, my will. I present my body. Pray that you would speak through me and help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. When I was young, as far back as I can remember, we were taught very, very early on in our home That when you get up in the morning you make your bid. It's one of the first things we did all these years, and you're taught that so much that it be just becomes instinctive. Anybody know what I'm talking about? You don't even think about it. You just get up and it's just what you do. You don't even think about it. Someone has said that our mind, are you listening, girls? Our mind should not be like our bed. In other words, you shouldn't have to make up your mind every day about some things. There are certain things I don't have to make up my mind and re-remake my mind and rethink it through. They ought to just be settled in our hearts and minds. Now that's especially true for a Christian. There ought to be some things that are just settled. I don't have to every day decide whether it's this or that or try and Figure some things out. They're just settled. For instance, it ought to be settled in the heart and mind of every believer that the Bible is God's Word. Now, what God says is so. I don't have to every day try and decide whether the Bible's true or not. That's a settled fact for me as a believer. You with me on this? And so I don't have to make my mind up on that. And then another area would be that Jesus is the Son of God. I don't have to decide every day or every week whether Jesus is who he claimed to be. In my heart and mind, it is a settled fact. Jesus Christ is the Son of God. He created this world in six literal days, exactly the way the Bible says. Now we don't have to debate that. We don't have to try and make our minds up about that. So the Bible is the Word of God. Jesus is the Son of God. Salvation is the gift of God. Sometimes we get thinking, and we would never say this, but sometimes we kind of get in our minds that uh, you know, I've got to live it. I've got to live this. I am glad I don't have to live a certain lifestyle for me to be saved. I don't have to live a certain lifestyle to stay saved. God saves me as a gift in response to me putting my faith in him, and he keeps me saved by his grace. So we don't have to debate that. That's not something we have to decide every day. Am I saved or not? Am I still saved or not? That's settled That's what I think Peter is saying in verse 17. We looked at this last week when he said, beware. And he gave this warning out there to beware. Notice verse 17, therefore, beloved. Seeing you know these things before, these things are settled. You've been taught this, you know these are true. He says, uh beware. Lest ye also being a led away with the error of the wicked, fall from your own steadfastness. In other words Our mind ought to be made up on certain areas of our Christian life, who we are and what we are and what we should and should not be doing. ought to be set uh uh established in such a way that I do not allow anything to draw me away from being faithful to the Lord And faithful to his people, and faithful to his church, and faithful to his will to my la my life. That ought to be a settled thing. And that's, I think Peter is saying that Then he follows that up, what we preached last week, he follows that up with verse number 18, this final verse, and he makes these final statements, and he says He says that you don't fall from your own steadfastness, but so he's connecting these two thoughts. But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. I think what he's saying here is Is that the way to be steadfast, the way to be faithful to the Lord, is grow in your Christian life. Keep growing, keep growing, keep growing. And that's how we stay steadfast. That's how we stay true to the Lord. Now I got two thoughts tonight. I want to give you very quickly. Number one. Now I have two thoughts tonight There's 32 subthoughts, so don't get too excited. But my first thought is this, from this passage, is I want us to consider the challenge of the Christian life Whoever told you the Christian life is easy and requires no effort lied to you. The Christian life is a challenge. There's challenges in the Christian life, at least if I'm going to be the Christian God intends for me to be. And one of the challenges in the Christian life is to keep growing in my Christian life. I'm talking to some folks who have been saved a long time I'm working on my 47th year as a child of God. Some of you have got me beat maybe by decades, some of you. And the challenge in the Christian life, whether I just got saved last week or I was saved last century, the challenge in the Christian life is to keep growing in my Christian life, keep going forward. To grow, he says, grow ye there. He says, but grow in grace and in the knowledge. To grow, what does it mean to grow spiritually? I put a few thoughts down. It means to constantly be drawing closer to the Lord, getting closer to God. Day after day, week after week, month after month that goes by, I'm just getting closer to the Lord, walking more submissive to him, uh uh understanding Who he is and what he's like and having a closer relationship, interacting with each other. I tell you, there's nothing in the world like interacting with God Almighty Getting alone with him on a daily basis. And literally God speaking to my heart and soul from his word. Does anybody know what I'm talking about by that? Now open the Bible and God is speaking to me, to me. And then I pour my heart out, and his presence is there. And continually growing in that and closer to the Lord, strengthening my faith in God. None of us have arrived in this matter of faith in God. I think every one of us would agree my faith in God can and should be stronger. Right or wrong? I don't think none of us have a right. Paul said he didn't And so growing, my faith getting stronger when trials come, storms come, when I'm tested financially My faith is strong and I grow and uh my faith is growing and I trust God even when the the the bills are high and the debts are low Trusting God when storms come and sickness comes, the doctor says things, yet I still have peace in my heart. And I still have faith in God. That's growing, growing, growing as the years go by. Developing a Christ-like spirit How many people agree with me? How many folks here would say with me, I sure could use a more Christ-like spirit in my heart and mind? Anybody here ever look in the mirror and say, boy, I wish I was more like Jesus. I wish my spirit, my attitude, uh, my frame of mind was was more like Christ. I wish my behavior and I I interact with other people more like the Lord Jesus Christ. That's growing. Becoming more like Christ and those characteristics and Christ-like in my spirit. How about this? Growing more effective in my witness. I wish I was a better witness. I wish I had a stronger witness. I'd like to see more people say. Anybody anybody with me? Am I alone or is anybody on the same page with me here? I'd like to see more people saved. And I hope you're praying with me that our church will see more people saved. I mean trust Christ, lives changed, baptized, added into the body of Christ. And we want to grow as a church and as individuals. And that's the challenge, is to keep that going. My faith getting stronger, my walk with God getting closer. It's not easy. The great danger for a Christian is to become stagnant, is to just stall out You get on some spiritual plateau and we just put stakes down and we just stay there and we're not pressing on to higher ground. We're not growing. We just get stagnant. Are you with me? You know what I'm saying? Been there. I've been there. And that's a dangerous place for a Christian to be, especially if we get to that point and we become content. All right. And we just settle in. That's a dangerous place to become stagnant for a Christian. Let me say this. That's a dangerous place for a church to get stagnant. And that's a concern of mine as a pastor. I do not want to, as a pastor, provide leadership that is content with stagnation. And we're not growing. We're not going forward. We're not getting stronger. I thank God for our church. We say it all the time. I thank God for that. But I don't want to stay where we are. We want to grow. We want to see God do great things in souls saved, but in lives changed, and God do using to impact the world. Um you know, more like Christ as a church, holier, godlier, more humble, humblier, humbler What happens to a pond or a lake when it becomes stagnant? It starts dying. Starts dying. It's not producing life. It's just stagnant. St starts getting stinky. There's a couple um oh I guess I can say this I got your attention now. There's a couple ponds over on the other side of town. When the boys were small, they stocked some trout in there. They're just dead-end ponds. There's nothing going in or out And like this rainwater, maybe somehow they get water in it, but they are stagnant. And they put trout in there. And one year I took the boys out there. It's children only fishing. I took the boys out there and we caught a bunch of trout Just about every time I go fishing, I catch lots of fish. But um we caught a bunch and um uh and uh and we caught and said, well let's take them home and eat them There was there was um algae all over those ponds. We got them these were the nastiest tasting fish I've ever had in my life. Why? Because the pond was stagnant and they were stinky. And I tell you, when a church gets stagnant, they're not growing. They just stop. They get stinky spiritually. We lose the blessings, the joy, the presence of God. Peter said, grow in the grace and knowledge of the Lord. Grow. It's a dangerous thing to become stagnant. In fact, I would say A stagnant Christian is a backslidden Christian. Because if I'm not going forward, if I'm not growing, I am out of the will of God. Did you hear me? If I'm not growing in my grace of the Lord and in the knowledge of the Lord, if I'm not growing in my spiritual life, I am out of the will of God. It is God's will for you and I to grow in the Lord. He says, desiring the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. It's God's will that we grow. God's, if I'm not growing, I'm out of the will of God. If I'm not growing spiritually, something is wrong. Something is wrong. We had baby day this morning and I love it. They had all these old babies come by and uh two years old and under Uh would you agree with me if five years from now we had the same baby coming by in the stroller uh with the bottle, wearing diapers, same baby five years later and and and didn't grow a bit, still the way it was. Would you agree with me something's wrong with that? Tell me right. Twenty years later, I'm I'm 85 years old and um uh we had the same baby there and nothing changed. You agree with me, something's wrong And what's true physically for a child is true spiritually for the child of God. We ought to be growing. Now that growth, ideally, it's not just straight up. That growth will go up and down, up and down, right or wrong. You with me? Take three steps forward, two steps back But there ought to be growth. There ought to be progress. And Peter's saying, grow in the Lord. We have a baby day parade in 20 years. It's all the same babies. Something ain't right. Something ain't right. So growth requires life. Um I wanted to bring a rock up here and I didn't. But if you have a rock, it's sitting there, I have this rock, five years later I get that rock out. Is there going to be anything different about that rock? No. It's not alive. There's no life there. It doesn't change. It just remains the same. Year after year, decade after decade, century after century. It doesn't change. Why? Because there's no life. If a person's going to grow spiritually, they've got to have some spiritual life there. How do I get spiritual life? It's a gift of God. By faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, God gives me spiritual life. And so if I'm going to grow spiritually, I've got to have life. I need to be born again. Growing in the growth is reasonably expected. It requires life. It's reasonably expected. In other words, the natural product of life is growth Anything that's alive is going to grow. They say that in the human body And I think this is probably true. I've read several accounts of this article on this. They say in the human body, every organ in your body, every part of your body stops growing at a certain age except For two things that make up our body. Our ears and our nose. They say that until you die, your ears and your nose keep growing. How about that? And so, I don't know if that's true or not, but it's interesting. Anything alive, you expect it to grow. That's a pro natural product of life. Life is conceived and it grows. It's a natural thing. And by the way, I believe that's true in the spiritual life. If a person gets saved, if any man be in Christ, he's a New creature. Old things are passed away. All things are become new. And that word become there has the idea of ongoing. Or becoming new, becoming new, becoming new, growing, growing. I hate to say this, and I would never in a thousand years want to cause a genuinely saved person to doubt their salvation. I would never ever want to do that. But I wonder sometimes when you see someone week after or year after year after year and decade after decade And there's no spiritual growth, there's no spiritual development. Sometimes I ask myself, is there any life there at all? Because life will grow. And so number one, it requires life. If something's going to grow, it has to be alive. A non-living object doesn't grow. It's reasonably expected that there will be growth because that's the natural product of life, physically, spiritually. And then growth requires attention. Growth requires attention. It'll naturally happen, but it must be nurtured. How many people here had children who found out your kids want to eat every day? Every single day they want to eat something So you've got to give attention to that because that natural growth needs to be nurtured, it needs to be cared for, needs to be tended to. Same thing in the garden. You pull the weeds so those plants can grow. And so if I'm going to grow, like the Bible tells me to, grow in the grace and knowledge of the Lord, I've got to give attention to that I'm afraid there's a lot of Christians never give a thought to the development of their own spiritual well-being. Oh, they might carry their Bible to church on Sunday morning And they get home and set it on the counter, on the end table, set it up on a shelf, and that's where it sets till the next Sunday morning. That is not nurturing growth. Never spend time in prayer. Never be ne never careful about what I let influence me, what I look at, or where I go, or all these things, never give any attention to that. Why? They're neglecting their spiritual growth. Spiritual growth requires attention. I have to invest in it. And so he says, grow and great. That's the great challenge of the Christian life. That's the great challenge. It's easy to get going and after a while we've done it so many times we just kind of get in a rut, we stagnate, and we just start neglecting a little bit here, a little bit there, a little bit there, and before we know it, I'm not growing anymore And what's actually happened, I'm starting to backslide. Growth. Growing in grace. What does it mean? Notice he says here. He says, but grow in grace. What in the world does that mean? How do you grow in grace? Well, this is the way I understand it. Again, it's kind of difficult to put in words and grasp we use that term. I think we Grasp in our minds what it is, but to communicate what it means to grow in grace. This is the way I understand it I think growing in grace means I'm experiencing more and more of God's working in my life. I'm seeing God working in my life I'm seeing him answer prayers increasingly more and more. I see I see the Lord changing me and molding me, the way I think, and what my values are and what my priorities, what my attitude towards other people is, and God's changing that and changing that. That's growing in the grace of God, God working in my life. Chipping away and molding me and making adjustments and refining different areas of my life. And I see God doing that. It's not something I'm working up, it's God doing that in my life. Growing in grace, the grace of God. Look with me if you would, just come back to the first chapter of 2 Peter. We preached uh several a couple months, I think, on this passage in chapter one of 2 Peter. And he says in verse 5, look what he says. 2 Peter 1:5. And besides this, giving all diligence, what's that next word? Add. Would you agree with me? That's a type of growth. I'm adding too. He's telling them in the beginning of this letter, he was saying to them, you need to grow And he gives this list of eight virtues here, eight characteristics or disciplines, you might call them, that I need to work in my life. Add to your faith virtue. And to virtue knowledge and the knowledge temperance, self-discipline, patience, godliness, brotherly kindness, charity. It's the grace of God working in my life, and I'm yielding to the Lord, and I'm trying to trust Him and do what He says, and these things are being developed in my life. That's growing in the grace of God. Becoming more and more like Christ. I think it's growing in grace is experiencing God working in my life. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Are you with me tonight? You know what I'm talking about I mean it's a supernatural thing. It's what God is doing in my life. Sometimes you see someone, maybe a brother or sister in Christ, and you don't see them for a long time. And you get back together, and maybe they say something, boy. You seem more at peace now than you used to be. You seem more to have more peace of mind. You seem to be less stressed than you used to be. They notice the grace of God in my life. They see God is working. He's bringing a peace of mind there, a joy of the Lord there. You seem happier than you used to be. You seem to have more confidence. You seem to have more direction in your life. That's growing in the grace of God. God's working in my life and giving me purpose and meaning. I have the love of God. I have discipline more than I used to be. God does that. And Peter says, you've got to grow. If you're going to be steadfast, if you're not going to get thrown away, you've got to grow in the grace of God. So experiencing God working in my life, but I believe it also has this idea, experiencing God working through my life. For God to use me to impact other people and see other people's lives change because God working through me as I'm yielded to him and growing in my own walk with him. And then God is using my life to influence others. I can't, um I'm telling you, as of course my life's been committed to the ministry for all these years. But I tell you, I find no greater joy, I I I find no greater fulfillment To see God work through my life in the lives of other people and see them come to know the Lord and live for God And Sunday school teachers know what I'm talking about. Soul winners know. Busworkers know what I'm talking about. You see God working through me. Listen, we never get proud of that because it's not us, it's God Working through us. I get to be on ordination councils occasionally and speak to young preachers a little bit sometimes. And I always try and point this out. God's going to use you. And I'd say the same thing to Sunday school teachers, anybody serving the Lord. And by the way, everybody ought to be serving the Lord. But when you're serving the Lord, God will use you. I'm telling you, he will. And he will work through you in the hearts and lives of other people. But always remember it is God working through you. And I urge these young men Don't ever start thinking I'm the one doing this. Always remember it's God doing it through me. And the day and there's a danger there. We joke around, these little kids say, oh, you're the best pastor, and I like it. It's good for my ego. But you know, I have to always, always remember, anything taking place, it's the Lord doing it. It's not Dennis Leatherman I know me well enough. Ask my wife. I know me well enough. It's the Lord doing it. We have a good church. Amen. It's the Lord's doing. It's the Lord's doing. And that's the grace of God, growing in grace, seeing God working through me. God working through me. And so he says, grow in grace. More yielded to the Lord, walking with him and see him working in my life and working through my life. Then he says, grow in knowledge. Grow in the grace and the knowledge of the Lord, of our Lord. What does it mean to grow in the knowledge of the Lord? Well, that's a little easier to explain, at least in my mind. It simply means this. I grow and I have a I'm getting a greater understanding of this old book right here. Listen, I'll tell you this right now. Some of y'all have been reading this Bible longer than I've been alive. I know I get a few there. I'm telling you, we never get to the point where we know this book completely. I had to learn early on this little phrase that helped me in my ministry. It goes like this. Somebody asked me a Bible question. Here's a phrase that helped me a lot. I don't know. I don't know the answer to that. I'll try to find out. But growing in knowledge means I'm constantly learning more. Anybody here ever read a verse? I hope you have your daily devotion. I hope you spend some time every day with the Lord. In the Bible and in prayer. I hope you do that. Did you ever read through the scriptures and you read a verse a hundred times? And then you read it and all of a sudden you see something there that applies to your life you never saw before. It's growing in knowledge. Oh, I see what that means. Or you hear a preacher, preacher, a Sunday school teacher will teach something. He says, oh, I see. Can I get a witness? That's growing in knowledge. Growing in knowledge. Getting a better understanding of what God is teaching me in his book. And then growing in knowledge, I think, includes this: having a stronger confidence in that what this book says is so We read stuff and then we just file it away and then we go do what we think. Growing in knowledge is saying, you know what? I'm going to do that. I'm going to do it exactly what it says there. I've read it a hundred times. I think I'm just going to trust what it says and just do it. We were talking you got Derek's got me thinking about tithing now. There was a lady and and I had her name written down as years ago and for the life of me her name slips my mind. But she always sat over here where the uh these very dignified ladies here sit uh Dorothy and Helen. And some of you fol older folks might remember who I'm talking about. She was a widowed lady. She came in I I think she might have come in on the buses. I'm not sure But one day I preached and um uh you know how I always do, I walk down when I'm done preaching, go in the back. And when I went back and uh she pulled me aside and she said, I need to talk to you before I leave today. I said, okay So we shook hands, I come back, and we're sitting right down one of these pews, right about in this area here. And she goes, and I didn't even preach on tithing. You know, I don't dwell on that, I don't think And she goes, Pastor Leatherman, she goes, I just can't tithe. She says, I know what the Bible says, but I I'm on a limited income. I just can't do it. I said her name, and I said, uh I said, well, it's a matter of faith, just trusting God. I said, you have to decide that. That's between you and the Lord. But I'm telling you, it's a matter of just faith. Have faith in God. And I said to her, I said, I can tell you, and I'm don't misunderstand my motive here in saying this I can tell you, I've been tithing my whole Christian life, and God has never failed me. I've had times where I chew my fingernails and I'm sweating bullets, but God has come through every time. And I said, that's my testimony. And I said, it's just a matter of faith. Now that's between you and God. Okay? I'll pray with you. She thanked me. And it was very positive, wasn't any no tension or anything About two, three months went by. Called me up and said, can you come by? She had an apartment over there on uh A Street, I think, uh, or B Street. Might have been C Street, I'm not sure. One of them. So I went over and sat down and she had all this brand new furniture. She goes, I just had to tell you, Pastor Letterman. She said, um, I started tithing. I couldn't afford it. I was scared, but I just started doing it. And God provided all this new furniture for me, and she said, all my bills are paid. You know what that was? That was growing in her knowledge of the Word of God, but her confidence in the Word of God. She finally got to say, you know, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to believe what he says. And she came out of that with great confidence. You follow what I'm trying to say? And you and I can, from the young people on up to us, older folk. We start growing in our confidence and just trusting what God said a little bit more. Okay, I'll do that. I don't understand, it's scary, but I'm going to do it. That's growing in the knowledge of the Lord and who he is and how he works through his word. And so the great challenge, my point is this: the great challenge in the Christian life is to grow. So just keep going forward. Just keep growing. Just keep growing. Just keep growing. Say, how do I do that? Well, number one, I've got to be daily in the Word of God. I need to be daily in the Word of God. Kathy mentioned we were talking this afternoon and the other Sunday. We do a lot. I was telling her, I am absolutely convinced. I am absolutely convinced that if every one every one of us, every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church would discipline ourselves, And schedule a time on a daily basis where we get alone with the Lord, meditate, read, and think about what we're reading in the Word of God, and spend some time talking to God, pouring my requests worshiping him, praising him, confessing my sins, thanking him for all he's done. If we would spend some time every day, I am absolutely convinced we would grow in our faith. We would grow in our we'd see God doing things. It would solve so many problems. I'm talking to some folks, I'm confident, I don't know specifics, but No doubt in my mind, crowd this size, I'm talking to some folks, you have struggles going on in your spiritual life. I'm talking to some folks, I have no doubt you are whooped spiritually. And I am confident, I am convinced, if you would just say, I'm going to spend some time every day with God, just alone, let Him speak to my heart, pour my heart out to God. I guarantee you, you'll start seeing growth. You'll start seeing victory. I am sold on that. If you don't believe me, read Joshua chapter 1. Read Psalm chapter 1. We are the promises of God. So if I'm going to grow, I've got to spend time every day in the Word of God. I wish you would just make a decision tonight before you go home. I'm going to this week, I'm going to spend some time every day alone with the Lord. I'm going to let him speak to my heart and I'm going to pour my heart. I'm just going to pour my heart out to him. It'll help me from the young people all the way on up to the seasoned citizens. Number two, be diligent in your prayer to God. Pray. God's people need to learn to pray. I mean pray. We try to do a lot of praying around here. Anybody notice that? We've got Saturday night prayer meeting, Sunday morning, Sunday school teacher prayer meeting, men's prayer meeting, Sunday afternoon, midweek prayer meeting, men's prayer breakfast ladies prayer luncheon we pray I hope you learn to pray personally. And you pray to God. Daddies ought to pray for their children, their family. Mothers ought to pray. Husbands ought to pray for their wives. Wives ought to pray for their husbands. Church members ought to pray for their ch Church, are you with me? You say, oh, this is just old. We've heard this for 32 years. I know you're going to hear it for another 32 years. Because we're not going to grow if we don't do this. I put this down through number one, daily in the Word of God, diligent in prayer to God. Number three, devotion to the people of God. And by that I mean, and somebody testified to this, the fellowship of God's people together in the body of Christ, assembled together. In the church and fellowshipping one with another. That will help us. And I I have mixed feelings about our online. And God bless you, online people. I'm glad you're with us, though. But I have mixed feelings about it. I'm being honest with you. Because it's very easy to just sit home And we'll just watch it on television. Huh? I didn't get many amens here, but I know it's true. I'll just well I'll just stay home. I'm telling you The church is not, watching TV is not, is not assembling together with the church. And I know it has a place, and God bless you if physically I understand that. Please don't misunderstand. But nothing replaces the assembled body of believers. And that helps us grow. The church has helped me grow more than any other organization in this planet. The Body of Christ. One, daily in the Word of God. Number two, diligent in the prayer to God. Number three, devotion to the people of God, church fellowship. And then I put this down: enduring the trials that are sent by God. I found that I've done little very little spiritual growth. I've found very little spiritual growth in my life when everything was going my way. I found that I've grown the most when I go through trials. And generally coming out of the trial after I saw God do it. I'm talking to some folks who are going through trials. My wife and I were talking. We have some folks in the church. We pray. We know you're going through trials. We know it's difficult. But I'm saying this, you stay faithful to the Lord. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. The word temptation means afflictions, trials. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. For when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. You stay faithful. When the trials come, and you'll see growth. You'll see God work in your life. You'll see the grace of God in your life, and you'll see God work through your life So growing. So that's the challenge. That is not easy. It's the whole Christian, the whole, all our life as a believer, we're challenged to grow, keep growing, keep growing, keep growing, keep growing. Don't get stagnant. Don't get on a plateau. Keep growing. And then I am with S, number two, the core of the Christian life. Look what he says here. But growing grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and forever. What's the last word? Amen. You know what he's saying? He's saying everything in our life is for the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the core. What do we mean? What do I mean by core? If you have a uh uh uh everybody with me? Um help me out here. What what do we mean when someone says uh references a core? What are we talking about? The center, the core of an apple. We got this cool little gadget. You have an apple and it has all these little sections and you mash it down in there and it cuts that core right out. Anybody? Anybody Uh if you want one, I'll sell it to you. But um it's fantastic. I use it every day. Boom. And it pulls that cord out the very center. The core, everything about an object revolves around the core A fruit, the core is where all the seeds are generally. And all that is around it. You know what I think Peter is saying here You grow in the knowledge, in grace, and the knowledge of the Lord, but it's all around the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the core of our being, he's the center of our being. In other words, it's not about me. It's about the Lord Jesus Christ. And He gets all the glory. Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is not about Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. It's about the Lord Jesus Christ. Everything here is for the glory of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we start exalting something or someone other than the Lord Jesus Christ, we are not growing. We're all center. We've gotten off core. It's Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Why do we want more people say, well, we want to go to heaven? Yes, that's true. But we want Jesus to be glorified. When people are saved. Why do we want people baptized? Because we want Jesus Christ to be the center of their life and grow for his glory. That's the core. The challenge is to keep growing, keep growing, keep growing, keep growing, keep growing. The core, it's all around the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. For E to live is Christ Jesus Christ. He's the center of the Christian line. All of life Is designed to revolve around Jesus Christ. All of life is designed to revolve around Jesus' glory. Is my life bringing glory to Jesus Christ? The way I live, my attitudes, my behavior, my appearance, my words Does it glorify Jesus Christ? If I do this, will this bring glory to my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? Is this attitude bringing glory to my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? Is this behavior glorifying my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ? That's the core of the matter. That's the crux of the whole thing. Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ. We came here in 93. Some of you remember I mentioned this occasionally. We had huge letters up here, remember? Looking unto Jesus. That became the motto of our church. And I think that's what Peter's saying. You keep growing, you keep growing, you keep growing, but it's all for Jesus. All for Jesus, all for Jesus. Say, well, brother, there's other churches bigger than ours in the county. That has nothing to do with anything. So are we glorifying Jesus? Are we serving Jesus? That's the core of the matter. Dr. Lee Robertson had such a profound impact on my life. He was my pastor for a number of years. And the churches, you know, this auditorium seat 6,000. They have 10,000 or more people on Sunday mornings. They did back in the day. But he had a profound impact just on his leadership and his preaching and teaching, his influence. And Dr. Robertson made this statement. And has stuck with me. He said, do not dwell on past failures. Anybody here ever find yourself doing that? He said, Don't you dwell on past failures. Don't dwell on past success Anybody ever been? I I tend to see the older I get I look back, oh boy that was boy that was the day. Those were the days And thank God for them, but don't dwell on that. He said, Don't dwell, do not dwell on past failures, do not dwell on past success, but stay focused on Jesus Christ and keep going forward. I think that's what Peter's saying. The churches, these believers have been persecuted intensely. They had now they had these false, corrupt, wicked men creeping in the church Infiltrating their doctrine, infiltrating their behavior, influencing them in ungodly ways. And he says, listen, you keep growing. You build on your faith, you keep growing, you keep learning of the Lord, and you do it all for the glory of God. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would take these thoughts and challenge us to keep growing in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how wonder, if there's any tonight, would say, preacher with you I want to grow in God's grace. I want to see the Lord working in my life more and more. I want to see Him molding me and making me developing me into a Christ-like Christian. Is there any like that, Preacher? Oh, I want to grow like that. God bless you. My hands raised. What if someone say, Preacher, I'd like to see God's grace working through me Being a help and blessing to others, drawing them to Christ. Anything like that. Oh, I want God's grace to work through me. Amen. My hands raised. What about this matter of the knowledge of the Lord? Understanding His Word and being more confident in it. And letting it control me and govern my life. Anything like that? Oh, I need to learn, growing my knowledge of God's Word. God bless you, and getting my hands raised That's the challenge. I'm going to ask you tonight two things. One, if you don't have a habit of daily time with the Lord, His word and prayer. I'm going to ask you tonight to just decide to put that in place. Just do it. Along with God a little bit every day. I'm telling you, it'll make a difference. And I'm asking our church this, and this is maybe a little personal for me. I'm asking our church members, would you pray with me, maybe at the altar tonight, that God will send revival to our church? The God's grace in a biblical way Would be evident in our church. Revival. Revival. Is there any like that, preacher, though I'll do that. Getting my daily quiet daily time with the Lord together. Any like that? Uplifted in How about praying with me for revival in our church? We need revival. There's folks struggling. There's needs. We need God to do a word. Father, bless our invitation tonight, I ask. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together head.