2 Peter chapter 3 verse number 18 is our memory verse for the month of January. I hope you'll work at memorizing this. I want to preach from this passage and challenge us for this coming year. Would you read it together with me? 2 Peter 3, verse 18. All together. Ready? But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ, to him be glory, both now and forever. And all God's people said, Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you bless now as we look at this passage. I ask you to speak our hearts. Lord, I pray that you would challenge us. As we start off this new year, challenge us in our relationship with you and our spiritual well-being. Help us to do our part to stay spiritually healthy and to grow. And I ask, Lord, that your Holy Spirit would fill me, and I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. And I pray with all my heart that you be the preacher, that you speak to us And help us get off to a good start this year, get some things in place, and see you do great things in our lives, our church, our ministries. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I'm entitled to the message this morning, Growing in Grace. I just take it from that verse there. Is as I said, this is our January memory verse. And I would recommend, I think this is a good verse to underscore in your Bible. I like to underline verses, I like to highlight verses, put a little note in the margin, maybe definition of a word if we come across a word It's not real clear what it means, and the preacher explains the epidists. You can jot that down for future. In fact, I want to go ahead and challenge you. I mentioned this a little bit on the online Sunday school lesson But I want to challenge you, we start out a new year, maybe you would consider getting in the habit of marking in your Bible. I know some folks do, some don't But I think it's a helpful thing to underline a verse that God speaks to my heart about, maybe a passage that a preacher preaches on You can put a little note off on the side, you know, and I know some folks uh put a little date there, put the initials of the preacher and the date it was preached. I had uh I I very rarely I've done I doubt I've done it ten times in twenty-seven years. I preach an old message and preach the same message again. Very seldom Do I do that? And uh, but I do preach from the same messages, the same passages at times that I've had a number of times folks come up and say, Preacher, you preached from that verse In uh 19 1842 you preach from that verse. And uh I didn't remember preaching on it before, but um but just little ways to note that uh you can use your Bible and help you in that I enjoy using folks. We had a funeral yesterday, the flowers this morning here for su from Sue Tegarden's funeral yesterday. And boy, what a blessing she's been to our church all these years. So faithful, so faithful. And um I I wasn't able to yesterday, but I like when I uh preach a funeral if I if it's a believer, one of our church folk or something, I like to get their Bible and preach from their Bible and then look through and see the little notes they had in there and verses underscored and and uh kind of gives you a little insight into their spiritual uh spiritual walk with the Lord. And uh I've got my dad's Bible now and been this past uh ten months just been reading through there seeing little notes he had and things And so I would encourage you to consider doing that marking in your Bible and underlining. So we start a new year And uh I want to challenge us this new year to grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord. Um this past year has been uh quite a year. That's an understatement Some people this past year, some some folks uh failed in their walk with the Lord. They got out of fellowship with God. They got uh uh they got uh focused on themselves and the world And no doubt there are some that have failed this past year in their spiritual life, struggling now, and trying to deal with maybe sinful decisions that were made. And now having the consequence of that, having to deal with that. Some folks this past year have stagnated in their Christian life. Uh being out of church, the one danger about being out of church is um you get used to it, huh? You just kind of get used to it. It's a whole lot easier just to stay home. It's a whole lot easier just to uh uh sit out And uh I'm telling you, we get out of our Bible reading, we get out of our uh going to church, being faithful, we get out of our spiritual uh routine And I'm telling you, we stagnate spiritually. So some folks have failed, no doubt. Some folks have struggled and failed this past year. Some folks have stagnated in their Christian life But I want to be quick to add also, I believe there's been some folks who have grown in their Christian life. This has been a good year spiritually for them as they've gotten closer to the Lord. And I believe that trials like we face this year, and we've never faced them the magnitude of what we have this past year. But when trials come and difficulties come, I I believe God wants to use them to help us grow in our Christian life and get closer to the Lord. Maybe reevaluate our priorities and and stop and step back and take a look at our life and our spiritual well-being, our walk with God, and then be challenged to grow and go forward in our Christian life. So some have failed, there's no doubt about that. Some are struggling, have gotten stagnated or just coasting along. uh taking what's convenient, going it going with the easy route, uh caused everything going on. But others, as I said, have grown. Whatever the case may be, whatever may apply to you I want to challenge us this first Sunday of the new year. Let's put the past behind us. Amen? Let's just put it behind us. Was there some sin got in my heart and life this past year? If that's the case, confess it, forsake it, put it behind you, get up and go on. Amen? Just get up and go on. Don't ignore it. Don't just cover it up, but uh don't just brush it under the carpet. Confess that sin. Face it. Confess it. Forsake it. But then get up and go on. Go on for God. Put the past behind us. Maybe some have failed, you know, you tried or whatever and and ca failed. Just uh uh get back up. I love in Proverbs 24 A just man falleth seven times and what? Riseth up again. Now's the time to rise up again and get up and go on. Let's put the past behind us and let's press forward with a renewed faith. Let's just decide, the beginning of this new year. Lord, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to have faith in you. As we go through this year, we don't know what we face. I said in the Sunday school hour I said one thing I learned in 2020 is not to boast myself of tomorrow, for I know not what a day may bring forth. We learned that, didn't we? What was going to be the situation But uh one thing we can do as we go into a new year is just decide I'm going to trust God on a daily basis. I'm going to have faith in God, and I'm going to trust Him to lead me. Go forward with renewed faith. Go forward with renewed resolve. Now I don't know if you noticed this, and I should have maybe put it on the cover of the bulletin, but we had on the announcements, on the screens, on the announcements Uh we've established uh a theme for the year 2021, uh at least to get us started. And the theme is this pressing on the upward way. We opened our s our s service this morning in a very unique way, singing an higher ground. And uh uh that's going to be our theme for this year. I'm pressing on the upward way, new heights I'm gaining every day Still praying as I'm onward bound, Lord, plant my feet on higher ground. Lord, lift me up and let me stand by faith. on heaven's table land. A higher plane than I have found. Lord, plant my feet on higher ground. Boy, what a great challenge for this coming year. And that's my message this morning. I want to challenge each and every one of us to determine, I'm going to get a little closer to the Lord this year. I'm going to be on a higher plane spiritually than I was last year. How many people like me, you have a hunger, a desire down inside your heart to know the Lord a little better? Anybody like that? That's the way I am. I want to know him. The power of his resurrection. And so pressing on the upward way, I've been singing this song all week, all down through there. Goes on and says this: My heart has no desire to stay Where doubts arise and fears dismay. Though some may dwell where these abound, my prayer, my aid is higher ground. That song has stirred my heart And uh has challenged me spiritually to press on and go forward. A lot of things have changed this past year. Uh how many of us would have dreamed we'd be in the condition we are now a year ago on the first Sunday of 2020? We never dreamed. We had no idea what was facing us. We had no idea what was coming to us And so, no doubt, there's going to be a lot of changes this coming year. We don't know what they are, but there are some things, I'm going to remind you, there are some things that never change. Some things we can plant our feet on, some things that we can build on. One of them is this: the power of God. God is still all powerful. Amen or not? God's power. God hasn't lost any power. Hey uh uh no government can uh can uh overthrow the power of God God's power is unchanging. He's greater than all the challenges you and I are going to face. I put this down. God's love has not changed. God still loves me as much today as he did last year this time. He said in Jeremiah 31, 3, I have loved thee with an everlasting love. That is unchanged. And sometimes we mess up, sometimes we get discouraged, sometimes it Uh life gets overwhelming. But one thing we can always be sure of, we have a creator that loves us dearly enough to die for us. So God's power is unchanging. Love is unchanging. The power of the gospel is still unchanging. Listen, we can still give the gospel out And it's the power of God unto salvation. Uh God still um this is what I'm trying to say. Folks can still get saved in 2021, just like they did 10 years ago, 100 years ago, a thousand years ago, folks still can get saved Amen? And so what we need to do is just give that gospel out. You say, preacher, uh, everything, all this, we give that yeah, give the gospel out. Give it out, give it out, give it out, give it out You say, Well, I don't I'm not very good at that. It's not the power of my skill in delivering it. It's the power of the gospel Say, well, I don't know, you know, I'm kind of timid. Listen, it's not our boldness that saves souls, it's the gospel that saves souls It's not my fancy little illustrations or my schemes or my personality that's going to save a soul. I can't save a soul. But the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. That's unchanging in any country, in any culture, in any circumstances, in any environment we find ourselves Power of God unto salvation. I've seen people trust Christ in some of the strangest places you can think of. In cars, on porches, out in gardens. Had a fellow one time all over different areas on the streets down in Chattanooga, Boulder, Colorado, and the plaza down there. See people, hear the gospel, believe and get saved. So the power of the gospel is unchanged. And I want to say this. The God's purpose for your life is unchanged. He say, Preacher, God doesn't think about me. Oh yeah, he does. He does He says, my thoughts are on you all the time. And he says, I've got a plan. I've got a purpose for your life. Say, oh, I'm getting up in age. God doesn't have anything for me. No, no. All ages God has a plan and a purpose. I never dreamed the day I'd say this, but I turned 60 this past year. I know it doesn't look like it. You'd never dream that But uh God still has a plan for my life. I don't know how much time I got left. I might got I may have 24 hours. I don't know. But I know this. God has a plan for my life. God has a plan for your life, the young people. Uh middle-aged, little children, adults, the old the mature folks. Um God's got a plan. And that's unchanging. That's unchanging. But in the midst of all the uncertainty we find ourselves, in the midst of the fear that has gripped so many, we can still grow spiritually. We can still grow and get stronger in our faith and grow in the Lord. Not only can we, I'm going to say this, we must grow spiritually. We cannot allow ourselves to backslide. Are you with me? We cannot allow ourselves to stagnate spiritually And with the way things are, it's easy just to withdraw and maybe just give up and say, you know, but we can't. We've got to press on that higher ground. We cannot allow ourselves to stagnate. We cannot allow ourselves to backslide. God is calling us To grow and go forward and get closer to Him, have victory in our lives. Our text here is a call to grow. It's a call to press forward spiritually Peter is writing to these dear believers under the inspiration of God. And we're studying 1 Peter on Sunday nights, and we noted as we started that series that 1 Peter was written. to uh folks that were under intense persecution. I mean something like you and I have never experienced. Uh losing, run out of their homes by uh their family members because they took Trust in Christ, run out of their communities, losing their jobs, many of them being imprisoned or beaten for no other reason than they're trying to live for God and share the gospel with folks. run out of their entire area, having to flee for their lives to different parts of the Middle East there. And he's writing to them In 1 Peter, he's writing to them primarily because there was a danger, there was a threat, an external threat of persecution. They were experiencing that. And the 1 Peter is a great book of the Bible, encouraging them in their suffering and their difficulties, their challenges. He's encouraging them, instructing them, and challenging them. This external threat of persecution. Then you get to 2 Peter. And it's not, he's not addressing, although that persecution was still there, but 2 Peter, he's not addressing the external threat to the believers and to the church. 2 Peter, he shifts gears a little bit And he's addressing an internal threat, an internal danger to the church. In other words, if you study 2 Peter carefully You'll find that he's addressing false teachers were getting into their assemblies. False teachers were getting in, and teaching false doctrine, and teaching uh uh heresy and unscriptural things. And I don't know about you, but to me, the greater threat, which is the most dangerous threat, external persecution or internal false doctrine? I'll tell you what's the greater threat, the internal false doctrine. Uh we look at our country. I don't I don't want to get off on this, but we look at our country. And our country isn't our c we're not losing our country because of an external attack. We're losing our country because of internal moral and spiritual decay from within. The foundation and the structure of our society is collapsing all around us because of moral decay. Because of spiritual decay. And so he's writing to them and he's challenging them. These false teachers, this unscriptural thinking and teaching had gotten in And uh was having uh having an effect on them, and he's and he's confronting that. 2 Peter, uh, by the way, just a little background of the book, if you would come over to chapter 1 of 2 Peter And notice with me, verse number 15. Gives us a little hint as to Peter's condition when he penned this down. Of course, God's the author. God, the author of all scripture, Peter's penning it down. But notice what he says here. He says, Moreover, I will endeavor that ye may be able, now look at this next statement, after my decease To have these things always in remembrance. He's writing them. He says, I want you to remember these things after my decease. Now, what does he mean when he says after my decease? After what? After he's dead. After he dies. Now, Peter, the Lord told Peter that he was going to be martyred in John. Peter knew how his life was going to end. The history books tell us, legend and uh uh reputation tells us that Peter was crucified. And that when he was killed, when he was martyred for his faith, uh they were going to crucify him like Christ, he said, I'm not worthy. This is just history, this is Legend, I guess, says this. But apparently he said that I'm not worthy to die in the same fashion as my Savior, and he asked to be crucified upside down I don't want to I don't I I'm not worthy to suffer in the way my Savior did and was asked to be crucified upside down. But he makes this statement here in verse 15 of chapter 1, after my decease Uh I'm wondering. Apparently this was written just not long before he was martyred, before they killed him for his faith. Now I'm wondering when Peter's penning this down. Uh and again the Bible scholars tell us he was probably in a prison in Rome when he penned this. We don't know. Um but uh maybe he saw it coming, maybe he could see what was happening And he knew what the Lord told him was going to happen. Maybe he could see that wasn't far off. And he says, I want to write this to you. I'm writing to you, again, under the inspiration of God, so that you have this after I'm gone, after my decease, and you can remember these things that uh God has used me to carry on to you. And so the book of 2 Peter was apparently shortly before he was martyred. The entire book of 2 Peter is a challenge to grow in faith, to grow in their spiritual maturity, to be able to identify false doctrine and false teaching. We had Sue Tegarden's funeral yesterday, as I mentioned, and uh Sue was so faithful, and I relayed their uh little incident that had happened back years ago. Um I had uh on one Easter morning, I'd only been here a few years, I think, it wasn't long, but it was Easter Sunday, and I thought I was gonna be clever. Now I don't know anybody here ever try to be clever And end up not being so clever after all. I was going to be clever and I was going to have, I had this great title for a message. I was going to preach on what if they found Jesus' bones. How many people think that's a in that's a curious title. Anybody? Yeah, wow, what in the world? What if they found Jesus' bones in that tomb? What if they excavated uh not excavators, um Uh the people what are they? Archaeologists, not excavators. What if they're digging around over there and oh my word they found the bones of the And so I went through and of course if they found the bod bones of Jesus then the Bible's not true and Jesus wasn't the Son of God and we have no salvation and I went through all these things. It'd be terrible that one be the case. And but my end of my message that, but they never will find his bones, because he rose again from the dead And they're not there. They're never going to be there. He's alive forevermore. He's at the right hand of God. Well, uh, somehow Sue missed the last part of that And uh I didn't communicate it very well. And um she thought I was preaching that they found Jesus' bones and didn't really rise again. Now that would be false teaching right there And brother, I'm telling you, she let me have it. She told me. I said, Sue, listen, I'm sorry, I uh I didn't communicate that very well. I was trying to be clever approached to it, and so I've never preached that sermon again. Except till right now. And um and uh but the point I'm trying to make is this in the uh this false j actual genuine false teaching had gotten into these believers, the assemblies of these believers. And Peter's challenging that and he's confronting that in this book. But throughout the book, he keeps telling, you need to grow. You need to go forward in your Christian life. You need to get stronger in your understanding of Scripture and in your relationship with the Lord because This false teaching is a real danger. You need to be able to see that and not be driven away by every wind of doctrine and every teaching that comes along, but be grounded and strong and growing in the Lord And uh that's the challenge of the book of 2 Peter. Now, I have two thoughts in my message. I'm trying to go through here because I I want to get to these. Two thoughts in my message. Number one, taken from verse number 18 is I want us to consider the definition of growing in grace. Now what in the world does it mean to grow in the grace and the knowledge Of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. What does it mean to grow? Well, the word grow means what you think it means, where he says they're growing, but grow in grace, it means to increase Sometimes, depending on the context of something to grow, it means to increase in size. It may mean to increase in strength. Get stronger, growing in our strength Growing in our size. Sometimes it means to grow in our understanding. To understand of who the Lord is and what he's like and what he does And so he's challenging us to grow in grace, increase in our understanding, increase in our strength of grace and the knowledge of the Lord Sometimes the word grow means to develop maturity. If you had small children, they do something and um uh you say, oh, our little child is growing He's maturing. Uh one of the fellas, younger one of the fellas came in today and had a dress shirt on, and Pastor Matt was making a big deal about his dress shirt. And I said, Our little boy is growing up. He wore a dress shirt to church. And I thought that was funnier than that, but um we enjoyed it. But sometimes the word grow means to mature and have a more mature approach and more mature actions And he says, grow in the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ and in the knowledge. Two areas we're to grow in. Number one is this area of grace. To grow in grace. Now that's a Bible term. That's a Christian spiritual term. We say that, but do we really understand? What are we talking about? When we're going to grow in grace. Well, the word grace, the classic definition of the word grace, and I want to encourage you, would you jot this down? This is a good definition. And this should be somewhere good put in the Bible somewhere or keep it handy. Here's a classic definition of the word grace, my definition, and it's classic. Here it is. Are you ready? This is it. God giving to me or doing something for me That I have not earned and that I do not deserve. Now let me give that to you again. Grace The classic definition is God giving to me or doing something for me that I have not earned and I do not deserve God giving to me or doing something for me. I've not earned it and I don't deserve it. Now, the shorter version of that, which you often hear a preacher or somebody say, is undeserved favor of God. And uh that's that's basically what I'm saying. But it's God, in his love for me, in his compassion for mankind, not just me, but all of us. Doing something for us or giving to us something. We don't deserve it. We haven't earned it. I certainly don't deserve it. But just by the grace of God He does that for me. He gives that to me. Now, what's the first thing that comes to mind when we think of God's grace giving us something or doing something for us we don't deserve? What's the first thing that comes to mind? Salvation. For by grace are you saved through faith, that not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works. Listen, any man should boast. Listen, when God saves a man, when God saves a person, a woman, a child, when God saves someone, he's not saving them because they deserve to be saved. Not because they've earned it. Well, I've been good enough, so God will forgive me. I put enough money in the offering plate. Now God will forgive me, and uh he'll accept me into heaven, he'll accept me into present. No, no, no, that's not the way it works. Well, if I get baptized, or if I do this and don't do that, if I live good enough, I can earn and deserve God's acceptance and God's forgiveness. No, it doesn't work like that. For by what? Grace are you saved. Salvation is God giving to us, God doing something for us that we can't earn it, and we can't deserve it. We simply receive it by faith. We simply come to God by faith and say, Lord, I can't say myself. I don't ever want to get oh, I don't think it'll happen. I can't imagine. Getting over the fact that the night a 19-year-old, I mean, you talk about messed up. We've had some people come in here and you could see their lives were a mess. I'm telling you, that was me And knelt by my bed and I cried out to God, have mercy on me. God, I'm accepting you as my personal Savior. And God did for me and gave to me something There's no way I could earn it. There's no way I deserved it. He gave me forgiveness and eternal life and acceptance and a new life. My what a wonderful, wonderful God we have. Amen. And anybody that gets saved, it's the same way. You don't have to be a dope head. You don't have to be some sicko kid messed up And uh for God to show grace, I'm telling you, the most civilized, honest man in the county needs to get saved the same way. The same way. By grace. But growing grace. God doing something. So we think of this matter of salvation when we think of God giving and doing for us something we can't earn, we can't deserve. By the way, let me say this If you don't have assurance, your sins are forgiven on your way to heaven. You need to come by faith to Christ and trust Him, and God, by His grace, will give you eternal life. Don't neglect that. I tell you, the best thing a lost person can do to start out a new year is get saved. Amen? Most important issue in life. And uh it's a it's a simple thing, but it's not always easy. It's a simple thing to get saved. Just trust the Lord, received by grace, this gift of God, which is eternal life. But sometimes we struggle with that. How many folks here before you got saved? You struggled with that for a while. You knew you need to be saved. I was that way. For f for months I struggled, struggled. Finally I bowed the knee So we think of salvation in this matter of grace, but there's another aspect of grace. Not only do we get saved by grace when we first accept Jesus Christ as Savior, God gives to us eternal life. He changes our life. He does for us something. We haven't earned it. We don't deserve it. But then as we grow in our Christian life, as God has changed our lives and God has given us a new nature We begin to we experience God's grace. God gives us things and does things for us. Again, that we do not deserve. And that we do not trust, that we do cannot earn. Once I'm saved, as I trust Christ as a child of God, as a believer, I learn to trust Christ in my daily living I learn to yield my will to the Lord and say, Lord, not my will, but thy will be done. And then God does for me. And God gives to me things that I don't deserve, I can't earn. What is some of this grace that I need to grow in? Well, one of them is this: God changing my life God changing my life. 41 years ago, this uh um wow, this May, it'll be 42 years ago, as I said, I trusted Christ the Savior, and God began changing my life And here I am, almost 42 years later, and I still see the Lord working in my life. I still have Aries in my life. You say, man, 42 years you're s you He's still changing you. You must have been messed up. Yeah, we all are, huh? And he's still changing life. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. If any man be in Christ, he's what? A new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things become new. That's the grace of God. God changed me. How many folks here God changed their life after you got saved? Maybe not outwardly. Some folks were pretty, sounds pretty decent, but God changed me inwardly, my attitude, my approach, my thinking. But God changes us. How many folks are glad you aren't now what you used to be before you got saved? Good heavens. That's the grace of God. He saves us and then for our entire life he begins changing us and doing things for us. He develops our faith I'd like to believe my faith is stronger now than it was ten years ago. I'd like to believe my faith in God's Word and my faith in God's plan and power and will for my life I would like to believe that my faith in Christ is stronger now than when I first trusted Him. Now, sometimes that faith fluctuates. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sometimes our faith is stronger than sometimes it gets weak and that and uh but I want to grow and God in his grace enables us to grow in our faith, to have greater trust in him and trust him stronger. Here's the rub in that is uh he usually uses hard times and difficulties and challenges to get our faith to grow. And you follow what I'm saying? Usually during easy times when the bills are paid, the health is good, there's I don't have to wear a stupid mask just to go in the store. Everything is just honky-dory. My faith usually doesn't grow too much then. But when God tests me and God tries me, then my faith grows. I see that He's faithful and He can carry me through this. I was thinking um when I was young, we always my mom was an avid swimmer. She loved to swim, and I learned I got Pick that up early on. Uh love to swim. Uh now I'm more like a buoy uh in the water occasionally when I get in. But man, before I used to be like a fish, Brother Heinball. Man, I could swim, dive off high dives and flips and and I I mean uh I was uh I could have been SEAL team six I'll tell you I was something and uh but early on uh my mom taught us to swim And we always had a swim pool growing up. I I never remember us ever not having a swimming pool of some sort. And uh I was just a little tight and uh she'd be in the water and uh I'd be staying there, she's gonna teach me to swim And she'd say, All right, jump, come on, jump, I'll catch you. And uh I didn't believe her for one minute. She's gonna let me drown. I knew it. I knew it And she would say, I'd be on the edge of the pool there and uh and she'd be down there, jump, jump, uh, come on, you can jump, I'll catch you, I'll catch you just she was trying to get me just to jump in the water And um so finally I thought, I'm gonna die. I know it. Here I go. And I jumped and guess what? He caught me She got me and then she'd let me swim there a little bit. Then after we got where I trusted her to jump in, then she'd step back a little farther and I'd jump and have to swim to her. What was she doing? She was teaching me to trust her. To trust her. If she never challenged me, if she never put me in that situation where I had to just jump out into certain depth, if she didn't challenge me in that area, I would have never learned I could trust her. But she taught me. And that's what God does. God says, all right, I'm going to send a trial. You're going to have some financial setback. You're going to have some health issues. I'm going to turn your whole schedule and your whole world inside out Now trust me. Trust me. You know what happens? We trust them. We make that decision. All right, God, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to have faith in you. And God comes through. And our faith grows. Our faith gets strong. You know what that is? That's the grace of God. God doing for me. So I don't deserve for him to help me grow in my faith and make me stronger my confidence, but he does that for me. Um I know I can't earn that. So growing in grace means growing My life is changing, being more like Christ. God taking out the bad and putting the good in. Developing my faith. God in His grace gives us abilities Abilities, maybe that we didn't know we had. I'm telling you, when you met me, I still don't think I'm that great, but when you met me, I just stand up in front of somebody and talk and give a message uh or to preach or something like that, I was I was terrified. I remember the first message I preached, it was about three and a half minutes long. And all the people said, Oh, I wish he was still there. And um but uh I mean I got up, I didn't s know what to say, and uh the one fellow came up and said, You've never done this before, have you? I said, No, I haven't. And um And uh I'm telling you, but God gives us abilities. What he calls us to do, he enables us to do. And that's his grace. Listen, y'all looking at me, I'm telling you, every one of you have abilities that God has given you that he wants you to use for his glory. Use to advance his gospel. To build the church and reach the world with the gospel. God gives us. You say, I don't have no building. Yes you do. Don't call God a liar God's given you ability. Study the Bible. And that's his grace. That's his grace. Now to each he gives different gifts. The Bible's term for it is gifts. He gives different gifts. He does g gives different abilities. We are all the same. Abilities that God gives Mark and He didn't give me. And Pastor Matt and uh and all of us. He he gives them out as he sees fit. But it's His grace. And I want to challenge you this coming year to just get to the Lord and say, Lord, show me what is it? What have you enabled me to do? What is my role? What is my ability? What is my gift? That I can use to bring glory to God and bring souls to the Savior. How can you use me? What way? That's the grace of God giving to us abilities. And uh these gifts. Uh He gives us uh changes our life, he develops our faith, he gives us abilities. Um I put this one down. By the grace of God, he empowers our witness To be a witness in this world, God enables us to do that. I like too with my uh I always carry a little soul-winning New Testament. I use it a lot. When I share the gospel with someone. Now this year is a little challenging, but if I uh are able to share the gospel with someone, if they call on the Lord and trust the Lord as Savior, I like to write their name down in the back of here, write their name and the date, and I pray for them, and I can go back and follow up. And uh we have to be very, very careful. When we get winning souls and sharing the gospel, if God uses us to lead people to Christ, we have to be careful. We don't notch that up as to what I've done. Follow what I'm saying? Oh, I uh I was a guy out in Colorado, we were out there, we had lunch together with a couple preachers, and um now maybe this is true, I just my own skeptical mind, but He said he had one someone to Christ every day for twenty-five years. Now that's an amazing thing And he kept talking about, oh, I want someone to Christ saving. I led him to Christ every day for twenty five years. I mean that would be hundreds and thousands of people. Maybe it was the case, I don't know But I walked away from that and I thought, you know, even if that did take place, he didn't do it, God did it. You have to be careful about taking that glory, taking that saying, well I did this, I won these souls, and I did this, and I did that, and All this, we have to be very, very careful. Anything that we're anybody we're able to win to Christ, it's because of the grace of God God in his grace using us. We don't deserve to be used by God. We don't earn God's power and the ability to witness. We just trust the Lord, walk with him, and obey him. And God's grace, He uses us to win souls. I want to challenge you this coming year. Ask the Lord. Give yourself the Lord. Say, Lord, by your grace, would you use me to bring other people to Christ? God, would you help me to grow in my faith? Would you help me to grow by your grace? Help me to develop more like Christ. and change my life and uh use me the gifts and abilities you give me. God, I want to grow in your grace. So he tells us here to grow in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord. Then that's the second one, and in the knowledge of the Lord. Notice here verse number eight uh eighteen. But grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So this is more than just a head knowledge. This is more than just facts about God No, there's a lot of people die and go to hell, know all kinds of facts about God, but they never knew the Lord. The world is different. So when he says grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord, it's not just facts. Now we need to get the facts about the Lord. But that word knowledge there means this, to have an understanding of, to have a grasp Of who the Lord Jesus is and what he's like. And what does he want from me? And how does he respond to my actions to know the Lord? You beg say you get married and uh you uh all it's a lifelong process of getting to know your spouse. I tell you fellas, you're never going to figure her out, so m just forget it right now Uh it's going to be a lifelong endeavor trying to figure her out. And uh ladies, it's probably the same on the other way around too. Uh but uh the longer you live with them, the longer you spend time with them You get to know them. You know what their lights and dislikes are. You find you learn how they react to certain things. like leaving coffee in the microwave overnight. You learn how they react to that type of stuff. And that's the idea here Lord wants us to grow in our knowledge of the Lord Jesus, who he is and what he's like, how does he respond? The things I do and don't do. What does he want for my life? Who he is? How he operates, what he wants. And so he says, grow in grace. Grace? What God working in my life in ways I don't deserve. God using me. I can't earn God's favor in this way. It's the grace of God And then grow in my knowledge. I want to challenge you this coming year. Study the Lord Jesus. Pay attention to what God's doing in your life. Read your Bible and find out about God's will and God's plan. And learn, grow in the knowledge of the Lord. I want to challenge you to this. I've been saying this a good bit this year. Look for God moving and working in circumstances. Look for the handprint of God. Look for the hand of God in different circumstances. Oh, this is terrible. Oh, this is all wait a minute. Stop and look around. What is God doing something? God's doing something Then, second of all, my second thought very quickly is this. Number one, the definition of growing in grace. Then number two, my duty in growing in grace. It's the grace of God. God does this. Well, what's my role? What role do I play in growing as a Christian and maturing in my faith and my walk with God? Well, my d the duties are nothing new. They're just the fundamentals of the Christian life. You've heard me say all of these over and over and over. And I need it. Number one, I put this down: settle the assurance of my salvation I've never known anybody to grow in the Lord that had doubts and questions about their salvation. That is one of the greatest hindrances to Christian growth. If you've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, get that settled. Take God at His Word. The assurance of my salvation, get this The assurance of my salvation is based upon the promises of God, not in any lifestyle I'm living. Follow what I'm saying? It's the promises of God. 1 John 5. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. These things have I written unto you that believe in the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. That's a promise of God Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's the verse God settled it for me all these many years. I called him the Lord. I know I did. And he says, whosoever does that shall be saved, shall be saved. So settle this matter of your salvation. If you've got doubts, if there's questions, About your soul, about your salvation, about your eternal destiny. You need to get that settled. And we can help you. We can't do it for you. We can show you from Scripture how to get that settled. So, number two, I put this down. My role in growing in grace is to spend time daily meditating on God's word and prayer. How many folks here ever heard me say, you ought to read your Bible every day? You know why I say that over and over and over? Because you ought to read your Bible every day. But you can't grow without it. Joshua chapter 1. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate therein day and night That thou mayest observe to do according to all these things. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous. Then thou shalt have good success. Know what he's saying? You'll grow. Spend time in that Bible, you meditate, think about what's being said, how does it apply to my life? How do I carry this out? How do I live according to this? God says, you'll grow. Psalm chapter 1, he says, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of the sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water. It bringeth forth his leaf in the season. His leaf also And bringeth forth his fruit of the season. His leaf also shall not wither. And whatsoever he doeth shall prosper. God says, you're going to grow. You're going to grow. One of the most important aspects of spiritual growth, Christian growth, growing in grace, is letting God speak to my heart on a regular basis, daily basis, and then praying Be careful for nothing, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, let your requests be made known to God. And the peace of God, which pass with all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds, will grow You'll be stronger in your faith. You'll be closer to the Lord. Can I challenge you this coming year? If you've got doubts about your salvation, get it settled right off the bat. Number two, determine that reading my Bible in prayer is number one priority in my daily schedule. Highest priority. I'm going to spend time in the Bible Young people, middle-aged, all ages, ought to read their Bibles, ought to teach the little children, read their Bibles, read their Bibles, read Psalms, read John Number three, I put this down. Stand faithful to the church. Settle the assurance of your salvation. Spend time with the Lord. Stand faithful to the church. Hey, I want to say: the church is essential. Spiritual growth. I've never known anybody that's been out of church, hit and mess, out of church that has grown in the Lord. That is going to the Lord. That's the danger. That's something we have to be very, very careful in the day and age we live, with the circumstances. Very easy just to kind of somebody put it this way the bad thing about missing church is soon you don't miss it. And we have to be very, very careful about that. We cannot grow. The church is vital. It's the body of Christ. How many uh what if uh back uh 30 years ago I'd have cut my finger off And laid it there, would that finger keep growing? No, it would shrivel up and die. And we're a part of the body of Christ. That's kind of a dumb illustration, but um uh we're part of the body of Christ And we need to be connected. The church is essential to spiritual growth. Spiritual growth. And so stand faithful to church. Ah, we watched on on uh uh New Year's Eve, uh we watched the film Sheffi. I'm telling you, that thing is powerful And uh we showed a few years ago, we showed it again. Every time I see it I cry uh and I laugh and I convicted. I mean it's a whole range of emotions go through. That thing is so powerful. The little Petersheim twins are crying. We just had a wonderful time crying and and everything. But uh in there he made this statement. And boy, it rung with me. As soon as he said it, it just struck a chord. He said this, an empty church house is the devil's delight. Isn't that a good statement? An empty church house is the devil's delight. Tell you one thing that's grieved my heart so much this past year to walk around their Sunday school classroom set and empty Church services back when we had to shut down in here, just the place empty. Now I understand, I'm not please don't don't misunderstand what I'm trying to say. I understand our circumstances unique But I'm telling you, we need the church. We can't grow without it. We can't grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord. And so, number one, I need to settle the assurance of my salvation. Number two, I need to spend time daily with the Lord in prayer and Bible reading. I need to stand faithful to the church. Let me give these others last few real quickly I need to submit my will to God's will if I'm going to grow. I can't get closer to the Lord When I'm pressing off on my own way. I like what Jesus prayed in Garden of Gethsemane. I try to pray this every single morning. I try. Every single morning. Lord, not my will. But what? Thy will be done. Isn't that a good way to start off every day? Lord, not my will today. Your will be done. Lord, you lead me and direct me in your perfect will today. Help me to be sensitive. Help me, Lord, to trust you, to die to sell. Let your will be done. I'll tell you, we'll grow. That's necessary to grow in grace. And the knowledge of the Lord. I used to quote a little poem to the teens when I was youth pastor in Indianapolis. I haven't thought of it for years until I was preparing this. It came to mind. Only two choices on the shelf Pleasing God or pleasing self. Tell you, that's a good formula for growth. I've got to remember, every day I get up, I've got two choices. I can please the Lord with what I do and say and act how I act today, or I can please myself. I can't do both. I've got to make a choice. I want to challenge you this coming year, every day. Get up. Spend a little time in prayer and Bible meditation. Be faithful to church. Surrender my will to the Lord. Lord, not my will. I want you to leave me, your will to be done in my life today. It's a great way to start today. And then put this down. Number five, seek to win souls. The fruit of the righteous is the tree of life, and he that winneth souls is wise. I want to challenge all of us. You say, ah, the preacher ought to be a soul winner. He ought to win people to Christ. Yeah, I agree. And so should the deacons. Somebody would have said amen there. Thank you. Listen, y'all are here. I'm tired of preaching to a camera all the time, getting no feedback. So you're here. Give me some feedback. I'll give you a dollar if you say amen. Not really. But uh not just the preacher, the deacons ought to win souls. Thank you. Uh Sunday school teachers Yeah, choir members? Yes. Uh you say I don't have any position. You ought to wing souls? Church members, teenagers, I'm grateful our teens out faithful, witnessing, trying to win souls. And uh I tell you, it'll help you grow Brother, you get a burden, you start talking to people about the Lord Jesus, you give out tracts and share the gospel with folks. Um I'm telling you, uh you'll start growing, you'll start growing. Matt and I were talking, we prayed last night And uh we were talking, I tell you what I'm praying, I'm asking the Lord to give me boldness. I'm like those believers in Acts chapter 4. Lord, grant unto thy servant that with all boldness I may speak the word as I ought. Wouldn't it be something if everybody here wants a soul to Christ this coming year? Wouldn't that be an amazing thing? We'd double and then do that again and do that again and do that again So she can win souls. And you'll grow in grace. And my last one I put down is this. Start investing in others. Start investing in others. I'm telling you, and I'm I see it in my own heart to my grief. I hate it. But we live in an awfully selfish society. Don't we? It's all about me. I catch myself. It's all about me. It's all what I I, I, I, me, me, me, mine, mine, mine. I tell you, we're never going to grow in grace. We're never going to grow in. The Lord wasn't that way. He went about doing good. He went about helping and being a blessing and had compassion on others. Sometimes we'll get a call at the church so we say, can you help me? And you know my old sinful nature gets irritated. I thought, why don't why don't you go out and get a job? Why don't you go, you know what? I want to I want the Lord to help me. Be more compassionate. What can I do to help others? What can I do to make life a little easier? Be a blessing to others Until we get that frame of mind, we get that mind of Christ, brother, we'll grow. We'll get stronger in our faith. We'll mature as Christians. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Challenge us as we go into this new year to grow in grace. Lord, help us to know you, what you're like, and what you desire. How you respond, your plan and purpose for our lives. Lord, I ask that you would just start off this first Sunday that we determine with your help, Grow in grace and knowledge of the Lord. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, I want to know what the Lord is like a lot better than I do. To be honest with you, I just I don't even know what the Lord is like maybe. You say I want to grow in that. Anything like that, uplifted hand, God bless you. Let's ask him to help us. Let's ask him to reveal himself to us in his word. One or some would say, uh, preacher, I want to do my duty in this growing. Read my Bible and pray and church and Just the list I gave you there, winning souls, surrendering my will. How many say, preacher, God's challenged me in at least one of these areas, maybe a number? You say with his help, I want I want to go forward in that and respond. Any like that uplifted hand? Amen. God bless you all around Now, Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you'd stir us. Don't leave us alone. You've challenged us now this morning. Now provoke us to go forward in this.