Share a few thoughts here real quick with you this evening. James chapter five. Again, we appreciate everyone's prayers and uh it was a tremendous privilege to be down there. It's a joy to be used of the Lord. And uh you keep them in your prayers. And I'm excited in the coming months to uh coming years to see what the Lord does. James chapter five, we're just going to look at verse number nine. I had the privilege for the last several years at Dr. Lee Robertson's ministry to sit under him. at the Mountain Lake Indep or Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Uh at the Highland Park Baptist Church down in Chattanooga, Tennessee. And uh and it was a tremendous honor. I was able to sit in on the last leadership class that Dr. Robertson and his assistant uh J. R. Faulkner taught And uh to sit in there and hear this great man uh used the God in such a great way, teach preacher boys on leadership. And one thing he drilled into our hearts and minds in the church in the college, in the university there, and then particularly in this leadership class, he drilled into our mind, drilled into us this matter of have faith in God. Have faith in God. I can still hear his voice. I can still see him behind the pulpit saying, have faith in God. Have faith in God. And he drilled that into us. And one of the chief characteristics of strong faith, one of the chief characteristics of genuine, mature faith in God is that of patience. Now look with me if you will. Tell you what, I want to begin in verse 7. James chapter 5. Be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, thus Behold, the husband waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long what? Patience for it until he received the early and latter reign. Be ye also Patient, stablish your heart, for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned Behold, the judge standeth before the door. Take my brethren the prophets who have spoken in the name of the Lord for an example of suffering affliction and of Patience. Behold, ye count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job and have seen the end of the Lord, that the Lord is very pitiful and of tender mercy. Patience, patience, patience, patience, patience. This whole underlying theme here through this passage of scripture is having patience. And as I said, one of the characteristics of someone that has a strong, mature faith in God is they are very, very patient. Now I notice that right smack dad in the middle of all this passage about patience, verse number nine, he says this. Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned. Behold, the judge standeth before the door. Grudge not That's what I would talk about just real quick. I see what time it is. I'll give this to you very, very quickly. Let's pray together. Father, I pray now you'd challenge us and help us not to grudge And I pray that our lives would be pleasing to you and that you would be able to bless us and lead us and use us to point folks to the Lord Jesus Christ. In Jesus' name I pray. Lord, I do ask that you fill me with your spirit and speak. Speak through me. In Jesus' name. Amen. The exact opposite of being patient with a person is grudging against that person. Grudging against that person. My first point is this. I want us to consider the definition of the word grudge. What does it mean to grudge against another person? That is, do you agree with me? That's an ugly word Just sounds ugly. Grudge. You look at it, you spell it, it looks ugly. There's nothing pleasant about grudging one against another. It simply means this. The literal strict definition of the word means to sigh grievously. It's ki I don't know how to explain it. I'll try and display it. It's kind of like this. You know what I'm saying? It's an expression of discontent. It's an expression of dissatisfaction. It's an idea of displeasure. Somebody says or does something that displeases me. It's grudging. That's the literal strict definition of it. It's this attitude. Somebody says or does something or behaves a certain way or or doesn't do something. I think they should Or they're not treating me some way, I think they should, or they're treating me some way, I don't think they should. And I get I I'm displeased with that. I I get uh frustrated, I grudge It simply means this. I deserve to be treated better than this. That's what grudging communicates. I deserve better than this. They're not behaving the way they should around me or to me. They're doing something they ought not to do around me. It means that to grudge against another, it means to grumble my dissatisfaction. With that person or their behavior or something. It's more common than we like to admit. We like to, we often express our displeasure. With something somebody does or doesn't do, with their behavior, something they said or did not say. We're grudging against them. It has the idea of maybe rolling our eyes. I deserve better than this. It is akin that to grudge against someone, as I studied this, I came to the conclusion, it is very close akin to murmuring. The Bible speaks a lot about murmuring. If you would take your Bible just quickly, and I want to go through these as quick as I can. Go back to the Old Testament book of Numbers. Now keep your place here. We're going to touch on this verse a little bit more, but come back to Numbers, and this is the best passage in Scripture I could find to illustrate what I believe the Lord is talking about when he says, Grudge not one against another. To sigh grievously, to be dissatisfied with. Numbers chapter number eleven Numbers chapter 11. I put in the margin of my Bible, beside verse 1 of Numbers chapter 11, I put this, and I thought someday I would preach a sermon on it. It hasn't happened yet. But how to displease God, how to make God unhappy. Numbers chapter 11 and verse number 1, notice what the Bible says. And when the people complained, very similar to murmuring, has the same idea of begrudging. When the people complained, look at this next statement. It displeased the Lord. How do I make God unhappy? Complain. How do I make God unhappy? Murmur. How do I make God unhappy? Begrudge one another. It's what the Israel did. They were very good at this. It displeased the Lord. Look at that next statement. And the Lord heard it. And his anger was kindled. There's a lot of things Israel did that was dumb. But one thing Israel did that made God angry. They complained. They murmured. They begrudged Moses and others around, and this, that, and their supplies. And they grievously sighed and they express that displeasure. Makes God unhappy And the fire of the Lord burnt among them and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts of the camp. Turn over, if you would, real quickly, to chapter 16, same book. Numbers chapter 16. And notice ver again verse number one. Here you have in verse 1 you have four rebels, four men that rebelled against God's leadership here. and God's direction that God was leading the nation. Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Gathan and uh Abraham Uh the sons of Eliab and Oan, the son of Paleth, sons of Reuben, took men, and they rose up before Moses with certain of the children of Israel, 250 princes Assembly, famous in congregation, verse 3. And they gathered themselves against Moses and against Aaron. And it goes on and goes into detail what the situation was. What these four men did was, is they begrudged Moses. They didn't like the way Moses was leading. They didn't like the direction that Israel was going. They didn't like anything that was happening. The problem is, it wasn't Moses' idea, it was God doing all of this And they begrudged it. But what I noticed here in chapter 16, it started out with four men, and within one verse, you've got 250 are joining in. Four men got begrudged, got out of sorts, displeased. They started complaining, they started murmuring, they started begrudging Moses And it quickly spread to 250. Now, if you would come over to verse number 41 of this chapter. It went from four to two hundred and fifty, verse forty-one, number sixteen, but on the morrow, one day later. All the congregation of the children of Israel did what? Murmured against Moses. There is something about begrudging others. There is something about dissatisfaction. There is something about the sin of murmuring that is highly contagious. Highly contagious. You get one person that will begin to begrudge somebody, and it is not long till there's four others, 250 others, and next thing you know, you got a whole crowd. Turning against God. Turning against the will of God. And so begrudging. It says, grudge not one against another. It has the idea of finding fault. Dissatisfied. Sometimes young people begrudge their parents. My parents don't treat me right. My parents don't do this. My parents don't do that. Begrudge their parents. My parents don't respect me. I've always said the best way to get people to respect you is to act respectable. Amen? I mean I would have said Amen very loud right there. Be respectable. Nobody respects me. Well try acting respectable Sometimes parents begrudge their kids. I tell you what's tough, and I'm just preaching I tell you what's tough. Sometimes we take young people, Brother Grant takes young people off to a Bible conference like this, a youth conference. Kids get stirred up, they make great decisions, and they come back home Mom and Dad say made some decision. What I've seen it. I've I I've been in this too long. I've seen it over and over and over. And the parents begrudge a decision the young people m young people made for the Lord. I tell you what parents ought to do when kids come back from a conference like this and they're stirred up wanting to serve God, mom and dad ought to fan those flames. Don't encourage them Oh, so now you're better than me. So now you're going to read your Bible every day? You're going to be some great Christian? Yeah, that's what they want to do. Don't begrudge that. So kids sometimes begrudge their parents. My mom, dad, don't treat me good enough. Tell you what, let me take you down to St. Lucia and show you some kids down there. And see how bad you've got it. Parents will begrudge their their uh uh kids. Sometimes husband and wife begrudge each other. Ah I deserve I deserve to be treated better than that by my wife. I deserve to be treated better than that by my husband. Better be careful Better be careful. God says grudge not, grudge not. Murmuring and grudging is an expression of unbelief. Israel, if you read Hebrews very carefully, Israel's whole problem was unbelief. They simply did not believe that God was doing what was best for them. That God was working in their life, that all these trials and all these difficulties and all this wandering was all part of God developing them and preparing them to go into the promised land. They would not believe That God could work through their circumstances and bring some good out of it. We preached on it this morning. And so begrudging, it's unbelief, it's discontent, it's impatience. And it's all rooted in pride and self. Now, come back here if you would. An ugly picture, an ugly word. Now notice in James here, real quickly, if you saw how fast, how far I am through my notes, you would be ecstatic. This is exciting. We are breaking land speed records up here. evening. Grudge what's the next word? Look at there, verse nine, James 5. Grudge. Say it with me, grudge not That word not is an interesting word. It's not as ugly as grudge. It means this. When he says grudge, not means this. Under no circumstances at all, in any situation, ever, at any time. The word not's a very strong word that he uses here. There are no exceptions. To that word not. Grudge not. Don't grudge at any time, in any case, in any circumstance, at any time, for any reason whatsoever. Zero. Zip. Not It's the same word that is in John 3. 16. Now think follow- try and follow my train of thought here. Brother Ed said after before church tonight, he says, that story about you getting electrocuted this morning, he says That explains a lot. I think that was a compliment, I'm not sure. But uh so try and follow my train of thought here That word not, under no circumstance at all, ever in any situation, any time. It's the same word used in John 3. 16. For God's to love the world. That he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish. Let me ask you a question. Under what circumstances does a person that believes in the Lord Jesus Christ, under what circumstances do they perish? None. Are there any exceptions to that? There is no way possible for a person that believes on Jesus Christ for salvation, there is no way possible for that person to ever end up in hell. Naught that same thought, that same concept is what he says here for grudging However often a saved person ends up hell, that's how often you and I ought to grudge. Doesn't happen, does it? None whatsoever. I want to introduce you to an acquaintance of mine. His name is Bob. He's my invisible acquaintance. Everybody say it. Hi, Bob. I didn't think of that, but that's pretty good. This is Bob. Bob's claims to be saved. Do you notice? Under his arm he's got a big King James Bible. Bob is a big King James Bible. It's black. Bob dresses very conservatively. I mean, he just looks like an independent fundamental Baptist. He goes to church very, very regularly. If he doesn't miss church, there's a good reason. He's got his big Bible, dresses conservatively. He's even got wingtiped shoes on. He goes to church real faithfully. Bob even gives out gospel tracts. Pretty good guy, huh? Pretty good guy. You know what Bob always does? Bob always begrudges. He always complains about what other people are doing or not doing. He always finds fault. Something wrong all the time with something. He begrudges others. He grudges. He's unhappy. He's always somehow being mistreated. Always got his Bible and he's got the looks. He's got the act down, he's got everything there, but he's never happy. Somebody is always mistreating him. Somebody is always doing him wrong. Somebody is always, something's wrong with something all the time. Bob, here's my advice. Don't be like Bob. Amen. Let's not be that way. Get your Bible, get the dress, do all that, that's fine. But don't don't grudge against other people. Don't grudge against other people. So number one, the definition of grudgy. I hope I painted a good word picture in your mind of what it means to grudge against other people. My second thought very quickly is: consider the direction of this grudging. Look what he says here. Grudge not. Then he says this: one against another, brethren. It's all about saved people, Christians. A Christian that grudges is a contradiction in terms The word Christian, the title Christian means literally, as it was first given to the Christians, a little Christ It was used initially in the book of Acts, it's recorded, it was used initially as a derogatory term. The heathen would throw out the Christians. Oh, there's those little Christs, there's those little Jesus, those Christians. And the Christians took it as a title of honor. I remind the heathen of Jesus. They look at me and they see me as a little Christ. That's a compliment. That's not a derogatory term. Let me ask you a question. How many times did Jesus murmur? How often did Jesus grudge others? Never. Never And so if I claim to be a Christian and I grudge other brethren, I grudge one another, that's a contradiction in terms. I'm not Christ-like. And so the direction of this grudging is towards others. And he says, don't do that. When I'm grudging, I'm actually being more like Satan than I am like my Savior. A instead of a Christian, I'm a sapien yin. A devil yin. Satan is the master fault finder. Satan has perfected the art of criticism. He is the ultimate discontented being. Revelation tells us that Satan's ministry is to accuse the brethren. To criticize, find fault, grudge the brethren. It's what the devil does. It's his whole ministry. John 13, 35 gives us the greatest, clearest testimony of discipleship. By this, shall all men know that you're my disciples if you begrudge one another. No. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples by your ability to point out other people's faults By your ability to critique the failures of your brothers and sisters in Christ. That's how people will know you're a disciple of Jesus. No. That's devil's work. By this shall all men know that you're my disciples if ye have love one for another. Now get your doctrine straight. You're not going to do any good without doctrine. Get your behavior right. Get all of that right. But don't poison it all with begrudging. With murmuring, complaining, criticizing, fault-finding. It poisons everything. It stains our testimony. The clearest, greatest testimony of discipleship is my love for the brethren. My love for the brethren. And then last of all, consider this is a strong word. Drudge is an ugly word. This next statement's a strong word. Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be what? Condemned. Wow! Behold, the judge standeth before the door. Now that word condemned there is not suggesting, the Bible does not teach, and this is not suggesting, that a saved person will ever be condemned to hell. Jesus Christ paid the full price For our judgment on the cross, he suffered full payment of hell for us, was buried and rose again. When we accept him as our personal Savior, we are never condemned to hell. So, what's he talking about here? The word condemned here simply means this: to have a judgment held against me. In other words. Jesus is going to hold me to the same standard, as far as rewards are concerned, at the judgment seat of Christ, he's going to hold me to the same standard that I hold others to. He said so in Matthew chapter 7. By what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged. If I go around begrudging others, murmuring against things, this, that, and the other, outfinding, accusing, doing all that, that's all contained in that word grudge. If I do that, can you stay imagine standing before Jesus Christ? And him doing that to me? Anybody can find fault with somebody. Jesus Christ can find fault with me. If anybody has failed to live up to the standards expected by another, I have failed to live up to the standards expected by my Savior. And then for me to turn around, Brother Kenton, and hold others to a standard that I myself cannot live up to before God. Condemned. That's wrong. The judge stands at the door. You need to be very, very careful. This is a strong, strong statement he puts right in the middle of a subject on patience. He says, don't begrudge one another. Don't grudge against one another. Matthew chapter 5, verse 7, we studied it on Wednesday nights in the Beatitudes. Blessed are the mercifuls, for they shall find mercy. How many people here desperately need God to be merciful to you? You don't, you don't understand the situation. Now he says, listen, then you ought to be merciful to others. You ought to be merciful to others. Ephesians 4:32, we know that. Be ye kind. One to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. Why? Even as even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you I tell you what, I I I'm studying this and I'm under conviction. I'm thinking, man I don't want God, I don't want God to be as merciful to me as I've been to others, because I have failed. Being merciful to others. I want to be merciful to others the way God has been merciful to me. Does that make sense? So, in the midst of this, the Lord makes a very clear, very strong statement to Christians: grudge not one against another. Now I'm not picking on this country. It's a fact. It's expressed down there The thing that grieves me, and I hesitate to say this, but a thing that grieves me, I was down in New Zealand, it was expressed to me last year. I saw a little bit of again this year. Is missionaries, Americans in particular, who grudge one against another I heard it. This guy's not doing that right, he's not this right, that's not that, that's not right, this isn't right, that there isn't this, that. And I just thought God had mercy. You know, I hate to say, I see it in America. I go to preachers' fellowships. I talk to preachers on the phone all the time. This guy, yeah. Now listen, we need to warn against false doctrine. Don't misunderstand. But come on Come on. And in churches. Nobody would get up here and say this here, but on the drive home, huh? Judge stands at the door, he sees it. At home, around the dinner table, whatever. Let's stop that. Let's just stop it. Do I think it's a major problem in our church? No. I I thank God for this church. As long as you've got human beings making up the church, you're gonna have to deal with stuff like this. And let's just stop it. Let's just listen to God, trust that he knows what he's saying, and do what he says, and grudge not one against another anymore, and be patient. The exact opposite of patience is grudging, and the opposite of grudging is being patient. Now let's be patient one with another. So how long do I got to be patient with them? A little longer than that. Till the cows come home. How's that? The most loving, kind, friendly, patient people in Oakland. In my mind, should be the members of Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. Right? You say, well, what about the charismatics? Don't they have to be patient? That's between them and God. But we ought to be patient. We ought to be kind. We ought to be friendly. And so we end another Sunday, another Lord's Day. We've got six days ahead of us until next Sunday. This old flesh. Wants to run the show. This old flesh wants to grudge. Let's take this old flesh and just nail it to a cross at an altar tonight. Mortify the deeds of the flesh. Die to self and say, Lord, for one week, I want you to fill me with your Holy Spirit I want my words and my actions to be a blessing and to point people to Christ and accurately represent a person filled with the Holy Spirit of God. The fruit of the Spirit is what? Love, joy, peace, long-suffering. Amen. I'm trying to land this thing. Let's just dive bomb. Alright, let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, I was so convicted. Preparing this and I I want to obey you, Lord. I don't want to be condemned for my behavior, my attitude towards others. And Lord, we need your Holy Spirit to help us. And we want you to fill us. We want you to work through us so we could see people be saved from eternity in hell because we have a decent witness and we represent Christ accurately. And when we share the gospel, they see Christ in us. I pray you'd help us. Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, preacher, I'm gay? To yield myself tonight to the Lord Jesus Christ and let him fill me with his Spirit and lead me through the week to bear the fruit of the Holy Spirit for the next seven days and with God's help. Be a testimony of the love and grace of God. Any like that? Of the uplifted hands, certainly that's the way we feel. Goodness. And maybe tonight we can gather an order, just individually. Say, Lord, fill me this week and use me. Maybe some of us need to confess this sin of grudging and just be what God wants us to be. Maybe there's some here tonight. I don't know. And you don't know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven. You're on your way to heaven. I'm telling you, Jesus Christ died for every single person's sins, that whoever calls on him He'll forgive them and save them. And we can know for sure we go to heaven and not to hell when we die. And maybe there's someone here tonight say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me also. Would you pray that God would help me settle that in my heart and life? Is there any like that this evening with the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. And preacher, pray that God will help me settle that. How about it? Any at all this evening? Any at all, preacher, pray for me. I am concerned about How about it? Now, Father, you know our hearts. Help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bound, our eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verses of invitation. And let's just stand