Well, amen. I appreciate that nice, wonderful, truthful introduction. That's why every man needs a wife to bring him back down to earth. Amen. I call my wife, I man honey, you won't believe what they said about me. She'll say, she's the serious one. What'd they say? Well, that I'm wonderful, that I'm great. And then Choi, you don't believe that stuff, do you? I've just given up telling her how wonderful I am. Amen. Well, good to see everybody here today. And uh uh I I trust that man we got a great crowd here today. Uh you know, I know people are going to be providentially hinted. I understand that. But if you can, try and come out this week. Try and come out. Uh we've heard this before. The night you miss is the night you need. It always works that way. People that uh need help in their marriage, they need help in their personal life, they need a kick in the pants uh to start doing something for God. The night you miss. is the night you need. And uh I invite us, what else is more important anyway? I'll guarantee you two weeks from now you won't remember what you were doing on Monday or Tuesday night, but what you heard on Monday or Tuesday night could change your life. And so uh try if you can try and make plans on BMW have a good time and uh uh you know again what you hear could uh could literally turn your life upside down But it's just good to be able to be here. Well, if you have your Bibles, turn over to 1 Corinthians chapter 15. 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Today is what? Easter, Resurrection Sunday. Now, that you know, it automatically means that you're going to hear a sermon on what? Resurrection. Resurrection? Somebody said Easter, whatever you want to call it. Yeah, you are. But listen, will you do me a favor? Get this. You're sitting here today, and you don't know where you're going to spend forever. I was where you were at one time. I can't get you to heaven today. I can't, but Jesus can. I can tell you if you'll just listen. And uh so it listen, it's more than an Easter sermon. I I I'm going to kind give you a blueprint on how you can walk out of here today knowing you're going to heaven. What better news than that? Amen? That's better than a ham dinner, amen? Come on. It is. And uh uh the Easter bunny can't get you to heaven. He can't. Uh the Easter bunny if he you know, well I'm not gonna go there, but but uh anyway Let me ask you something here. Have you ever bought a car, an appliance, electronic equipment? And the salesman says something like this, it's guaranteed. Brother, you buy this, you'll never have another problem the rest of your life with it. I think they train him in a lion too, amen. Boy, you buy this, it'll it'll be worry-free the rest of your life. And then you buy it. Then the moment you buy it, they say, Do you want the extended warranty? Do you know why? Because the world can't guarantee you anything. The world listen, the world promises you the sun, the moon, and the stars, but they can't deliver it. The only person that can make promises and absolutely deliver and guarantee is God's Word. And that's what we're going to talk about today. The title of my message today is just that. Guaranteed. Huh? That gives me chills just saying it. Come on. Guaranteed. Huh? 1 Corinthians chapter 15, look at verse 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received and wherein ye stand. By which also ye are saved. If ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain. For I delivered unto you, first of all, Which I also received, how the Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. Now, verse six, what's that first word? After. You ought to underline that and I'll tell you why. After. After what? After he died and rose. Did you get that? That's important. After he died and he wrote. After that he was seen of above how many people? Think about that. Five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain under this present, but some are fallen asleep What's the next one? Verse 7, what's the first word? After, there it is again. After that. He was seen of James. Then of all the apostles, and last of all, he was seen of me also as of one born out of due time. Just for the sake of time, turn down to verse 17. Three more verses. Verse 17, and if Christ be not raised, if what I just read isn't true, if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain Yet ye uh ye uh ye are yet in your sins, then they also which have fallen asleep in Christ are perished If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. Guaranteed. Let's pray. Father, I pray right now. That if we have somebody here today, a man, a woman, a young person, and they don't know where they're going to spend forever. Help them to know right now, there's a guarantee that they can go to heaven. They can walk out of here today according to the scriptures. And know beyond a shadow of a doubt they're not going to spend forever in hell, they'll spend forever in heaven. Help them to be brutally honest with themselves right now, right here, this morning. For those of us who are saved, Lord, help us today to rejoice and remember the guarantee that you've given to us Help that not to be a little thing. Help us this morning, maybe, to every time we think about it, to give us goosebumps running up and down our back. Guaranteed. Which in Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Listen, I think all, no matter where we're at spiritually, I think all of us need to remember and understand something this morning. The day that we celebrate right here, right now, this morning, is the cornerstone of everything that we believe and we trust. If there is no resurrection, There is no Christianity. If there is no resurrection, there's no resurrection Sunday. All you've got is the Easter bunny. Huh? If there is no resurrection, everybody in here today, we have absolutely no hope. In fact, why are we even here? If there's no resurrection, think about it, if there's no resurrection, we ought to just throw our Bibles on the pew, walk out, and live for the devil. You ever think about it that way? I always look at verses 5 through 8. It's what we emphasized here. Verses 5 through 8 After. Remember those words? After Christ died, he was crucified. He was raised. After, think about this: He was seen of all these people. Now. Get that? There is a great, great truth right here. Nobody, think about this, nobody, absolutely nobody, ever disputes this or contradicts this. That is amazing in of itself. You see, listen, if if this story of the death and the burial and the resurrection of Jesus Christ If it really was a lie, if it really was a hoax, can you imagine these people getting, hey, hey, you know, let's make this thing up Let's tell everybody, we know he didn't, but let's tell everybody after he died the tomb was empty. We'll just make this thing up and we'll let eh Do you know how hard it is to tell a lie and then keep it? First woman out the door, it's gone. Come on. Come on, I'm just being the con. And some men are no better, amen. Oh there the ladies come, Amen. Do you know how hard it would be to tell a lie like this and keep it? And then to top that to sell it to millions of people. You can't do that! Listen to me, do you actually think that people would die for a lie like this? If you believe that, I'm gonna tell you something else. You fell out of the stupid tree and hit every branch on the way down. Nobody's gonna believe that, huh? You see, listen. The very things that were done to prevent the resurrection actually prove the resurrection. Hmm. Can I remind you of something this morning? The resurrection is not just the resurrection, and that's it. With the resurrection Come free absolute guarantees. If you're here this morning and you're saved, you have these three guarantees You're here this morning, you say, preacher, I'm not saved, or I don't know where I'm going to spend forever. You don't have the guarantees, but here's the good news after the bad news: you can have the guarantees. And as you go through life, if you have the guarantees, as you go through life, you can have the peace and the joy and the happiness that the world doesn't understand. I think that's why for today, for the vast majority of people, uh Easter For most people, is nothing more than a day of new clothes. I'm not against new clothes. It's nothing more than Easter eggs, the Easter bunny. Come to church for one hour, punch the clock, go home, have a ham dinner, and then you wake up tomorrow and you're just as miserable as what you were today. That's no way to live. It's no way to live. You can have a guarantee of a much better life Three guarantees God gives us because of the death and the burial and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. Let me give them to you. Number one. Number one. You're here today and you're not saved. You don't know where you're gonna spend forever. Get this. You can have the guarantee of what I call the right redemption Now, do you know why you don't hear much when you say white? Because most people don't understand that word. Huh? Don't let that word scare you. You can have the guarantee of the right redemption. Here's what I'm saying. Now I'm gonna if you've heard me, look, I can make things real simple. I'm gonna make them real simple. Amen. Because I'm a simple preacher. Why do you keep thighs like this around? Here's what I'm talking about. Listen. As you sit here today, do you believe you're gonna die? Come on, what about the rest of you? Huh? My family lives old. I'm gonna make some of you mad. The youngest person to have ever died in my family, 80 years old. But eventually everybody in my family dies. Death runs in my family. How about yours? Huh? Statistics are quite impressive on death. One out of one. Come on, come on. See, listen to me. You need to come face to face. You are gonna die. And by the way, it might be a lot sooner than what you think The Bible says it is appointed unto men once today. As you sit here today, you have an appointment with death, and it might be a lot sooner than what you think. There's a lot of people today They think they're going to see tomorrow, but they're not going to see the sun go down today. There's a lot of people that are planning on what they're going to do over Memorial Day or the Sunday, and they're never going to see those days. You see, understand, listen. You are going to die. Here's the next thing. Do you believe there's a heaven and hell? Absolutely. Do you know how easy it was for me to get saved? I'm not real good at math. But if you give me two choices, it's pretty easy to pick. Amen? Huh? I'm going to pick the best place every time. Does that make sense? Heaven, hell, hey, I don't have to think. What is it? It's heaven. So number one, do you believe you're going to die? Absolutely. Do you believe there's a heaven? Do you believe there's a hell? Absolutely. Now here's the next question. Do you believe there's a forever? Yeah. Death doesn't end at all. The moment you die, you got it. You see, listen, you know what you're looking at? Just be quiet. You know what you're looking at? You're looking at a shell. You're looking at a box. What God gave Bill Barons to live with while I'm down. And by the way, I'm looking at some boxes too. Huh? The very moment I die, what's your look by the way it's a handsome box. If you say amen, I cut back on the preaching by five minutes. The moment I die, what you're looking at, this box, it goes to the grave and it rots. But what is most valuable, my soul, it slips out and it has to spend somewhere forever. You say where, preacher? It depends. It depends on what? On what you've done with Jesus. For some of you, it depends on what you do with Jesus today. You are gonna die. There is a heaven, there is a hell, it is forever. Now, because I listen, I can't answer for you, but because of that. I, me personally, I want to know absolutely, positively, 100% beyond a shadow of a doubt, that I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to that place called hell. And by the way, let me add this. I don't want any of this. I hope so, Junk. I think so. Well, I tell you what, we'll find out when we get there. No, I'm gonna tell you something. It's too late then. You better know now because after it's too late. Now, that were and listen, I won't keep you long. First amen, I got out of him all day, amen. I won't. That word redemption, what does now listen, what does you know you're gonna die? There's a heaven, there's a hell, there's a forever. So what does that word redemption mean? Let me explain or redeem, whatever you want to call it. Let me explain it to you this way. I I use this story, oh, it's been years ago since I but But uh years ago when when my wife and I we decided to take trips overseas to preach to our American military personnel, we didn't have the money to do it. So we started praying that God would take care of our plane tickets. One day I'm driving down the road, it's near lunchtime, I pull into, I think one of the first times I've ever done this in my life, I pulled into a McDonald's. I understand something. I'm a Wendy's man. Real men real men eat real beef. I I I'm I'm a Wendy's man. But I was hungry, nothing else around. I pulled in, I didn't order that fake hamburger. I went through the drive-thru. I don't go in in McDonald's, you know, but I I pulled through the drive-thru and I said uh you know at Wendy's we real men call them biggie fries You know. And uh I said, I don't know what you call them here. I said, but I want the biggest fry you got. And uh I I pulled around, paid her. This girl it had to be her first day on the job. You say why? Because she was smiling. Huh? Normally it's you know, and the order's wrong, you know, and she smiles, she goes, Don't forget about the contest. They're always having contests, aren't they? I said, what contest? She goes, Fry surprise. I said, what? She goes, Fry surprise I said, what? She goes, you see that round sticker? I say, yes, but she pulled off. You see what you went. I'm thinking my chances of winning are one in one hundred and forty seven you know normally it's you all us, you know. And so I'm going down the road, I I was gonna throw the thing away because I I don't I'm not gonna go back, but I I kept looking I thought We're praying for two plane tickets. So I peeled up. First three words, you have won. I'm thinking, what size drink? And uh I peel the rest off it says this you have won two, three, round trip tickets to wherever Delta flies in the world. What are the chances? Don't tell me God doesn't answer prayer. What are the chances of me even going to a McDonald's? Let alone winning exactly what we're praying for. But now wait a minute. Get this. I've got the sticker. Amen. I can go. Amen. Come on. But what do I have to do? I've got to redeem the sticker. Does it make sense? You see, listen to me. If I don't use the sticker, if I don't redeem it, the benefit is absolutely worthless, and I am a fool. Amen that right? So, in the Bible, now do you understand what that word redeem or redemption means? So in the Bible, spiritually, what does that word redeem or redemption mean? Well, let me give you some Bible verses. The light bulbs will come on here. Colossians 1:14, in whom we have redemption. This is how you gain heaven. We have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sin. Ephesians 1:7, in whom we have redemption. There it is again. Through his blood, the forgiveness of sin. Romans chapter 3, verse 24, being justified. What's that mean? Real simple, just as if I've never sinned. That's what it means. Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption That is in Christ Jesus. You see, listen, because of the death and the burial and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, if I can use this term. You've got a sticker. You're sitting with it this morning. It's an invisible one. It's an opportunity. Of what? Forgiveness of sins? Redemption? Heaven? But here's the thing: you've got to go through Jesus Christ. Because he's the one that died on the cross for your sins. He's the one that shed his blood. He's the one that rose again from the grave. You see, you're here today and you're not saved. It's there, it's yours, it's free. But you gotta claim it. And if you walk out of here today and you don't claim eternal life, you don't claim salvation or redemption A bunch of you just a minute ago, you called me a fool. What's that make you All I would have done was turn down two plane tickets. You turn down heaven, eternal life, forever. I'm not going to call you, but listen, what does that make you? To turn your back on an unbelievable, amazing gift. Wow, but yet people do it. People do it. You see, without redemption from your sins, without trusting Christ as your Savior. If you walk out of here today, get in your truck, get in your car, pull out of here, die in a car wreck on your way home, you're in hell. Forever. You see, our problem today, most people today, on a day like this, here's the big problem. We actually think that we have a right. To manufacture our own way to heaven. We've got this attitude. Well, you know, forget about God, forget about Jesus. I'm going to do it my own way. And we've got a lot of people today, even in our church, we make up our own rules. You ask people today, well, how do you get to heaven? You get a thousand different answers. Understand something. If your pastor gets in desperate financial situation And uh he comes to me for a ten thousand dollar loan. I'm not loaning it to him, but anyway. He comes to me for a 10,000. He's desperate. He comes to me for a loan. Let me ask you something. Who has the right to make the terms and the conditions of the loan? Oh, I do. I do. Now listen to me. You're here today and you're not saved. That's you. You are a poor lost sinner. What do you do? You come to God for redemption, for mercy, for pardon, for forgiveness, to get to heaven. Amen? Let me ask you something. Who now has the rights to make the terms, the conditions for you going to heaven? God does. Not you, God does. You see, listen, beggars don't dictate, they accept. We need to understand something. Listen, we're sinners. We're lost. We're on our way to hell. We have absolutely no hope of ever gaining heaven because we are sinners So, what are God's terms, God's conditions for you to go to? Here's what God says: God says, I'm going to do this. I'm going to send my son down here to this earth for you. To die on the cross for your sins. He's going to die on the cross. He's going to shed his blood for You, he's going to be raised again from the grave, and because of that, because listen, because Jesus paid the price, now salvation becomes a gift. He paid the price. It's a gift. And so, to get the gift, what do you got to do? Just take it. Just take it. You see, if I gave your preacher a new hunting rifle, I won't. And I said, Preacher, here's a gift. What you have to do to get it? Just take it. But then if I say this, that'll be $299. 99. Is it a gift anymore? No. God says salvation is a gift. It costs you absolutely nothing because Jesus paid the price. All you have to do is receive it, but God sets the terms. What are the terms? Acts 4. 12. Neither is there salvation. In other words, there's no other way Neither is there salvation in any other. For there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. John chapter 14, verse 6. Jesus saith unto him, I am the way. That's pretty narrow, folks. I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. In other words, you've got to go through Jesus to go to heaven. John 10, 9, I am the door. By me, if any man come in, he shall be saved. What do we call this? The gift? The gift. Romans 6. 23. The gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. You see, listen to me. Someday, someday we're not going to go to heaven. And somebody says, How'd you get here? Well, I had 5,979 works. Somebody else says, Well, how'd you get here? Beats me. Friend, listen, it doesn't work that way. If you're going to go to heaven, you've got to have the gift. Trusting Jesus Christ as your Savior. Number one, because of the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ, we have the guarantee of the right redemption. Secondly, we also have the guarantee of a right relationship. Today We have millions and millions of people coming to church on Easter Sunday, and they say this: I'm a Christian. I'm a child of God. Here's my question. Are you? Are you? Why do you say that? Can you prove that you're a Christian? And they'll say this, Well, I go to church. I believe in God. Now I'm not really a bad person. I I've had people come up to me. I had some last year I had somebody come up to you and and they said uh they said uh could could uh could any of your children they're talking to me, they said, could any of your children do something so bad that you would punish them forever? Somebody asked me that. I said uh no, no. And uh they said, Well Then what you're saying is that you're a more loving God, or you're a more loving father than what God is, a loving God. They said, you just told me that there's nothing that you would punish your children forever for, but yet God would punish his children forever in hell. And uh I said, uh no, I said, listen to me. God is not going to send his children to hell. God's children are going to heaven. Person said this. They said, but Brother Barron, they said we're all God's children. I said, why do you say that? Because God created us. I thought of what Billy Sunday used to say. Billy Sunday used to say, well, God created the donkey too. Does that make him your brother? You see, understand something, folks. You are not God's children by creation. You are God's children by salvation, by redemption. And that gives you, get this, that gives you a right relationship. Here's a hard one. But I'm going to use the scripture here. And so if you have a problem with this, your argument is not with me, it's with God. And that's not an argument you're going to win. John 8 44. Ye are of your father the devil. You see, before a person gets saved. They're a child of the devil. Before I got saved, what was I? I was a child of the devil. It is only after redemption that I become a child of God You see, God's children never go to hell. God's children always go to heaven. Salvation. Salvation changes you from a child of the devil to a To a child of God. And that gives you a right relationship. Does that make sense? Huh? So, first of all, number one, the death, the burial, and the resurrection of Jesus Christ. You have the guarantee of a right redemption. You're right there. All you got to do is redeem it. You walk out of here today and you have not redeemed it. What God has given you that gift, you're more of a fool than I would have been I don't mean that me. But to turn down heaven and choose hell Wow. You have the guarantee of a right redemption. Secondly, you have the guarantee of a right relationship. But then thirdly, you also have the guarantee, and I this is a good I like this one. We also have the guarantee of a right reception. You know, there's nothing worse than not being welcome. I remember several years ago, it's been several years ago now. I was out visiting with a pastor, we knocked on the door And uh, you know, they teach you different things and as you knock on the door, they always teach you to step back and kind of step aside so that you don't get the person nervous. You don't think you're gonna jump in and you know You know. And so I I I knocked on the door, and as I knocked on the door, we stepped back and both of us, and just as we parted, there was a guy on the other side of the door with a pistol and he shot a hole right through the door Wood just blew right between us. I took that as a sign. That I wasn't welcome. Can I show you one of the scariest verses in the Bible that have something to do with that? This is going to be the end story of hundreds and hundreds of millions. of people someday. Matthew chapter seven and verse twenty. Listen to this. This is your story if you don't get saved. Wherefore by their fruits you shall know them. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. What's that? A right reception? Not everybody that says, Lord, what is going to get to heaven. That's what he's saying. You're not going to get the reception you think you're going to get. But he that doeth the, what is that next word? Will. You've got to circle that. We're going to get back to that in a moment. The will of my Father which is in heaven. Many will say to me that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name, and in thy name have cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful good works. You see, there's a lot of even uh even here today maybe. There's people that say, Well, you know, I I I think I'll get in. I sure Hope I get in. Uh yeah, I mean I I sure hope the day I die, man, I really hope that I get a right reception and get into heaven But wait a minute, verse 23, stay with me, verse 23, and then will I profess unto them, I never knew you. What a reception. I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity. Can you imagine the horror and the shock and the fear when people for the first time realize I'm not welcome in heaven, I'm going to hell. Go back to verse 21. Let me show you something here. Back to verse 21. Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, but he that doeth thee, what's that word again? Will of my Father, which is it. Why do you say, preacher, why do you use that? Why is that word will? Why is it so important? Because of 2 Peter chapter 3 and verse 9. The Lord is not. It's against the Lord's will. God doesn't want you to go to hell. The Lord is not willing that any should perish, but that all, put your name right there, all should come to repentance. You see, listen to me. On that great day, here's what's going to happen. There's going to be a lot of people who say, but Lord, you know, I did this and I did that. The Lord's going to say, not my will, but thy will be done. You've got a free will. You're sitting here today, you say in your heart, you say, you know what, preacher, I don't know if I'm going to heaven. I'm I don't know if I'm going to hell. You've got a free will. Do you know what that means? If you want to, you can get saved today. You can get redemption today. You can get the gift. You can get salvation today. If you walk out of here today, unsaved, on your way to hell, it's your will. And someday, with a great amount of sadness, Jesus is going to look at you and say, Not my will. I wanted you to go to heaven. I died for you so you can go to heaven. Not my will, but thy will be done. By turning me down, you chose heaven. You say, Preacher, what is the other reception? I'm glad you asked that. Matthew chapter 25, verse 21. His Lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter. Huh? Enter. That's the right reception. Enter thou into the joy of the Lord. Now, here's the sixty-four thousand dollar question. If you died right now, what do you want to hear? What do you want to hear? Depart from me, I never knew you, or enter thou. Into the joy of the Lord. It means welcome. Those of you that have been members here for what you already know that I get out of high school. And I was a rebel. Y'all know what that means? I didn't want to take orders from anybody I didn't want my dad to tell me what time to come home at night. I didn't want him to tell me what time I had to get out of bed. So I did the only thing that a rebel could do back in those days. I joined the Marine Corps. Nobody ever said you had to be smart to be a Marine. Understand something, folks. I wasn't saved. I spent a number of years in the Marine Corps. You're preaching many I spent uh I spent uh many, many, many a month in Vietnam with a rifle company. I uh I went through the Tet Offensive of 1960. Single worst, largest battle of the entire Vietnam War, 58,000 casualties. Our outpost was completely cut off for 17 straight days. Through that. Came back home, went on the drill field for two years. I was a Marine Corps drill instructor at Parish Island, South Carolina. I taught young boys to be Now do you know why I say that? To help you to understand my background I was as far from God as you could get. I was as hard as you could get. Then one day, my future wife got saved. And she tricked me, deceived me into coming to a church like this. Just like some of you are sitting here today, the first time in my life, I heard What you're hearing this morning. Not an Easter message, but a salvation, a message of redemption. I have a free will. And so I had a choice. You know why I say that? If God can save me, He can save you. I don't care who you listen. There's nobody here today too hard, too tough, too far going, that God can't save you. Put aside the pride, quit acting, you know, get saved. I'll tell you, if you don't get saved and you die today for trillions and trillions of years, you're going to be burning in hell and saying, What a fool I was for not latching on to the right redemption while I I had it. You see, as I sat there that day and I was same way, I was struggling, making that decision, I had no guarantee of a right redemption. If I would have died, I'm going to hell. I had no guarantee of a right relationship. None. I was a child of the devil. But here was the good news. It wasn't too late for a right reception It wasn't. And I made sure I'm going to get one. And you know what? You can too. You can too. It's not too late. For anybody here. If you want to get saved, to get saved. Amen. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. Every head bowed.