Chapter 6 and verse number 8 says, And I heard a voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send? And who will go for me? Then said I, this is Isaiah responding to the Lord's question Lord said, Whom shall I send? And who will go for me? Then said I, here am I, send me Here am I, send me. What a great statement. I want to speak this evening, and I'll explain my title here in a moment, but I want to speak about being gung ho for missions. Gung-ho for missions. How many people ever heard that term? Gung-ho. Gung-ho for missions. Let's pray, and I'll share a few thoughts with you. Father in heaven. I ask that you would help us, myself, and help us as a church to be gung-ho for the Great Commission and taking the gospel all around the world, the Karakalpak people in Kazakhstan. Uzbekistan, Lord, folks in the islands down in the South Pacific and uh all around the world, from the North Pole to the South Pole, uh we ask you to stir our hearts that we would just be out and out, all out. For getting the gospel into all the world. So I ask you to fill me with your Spirit. Help me, Lord, to communicate some of these truths in a clear way. I pray your Holy Spirit would speak through me and challenge us and apply to our hearts and lives this matter of the Great Commission and our involvement with it. I yield my will to you, present my body anew, Lord. With all my heart, I pray you fill me and speak through me. In Jesus' name, amen. I got thinking about that word gung-ho earlier this week I was thinking about missions and I thought uh and for some reason that uh word gung ho came to mind. I got thinking, where in the world did the term gung-ho come from I got doing a little research and I found that in uh back in the early 1900s, 1920 something, I think it was around there, the late 1910s, 1920s, in that region Our military sent a fella over to China to observe their military. And he noticed that they had a term that the Chinese military used And that term was gung-ho. And they used that term, and what they meant by that term, the word itself is a Chinese word, it means to work together. And he got looking at that, and that caught his attention. And the idea behind how the Chinese military used it was this idea. Each individual giving all they got in cooperation with other individuals, giving all they have. To accomplish, in this case, a military objective. In other words, everybody doing all they can in cooperation with one another to achieve a goal. I don't know about you, but I like that term. I like the idea of all Christians working together every way we possibly can in cooperation with one another in order to achieve the goal, and in our case, the goal of getting the gospel to every single person in the whole world. How many people understand one person can't get the gospel to everybody in the world? It's impossible. One church can't. But we can do all we can working together in cooperation to get folks around the world to everybody Uh it's interesting later in World War II the Marines picked up that term and they began using that term gung-ho. The English version of the word means to be enthusiastic or energetic about something. Gung-ho. And um I want to be gung-ho for missions. I want our church to be gung-ho for missions. Um when uh uh when we were had worked in the bus ministry, we had a little song. I don't know where I came across it, and actually I couldn't find the words. I was googling the w Googling the song, trying to find the words to it, but we had learned it at some point. And it goes like this. More than life I love thee, Lord. More than this world can afford. I have given myself to thee. O Lord, I love thee more. Anybody ever hear that song? Anybody familiar with it? We used to sing that all the time. Now think about the words to that. More than life. Think about this. More than life, I love thee, Lord. More than this world can afford. Whoever wrote that song, whatever the circumstances were, I don't know. But I know this, they were gung-ho for the Lord. They were all out, Lord, I love you more than life. More than life. Does anybody here recognize the name Roger Yodarian? Anybody recognize that name? Roger Yodarian. Does anybody recognize the name Peter Fleming? Anybody recognize that a little bit? Sounds familiar? Somebody's going to start catching on here. Roger, uh, uh, Roger Yodarian, Peter Fleming. How about this name? Ed McCauley. Ed Macaulay. Somebody starting to recognize, know where I'm going with this? Roger Yodarian, Peter Fleming, Ed Macaulay, here's one that's going to strike home. Nate Saint. Don't you recognize that? How about this one, Jim Elliott? Jim Elliott, those five men We're gung-ho for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Somebody tell me what those five men known for? Anybody remember? Reaching the Alca Indians down in Ecuador. Back in the nineteen fifties, they endeavored, they committed themselves to reach a tribe in Ecuador that had never been in contact with white uh with civilization, I should say. I think there was some gas companies had interacted, uh, but they pretty much killed anybody that came near them. God laid on their hearts to get the gospel to these Auka Indians, deadly people. And um They through a process and for the sake of time we won't go through it. I tell you, you ought to read a book. Here's a book you ought to read, Through Gates of Splendor. Tremendous story of their life. And so anyway, they gave themselves and they were killed on the beach of a river there by the Auca Indians. Jim Elliott, who's the most outspoken of them, the most well known, he made some tremendous statements, some tremendous quotes before he died. Here's his most famous one. He is no fool Who gives that what he cannot keep to gain that which he cannot lose. Do you catch that? He's no fool who gives what he can't keep to gain that which he cannot lose. He made this statement. Wherever you are, I like this statement. Wherever you are, be all there Live to the hilt every situation you believe to be the will of God. He says, wherever you are, be all there. Were you ever with someone? They were there, but they weren't all there. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Did you ever be in a situation, in a circumstance, maybe in some setting, and uh you were there, but you weren't all there. You're mind, you're something else. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Some of y'all are like that right now. You're here, but you ain't all here. He's saying, listen, if it's God's will, if this is what God's plan, if this is God's will, then you be gung-ho about it. You just get after it. You be all in. How did the Lord put it? Whatsoever thy hand thou findest to do, do it with what? All thine heart. The all-out. Let me ask you a question. Is world missions a worthy cause? Let me ask you this question. Is world missions reaching the world with the gospel? Is that God's will for our church? Don't you think we ought to be all in on that thing? If that's God's will, let's not be half-hearted about this thing. Let's be all out. He said, not long before he was martyred, he said, I seek not a long life, but a full one. And what he meant by that was he wants to be all the Lord's. He wants his whole life to be lived for the Lord Jesus Christ. Let me ask you a question. Is that the desire of your heart as a Christian? I want my whole life to be the Lord's. Here's what we do sometimes. We want to give God a portion of our life. And we have these little categories and we have these little compartments. We have certain things in this compartment of my life And there's certain things in this compartment of life. And this part of my life is the Lord's. This is the Lord's compartment. I'll tell you what God's looking for. He's looking for you to just throw those compartments, bust them down, and just let it all be the Lord's. He said, if you want to come after me, you've got to take up your cross, deny yourself, forsake yourself, follow me, forsaking all. Gung-ho. Gung-ho. Let me give you real quickly, I've just got a few minutes here. Let me give you a few thoughts on how we can be gung-ho for world missions. You might want to jot these down. I like these. Number one I put this down. See mankind from God's perspective. See mankind from God's perspective. Let me ask you a question. How does the world see a little child in the womb of its mother? How does the world see that child? What? Just a what? Just a fetus is what they say, right? That's how the world sees it. Oh, it's just uh uh disposable. It's not a big how does God see that little child in the womb of its mother? As a precious life. A precious child. And we gotta see people the way God sees people if we want to be out and out. uh for the uh for missions. John chapter four verse thirty five he says look unto the he said say not ye there are yet four months and then cometh harvest Behold, I say unto you, look on the fields, the people, for they are white already unto harvest. That's the way God sees the world. In Matthew chapter 13, verse 38, the Lord Jesus said, The field is the world. God sees mankind as a great spiritual harvest. That is ripe right now. What happens if you don't harvest the crops when they're ripe? What happens to them? They're rot, they're destroyed, they're lost. And today is the day of salvation. The Lord sees the world as a spiritual harvest field that is ripe right now. I've said this so many times over the years. I am convinced there are people in Kazakhstan That if somebody would sit down in their living room tonight with a Bible in their language and explain to them how to be saved, there are people there that would get saved tonight. There is no doubt in my mind. You go to any nation, any city in the world, I am absolutely convinced if there was just somebody there with the Word of God in the form that they can understand it and communicate the gospel, just like the young people have been trained to share the gospel If somebody would do that there, we'd have people see people saved in every single nation of the world. We've got to see the world the way God sees it. A uh a nation, a spiritual harvest that is right, and a spiritual crisis that they need to be met now. All through the Psalms, I've been reading the Psalms. I finished up reading my Bible through this year. I finished up early. I finished up about the middle of November And so I went back and I was kind of reading around. I thought I'm going to read the book of Psalms again before the end of the year, trying to get that read before New Year's, and um I'm doing all right there But I noticed something this time, just reading through Psalms, something I noticed, over and over and over in the book of Psalms, you'll find this statement: let all nations praise the Lord. Let all the earth fear our God. Let every nation sing praises to the Lord. Sing praises among the heathen. This time I'm reading through. You know what I've been doing? Every time I find a statement like that, in the margin of my Bible, I'm writing down missions. Missions. Every nation, all people, all the earth, among the heathen. That's talking about God's people going out and teaching folks around the world in every nation to fear God, to praise God, to know the Lord. Missions. Missions. So we've got to see people the way God sees people. Number two, jot this down. We need to establish biblical values. We need to establish biblical values. In Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2, we quote this so often. He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God you present your bodies a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable in God, which is your reasonable service. And be not conform to this world, but we we touch on this a lot, be not conform to this world, but be ye Transform by the renewing of your mind. You know what the renewing of my mind is? It's changing my perspective. It's changing my values, the way I think about things, the way I value things. And we have got to establish biblical values. The world's values are temporal values. God's values are eternal values. The world says you got to bet get a bigger salary. The world says if only you had a better job, if only you had a bigger house or a nicer car or fancier clothes. Oh, then you would have meaning, and then there would be fulfillment in your life, and then you would have purpose in life. Just get a little bit more and a little bit bigger and a little bit better Now question, is there anything wrong with having a nice house? No. Is there anything wrong with driving a nice car? No But when that is such a high value to us, an emptiness sets in in our hearts and souls. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And we, if we're going to be gung-ho for missions, we've got to switch that around and renew our minds and start having God's values. God's values are in Matthew 6. 33, seek ye first the what? Kingdom of God and his righteousness. All these things will be added unto you. Colossians chapter 3 and verse 2 he says, set your affection on things above Not on things of the earth. In 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and verse 18, he says, while we look not at the things which are seen But the things which are not seen. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. And what we need to do, if we're going to be gung-ho for missions, we've got to not hold the temporal things of this world so high up. And then have a little value on the salvation of souls and eternal things. Everybody, you follow with me here? So, number one, I've got to see mankind from God's perspective. Number two I need to establish biblical values. By the way, I'm concerned. I'm concerned in a lot of Christian circles, we're teaching our kids to value the world above the things of God. I mentioned this morning Bible colleges are saying that kids are coming into their Bible colleges and so few are going into the ministry. You have these liberal arts colleges, Pensacola, and some of them where they offer other studies other than ministry, and they're saying people are flocking, young people are flocking to business And to moneymaking type degrees, and those that are coming in to serve God, the numbers are just dropping and dropping and dropping. You know what that is? That's a reflection of a change in values among our people. Making money is what I'm pursuing. I'm running after popularity. I'm running after business. I'm running after position. I'm afraid we'll get to the judgment seat of Christ, and we're going to find out a lot that we put a lot of time and effort in is just wood, hay, and stubble. Just wood, hand, stubble. Number three, jot this down. Would you allow myself to be challenged by the lives of those whom God is using Allow myself to be challenged by the lives of those whom God is using. I tell you my big disappointment for today. Can I tell you what my disappointment for today was? Not in the faith promise, not in people getting saved, not in a decent crowd. Not a despair. I wouldn't disappoint any of that. But I really disappointed that we couldn't get a missionary in here and rub shoulders with us. You say, well, preacher, you know the message is you here's the funny thing. Um I can preach a message and everybody says, yeah, amen, that's decent. Uh another missionary comes in, say the exact same thing, but it's a different face and it's a different voice. And God uses that and stirs our hearts. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And one thing my disappointment was this, that we were not able to get some missionaries in here, at least Brother Forney or somebody That is being used of God in a tremendous way and allow them to influence us. I tell you, one of the great things about Missions Conference is getting to know missionaries whom God is using. I tell you, that's a tremendous thing. I I like what we started a few years ago. Little kids have a little missionary bulletin we make, and they go and get a signature from each of the missionaries and get them signed out, and they take notes on that. I'm telling you, I want our young people to meet and know men and women whom God is using in a great way And let that influence us. Years ago, hey, when I first got saved, years ago, we had missions conference, you know what we did? We had the missionaries stay in our houses with us We'd share meals with them and pray together at night and interact and fellowship and get to know them. I tell you, I think we lose something when we stop doing that. And that let them influence these great men and women whom God is using and interact with them. And so let them you say, well, preacher, is there any biblical basis for that? How about Hebrews chapter 11? You have a whole list of men and women by faith did this. By faith, you know what? God's wanting us to be influenced by people who He used in great ways. So jot that down. Allow myself to be challenged by the lives of those whom God is using. Number four, put this down. Focus on God's abilities to overcome obstacles. What I mean by that is somebody says, well, you know, I could never do much for God. I could never be involved in world missions. Good night. Uh there's too many obstacles. I can't do this and that there. I couldn't do that. And uh there's just too much. I'm not able. God laid this amount on my heart and I just don't think that's possible You know what Jesus said? I've got five references here, four references here from the Gospels where the Bible says, with man that is impossible, but with God, help me All things are possible. Listen, don't ever think that God can't accomplish his will in getting the gospel around the world. Missionaries trying to get into countries. I'm telling you, God can do it. That's where our prayers come in. But don't ever allow, don't ever think, uh or uh let me put it this way, focus on God's abilities to overcome obstacles And let me give you the fifth one real quick. And I wanted to try and give these to you quickly. Number five, I put this down. Be convinced that God can use you. Be convinced that God can use you. Say, preacher, God can never use me in missions. Oh yes, he can. Oh yes he can. If nothing else, we've got little prayer cards back there. You could be a prayer warrior supporting these missionaries. Giving faith promise. You say, oh, I couldn't give that much money a week. But God can use what we can give. Anyone remember the story of the widow's money? She didn't have much to give, but what she had, she gave. And what did Jesus say? She gave what? More than all these big money people gave They gave a percentage. She gave all she had. She just gave it to the Lord. I want to show you some verses, and I'll end with this. Go with me, if you would, to 1 Corinthians. Chapter 1. This is one of the most encouraging passages for me in the ministry that I've ever come across. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. I've never had a lot of self-confidence. I think it was a lot of it was because of growing up and some of my experiences in my teen years or whatever. And I never really went into the ministry with a lot of self-confidence. And so I leaned hard on the Lord. And I learned to trust God to make up for my weaknesses and make up for my insufficiencies. And I came across 1 Corinthians chapter 1 years ago. And boy, God encouraged me with this. Look at verse 26. For ye see your calling, brethren, and by the way, every one of us are called to be involved in missions, one way or another. You see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh Not many mighty, not many noble are called. Look at this. But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. I thought, okay, Amen. Now he's talking about me. The foolish things of the world. And God had chosen the weak things of the world. to confound the things which are mighty. And base things, that means bottom of the barrel. Base things of the world. And things which are despised hath God chosen. Yea, and things which are not to bring to naught the things that are. Why? That no flesh should glory in his presence. You say, well, I'm just not my I don't have much wisdom and I'm not that mighty. I'm not I don't know what hey, you're exactly what God's looking for. I like it when somebody comes and says, Preacher, I don't know. I don't know if I'd be a very good soul winner. I don't know if I could do that, but I'm willing to try. I'll take that over, oh yeah, I can do this. I'm really good at this. You follow what I'm saying? I'd far rather have the one that says I need the Lord to help me teach this Sunday school class. I need the Lord help me work this bus route. I need the Lord help me do this music. I need the Lord You know, that's who God chooses. Come over with me, if you would, to 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians chapter 3. Another encouraging passage. 2 Corinthians chapter 3, and look with me for wood at verse number 5. 1 Corinthians chapter 3, or 2 Corinthians chapter 3, verse 5. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves. Look at this. But our sufficiency is what? of God who hath who also hath made us able ministers. Oh, preacher, I'm incompetent. I could never do that. Ah, good. That's exactly what God's looking for, because then He can be competent on our behalf. He can be sufficient for us. Anybody find that encouraging at all? Anybody at all? I find that tremendously encouraging Now let me ask you this. What are you doing for missions? What are you doing to have a part in getting the gospel? Are you gung-ho, every individual doing all they can in cooperation with the others? To accomplish a mission, to accomplish a goal. Our goal is to get the gospel to everybody. One person doing what they can, another person doing what they can, working together through that local church. And getting the gospel all around the world. I can't wait for the judgment seat of Christ and we find out what God has done through Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. What a day that will be. Through the efforts of our of each of us doing all we can in cooperation to get them around the world. I wanted to go to Acts, but we're on time. In Acts, Paul said, I am willing to die in Jerusalem for the gospel. He was gung-ho All out for the gospel. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we ask you to help us now as we wind up our missions emphasis Sunday. And I pray you'd stir us to see this old world and see our lives and things and eternity from your perspective and give ourselves to this matter of the Great Commission. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many would say, preacher, as a member of the church, as just an individual Christian I want to give myself to Christ for Him to use me however he sees fit in this matter of the Great Commission. Any like that at all. I want God to use me. And God will lead us. God will use us In our own particular way, his own particular will for us, he'll use us. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. And have your way. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.