It's tremendously gifted by God in this matter of artwork. We talk a lot about that and uh it's very unique. Not a lot of people have this gift, this ability And uh he's taken that and he's given it to the Lord to use, to point people to Christ, to share the grace of God. And uh that's a real blessing. I was thinking of this today. He's gifted in this area, no doubt about it. But here's the thing. God has given every one of us a gift. Not to necessarily draw, but something to do that can be a blessing and a help to others And help others know Christ and escape hell and know they're going to heaven. So that's a part of the preaching for God to deal with our hearts. Something about blowing your nose when the mic's on and telling Sorry about that. But um the thing is God uses the preaching to develop the gifts we have so that God can use us to help others and be a blessing. So let's ask the Lord to speak our hearts, Brother Williams County. And you gotta blow, you gotta blow. What can I say? Yeah. I thought well I'm gonna get ahead of this tonight. I'm not gonna have anybody going like that. And I did. And it cost me. How many of you like this one? The best for the week? Wow. That's unusual. Usually that's the bottom line there, you know. However, that's only the second time I've ever done this picture and uh I've changed it even from that of the original. And uh I trust that the uh But when we show it under the lights, why uh it'll have even a greater meaning for you. All right. Well, we got a excellent crowd tonight, and I thank the Lord for each one of you. has made it out. We have uh four chalk rawnings done now. We got two more. Uh what this one will be over there. We got two more to go after that. And uh Friday night we give them all away. Preachers already covered that part of it. But the one thing I want to emphasize is this. Maybe there are a number of you that that are here that are visitors And uh I want you to know that you are now, since you've come, you're eligible uh to do your own inviting and try to win one of the chalk drawings. And I just want to uh re-emphasize that because uh sometimes uh Uh visitors feel like they you know they can't get anything but you can. And uh it's not unusual to have uh a visitor come in in the middle of the week and walk away with one of the chalk drawings just by getting the visitors out, especially now that we're We're doing the uh five points for someone who's never been at this uh service here in in uh Mountain Lake Independent Bible uh uh Baptist Church. All right, take your Bible and turn with me to the book of Jude. Book of Jude Go back to the book of Revelation and and uh go back one book. And there it is. Just uh two little pages, twenty-five verses. Just a small, almost insignificant, and you almost miss it if you're not careful as you go through your Bible. But there it is, an old book of Jude. My oh my. And how how how uh how crammed full of information this tiny 25-verse book is uh to the believer. And uh we want to just look at one verse or two verses and and uh we'll just be scratching the surface even doing that. So let's take uh uh let's read a few verses overhead in the last part of the book of Jude. And uh let's see. Let me start let's start reading in verse 20. It says, But ye beloved, building up yourselves in your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost, keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ into eternal life. And if some have compassion, making a difference, and others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garment, spotted by the flesh. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we bow before you tonight because uh we're not worthy to stand in your presence. Were it not for what the Lord Jesus Christ did on the cross of Calvary over 2,000 years ago, no one could approach your throne. But because of him, we can come boldly before the throne of grace and make our petitions known. Tonight, Lord, we bring ourselves to you. I want to lay myself upon the altar of sacrifice and give myself afresh to you to be used as you see fit Help me, Lord, I pray, as we get into the message. I just trust the Holy Spirit will guide my thoughts and God guard my lips. And then I pray for this chalk drawing, Lord. I spent a lot of time on this drawing and and I'm trusting Lord that because of the total service here, the great music we've already heard and the special In the preaching and the chalk drawing, I pray that it will touch the heart of some lost soul here in this place. They'll walk this island. They'll take you as their personal Savior. Be born into the family of God and never fear death or hell again. Dear God, I ask it in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen and amen. Book of Jude, what a tremendous little book it is. And I remember teaching through this book uh years ago, back in the late sixties, I was that time I was with Carnation Milk Company and And uh the church I was in, I was teaching the adult class, and and so I started teaching the book of Jude. And uh we took a year on that twenty those twenty-five verses And uh I didn't get to the bottom of it even at that. It was amazing. But it was a tremendous study. It's a it's a book full of trilogies. That is three it comes in threes. You can see it in the first couple of verses there the threes that uh that are in there. But I'm not going to get into that part of it. But it's it's kind of exciting to go through the whole book and see how many groups of three there are in uh the verses there. Try it sometime and see if you Don't enjoy it as I did. The book of Jude starts out And he's talking about he said, I would uh I'm gonna read a couple of verses here. He says in verse three, he said, Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you the of the common salvation It was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. First of all, let's keep in mind when this was written. We're talking back uh I noticed uh the Usher's chronology here is sixty-six AD, so sixty-six years after Christ and uh Already, here this Christian leader is speaking or talking about an apostasy, which is a falling away. This is not a this is we're speaking of of the believer. We're talking about the church. There were churches in those days that were infiltrated by by wicked people that uh taught uh uh uh heresy and uh that's one thing that Jude is is uh warning about Or these false teachers that come in and destroy the churches by teaching teaching heresy, false doctrine. But then he gets over to the toward the end of the of the book and and uh uh it's like I say there's so much here you you can't you know I just find myself almost uh you know it just seems like there's so many thoughts running through my head. But we get to the to the end, the to the verses where we where that we read. And I want to stop on one particular verse in verse 23. And it says, Another save with fear. Now, verse 22, and some save, and some have compassion, making a difference. There's some people that you're only going to win by showing a compassionate heart. That you care about them. You show them that you care for them. And that and and some people are just that's the thing that's what they respond to is someone's love and care. But then verse 23 he says, Others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire. And so there's a place for the preaching of Hell's fire and brimstone. And certainly the old time evangelists uh were uh were dedicated to that and did a good job of it, and as a result, many people were born into the family of God But that's not something we neglect today or shouldn't neglect if we preach the whole council of God. Hell's fire and brimstone is just part of the preaching that you do. And it's necessary, it's important, because people need to understand that there is a hell to shun and there is a heaven to gain, and it needs to be preached. from the house roofs in order for people to understand it. Because today uh uh you talk to the average person on the street and uh it's a big question number one whether there is a hell or not Number two, whether the Bible's true or not. Number three, whether there's even a God or not. I mean that's that's the mentality of many of the people today. But here in the book of Jude, he's warning us back 2,000 years ago that this has already begun to take place, this apostasy, this falling away from the faith. But he gets to this last part, and once again, he says, and others saved with fear, pulling them out of the fire, hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. When I read that last portion there, heeding even the garment spotted by the flesh, my mind automatically goes back to the Old Testament. And I see a a man or perhaps a woman all humped over and with the robe pulled around her and and across her face and and over and all you can see is just her eyes sticking out and then them dark. And I see her as it as this individual approaches someone, and all at once you hear, unclean, unclean, and uh everybody s moves out because this is a leper. And the garments that I believe that Judah is speaking of here is the garments that's wrapped around the arms and the legs and the body of the face where where this putrid flesh is is rotting and falling off. It wasn't it wasn't unusual to have just have ears just to rot, fall off, and all you have is a hole back into the skull It wasn't unusual to have the nose rotten. Now all you have is a was a hole where a nose used to be. Lips would rot away and flesh would just fall aside. It was it was a terrible, terrible disease that in that in those days the only cleansing part, the only way to be cleansed was to go to the priest And throw your mercy upon him and ask for God's mercy upon you. And go through the ritual of the cleansing of the leper. But Jude here, he says, and hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. Hating even the garments spotted by the flesh. You see, leprosy is a type of sin. And so I believe we can make the analogy here. I I believe we can see the symbolism here, uh referring to if you put sin in there, you understand that he's saying, and and and uh uh hating Even the garment that is spotted by sin, hating even that which comes in contact with sin. You see, we've grown accustomed to sin. I'm talking about the whole world's accustomed to sin. But the United States of America, even though its foundation was from the Word of God. No matter what the the liberal, the progressive say and and want to do with taking all the Bible out of uh uh verses away from uh anything in government, no prayer in government, all that stuff. And despite all that, the truth of the matter is that we did have a beginning that started with people who prayed and wanted a place for religious freedom. But we're not living in that day today. And today we're getting so accustomed to sin. We turned on our television, there it is. I have a television. I'm not preaching against it. I believe you can regulate television. You could also get a a uh TV guardian that takes cusswords out and all that stuff. You can I mean you can do a lot of things that would save you uh a lot of turmoil as far as being a Christian. You wouldn't have to flinch every time but somebody uses a G D word or something like that on uh on T V. I'm j I'm saying that we're getting accustomed to it And Judah's saying here, he said, you need to even hate the garment spotted by the flesh. Even the association. It's important. The psalmist said this way in Psalm ninety seven ten. Let me get up here where I can where I can see it, my bifocals. There we go. I'm gonna have to use bigger print about that big I think for me to read. It says in Psalm 97, 10, it says, Ye that love the Lord hate evil. He preserveth the souls of his saints. He delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked In Psalm 101, verse 3, it says, I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. I hate the work of them that turn aside. It shall not cleave to me And Amos 5. 15 said, Hate the evil and love the good and establish judgment in the gate. It may be that the Lord God of hosts will be gracious unto the remnant of Joseph And in Romans 12, 9 says, Let love be without dissimulation. Apour that which is evil, cleave to that which is good. So here we are, Judas warning us against this thing called sin. You know, I was I was sitting Matter of fact, uh uh I was walking back through the uh church here and and I got I was thinking about this. And I thought, you know, sin this this book does several things Number one, it it would it defines what sin is. The Bible says that that sin is a transgression of God's law There's a lot of things that said about sin. He that knoweth to do good and doeth it not, to him it is it is sin. And there's a lot of things, verses like that, you know, that's in there that describes and defines what sin is. We have no excuse for the life that we live and the sin that comes into our life. We can't say, well, the devil made me do it. It's not going to work. This book defines sin. It describes sin. Down to the very nth degree I I listened to I I listened to this book as it speaks to me about uh King David, and it describes the whole scenario that got David into trouble and caused him uh to not be able to build the temple that his desire his heart's desire was was to do. This book discusses sin in so many different areas and and reveals it uh all kinds of sin And it deals with it in this book we call the Bible or the Word of God. It discovers sin. When I say that, I'm talking about it uncovers it, it reveals sin to us. How to look out for it. It doesn't take much if you can go back in the book of Proverbs and begin the reading there. It begins to describe to you exactly what you need to look out for so you don't get pulled in to sin. And then it just it talks about the destruction of sin. So this book is is something that that we need to we need to have it have it in our heart. Thy word have I hidden my heart that I might not sin against thee. Do you see how important this book is This book purifies our life. If we put this book in our heart and put it in our mind and make it a part of our life, this book, it will prevent so many problems in our life. I remember the uh you probably get tired of hearing me say this, but I remember when I was when I was before I was saved. And there was, you know, the chaos, the the mental battles that I went through. Whenever trusted Christ as my Savior, began to get into this book, I found relief from that kind of stuff. This book is the answer for so many things. The Bible talks about sin from the very beginning. We recognize the old serpent there. And that serpent, by the way, let me give credit where credit's due. That serpent, I took that, I was at the Creation Museum up in Kentucky. And I was walking by one of the one of the uh displays there. And all at once I I just sorta looked over my shoulder and there it was, looking me right in the eye. How many have been there? Okay, you know what I'm talking about? And it was a it was a serpent. This mine's a little bit better than that one, but but it was a it was uh it was a real one. I mean not a real serpent, but it was a uh molded or whatever you want to call it. You know, it was it was a model, okay. And I liked it. I I thought, boy, that that is that is that gives it to you right there. The the the horns on the side, just I mean just the devil. That's the way I saw it. So I I sort of s took that and hid it in my heart and then when I got a chance to use it, I put it on paper and I get credit for it. Well now I don't because I gave it away, but That's alright. I use pictures and and I listen, I use anything I can to to get across the message. The message is the important thing. I could talk about Adam, the the man that uh wherefore as by one man sin entered into the world and death by sin, so death passed upon all men. I think of Noah. Man, he was one of eight that was saved from the flood, and about a month later while we see him getting drunk Every one of you can go down through Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, David, Solomon. You can go down through all of them, and you find flaws in there because we're all sinners by nature. It's our it's our it's our nature to sin. That's why we need a savior. Some other someone has uh someone has uh written this. I'm gonna read it to you. Don't go to sleep on me now. I hate sin. Sin is not good for anything. Sin ruins everything. Sin is rotten. I hate it. I hate it. I hate it in me. I hate it in others. I hate it when it seems so obvious in others. Sin is not good for anybody. It's because of sin man has to work hard for a living, and often the woman has to help him. It's because of sin that women have pain in childbirth, because of sin that much of the world is in poverty, because of sin that that many people go hungry because because mom or dad uh has drunk, uh drunk, gambled, smoked, popped, or blown up their nose the the money for food It's because of sin we suffer depression. Because of sin we see anxious anxiety and fear. Because of sin, we feel guilt and remorse. Sin is not good for anybody. It takes away our innocence. It takes away the beauty of the natural-born character. Sin makes us rotten inside and out. Makes us sorry and no good. Sin turns lovable babes into monsters. Amen to that. No We become like sin. We become good for nothing. What is good about burning in hell forever? If that's good, I want no part of it. Sin is good for nothing, and we become sin. Now there's a whole nother paragraph there, and I'm going to spare you that, but I think you got the idea. Sin is something that we ought to what? We ought to hate. We ought to abhor it. It ought to be something we we don't even want to mess with the garments spotted by the flesh. I I know I've used this illustration. But many years ago was I was in I'm going to do it again, folks. I'm sorry. I was in a camp meeting out in uh Mississippi and uh R. G. Lee Many of you would not, most of you probably wouldn't wouldn't know who that is. But he was an uh an old Southern Baptist preacher. But he was, he is a preacher. And he got up, they had the they had two men got a hold of his arms. And he was electing these I guess he was over eighty, but he was He had to be ninety, okay? He was old But they had to help him up in the pulpit. I'm not making fun of him, making fun of me. And uh they got him up in the in the pulpit there, you know, and and they they put his hands on the side of the pulpit like that and he you saw him just sort of Just sort of straighten up. And he began to preach. And he gave an illustration about sin. that I never forgot and probably never will, but it illustrates this so vividly that I'm going to share it with you. It was a young couple who had a newborn babe. It was, I mean, it was the the light of their life. Little girl and they had the the room was all painted pink with little fuzzy things painted all over it, you know, and And all kinds of of teddy bears and stuff all over the room and and had s decorated just I mean, they loved this little gal and they were prepared for her and when they got her, phew, boy this was it. They just couldn't wait to to wake up in the morning and and stir her up a little bit. Uh wake her up, so just pick her up, you know. That's just the way they were. One night they put her in her crib and she goo-gooed and odd and you know and dad dad for a little bit, you know, and they just laughed and chuckled and finally She dropped off to sleep. They covered her up with a uh with the little pink blankets, you know, and they started to walk out the room. They noticed it just maybe a little stuffy and it was One of those nights and they thought, well, we'll let a little cool breeze come in the house, and so they they took the window and they just cracked it on me about that much, just enough to let a little breeze come through They go that night they went to bed and they talked about how how wonderful it was to have this little this blessing in their life. And they went to sleep, waiting just for the moment they'd wake up so they could go in there and pick her up again and enjoy her. During the night why The it got kinda kind of cool. Temperature had dropped a little bit. And there was a a diamond back rattlesnake that felt some warmth coming from a from a window Crawled up the side of the building and looked inside. There wasn't anything there, but he sensed. They have a they have their tongue is a sensing unit. And they can it's it senses infrared and it senses heat. And as it stuck ahead inside the window and bottled its tongue around a little bit, it sensed the heat coming from the baby bed. Slit her down on the floor and across the floor and up the leg of the of the baby's bed. Slit her down inside. Looked the baby over. Crawled upon the baby's chest, and as the baby began to stir because of the extra weight on his chest, sit struck. And it struck again. Before the baby could even cry, already its its throat had been swelled up to place where it could not speak at all, couldn't cry or moan or anything. Next morning, mom and dad got up. Well the sun was shining. I mean the birds were singing. It was just a beautiful day, a wonderful day. They rushed to the bedroom and opened the door and went over to the crib and looked inside only to see a tail going like that and a head poised to strike. They looked at the little baby and it was all swelled black and blue. Of course, it was dead almost instantly from the first bite. The illustration was this. The hatred that these parents had for that snake is the kind of hatred that you and I need to have for sin. As long as you tolerate sin in your life, as long as you like it a little bit Enjoy it just a little bit, as long as any anything attractive about sin, my friend, you'll have a problem with sin. It's just that that way Sin is something that that it it's it's just it it it's like a leech that just grabs hold. You're wading through the water and all at once something gets on, you don't even hardly notice it. But almost immediately teeth goes in, it finds blood, and begins to suck, and that's exactly what sin does in your life. It attaches itself. to the body. We're supposed to hate even the garments. That's defiled by the flesh, but But we allow it to attach to our body and begin to draw our life's blood. And it does, it draws our spiritual life from us when we allow it in our life. I want to cover three things quickly. The first thing I was to Is if we're going to hate sin, we need to, number one, we need to abstain from the appearance of evil. We cannot flirt with sin and get by with it. I've heard a lot of foolish things. There was a man back in the in the 60s, and some of you maybe may remember this title. He was given a title. He was called the uh Uh chaplain of Bourbon Street. That's what they called him. Don't remember his real name, but that was his title Because he went to the the uh one of the the beer the one of the streets down in in Louisiana uh that uh sold liquor. And it was known for its prostitution and liquor sales and everything wicked that the mind could conceive. And he was called himself the chaplain of Bourbon Street. And we go he'd go down Bourbon Street and he would stand on the corner and he'd preach the gospel. And he started going in the beer joint and he'd sit down in the stool next to a a drunk or somebody who was drinking and he would and he'd give them the gospel. And people respected him and the beer joints and everyone, they all, they all, every one of them, you know, they they recognized them, the chaplain of Bourbon Street He used to when girls would come up and proposition him there on the street. He made this comment. He had a book out, and I read read part of the book and I've listened to his testimony. But he that when this woman propositioned him, he said this. He said, Honey, I'm a Christian. And so I have nothing to do with you, but if I ever backslide, I'll look you up. May have sound sound humorous, but it's not funny. He's flirting with sin. But the flirting went too far, and it finally captured him instead of him captured them How many times have you heard of of people that that did just like the the guy in in Chicago, he he wanted to have a ministry to the prostitutes up there. But instead of him winning them, they won him. It's foolishness to play with sin Sin is something to be afraid of. Sin is like that rattlesnake. You've got to hate that thing. You've got to realize that that that that thing can can can strike you and poison you and defile you and ruin you for life. It can destroy your ministry, destroy your life, destroy your family, it can destroy everything about about you. Abstain from the very appearance of evil. Don't play around with sin. Don't flirt with sin. Hate it. Abhor it. The second thing is. We need to be to beware of pride. You see, pride is the is the thing that That Satan fell from. I think most of us are aware of that when Satan wanted to ascend up next to God Himself and be co-equal. And so pride is the basis for every sin. Pride says this. Pride says, I can get along pretty good without God. I don't need to get saved. I think I'm all right. That's pride. Pride takes form different ways. But it always comes up with the same thing with the big eye and a little everything else. The big eye is the thing. That's pride. When we think we can handle all the problems by ourselves, that's pride. And what is it that God says about pride? We could read, I could show you, I could show you dozens of verses in the book of Proverbs, particularly, but also in other places. That deals with pride alone. I mean, God is so death on pride that He has verse after verse after verse after verse in the Word of God telling you about pride. Whenever you start feeling like you're you've got it all made, you've got it, you know. Uh well I'll just uh I think I'll just build bigger barns, you know, and I'll just uh uh I'm just going to take it easy, you know, just live my life, eat, drink, and be merry. Just without God, without anything, without anybody's help, understand that's pride. God hates pride. He hates the proud look. He hates the arrogance. I'm running through these, but uh the uh the message is is plain. How do we handle sin anyhow? For the Christian, here's your answer. We all know it. One of those verses we ought to memorize. If we confess our sin. He's faithful and just to forgive us and cleanse us from all unrighteousness, and we say it and we sing it. You know, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us from all our sins. That's the way we do it, and that's the way that's about the attitude that we have when we go to God and confess our sins We don't take it serious. It's just something that we do because the Bible says if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us. So we make this this outward uh uh effort to confess When really down in the heart it's not been confessed. The idea of confession is forsaking it The idea of confessing that sin to God, not to man, to God, is, Lord, Lord, I failed again. And I'm asking you to forgive me, God, and not just forgive me, but to cleanse me. That is, take away the desire, do something to help me get through this thing, that I don't have to keep coming to you every every day. If we confess our sins and forsake it, think about it But he tells us to do it, and we need to do it. And then of course you need to delight yourself in the Lord. Back in the book of Psalms and in chapter 37, Psalm 37 He says this. And I'm reading in in the well, I'm gonna read a couple verses here. He says in verse three, trust in the Lord and do good. So thou shalt dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart Commit thy way to the Lord. Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. Listen, if you are saved and on your way to heaven, You hate sin. You hate it so much you don't want it to to be a part of your life. You want to hate the even the garments spotted by the flesh Then we need to go to the Lord and we say, Lord, I I have I have this this problem I have, this sin which does so easily beset me. And I need I need help with this thing. I can't defeat this in my life. I'm having a problem with it. Please help me get rid of this thing. And so when you confess it, what do you do? Then you begin to live for the Lord and obey the scriptures. Begin to delight in the Lord. You know, I found that once we once you learn to wrap yourself around this book and read it and hide it in your heart. There's just something about this book, number one, that purifies you. It cleanses you as you read it. There's just something about it that your life becomes cleaner. It cleans up your language, it cleans up the the the the fringe you have, it cleans up the the ideas and the thought patterns that you have, it cleans up your television, it clean listen It just has that kind of an effect if we take it seriously, believe it, it's God's word, and it's God's answer to sin. It's in here. But now I've just talked about I've just talked to the Christians primarily. Senator Friend, listen, I talked to you for just a moment, and we're going to show the chalk drawing. You're here tonight, you've never trusted Christ as your personal Savior. Your answer is not not uh Trying to do better and trying to live for you know trying to light yourself the world, you can't do it. It's not something you can do. You're not prepared for that. What you need is what Jesus told Nicodemus When Nicodemus came to him and and said, uh, uh I know that you you that you must be you're I know that you're somebody special because of the the the teacher, the way you teach and the and what you have to say. And and Jesus said, Nicodemus. You must be born again. It was just that simple. There wasn't a whole lot to it. Just you must be born again. Of course the conversation then went on. Nicodemus said, well Well, how can I enter back in my mother's womb and be born again? He didn't understand the concept of a spiritual birth. He didn't understand he was dead and trespassing in sin. But he found out because Nicodemus got saved. And the way he got saved was simple. The Bible says, as many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. It says, For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Do you know that that that worked for me back in 1962? And I know others that I've heard personal testimonies, it worked for them. And do you want to know something? He's the same yesterday, today, and forever. It'll work for you. If you'll come to this old-fashioned altar and kneel down here with your heart. And you say, Lord, you know what I am. I am not worthy to be called thy son. But I'm asking you to forgive me of my sin. I can't do anything about it, but I know you can And I want to take Christ as my personal Savior. Do you know if you pray something like that, it doesn't even have to be that way, but something like that from the heart, then God will save you? The Holy Spirit will come and take up its abode, his abode in your bosom, and he'll seal you to the day of redemption, and you don't never have to fear death or hell again. That's what the Lord salvation does. It's called so great a salvation. And there's a reason for it. You saved tonight? Well if you're not, get that thing settled tonight. That's that's what th th this whole this meeting, this whole week That's what it's about. It's presenting the gospel. Just like the Apostle Paul said: I delivered unto you first of all that which I also believed, how that Christ died for our sins according to Scripture. was buried and rose again the third day according to scripture. Wow. There's the gospel. Will you receive him today? We can have these lights out. I'll show this chalk drawing