Acts chapter four, verse number thirteen is our text for this morning. And I read this in my devotions some time ago. It stirred my heart a bit, and I wanted to preach on it this morning. Verse 13 it says, and now when they, and that's the Pharisees, the Jewish leaders, religious leaders, and they've got uh Peter and disciples here, Peter and John They've got them in a uh in the they've detained them. And when they saw the boldness of Peter and John And perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marveled. And then they make this statement, and they took knowledge of them that they had what? They'd been with Jesus. They'd been with Jesus. Something about these fellas was stood out, was unique. And they said, these fellas have been with Jesus. And so my question this morning is this: Have you been with Jesus? Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts. Father, thank you for the Word of God that we can read and memorize, study, and teach and preach. Lord, I believe I speak for many of us that we're so grateful for the impact that your word has had on our lives, some of us for many years. And we uh give you the glory. And I pray now with our open Bibles here as we've assembled together in your name, Lord. I pray that your Holy Spirit, uh your Holy Spirit's presence would be very evident. And I pray that your Holy Spirit would use your word through my lips and speak to our hearts. Lord, I pray that any This morning, that know you, those of us that know you, that our faith in you would take a step up. Our walk with you would take a step up this morning, decisions we make. Lord, some maybe of us have gotten cold, a little indifferent, just kind of going through the motions. Lord, I pray you'd renew that fire in our heart and soul, our love for you, and our desire to live for you and please you Father, maybe there's some here this morning that are away from you. Sin has crept in, and uh the uh the world has come between you and their hearts and soul. I pray that this morning there would be restoration. I pray there would be conviction, a returning back to the Lord, like that old prodigal son. And I pray, Lord, that all of us would leave here more in love with you and walking closer with you. Lord, if there's any unsaved, with all my heart, I pray. That they would trust Jesus Christ as Savior and be complete in Christ, as the song was sung. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The New Testament Church, and we go back to the Book of Acts and we see the New Testament Church in action And that that church, that early church that we are the offspring of, so to speak, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, we are the descendants, church-wise, of this church we're reading about here in the book of Acts. That church, back in the New Testament, was born in persecution. It was born in adversity right from the start. Jesus Christ, of course, is the founder of the church. He is the head of the church, we're told in Colossians and other places. He's the head. Jesus Christ faced intense persecution, right or wrong. I mean, right from his birth, Herod turned on, Herod heard of the birth of this Messiah, the Savior, the King of the Jews. We know the Christmas story. And he was immediately felt threatened by this infant child. And so he put out the command to slaughter all the children, two years old and under. Because he viewed that as a threat, trying to kill the Lord Jesus before he's even out of his toddlers They fled to Egypt, avoided that. God's led them down there, avoided Herod's persecution, his slaughter. Of course, then Jesus at 30 years old begins his public ministry, and he's not into it but a few weeks, and the Jews start turning on him, the religious leaders. And uh all through his ministry they sought to destroy him. Uh ways destroy him. I read in my devotions this morning in John, where they sought to destroy him. This is the head of the church. This is the founder. of our church, the Lord Jesus Christ. Of course they ultimately rejected him. Israel rejected him They convinced the government authorities to crucify him, and we know the story, the bloody, violent persecution and crucifixion of Jesus Christ, buried him dead. But they couldn't keep him dead. And he rose up. In a few weeks we'll celebrate in a special way the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. So the very founder of the church, the head of the church, the Lord Jesus Christ. Face persecution, intense persecution, intense hostility, hatred by the Jews And then we get to the book of Acts and chapter 2, the day of Pentecost, the Holy Spirit comes upon the church and they explode on the sea. And it is not long till those same authorities The same powers and forces that sought to destroy the Lord Jesus Christ, they turned their focus and their guns, so to speak, on that New Testament church. And the persecution is hot right from the start. The religious leaders of Israel immediately turned on the church. And um and then eventually as time goes by the government gets in on that persecution and the Roman government turns on the church and begins to uh uh detain, imprison, beat And eventually kill many of the leadership within the church. Of course, the Apostle Paul, before he was saved, was murdering Christians, both men and women Throwing them in prison, binding them up. And the church was persecuted. And all through the history Of God's people, all through the history of the church, from those early days in the book of Acts till today, 2025, the church has faced re uh severe persecution. Both by religious leaders, religions of the world have turned on biblical Christianity. Now, there's a lot of organizations and there's a lot of uh uh groups but that would identify themselves as Christian. But I'm here to tell you this morning, not everything that calls itself a Christian is a Christian And not all every organization that takes the name Christian is genuinely biblical Christian in what it is. And the fact of the matter is there are a lot of forces, a lot of uh groups and religious movements that have taken the name Christian, but nevertheless have turned on biblical Christianity. And turn on the church, the true biblical church. And so what I'm trying to say is this persecution is nothing new to the church. Our founder, our Lord, our Savior, our God and King, the head of our church faced intense persecution even to the point of crucifixion. And then the church is established, and uh they join in and experience the same thing the Lord Jesus Christ experienced all through history. The church has been persecuted, imprisoned, and even martyred by religions and by government Now always, whenever we're talking about this, I always feel a bit obligated to point out the fact that the church here in America, though we have faced persecution, if you read the early days of our country Bible believers were persecuted. There were Baptist preachers thrown in prison because they would not get the state license. In Massachusetts, uh churches, if they were not part of the state church. As they tried to institute that here in America, like it was in England, they tried to institute that. Some of our forefathers were thrown in prison, beaten publicly And so we've experienced a bit of that. Now, praise the Lord. That corrected itself. And under our Constitution, we have experienced tremendous liberty and freedom as Christians. Amen or not? And we thank God for that. But the point I'm trying to make is this. That is the exception, it's not the rule And the history has been, the church has been hated by this world and hounded by this world intensely and to this day in other parts of our on our planet Uh there are Christians, brothers and sisters in Christ, believe what you and I do, that are being severely persecuted, even martyred for their faith. And so the church was born in Hostility and persecution. Nevertheless, as we study the book of Acts and some of church history, look at church history, we notice two things that characterize the church In the midst of this intense hatred, in the midst of this violent opposition, persecution to believers Two things stand out about the church. One is the preaching of the gospel In spite of the persecution, in spite of the opposition, the church stood up and preached the gospel. And the other thing we notice, and I elaborate on it, is the persecution of the church. So the New Testament church Two things characterize. Number one, the preaching of the gospel, number two, persecution by the world. And so do you get my point in the introduction here? The church was persecuted. Always has, is now, and will be till the Lord comes back. Hated by the world. Jesus said it would be that way. Here in Acts chapter 4 We read about the very first open persecution of the church. In Acts chapter 2, the Spirit of God came upon. The apostles and the believers and they spake the word of God with boldness. Three thousand people get saved and baptized in one day. Boy, wouldn't that be a big day I got thinking about this one time years ago. If we had 3,000 people saved and baptized in one day, how would we do it and where would we go? We'd have to go to Deep Creek Lake, fill that whole thing up. And have 25 people baptizing. We'll try that someday. Wouldn't that be something? And so in Acts chapter 4, the church has just exploded on the scene. They have the power of God on them in an amazing way. And right off the bat, persecution begins. Right from the start. And so in chapter 4 we have this persecution is debuting. It's starting And it escalates as you go through the book of Acts, and then throughout history, that persecution just escalates in intensity and in bitterness. But look with me, if you would, at verse number two of chapter four. And verse one: as they spake unto the people, the priest and the captain of the temple and the Sadducees came upon them. Look at this. Verse 2. Being grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead. It wasn't that they were being criminal. They weren't robbing people. They weren't being unconscious. They were simply preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. And the religious leaders were grieved by that. Come down if you would to verse number 18. And uh it says, and they called them the disciples, John and Peter and John and the others. They called them and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus. Commanded them I put in the margin of my Bible, that's Satan's great commission. Huh? What's our great commission? Go into all the world and what? Preach the gospel. Satan's great commission is, don't you preach that gospel. Don't you preach in the name of Jesus. And so they threaten them. And they command them, you're not to preach in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Then come down if you would. Notice verse 21. This is escalating. First, they're grieved. By it. Now they're commanding them, don't you do this. Look at verse 21. So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding nothing how they might punish them, because the people For all men glorified God for that which was done. Now they're threatening them. You keep doing this, you keep this up You're going to pay a heavy price, and then we get into chapter 5, 6, 7, and on through the book, and that just escalates to actually actual imprisonment, actual violent abeatings And martyrdom of James and others, Philip and others. And so, or Stephen I should say, and so persecution. Acts chapter 4, it's just starting. It's just the breezes of persecution are blowing, and the church is facing it. Now, here's what I get out of this. Not only did the church survive is everybody with me? You with me this morning? Not only did the church survive that persecution. Oh, we survived that. Not only did they survive it, that New Testament church would thrive. In that persecution. I mean, the hotter, the hotter the fires of persecution The bolder the church became in teaching and preaching the Lord Jesus Christ. Rather than stifling the fire Rather than quenching their zeal for reaching people with the gospel and proclaiming the name of Jesus Christ, rather than quenching that and and uh uh uh um uh squashing that Man, it just ignited it. And the more they persecuted them, the bolder they became. Um The church not only survived intense persecution, but thrived in it. And by the way, for over 2,000 years, the church has thrived in spite of persecution. This early church turned the Middle East like a wildfire, turned that Middle East upside down for the Lord Jesus Christ. They went everywhere preaching the gospel, starting churches, seeing souls saved, lives changed, drunkards becoming sober. harlots becoming pure, fornicators becoming pure, liars becoming honest. I mean lives are supernaturally transformed by the power of the gospel. And we see that all through the Middle East. And then they invade up into Europe as time goes by. And all through Europe, the gospel is preached up into England. And then from there out around the world. The gospel. So, in spite of persecution, in spite of hatred and opposition, the church was on fire for God. I put this down. I am convinced That it is possible for a believer not only to survive when people oppose us, but we can thrive for the Lord. Our faith can be strong and alive. We can have, hey, I want to tell you this morning. I hope you get this. We can have personal victory in our walk with God, regardless of how this world treats us. We don't have to be beat down and woe is me and nobody loves me, everybody hates me, I'm gonna go eat worms. We don't have to have that mentality. In spite of that, we can have victory. We can thrive in the midst of a world that hates us and is opposed to us. We can make a difference in this old world I hear people say I had a preacher years ago tell me he was in a different state and he had been there for a long time and um the at one time the church was booming and they were seeing people saved and they had a effective ministry and witness in their community. He had been there a long time and some of that fire had gone out and they had taken some heat and some opposition from the community And things began to get colder. He made this statement to me. This was later in his ministry. He made this statement to me. He says, nobody in our community will get saved anymore. Nobody in our community is open to the gospel. Now I was a young preacher and I wasn't going to correct this older man. I listened to what he said. I didn't totally buy it Wasn't long. He had moved on and resigned and moved on somewhere else. And another preacher came in, a younger fellow. I was on fire for God. And you know what happened That church caught fire again, they started winning souls, they started seeing people saved, they started seeing lives change, they started seeing The miracles of God transforming lives of the people of that community there. And I'm here to tell you, a church can be on fire for God. In spite of what uh the world may say or think. And uh we see that uh a church uh and a Christian can survive, can thrive in the midst of this whole wicked world Uh our young people, I thank God for our young people. Aren't our young people blessing this church? I thank God for 'em singing and helping and doing things. And uh what a blessing our young people are. And I'm here, I am absolutely convinced, there is no doubt in my mind, that a young person can be in a school and maybe The spiritually, the atmosphere of that school may be hostile. Right? May be antagonistic to their faith from the leadership down. And I'm not trying to diss on anything I'm not trying to do anything. I'm simply saying this. A Christian, young person, can be on fire for God and make a difference even in a school where maybe they're in the minority And I thank God we have young people doing that, some of our young people winning people to Christ, establishing a testimony among their peers that I'm a disciple of Jesus Christ. And that is possible. That is possible. On the workplace, some of our fellows, you work in environments where there's hostility to your faith. And you're mocked and ridiculed. I know what that's like. I worked in that meat packing plant, brother. There was three of the believers there. It's about thirty-five, forty people on the floor. Uh we where we worked and um about three of us knew the Lord and they called us the God Squad. And I'm telling you one guy, Bob, his name is Bob, he threatened me one day. He said, I'm gonna beat and he used language I would never use, and I'm gonna take care of you, Leatherman, after work. I said, what I do? Yeah, you're a Christian, yeah It just ate at them that God changed my life. And so being the brave person I was, I hid in the I I waited in the locker room until everybody was gone. Then I went out And I took care of 'em, I'll tell you that. How many people want to know what happened? Two people. All right. Well, come back next But I went out and he was there and he calmed down and never did anything. But what I'm trying to say is this it's possible to live for God and not only live for God but have a powerful influence even in an environment Maybe a work environment where people antagonistic. Are you follow- you follow what I'm saying? Maybe in a home, you may be the only believer in your family. You may be the only disciple of Christ in your family, and they may give you a hard time and ridicule your faith and try and beat you down and discourage you. I'm telling you, study the book of Acts You can be alive and thrive even in a home that is antagonistic to your faith. And so we see that here. And these people, the i the persecution is beginning and it's going to intensify. And I noticed in verse 13, I said all that to get to this point I notice in verse 13 the enemies of the church, the enemies of Christ, noticed something about these believers that were making a difference. That were on fire for God, that were having an impact on their community and and and uh and their so their people around them. And they noticed something about them. Did you catch that at the end of verse 13? They had been with Jesus. And my question this morning is this, have you been with Jesus? Have you been with Jesus? I have two th two points I notice, two observations about Peter and John and the disciples here in this situation. Number one They had a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. They had a personal relationship with a living Savior, Jesus Christ. Look there in verse 13, it says, And when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, that word boldness means confidence. It means fearlessness. It means courage. One thing that stood out about these believers that were having an impact on the people's lives around them, seeing God do miraculous things in the lives of people around them. One thing that stood out, the first thing they noticed was these fellas were bold. They were fearless Courage. These guys had courage. They had confidence. There was nothing timid about their faith, about their witness. Now let me throw this out. I believe we ought to be tactful in our witness, amen. We ought to be tactful I mentioned in Sunday school, if I go up uh I try to get out and knock on doors every day. I was out a little bit yesterday. And I knock on someone's door, they answer the door, I say, Hi, I'm Pastor Latherman, you're on your way to hell, you better repent and get saved right now. Uh how many people agree with me? Probably wouldn't get too far. I need a little bit of what? Tact. We ought to be tactful in our approach. However, we should never be timid. Notice you know the difference? We should never be timid. We ought to be very, very confident when I'm sharing the gospel. We ought to be very, very confident in living for God and standing for the Lord and living by the teachings of that book. We ought not to be timid about that. We ought to be very bold, very confident, very secure, very courageous. In living for God. That's what they noticed about these believers. They said one thing stands out about these guys, they are bold. Man, they're not afraid to speak up for their Lord. They're not afraid to do right when everyone else is doing wrong. They're not afraid to proclaim the name of Jesus Christ when everybody else is ashamed of the name of Jesus Christ. These guys are bold. Then notice what else it says. It says, Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived, that word perceive means to comprehend. They see clearly. Oh, we understand. Uh-oh. They looked, they said, these guys are fearless. These guys are unashamed of their Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And they said, well, we see something about them, we perceive something about them. These guys, look what it says, they perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men. Some about these disciples different than everybody else. These Jews are saying, in effect, they're saying this. We've seen a lot of religious people over the years. We've seen a lot of different people that claim to know God and live for God, but nobody has been like these guys. They're extraordinary. And one thing we notice, they're boldness, but we notice that they are unlearned and ignorant men. Now, I don't know about you, but I find great comfort and encouragement from that statement They're unlearned. That word unlearned means they're uneducated. They had no formal education. They just grew up working with their hands, hard working. How to trade, of course Peter was a fisherman, John was a fisherman, they knew they worked a trade, they knew how to work with their hands. Uh they were just weren't highly educated, weren't had no uh uh uh great education, unlearned. And the word ignorant there means simply they were kind of uh the best way I can uh define that word as I was studying it is kind of like this, just a little bit A little bit hillbilly. Alright. Now no disrespect to hillbillies. I'm married into a hillbilly family from Nicholas County, West Virginia. And I've got to be very, very careful because my bride of 38 years is watching right now. But uh they were. They're just back hills folks that grew up on the land working hard, had some common sense And um and just that. And that's what these guys were. They were just ordinary folks. How many people uh appreciate folks that are just ordinary folks that work hard and have a bit of common sense about them And these these Jews looked at him and said, Good night. Look at the impact these guys are having. Look at the influence they're having on thousands and thousands of people, and miraculous things taking place that we can't explain. Where does this confidence come from? Where does this boldness come from? Well, it's not from their education, because these are unlearned men. It's not from their culture or their sophistication or all their dignity. They didn't have any of that. These are just common folk working with fish, working with boats Got their hands dirty. No doubt their fingers, their hands were stained and uh probably smelled like fish. I don't know. But man, what a difference they made And they they wondered at this. It says they marveled. How in the world does somebody like that have such influence and have such an impact? They spoke with confidence. Their lives had purpose and meaning and direction. They knew who they were. They knew where they were going. We hear this talk today about uh no your identity. My identifies the uh they weren't worried about any of that. They knew who they were. They were God's children and they were called of God to live for him and proclaim the gospel. No questions about their purpose in life. Not educated, not sophisticated, just ordinary folks. If it had been our day and age, it'd probably a coal miner, truck driver, mechanic Maybe it's secretary, farrier, meat cutter, you name it. Just somebody that works, knows God, and is not ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And they marveled. at the impact these people were having. The word marvel there means it has the idea of being confused, a little bit idea of being confused. This doesn't compute. Here's these guys. Look at them. And here's the impact they're having, the change they're making. We marvel, that's confusing. It doesn't sound, doesn't, we can't figure this out. The word marvel also has this idea, and I find this interesting. It has a little bit of the idea of admiration. In other words, there was a little bit, these Jews admired these guys. I believe that these very religious, I mean they had the forms, they had the ceremonies, they had the religious rituals. They went through all the Old Testament. They had the facade outwardly of great religious men. But these fishermen, these unlearned and ignorant men, they had something those old Jews didn't have. They had meaning, they had purpose, and I think they admired what these guys had. I said about working in the meat packing plant and I took I took I took some heat. I tell you, they gave me a rough time. My life was so dramatically transformed. I mean instantly and and these guys it didn't compute And they gave me a hard time. I tell you, I worked there for about a year and a half, about a year, I guess, uh, and then I went to Bible college. And when I left there, uh those guys came up, and I'm telling you, almost to a man, when I was in the locker room getting out of my uniform, getting changed to go home for the last time, almost to a man, those fellows came up to me, they shook my hand. Now they're cussing me out a week or two before. They're calling me all kinds of horrible names, saying awful stuff. And they come up and almost to a man They took the they would shake my hand and they'd say several of them said this, Brother Leon, or they'd say Brother Lemon. And they said, uh, I won't tell you what they said, but they uh they came and said, I wish I had what you have I wish I had some of what you have. One of the guys, I mean a drug drug dealer, he said to me, he says, Leatherman, don't you ever quit. Whatever you've got, you hold on to it. That's something These Jews, they saw these unlearned, ignorant men, they marveled. And I think in the back of their hearts and minds, they were thinking, they've got something I don't have. I'm here to tell you this morning, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, we that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we're not better than the world, but I'm here to tell you we have something this old world does not have We have acceptance by God. We have the presence of the Holy Spirit in us. We have a purpose and a meaning in life that this whole world does not have. We have a joy that only comes from God that is in us and available to us. This world does not have. And they marveled. They said, oh, we can't figure this out. And there was a little bit of admiration there. These guys did not fit the mold. Something was different about him. I was mentioned about what God did in my life, and please excuse the personal illustrations this morning, but it's so real to me. I was talking this week as I was working on this message and I bounced things off my wife sometimes and when I was studying this and these guys, unlearned, ignorant men and these guys are marveling at them, my my mind went back I was saved in May of 79. That fall, every fall, we were my dad and I uh were members of a hunting club up in Tyoga, Pennsylvania, if anybody's familiar, North Central Bob Williams port up in that area. We're members of a hunting club up there and we'd go deer hunting, usually a week, sometimes a week and a half or two. Been gone up there since I was able to hunt. We went up there. I got saved in May. My life was dramatically transformed. That December, Thanksgiving, we would go up the Saturday after Thanksgiving, we go up there into the cabin. There's about 30 guys in that hunting club, maybe a few more. Some of the guys just go there and sit around. They didn't really hunt. They just came. And there was a lady, my dad's cousin's wife. And she would come up and cook for us. She did all the cooking. And um so we'd be out hunting, she'd be there cooking. It wasn't but a day or two into that week of hunting, my dad told me this later. She came to my dad, and I can't remember her first name to save my life. I remember her husband, and then but this, but she came to my dad. And she pulled my dad aside and she said, my dad told me this later, she said, What in the world has gotten into Denny? That's me. Denny was me. What in the world has got into him? She said this. It's like he's a completely different person. My dad, he starts crying. If you knew my dad, he says, Jesus got into him. God saved him. God changed his life. And that's the difference. And I'm here to tell you, that's how these guys are looking. The Jews are looking at these disciples, and they're like, what in the world is in these guys? What is it about them that gives them such boldness, such confidence, such purpose, such substance to their life? And the answer is, Jesus got into them. They had been with Jesus. They had a personal relationship. With the Lord Jesus Christ. Biblical Christianity is not religions and ceremonies and rituals. Biblical Christianity is a relationship with a living Savior. Jesus Christ alive. A relationship. And these guys had a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. They took knowledge that they had been with Jesus. They had a personal relationship with Jesus. The difference between a believer that like these guys and a person of the world, regardless of how religious they may be The difference is the presence of Jesus Christ in the life of the believer. I say it often, we're no better than the unsaved world, but we're not the same as the unsaved world. We have something the world does not have. As a believer in Jesus Christ, I've got Jesus Christ in my life. I have a relationship with a God that created this world that is alive. And he interacts in my life, and he walks with me and he talks with me and he tells me I'm his own. They had a relationship with Jesus Christ. Christianity is not just doctrine or teaching. It is something supernatural that takes place in the part of a person that trusts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Can I get away? Does anybody know what I'm talking about? A supernatural thing that God does in my life when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior. A relationship with Him. Um, they took note that they had been with Jesus. The world doesn't understand that. We try to explain, and the world doesn't understand it, and they because they don't understand it, they reject it. Because they don't understand it, they persecuted. They didn't understand Jesus Christ. He tried to tell them How many times would he say to them, he says, uh don't you I'm putting my own words, but he would say something to this effect, don't you hear what I'm saying? Don't you see who I am? Why don't you understand what I'm telling you? Why? They didn't understand it and they rejected it. And because they didn't understand it, they persecuted. Listen, this whole world out there, these people that give us a hard time, they're no greater sinners than you and I are. We're just as big a sinners as they are Amen. We got to watch out for that holier than thou attitude. I'm just as big a sinner as the sodomite that sends me hateful emails. No we're just as much sinners. But I think the whole world doesn't understand what God has done for us, therefore they reject it. And they persecute. Are you with me? And so they looked at them. And these guys are ignorant, unlearned men. What in the world? What causes this? Ah. They've been with Jesus. They had a personal relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. This relationship with Jesus Christ begins the moment I trust Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. That moment I humble myself before God, I acknowledge to Him that I am a sinner under His judgment and wrath And I looked to Christ, what he did on that cross, and he suffered the judgment of my sins for me. He paid my price for my sin and my place was buried and rose again And I accept that by faith. I said, Yes, Lord, I receive what you've done for me. I'm trusting, I'm depending on you. And God forgives me, and a relationship with Him is established. Are you with me? They'd been with Jesus. They knew Jesus Christ. They had a relationship with him. And that relationship develops as I spend time with the Lord. I accept him as my Savior, and that relationship is established, and then that relationship begins to grow and develop. As I spend time with him and I I come to him on a regular basis, daily, and read his word, and he speaks to me, and he and he and he and he speaks to my heart and he shows me about himself in his word And then I pour my heart out to him and I tell him what I'm struggling with and what my needs are and I love him and I want to live for him, what my desires I pour it out to God. And we interact with each other In a very real way. Anyone know what I'm talking about this morning? What a precious thing that is. And that relationship grows and gets stronger And then the church is designed by God. The church by its very design is intended to help foster and develop and strengthen that relationship so we can be a witness for him. And so as I grow in my walk with the Lord, my prayer, my spend time with the Lord, I spend time with God's people in the church. That relationship develops and grows and gets stronger. And so they've been with Jesus. They've been with Jesus. As that relationship grows, God gives me power to live for Him, to conquer sin, to have an influence on this world. They'd been with Jesus. So they looked at Him and said, What in the world, these guys, the boldness They're fearless. They're unintimidated. They're unlearned, ignorant men. What in the world? Ah, they've been with Jesus. They had a personal relationship with the creator of this universe. They knew the Lord Jesus Christ, their personal Savior. But I want to suggest to you there's a second reason. I'll give it real quickly and we'll quit. That they had boldness, they had confidence, fearless. But the gospel, first of all, they had a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. Number two, they were filled with the Holy Spirit. Look with me, if you would, at verse number eight. Verse 8, then Peter, look at this, filled with the Holy Spirit. Filled with the Holy Spirit. Over and over and over through the book of Acts, we find that statement repeated. Filled with the Holy Spirit. They were filled with the Holy Spirit. They were filled with the Holy Spirit. Come over to verse number 29 of chapter 4. Are you with me? Verse 29 of chapter 4. And now, Lord, behold their threatenings, here it is, the persecution, the church is praying, and grant unto thy servants that with all boldness we may speak thy word. A little later on, the church wants boldness. They want, Peter and John had it there. The Jews noticed it. Church is saying, Lord, give us more of that boldness. Now look at verse 31 And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together. Look at this. And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness. I'm telling you, the filling of the Holy Spirit will give us boldness in our life, give us confidence and courage. I believe the filling of the Holy Spirit is vital for spiritual victory, for spiritual development, and for power to serve. The filling of the Holy Spirit. Um, here's the thing. I'm afraid. I'm afraid in a lot of our circles. I can't speak for other churches, but uh I mean within our independent Baptist churches and other Bible believing churches, I'm afraid the filling of the Holy Spirit is not given the attention it ought to have. We talk about it a little bit, we have some songs, we sing about it, but I wonder how many of us, as believers, those of us who are saved, I wonder how many of us on a regular basis, on a daily basis, Seek the filling of the Holy Spirit. I'd venture to say your average Christian gives it little or no thought I'd venture to say your average Christian gets up, goes through their day, and never gives thought to the fact that the Holy Spirit of God indwells my body and wants to fill me and empower me to live for him like I should Now there's a lot of misunderstanding about the Holy Spirit. There's a lot of false teaching out there about the Holy Spirit. But I simply tell you this: the moment a person gets saved, the Holy Spirit of God moves into their body. It's called the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. If you're saved, you do not have to ask God to give you the Holy Spirit. You have the Holy Spirit. If you're saved, how many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. Alright, if that's the case, then you're indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Whether you realize it or not, it's true. Every time you see a saved person, you see a temple of the Holy Spirit So we have the Holy Spirit in us. The filling of the Holy Spirit is when I die to self-yield myself to the Lord, and the Lord empowers me. To live for him, and I can have victory over sin. I can speak confidently and boldly in whatever my environment may be For regardless of how hostile my environment may be, I can live confidently and boldly for the Lord Jesus Christ and speak the word of God in confidence, not hatefulness, not harsh. In compassion, but in confidence, because the Holy Spirit of God empowers me to do that. Anybody here ever been in a situation where you were you were a little intimidated And you think, boy, I wish I I wish that had spoken up for the Lord. There anybody know what I'm talking about? My hands raised. Good heavens. You know what? We have within us the Holy Spirit of God, and we can yield to that Holy Spirit, and He can give us that confidence, He can give us that boldness That we need and we want to live for the Lord and make a difference in this world. Do you believe with me that our community needs the gospel of Jesus Christ? Do you believe our nation needs the gospel of Jesus Christ? Our world? Listen, you and I are the only messengers of the gospel in this world. Nobody else is going to do it. Believers, we're it. Government's not going to do it. They're not designed to do it. Social clubs aren't going to do it. It's the church's responsibility, believers that make up the church. And we need the filling and the power of the Holy Spirit. Don't respond to this question publicly, outwardly, but in your heart. You find sin defeating you? You find sin it just whips me every time. I'm here to tell you, you and I have within our bodies The Holy Spirit of God, and the Holy Spirit can give us victory over sin. I'm not suggesting we'll be sinless. We're going to battle this our whole lives, but I am saying this We have the presence of God and the person of the Holy Spirit that can and will enable us, if we'll trust Him, to beat that thing and lick that thing. We got people in our church got saved. Maybe they used to smoke cigarettes or whatever. And they fought that and fought that and fought that. I'm thinking of a person in another church, a family member fought that and fought that And finally come and say, God, I can't lick this thing. I need you to do it. And the Holy Spirit of God empowered them, and they were able to have victory over that. And that's just one example. You just name it. I'm here to tell you there's not a sin the devil can come up with that the Holy Spirit of God cannot give victory over. I believe that. And so they looked at these guys and said, Good night of boldness They're uneducated, they're ignorant. But they've been with Jesus. They had a personal relationship with the God of creation. And they had the filling of the Holy Spirit. They were filled With the Holy Spirit. Not everybody, not every believer is filled with the Holy Spirit. Every believer has the Holy Spirit. But not every believer is filled with the Holy Spirit, but they can be. And we meet those conditions. We humble ourselves, the Lord. Turn from we we repent of any sin there and we come and say, Lord, I want you to take me and fill me with your spirit. I believe one of the prayers I pray the most, and I'm being completely honest here If I'm ever completely honest, I'll point it out to you. But seriously, one of the things I pray the most is God fill me with your Spirit. Every morning I'm my devotion time. Part of my devotion time is ask the Lord, fill me with your Spirit. Lead me today. Help me to be sensitive. to your Holy Spirit's leading. Help me be submissive to your Holy Spirit as He leads me. God, help me be steadfast in this and walk in the Spirit throughout the day that you can lead me and help me and direct me And I believe that's the key to these guys having such an influence. That's the key to the church having such an influence over the years. I think the great need for 2025 is for churches and believers to be filled with the Holy Spirit. You say, you mean mean preacher, I'm not a Sunday school teacher. I'm not, I'm just a I'm just a guy. I'm just a gal trying to work a job and do right Yeah, I'm telling you, you can and should be filled with the Holy Spirit. No matter what your role in life is, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, you have a heavenly mandate to be a witness for Him And the power of the Holy Spirit is necessary if I'm going to be that witness He wants me to be. Regardless of what my station is. I'm a preacher, you whatever you are. You know Christ. That's our mandate. To represent ambassadors of Jesus Christ in this world. And we need the power of the Holy Spirit to do that. And that's what these guys did. They had a personal relationship. They knew Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. They maintained that and they were filled with the Holy Spirit. D. L. Moody, I think, is one of the closest evangelists in recent centuries. About as close a ministry as the disciples as you can get. Millions of people saved under the ministry of D. L. Moody. Now he was 150 years ago, so we don't hear a whole lot about him, but I'm telling you, you study his life, it was Miraculous what God did through that man. He was speaking to a large audience one time, D. L. Moody. He held up a glass, and I don't have a glass here. He held up a glass And he says, let me ask you a question, how can I get the air out of this glass? One man shouted out, suck it out with a vacuum pump! Luder replied, that would create a vacuum, it would shatter the glass, wouldn't work. Other people yelled out ways he could get all the air out of that glass. Finally, after a bit, the Almoodi set the glass down, he reached down, he got a pitcher of water, and he filled the glass up with water. And he said, There, all the air is now removed. And he went on to explain his point that in the Christian life we cannot suck the sin and unbelief and worldliness out of our lives on our own But what we need is the Holy Spirit to fill us and push all of that out for us. Man, we're fighting, we're struggling, oh, I want to be good, I want to do right, I want to be And what we really need to do is just die to self. Paul put it this way, for I am crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I. But Christ liveth in me. And the life which I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. You know what Paul was saying? He was saying, I just died a self, it's not me. It's all the Lord. The presence and power of the Holy Spirit, He fills me and uses me. That's what we need. That's what these guys had in Acts The filling of the Holy Spirit. D. L. Moody said another time, and I'll end, but he said this: I believe firmly that the moment our hearts are emptied of pride and selfishness Emptied of ambition and everything that is contrary to God's law, the Holy Spirit of God will fill every corner of our hearts. But if we are full of pride and conceit and ambition and the world, there is no room for the Spirit of God. We must be emptied before we can be filled. Isn't that something? I think maybe some of us need to just get on our knees before God and say, God, I want to be emptied of myself. No longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. How did John the Baptist put it? He must increase, but I must Decrease. Less of me, more of him. And the Spirit of God fills in and empowers us, gives us victory, uses us to make a difference in this whole world. Difference in this old world. My prayer this morning, my prayer for this message is that God will put in your heart and my heart a desire. To be filled with the Spirit of God. To have His hand and His power upon my life as a father, as a mother, as a young person, as a worker in the world or a Sunny school, whatever. My prayer is that God will put that desire. I have that desire to walk with the Lord on a daily basis, to let Him speak to me. On a daily basis, a desire, God speak to me, a desire to talk to the Lord and bring my family, my ministry, my needs up to Him, and have that relationship with Him That's what we need, and that's what I'm praying God will do this morning. A personal relationship and the filling of the Holy Spirit. Let's pray to God there. Father in heaven, I do ask that your Holy Spirit would move across our church. In every pew, in every seat, every individual here this morning, that you would put a desire in our heart to walk with you on a daily basis. Lord, something from heaven to stir us. To walk with you and put away pride and ambition and self. Just say, Lord, have your way in my life. Fill me with your Spirit. Lead me and direct me and use me. And I believe we can make a difference in this whole world, in our family. Father, I ask you to bless. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I wonder how many would say, Preacher, I want that. I need to give attention to my relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ. I know him as Savior. But I need to give attention to that daily walk with him. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, pray with me. Reading, letting him speak to my heart and pouring my heart out to him. On a daily basis, God bless you, hands all around. I wonder if there's some say, Preacher, I don't have that but I sure want it And it seems like I struggle with that, and I just have a hard time. And maybe this morning say, preacher, pray with me that God, I want it, but I just can't seem to get that in place. And maybe this is a little redundant question, but I wonder if there'd be some like that. Preacher, pray with me. And I I really want that. Any like that? God bless you. How about this matter being filled with the Holy Spirit? I venture to say many of us never gave it a thought. The fact of the matter is we have the Spirit in us. If we know the Lord as Savior, we have the Holy Spirit. And he wants to empower us and fill us. I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I have that desire to be filled with the Spirit on a regular basis, and Him lead me into any like that by the uplifted hand. How about it, Mom, Dad, young person? I want God to fill me, empower me, and want Him to have His way. Maybe we need to die to some stuff. Maybe we need to empty ourselves of ourselves and let the Lord have His way. Is there something this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved I don't know for sure when I die I go to heaven, I don't want to go to hell. And I want to know that God has accepted me and God has forgiven me Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me that I can get that settled and I can have that peace in my heart, that I know Christ is my personal Savior. Any at all? Father, bless now our invitation. I ask, have your way in Jesus' name. Let's stand together hands.