11. I'd like for us to read together just one verse, verse 11. I'd like for us um uh verse twenty-two, I'm sorry, Mark 11, chapter eleven, verse twenty-two I'd like for us to just to read that verse together out loud, if you would. Got it there. Ready? Ready, here we go. And Jesus answering saith unto them, have faith in God. And that's my message this morning. Have faith in God. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless our time in your word. I pray you'd speak to our hearts. I pray you'd challenge us Wherever we're at spiritually, I pray you'd challenge us to go forward, go upward. I ask that you would uh convict us where we need conviction, Lord, if there's something that's Out of tune, some sin maybe has crept in. Help us, Lord, not to ignore that. Help us to face it, deal with it, confess it, forsake it. Lord, maybe there's some discouragement, and so help us come to you, trust you, to help lift us up there in that matter. Maybe some of us need direction. Maybe just some of us need to be cheered on a little bit. And so whatever our needs are, I pray that you would use your word, the truth of your word To help meet that need and help our church grow spiritually. And we pray for revival as always. I yield my will to you. Father, I present my body anew with all my heart. I plead with you, fill me with your Spirit. And God, please speak through me this morning to each heart and life. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I think our Lord here in our text passage Pastor Matt read a bit ago. I think our Lord is discussing one of his favorite subjects. And that is simply this. Have faith in God. For three and a half years, Jesus took these disciples in under his wing. Twelve of his disciples took them in under his wing, and he invested 24-7 for three and a half years. He invested in these young men, that's really what they were, and tried to teach them to have faith in God. And he these fellas needed to get a hold of this. That they needed to trust God. And if you study the Gospels, you go through the Gospels, you have all these different scenarios where He's teaching them. They go through storms. And they get all scared and worried, which is natural reaction. And he rebukes them. He says, Where's your faith? Where's your faith? He heals the sick and they're amazed. And he says it's faith in God. Faith in God. I'm convinced this is one of the Lord's favorite topics to speak on. And like I said, he invested so much time and effort in training these men to have faith in God, to walk by faith. He gave his highest praise, if you'll study the gospels, he gave his highest praise to those who exercised faith in him. Maybe it's just a dear widow lady that has a trial and she trusts the Lord. Maybe some lady that has some ailment and she comes and touches the hem of the Lord's garment and she's healed by faith. And the Lord recognizes that and he compliments that and he praises that. The Lord's highest praises all through the Gospels were on men and women, young and old. To learn to have faith in God, exercise faith in God. However, his strongest criticism, his sharpest rebukes were on those m usually his disciples, in fact, almost without exception, his disciples, when they did not trust him When they did not put their faith in him, when they leaned on their own understanding and they allowed fear to take over, and he'd rebuke him, he'd say, Where is your faith? In fact, several times it says he rebuked them and said, Where's your faith? Where's your faith? Have faith in God. Faith in God is absolutely necessary if I'm going to live a victorious Christian life. If you look through Scripture, God's greatest servants The greatest men and women of God in Scripture were men and women who trusted the Lord with all their heart, who had faith in God. I look back over my years as a Christian and the people that have influenced me And some of the most godly ladies I've known in my life, some of the most godly ladies I've known in my life have been ladies who learn to trust God. But their faith in God. Some of the most godly men that have influenced my life were men who learned to trust God, have faith in God. Not necessarily great Christians Aren't necessarily people with great talents. I thank God for talented Christians. I thank God we have people in our church who have tremendous gifts, are gifted tremendously in various ways. Music. Speaking, teaching, we have some tremendous teachers. I thank God for that. And others that can just do anything, it seems like But it is not great talent that makes a person a great Christian. It is great faith in God. That makes a Christian a person a great Christian. Faith in God. It's not great intellect. And uh I mean we have folks in our church that have uh that are uh that are smart. I mean they're brains, they're Einsteins, they're brilliant. We have some folks in our church that aren't. And um This is a time when you don't name names, you know what I'm saying? No, I'm joking But intellect is not what determines the quality of my Christianity. It's my faith in God. My faith in God. Jesus would say, Oh, ye have little faith. He'd say, Where is your faith? Have ye no faith? And then when someone did exercise faith, he would say, I've never seen such faith in all of Israel. He'd recognize it. He'd honor it. Being a victorious Christian, being a strong Christian is not necessarily having great personality And I've prayed for years. God would I think one of my gr biggest liabilities is a lame personality And we you know, I prayed for years, God help me have a better personality. I think I look good, but uh other other areas um And personality is great, and thank God you if you thank God for folks who have a great personality. It's a blessing to be around them. But that's not what makes a great Christian. You can be the most popular person in church and be a sorry Christian, right or wrong. It's faith in God. It's coming and learning to trust God, to have faith in Him. Faith in God is what makes us strong in the Lord. Taking God at His Word, what He says, trusting Him through the storms of light. So faith in God is absolutely essential to live a victorious Christian life. You've got to learn to trust God Faith in God is absolutely necessary to effectively serve God. When the disciples, for the three and a half years that they're being trained by the Lord and the Lord's mentoring them, And he's teaching them how to have faith, and he's showing them what faith in God can do, and he corrects them when they fail to have faith. And he displays the power of God through faith. And for three and a half years, they finally get a hold of this. And you read the book of Acts, and God absolutely turns the world upside down through these fellas Who learn to trust God. Learn to trust God. Souls would be saved. Lives to be changed. In various, in numerous cases, people were healed And they would come to the disciples and they would praise the disciples and they'd exalt the disciples and they would say that. And without exception, the disciples always rebuked those that came and praised them. And they said, Oh, no, no, no, it's not our holiness. It's not our own goodness that's done this. It's the name of Jesus Christ that has done this. And what they were doing was saying, listen, it's faith in Christ, it's faith in Christ. It's not our Talents, it's not our own righteousness, it's not our own abilities, it's not our gifts, it's not our personalities. God responds to faith And if we're going to have an impact on this world, if we're going to have an impact on Garrett County, surrounding areas, which I believe is our home mission field for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church if we're going to see souls saved and make a difference in homes and lives. We've got to learn to trust God. We've got to learn to have faith in God. If you would, you're in Mark here. If you would, come back to chapter two with me. I just want to Show you a little incident that took place early in the ministry of our Lord. And he's traveling, of course, as he does all through the gospels, preaching in different towns and cities. And he comes into Capernaum, verse number one of Mark chapter 2, after some days, and it was noise that he was in the house. So his popularity is booming. Folks are coming from all over the region to see the Lord, hear him, see him perform miracles, have miracles performed on them. And verse 2, and straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door. I mean this place is packed out. Um this place is packed like a wild game dinner You know, I mean it's jammed. There's no more room. There's people they say we can't fit any more in. There's no more room in here There was no room to receive them, no, not so much as the door. And he preached the word unto them. So wanting them to take God at His Word. They want to know what God has to say, and He wants them to trust God. What he says is so. And they came, and they come to uh verse five uh verse three, and they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was born of four. So they bring this fella, he has palsy, can't walk, he's a restricted type of paralysis. They're bringing him on a cot, these poor guys, they want to get him to Jesus Verse 4, and when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, for the crowd there, look at this. They uncovered the roof where he was. And when they had broken it up, would you agree that's a little unconventional? Tearing the roof up They let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay. How many people would like to have seen that? I'm wondering how they let that bed down. Doesn't say anything about ropes or anything that I can see. I don't know if they carried ropes with them or but somehow they got this guy's on a cot. There's four of them, they tear a hole in the roof, and they're letting this guy down I don't know how, you know, are all four reaching down and just kind of get them close to the floor as they can and let go? Whoom. I don't know However, they did it, they got this guy into Jesus Christ. They let down the bed wherein the sick to the palsy lay. Now here's what I'm getting at. Look at verse 5. When Jesus saw whose faith, who's the there? These four fellas. These four guys bring in this palsy guy on the cot. He sees their faith. It doesn't say he sees the palsy guy's faith, but he sees their faith. When he saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, thy sins be forgiven thee. Now we have to be careful here. This isn't suggesting that my faith can save someone else's soul. Right? I can't believe on the Lord Jesus Christ for someone else. Your mother and father cannot believe on Jesus Christ for you. You as an individual have to make that decision to trust Christ. Nobody gets to heaven, nobody has access to God on the coattails of someone else. And so it's not saying that this guy got saved. You know, they had some sort of proxy faith for him. But Jesus said it was their faith. Now get this. It was their faith that got this guy into a position where he could believe and be saved himself. And what I'm trying to say is this, if we're going to have an impact on our community, our world Then we have to follow what took place here. It is our faith that's going to make it possible to get the gospel to people who need to hear the gospel. Anyone catch what I'm trying to say? You get what I'm trying to say? If we're gonna reach people if we're gonna see drunkards get saved, if we're gonna see people Drunkers get sober. If we're going to see people come to Christ be born again and have their lives changed, we have got to learn what these guys learn to trust God that what he says he will do, we just get people to him. Just get people to them. Faith in God is absolutely necessary if we're going to see people saved. If we're going to see lives changed. I think our country needs more churches. Now I'm all for getting involved, you know, and making a difference in government and all that. I'm all for it. But I'm telling you, more politicians isn't going to turn this country around. More churches is what's going to need to turn this country around And the churches that are need to get on fire for God. And that requires faith. That requires faith. Bus routes, Sunday school classes, community outreaches, soul winning, door to door. Somebody Somebody gets stirred up and they say, you know, I believe that God can save souls. I believe that God can change lives. I believe God, the gospel, can uh uh change homes. And they believe that And they get stirred up and they go into a community and say, I'm going to get everybody in this community hear the gospel because I'm convinced it can change lives and save souls. That's faith in God. Our missionaries, I thank God for our missionaries. I tell you, they God calls them, God touched their heart, I want you to go. They touch their heart, I want you to start a church. And they believe God. And they have faith that He's going to lead them and direct them and care for them and meet their needs and use them. And they say, Yes, Lord, I'll go. That's faith. Faith is absolutely necessary. I think it's one of the Lord's favorite subjects he taught on three and a half years. He drilled it into his disciples. And faith is absolutely necessary if we're going to make any difference in this world. And this world needs something to make a difference. I think faith in God is absolutely necessary to please God. Hebrews 11:6 says, without faith it is impossible to please God. I think as much as anything, the Lord wants you and I to trust him. Just trust him. I don't know about you, but as a parent, I'm pleased. Especially when they were living at home, they're young, they're grown now, adults, but uh kids growing up, I was pleased when my children trusted me But I know you say something, you tell them, here, trust me. And they trusted me. They had faith in me and they and they responded. I think God is pleased with that. We go through the valleys. And God, in his wisdom and his plans and purposes, and a lot of times We don't understand. God allows us to go through a dark valley. And in that valley, we trust God. And we have faith in Him. That he he has a plan, he has a purpose, that uh he's with me. I think that pleases God. That pleases God We go through valleys and we face trials in life. And yet we trust God. We wait on Him. We endure heartaches. And yet we say, God, I trust you. God, I have faith in you. I think that pleases God. I think that pleases God. All through Scripture, we're instructed to have faith in God. That's the message of the Bible. Have faith in God. We're given examples all through Scripture. We're given examples of what it means to have faith in God. We go down through, we think of Abel And um Cain and Abel, and we're talking about this a little bit in Sunday school, but Abel comes and brings the sacrifice of the lamb, a blood sacrifice. And he trusted that that was what God wanted. That's what they were instructed. He trusted God. And by faith, he brought a more excellent sacrifice. Cain, on the other hand, Cain says, Oh, I'm going to do it my way. I'm going to lean on my rationale. But Abel says, no, I'm going to do what God says. I'm going to have faith in God. I thought about Noah. And uh building this ark. As far as we understand, there had never been rain up to this point. He's building this ark, perhaps unheard of. And yet he trusted God and he did something that in a lot of people's minds made no sense. But he had faith in God. Abraham. The Bible says that Abraham believed God and it was counted to him for righteousness. Abraham's a hundred years old. God says, you're going to have a child. And he believed God. Moses, Moses' parents. Egypt makes a mandate, a decree, all children should be killed, all male babies should be killed. But Moses' parents had faith in God and they built a little ark. Remember the story? And by faith, they placed their little child in there, trusting God, and put it out in the Nile. Of course, Pharaoh's daughter finds that, and God does an amazing thing because of the faith of some parents. David, talk about David's faith facing Goliath. Just a young boy that says, wait a minute, God is greater than Goliath. He goes out and kills the giant. Daniel, the lion's den. Now all through, all through, we go all through scripture, we have these examples. Of what it means to have faith in God. You say, preacher, I want to have faith in God, I'm not sure how. Read your Bible. Study these lives of these great men and these great women. Look, see how they trust to God, emulate their faith. Follow their pattern, follow their example. The Bible says, faith cometh by hearing, and hearing what? By the word of God. By the word of God. All through Scripture, we're told to have faith in God. All through Scripture, we're given examples of having faith in God. What does it mean to have faith in God? You say, all right, preacher, what are you talking about? What does it mean to have faith in God? Having faith in God simply means this: that it means I'm confident in God's wisdom. God is all wise. He is perfect in wisdom. And I trust that. I trust it. It means being confident of God's power. With man, this is impossible, we're told. But with God, all things are possible. That's faith. Confidence in the power of God. Confident in the integrity of God. God will never do anything wrong. God is perfect in integrity. We can trust him. We can trust him. It means having confidence in God's knowledge God is all knowing. God knows the end from the beginning. If you're traveling down a road and Let's go back to ancient history when there wasn't GPS. Do you realize there's young people in our church that never knew what it was like to not have GPS? Poor kids. You're going down the road, you're not sure you where you're going, and you have a couple options. Do I turn here or do I turn there? And you don't know. I don't know where this road ends up. I don't know where this road ends up. And there's some guy standing there, and you pull up and you say, hey, fella, where do these roads go? He says, Well, I've been living here for 74 years. And I traveled these roads, and I tell you this road here will take you down and uh tour there, you'll end up in uh in uh Burgu, West Virginia. You go down this road He said you take this road, you go down there, you'll end up in Frederick, Maryland. Now I've never been at that crossroad in particular. Says, well, I'm wanting to get the Burgu for the men's getaway. He says, well then you take this road. That guy knows where that road ends up, and you trust him. I'm here to tell you, God knows where every road ends up. God knows where every decision leads to. He's all-knowing. He knows the end from the beginning. Would you agree with me? It would be wise to trust someone who knows where that road ends up. God knows. And that's what faith is. God, you know I don't know. In fact, the matter is, you and I don't know for certain what's going to happen tomorrow. We don't know what's going to happen by the end of the day today. But God does. God does. And faith is being confident And God's knowledge of what tomorrow holds in the next week, the next month, and the next year. Faith in God means being absolutely confident in God's love. God's love for me. Say, preacher, if God loves me so much, why do I have a flat tire? Well God's love transcends little difficulties of life. And by the way, little thing like that, let me just say this. This is a good way to look at it, I think. Maybe you having that flat tire may have saved you from something down the road a little ways that'd be a thousand times worse. And God in love disrupted my comfort right now to help me with something down the road. That's faith. Faith in God. Faith in God. It's faith in God's timing. God very seldom has God worked on my schedule. But I found it's that I've never regretted waiting on God's timing. God's timing. Don't you rush. Wait on God. Wait on God. Wait on God. Romans chapter 4, verse 20 says, Abraham staggered. Listen to this. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief. Word stagger there means to be shaken or stumbled. God had promised something that, by all human reasoning, was absolutely impossible. But Abraham staggered not. Through unbelief, but he was strong in his faith, giving glory to God. God, you can do this Being fully persuaded that what he had promised, he was able also to perform. That is faith. It's a conscious decision to believe God and trust Him. Trust Him. Let me give you a few thoughts here, real quick. Number one, faith in Christ saves the sinful soul. You're here this morning or you're under the sound of my voice. You don't know for sure your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. I'm here to tell you, you put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ And you can find uh you'll you'll find he'll save your soul, forgive your sin, give you eternal life, you have a home in heaven. Faith in Christ saves the soul. It is not membership in a church It is not going through the baptistry waters. It is not putting money in an offering plate. It's not paying my bills on time. It's not being a good moral person and all those things are important. All those things ought to be in place. But that's not what saved my soul. It's faith in Christ saves my soul. Say, praise, you say that all the time, and we are going to keep on saying that all the time. For by grace are you saved. Through faith, not of yourselves, it's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For by grace are we saved. By faith, I believe that Jesus Christ took my place as my substitute. He died for my sins. He took responsibility for my sins. God judged him for my sins and my place. Was buried, rose again And faith in what Christ did, and Christ and what he did for me, faith in that, trusting that is what saves my soul In John chapter 3, of course, we're familiar with John 3, 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish but have everlasting life. But let me take you down a verse or two later. Let me just read it to you. Verse 18. Jesus Christ. From his lips he said this. He that believeth on him, that's faith, believeth on him, is not condemned. But he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name the only begotten Son of God. You know what the difference between a condemned person, person condemned by God, and a person that's not condemned? Their faith in Jesus Christ. I put my faith in Jesus Christ, condemnation is gone. Listen, if you would to verse 38 or 30 36 of the same verse. He says, He that believeth on the Son, that's faith. Trusting, but my confidence in the Lord Jesus hath everlasting life. And he that believeth not the Son shall not see life, but the wrath of God abideth on him. The difference is faith. Putting my faith in Christ. I've talked to people over the years, asking my knock on doors, thousands of doors knocked on doors. I ask people, do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven and not to hell? I've heard every answer I think you can come up with. A lot of times people say, oh yeah, I think I would. I believe I'd go to heaven, I'm pretty sure. My next question always is this, well what makes you so sure? What is your confidence? What are you trusting in? What are you basing that assurance upon? Oh, I'm a faithful member. Had a fella out here uh let's see, south of town Older man. I asked, do you know for sure you go to heaven? Absolutely. If anybody's going to heaven, I'm getting there. Older man. I said, well how do you know? You sound awfully confident. What's that confident based on? He said, I've been Sunday school superintendent in my church for 41 years. I had to be honest with the man. Being a Sunday school attendant at a church for 41 years isn't going to save anybody's soul. I showed him it's by faith. By faith, he would not accept it. I had people say, well, I had a lady, this was in Indiana, I think it was, a lady said to me, I said, Do you know for sure? Yeah, I know. I'm going to heaven. How do you know? She goes, I have faith. I said, Alright, what's that faith in? She goes, I just have faith in my faith. I just believe I'm going. No basis for it. No show just I believe. Therefore I believe you can say I I believe I'm a unicorn. That doesn't make you a unicorn. By the way, you can believe you're a lot of things. That doesn't make you what that is. You is what you is, and you ain't what you ain't. Right? And so the basis of our assurance of salvation, like Jennifer saying a little bit ago, the basis of the security of our salvation is not in us, in our church, our works, it's in Jesus Christ. Faith is what saves the sinful soul. Faith in God. Let me give you a second thought. Faith in Christ secures the troubled soul. Troubles are part of life. Troubles can disrupt our life. You're here in Mark, if you would come to chapter 4. And look with me if you would at verse 16. Mark 4. 16. He's talking about these four types of soils. Some of it falls on the wayside, and Satan comes, takes the seed, seeds of the Word of God, the gospel. People don't get saved. Satan just plucks it out of their head. They don't. And then he says in verse 16, he says, and these are they likewise which were sown on stony ground. And he's explaining to the disciples what he means. Who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness. Now look at this. But have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time. Afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth for the word's sake, immediately they are what? They're offended. No faith. No faith. The word offended means to distumble, to distrust, to desert, walk away from. It's an absence of faith. Job knew what troubles were, right? Job understood what it was to be heartbroken. Job understood what it was to be hurt, confused. Listen to what Job said. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. That's faith. I trust God. Paul knew what troubles were. He was persecuted intensely. And yet, listen to what Paul said. I know whom I have believed. And am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day. Paul was confident that God was who he said he was and would do what he promised to do. Paul had great faith. Later on, Paul said this: nothing shall separate us from the love of God. He said, All things work together for good to them that love God, who are the called according to his purpose. Faith. He said, none of these things move me. They'll persecute me, they'll throw me in prison, they'll beat me. But none of these things move me. My faith is in God. Not going to let it move me. Not let it move me. This world that we live in is turning against the things of God, right or wrong. Takes faith if we're going to stand. Faith in God. I've you're I I and uh most of you know I enjoy fishing and things and I I was reading about uh uh I follow a couple uh fellas down in Florida on the on the in the quays of Florida and they fishing charters. I just kinda see what they do just hobbying. And I found something when a hurricane comes in or a terrible storm comes in, what they do is they take their boat and they take it out into the water, away from the docks and the harbor and everything, and they take it out. In the deep water. And then they'll drop anchors. And before they leave that boat, the storm's coming in, they know it's coming. You'd think, oh, you've got to tie that boat down, keep it secure. No, no, no, no. You get it out And they drop anchor, and and the one I was reading, they said they drop a couple anchors sometimes. And before they leave that boat to come back in the shore to wait out the storm. They make sure those anchors are firmly gripped the bottom and it won't give. And I say the boat will be okay because the anchor holds That anchor is faith for you and I. My faith is in Christ, and the storms hit me, and the waves crash on me, emotional and mental, spiritual battles I go through. But my faith is anchored in Christ, and Christ sees me through. You pay attention You get around Christians of strong faith, you pay attention, you listen a little bit, talk to them a little bit, you know what you're going to find out? They've been through some storms Their faith has been tested and proven itself true, and they're anchored in Christ. Faith in Christ will save a sinful soul. It'll secures the troubled soul. I'll put this down. Faith in Christ supplies the needy soul. Paul said, Philippians 4. 19, My God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory. My God, not my rich uncle, my God. Jesus said, Seek ye first the kingdom of God, his righteousness. All these things shall be added unto you. What all things? Food, clothing, shelter, everything you need, God will take care of you. You put the Lord first, you trust him. You follow his instructions, let him have his way with you, God will take care of you. I'm here to tell you: God will take care of you. Trust him. Trust him. David said in Psalm 34:10, young lions do lack and suffer hunger, but they that seek the Lord shall not want any good thing. Again, in Psalm 37, 25, David said, I have been young, and now I am old. I can say amen right there. Look at this. Listen. Yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread. That was a testimony of David. Testimony of David. He said, God will take care of you. God will take care of you. I went to Bible college and 1981, uh uh the previous year I'd gone to in Philadelphia, Philadelphia College of Bible one year in 1980-81, and 80, follow of 81 I went to Tennessee. I didn't have any money. I had a night I had a Toyota Selica. Now that was a nice car back in the day. Wasn't a Chevy, Ed. But it had vinyl roof, half a vinyl roof. Get this. It had electric windows. What I'm trying to say is I was I was doing good. I drive down the road. But God was leading me down a temple. I needed money to pay for a tuition. So I sold the car and made enough money to pay that whole year. But it all it paid for was room and board and tuition. That wasn't money to live on. I didn't need a lot, but I didn't have any. And so sold the car. And for the next 12 months at least, I tried every job I could find. We were coming out of the worst recession in our nation's history almost, late 70s. There was nothing. I'm raking leaves, I'm cleaning gutters, tearing down old houses just for pennies. And just barely get just barely able to wash my clothes. I'm here to tell you, I learned something. Somebody says, preacher, you learned a lot of theology in Bible college. I learned some theology, but that's not the lesson I took away from Bible college. You learned a lot about the Bible. Yeah, I learned some about the Bible. But I'll tell you what I learned the most. I learned that I could trust God. That he would take care of me. The best lesson I had coming out of Bible college is, God, I can trust him. I can have faith in him. He'll take care of me. That's worth any degree in the world. I can trust God. Let me give you, last of all, faith in Christ saves the sinful soul, secures the troubled soul, supplies the needy soul, and faith in Christ strengthens the dedicated soul. Paul said this. You say, preacher, I'd like to serve God. I'd like to do some things for God, but I just don't think I'm able to. I don't have what it takes to be able to do this for God. And I could never, you know how many times I've heard somebody say this? Oh, preacher I'd like to do that, but I could never work in a bus. A preacher, I could never teach a Sunday school class. I could never sing in a choir. I could never, never, never, never, never Listen to what Paul said. Would you agree Paul was pretty successful in Christian ministry, right or wrong? Is everybody with me? Listen to what Paul said. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves as to think anything as of ourselves. Listen, but our sufficiency is of God. He said, it is God that enables me to do what he has called me to do. It is God that enables me. To serve him and live for him and make a difference in the world and be a witness in the world 2 Corinthians 12 9 he said this. God says to Paul, he says, Paul, my grace is sufficient. When you're weak, I'm strong. My grace is sufficient. Listen, God wants to use every last one of us. I asked a few moments ago, asked how many people are saved, you know it, say amen. A whole crowd said amen. You're saved. I know this. God wants to use you to make a difference with the gospel in this old world. I know that. Say, preacher, you don't know me. You don't know I I can't do this and I can never do that and I can't do this and shut up Sorry, excuse me. When I was little I'd have gotten soap in the mouth for saying that right there. Let me rephrase that. Hush. It's not what you and I can do. It's what God can do if we'll just trust Him. Are you with me? Well God can do if he'll just trust me. In fact, I I don't want folks serving at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church that can do what they can do I want folks in the Independent Baptist Church doing what only God can do when we trust Him. You with me? Faith in God. I'm gonna. Well, Jesus said, Follow me, I'll make you fishers of men. He does the making. We just follow them. Lord, I'll trust you. Where you lead me, I'll follow you. And he makes you into what you need to be If we have faith to follow, he makes us what we need to be. I'm going to put Tom Sharon on the spot. He's out. Years ago, he'd remember this, I'm sure. Years ago he'd say to me, Oh, I'm not much of a talker. I'm not real good at talking with folks. Brother, that guy will talk your ears off. Talking about soul winning stuff, he's all One night we had a missionary through, Chris Warr. Chris War preached a message on hell. I mean a scorcher message on hell. And Tom was at the altar. He came up and said, I need to go soul winning. I'm going to start going soul winning. You know Tom and Cindy have turned into two of the two of the best soul winners in this whole church had since I've been here. One scores and scores of people to Christ over the years. You know what that told me? It's not what you and I think we can do. It's what you and I will trust God to do with and through us. You follow what I'm saying? Anybody on board with me at all this morning? Anybody? We had the wild game dinner last night, so I'm thinking the wild game stuff. Years ago, a number of years ago, my son was guiding out in Colorado in Gypsum, Colorado. He was elk guiding. We made arrangements. I was going to go out there and spend a week with him and he's going to take me up. We're going to shoot an elk. So yes. So we got out there doing stuff. I'm not a big horse guy. So he said, we got to get up tomorrow morning, 3. 30. We've got to be up. So all right. So we're going to load up the horses by 4, 4. 30. We're going to pack up the top of the mountain on the horseback. get up there. It was kind of early in the season, so they're up high, and he says, uh we're gonna call in some elk. We're gonna get you an elk. He says, I know where they are, I've been hunting here all s all fall and uh I know where they're at. I said, Okay, let's do it. So we got in the morning loaded up on a horse. I'm not real confident on this horse. And he says, Dad, listen, just trust me. Trust the horse. They've done this a thousand times. Trust the horse Fast a horse. It's pitch blind. We're in Rocky Mountains And we're going up this trail and it was nice. It was like meadows and stuff. And then we're going up into the mountains and we're climbing. And we got to this point where I could hear off to my right Water raging like a river. But it sounded like it was like a thousand feet below me. It's pitch black. I can't see it. So I'm there. That's interesting. And over here is the side of the hill. And it's pitch bike. So we go up through there and the horse is just I'm hanging on So we went hunting, we didn't get any deer, didn't get any elk, didn't get anything. We're coming back that evening, still daylight, and we're on this trail, and we're going the other way now, and the sound the water is off on my left And staylight, I look down, it's like a thousand feet down. I mean it's a straight cliff down. We're on this little about a three foot wide path on the side of this mountain. I could touch the side of the mountain on my other side and it goes down there. Oh God And that old horse just walked along there. We got down. I said, Sam, is that the trail we went up in the middle of the night? He goes, yeah, that's the same trail. See you gotta be kidding me. If I'd have known that I'd have killed you. In the dark And that old horse knew exactly what it was doing and got me up and back perfectly safely. I'm here to tell you, God knows exactly what he's doing. We can trust him. If we'll just let him lead us, if we'll just have faith in him, he'll see us through. It may seem scary. It may say, what in the world, uh, what in the world? I'm in the dark. Just trust God, just trust God, just trust God. Amen? Father, please help us to trust you. Help us have faith. Or maybe this message would help somebody. Lord, sometimes we pray like the old fellow in the Gospels, Lord, I believe, help thou mine unbelief. Teach us to believe, Lord. Teach us to trust you. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many say, preacher, I got stuff going on. I just need to trust God I just need to deliberately decide on purpose I'm going to trust God. Any like that? Uplifted hand. God bless you. I don't know what the situation is, I don't know what the need is, but I know God And I know he can see you through it. I know he can take care of you. I know he can meet your need. Meet your need. I wonder if some say, preacher, I know someone that's struggling. And I want to be a kind of Christian that can be an example. That they could see Christ in me. They could see that God is taking care of me. I'm trusting God. And they can see that, and it would help them. Have faith in God. Help them to trust God. Is there anything like that? Say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be faithful. I can trust God. God bless you. There's some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die, and I don't want to go to hell. I'm telling you, you can come and trust Christ and He will do what you can't do. He'll forgive you and save you and give you eternal life. But you have to trust them. You have to trust them. Then you like that. Preacher, pray for me. I don't know for sure my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want that settled in my heart life, any at all, any at all. Father bless our imitation now I ask in Jesus' name.