And God used 'em is using them a great, great way. Let's get our hot Bibles out. He's going to bring our message tonight. Psalm number fifteen in your Bible. Psalm number fifteen. Is that my water? Psalm number let me say my testimony. I was saving it from when I got up here to the pulpit. Um I'm thankful for the bus trial as well. I mean I've been really enjoying driving that bus, you know, watch kids come on. You know, it's uh it has its uh trials, it has its uh great times, but you know overall it's just a great blessing serving the Lord on the bus route, so I really enjoy it. Excuse me. I also think it's a blessing to be working with the teenagers. I mean I've been having a blast being able to work with the youth and watching the Lord work in their hearts. I also want to thank the Lord for the workers we have who were willing to help with the youth Because last Friday we had a great activity, you know. In part I think it was due to the fact we had a number of adults there that were willing and able to serve. I'm glad that they were there willing to help. And it was just such a blessing to see them there. I really appreciate that I also want to take the time to thank Pastor for allowing me the opportunity to speak here this evening. As soon as he asks me this opportunity, the Lord's been working on my heart and what to preach. And not too long ago he laid this message upon my heart and I was convinced this was something the Lord would want me to speak about here in Psalm number fifteen. You're open to Psalm fifteen. It's a very short Psalm. I'll read all five verses here before we get started. We'll pray and then we'll begin. It says in verse 1 of Psalm 15, Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? He that walketh uprightly and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart. He that backfieth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor. And whose eyes a vile person is contempt, but he honoreth them that fear the Lord. He that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. He that puth not his out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent, he that doeth these things shall never Be moved. I want to speak this evening on having the presence of God in your life. Having the presence of God in your life. Let's pray. Ask the Lord bless this evening. Father in heaven, we love you. I thank you so much for this day. Lord, I thank you for your goodness to us. Lord, I thank you so much for laying this passage on my heart. Father, I just pray, Lord. That you would just speak through me now. Lord, this is something I believe that you want me to speak. And Lord, I believe it's something that you want these people to hear. Lord, something that I needed to hear. And Father, I pray, Lord, that you would help me to understand this. Lord, I pray that you would help me to speak it. Lord, I pray that I would do your will in Christ's name. Amen. As I was reading this passage I actually preached this through a number of smaller passages in the nursing home. We usually don't get that long in the nursing home, but uh I preach this through a number of smaller series And as I was doing that, the Lord really worked on my heart of having the presence of God in our lives. Now if I was asked for a show of hands, I'm not going to do so. I've asked how many people would want God's presence in their life I would think that a number of you, in fact a majority of you, would raise your hand and say, You know what? That is something that I would want. I would want God's presence in my life. I want God's presence in my life. As we come to Psalm number 15, David here writes, and this to verse number one sets the tone of the passage. It says, Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? As I got to studying you about the tabernacle and looking at the holy hill, I found that it was a place that God was found at You know, when the nation of Israel traveled along, they uh set up the tabernacle and the cloud, the presence of God was there This is somewhere where this psalmist, the psalmist David, would see and look and say, you know what? This is where God is at. And then David asked this question: you know what? Who's in God's presence? Who's abiding there? You ask, who how can I have the presence of God in my life? David here gives a list, and we're going to look at some of these things here, about how we can have the presence of God in our life, what we can do to have God's presence in your life. Before I get into the message, though David does not point this out here, it's pretty obvious throughout Scripture, if you want to have God's presence in your life, number one, you must be saved. Without God saving your sinful soul, without Him redeeming you, you cannot have His presence in your life. You must have that sin taken care of. You must be saved. By the way, it's something that we discussed with the teenagers. You know, it's a free gift to you. You know, it costs Christ everything. It cost him his life. But it is free to you. You can freely accept it. With that out of the way, David here lists, with the few minutes I have left, some principles, some practical truths on how to have God's presence in your life. They're very simple. The first one I have written down here, do right. Do right. Look at me if you would at verse number two. In verse two it says, He that walketh uprightly and worketh Righteousness. The walk there has the idea of our conversation when we go about our daily lives. He walketh, his daily life consists that he is upright. The word upright, excuse me, is an interesting word there, it has the idea of integrity. It means complete or whole It's interesting, the same word is used in the Hebrew language where we find that Noah is a perfect man. Someone who is complete, someone who is whole, somebody that has characteristics in their life. I love this definition of integrity The definition for integrity, the quality of possessing and adhering to high moral principles. And can I add in their high moral biblical principles That's a man of integrity. Somebody who lives by the principles of this book. And by the way, they not only have principles by this book, they make sure they keep to it As I look at this passage and I think, you know, this man who's upright, I would uh ask people in here, you know, how many would want to do what is right, I think we get a majority of hands. Excuse me. But oftentimes why do we not do what is right? I think so many times it's because of this right here, integrity. We're not basing what we do upon principles of the scriptures. Oftentimes we go through life and say, you know what, this seems right to me. You know, the Bible tells us there's a way that seemeth right unto man, but the ways thereof the end thereof are the ways of death You know, sometimes when we base off what seems right, what seems right through our own eyes, we may find it hit the mark sometimes. But sometimes when we look at our own sights Instead of looking at the principles of God's Word, we try to do what's right, but we end up failing. If we want to do what is right, we need to be people that have integrity. We need to stand for what is right according to God's word, not according to man's word. A man I think of as Daniel. Daniel was a man I believe that had integrity. In fact, when the others In Babylon were trying to get him to fall. They could not find a fault in him. Not saying that he was a sinless man, but they looked at him and said, you know what, this man does what God says And the only way they could capture him and get him throwing that line in was to do something make something against the law that included God's pi uh principles. So they outlawed praying. Sure enough Daniel prays, he was throwing that line state. Because he did what was right. no matter what the cause. He was a man of integrity, and he stuck with God's principles. But the Bible here also says not only does he walk uprightly or as I like to say have integrity, he also is a man that worketh righteousness. I like the word this way. Uprightly is the idea of having those moral characters working righteousness is doing them You know, it's easy to serve God when things are going great in our life. It's easy to serve God, you know, when everything is all, you know, good with us Well when trials come and heartaches come, then sometimes it gets hard. You know, we try to do what seems right, as I mentioned. But we need to be people that stick with the principles of God's word no matter what And sometimes that takes a little bit of work. In fact, that's the idea behind this word, worketh. When you look at that word, you're not going to look and find some philosophical meaning. It's what it means in our day and age today. You know, we put effort into it. We sweat. We just put hard labor into doing something. And sometimes when we do what is right, it's going to take some effort on our part. You know, we're going to have to work at it You know, the Christian life, you know, it's easy to get saved, but sometimes the Christian life takes some tolls on you, but we must choose to do what's right. By the way, remember what we're talking about here, having God's presence in life We want God's presence in our life. We must simply do what is right. Not only do we do right, but also another thing, how can we have God's presence in our life? Also see that we need to control the tongue. Control the tongue. We read on in verse number two. It says, and speaketh the truth in his heart, he that backflieth not with his tongue. As we come to this passage here and we read this verses here, the first characteristic I see of this man's tongue is he's an honest man. He's an honest man. You know a number of characteristics are being lost in our day in our world, in our society here in America, and one of them is honesty. It's hard to believe some people in our day and age. You don't know what to trust, you don't know who to look to for truth You know, we look around, we see our world and how it's going down, and it's all these lies that we see. People trying to believe these lies, sadly, of all things. This man here, though, that has God's presence is a man who speaks the truth. He's an honest man. I was speaking about Truden not too long ago. In fact it was this past Wednesday night with the teens. The Lord spoke to my heart in John when Pilate was standing in front of Christ and he was judging him Before he was crucified. Pilate asked Christ a very important question, and it's the cry of a lot of the world today. What is truth? You know, we as Christians need to be the people that show what is truth. This man here, this man who has God's presence in life, knows what is truth. is truth. As we studied this with as I studied this with the teams, it's very interesting what the Bible says is true. Jesus Christ himself said, I am the way, the truth. You know, when you accept that truth, he says he gives you the spirit of truth. And that spirit of truth leads you in his word, which he said, his word is truth. You know, if we want the truth in our life, we need to be saved, but then we need to allow that Holy Spirit of the truth guide us in the truth. It goes back to what we were talking about, righteousness. The principles of this book. We need to be working and following the truth. And by the way, when we have that truth and we get in the book and we see the truth, we notice that it says that in the beginning was the word. And the word was with God, and the word was God. It goes on to say the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us. We find that the truth, God's Word, goes back to the Lord Jesus Christ. when you read the scriptures. And when we know that, then we can share with others what the truth is. And then the process repeats itself. They receive the truth. The Spirit of the truth works in their hearts and they see the truth. But it is the man that speaks the truth. And not only that, it goes on and says, He that backbiteth not with his tongue I find that word backbite interesting. I did a study on that, and I was looking at it. The word itself means the slander. It has the idea of a tailbearer. You know, it means what it looks like. Somebody comes behind you and bites. You know, this word is interesting though. It's used in the Hebrew language other ways. When you see this word translated in other places, you see this word pop up, spies. You know, when it's telling about somebody that backbites, they're talking about a spy who comes in, tries to get information from you undercover. And then tries to ruin you. That's the idea of this word here, backbite. You know, and it says that this man who has the presence of God in their life They are not a backfighter. They're not somebody who's trying to destroy someone. They're trying to they're trying to edify. They're trying to build up. It's interesting when you look throughout the scriptures what Paul had to say. He did not tell us to be backfighters. You read through the scriptures and what he the many of them had to say. In Thessalonians he told them to edify one another. In Galatians, he told them to bear one another's burdens. In 1 Corinthians chapter 12 through chapter 14, we find a number of gifts. We find the gifts of prophecy, you know, the gifts of teaching, a number of gifts that are used in our churches today. You know you do not find the gift of backfighting. Because we are not to be backfighters. We're not to be people who tear down. We live like sometimes like we're supposed to. You know, bring people down that are supposed to hurt people. That's not the case. We're supposed to be people that lift up to edify to build up one another. Now it's interesting. This man who has the presence of God in his life, who's controlling his tongue, who's telling the truth, who's not a backfighter, it's interesting How does he get to this spot? It's interesting. It says it here in the passage very clearly in verse number two. He that speaketh the truth in his heart. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 18, Christ Himself said, But those things which proceedeth out of the mouth come from the heart. How do we get to the point where we can control that tongue? By the way, James teaches us and warns us how dangerous that tongue can be. How do we get to the point where we can control that? We've got to get our own hearts right. We need to ask the Lord as the psalmist, they create in me a clean heart, O Lord, renew a right spirit in me. And not only that, we need to put the truth in our heart as this passage teaches. We know Psalm 119. 11, thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. We need the word of God to change our hearts. We need to have that change of heart so we can have the tongue. And by the way, when we control that tongue, when we get the heart under control, and when we keep it with all diligence, and when we keep the mouth under control We are able to have God's presence in our life. There's another characteristic though that I noticed in this passage. Not only do they keep their or control their tongue and do what's right, they're a good neighbor We must be a good neighbor to have the presence of God in our lives. We read on. It says, nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor I don't have to spend time to elaborate what in the world doing evil to our neighbor is. We would understand that. The word reproach there has the idea of bring shame or be a disgrace You know, we obviously know that we shouldn't do those things. We know the golden world do unto others that you want done unto yourself. We know not to be evil to others. We know that we shouldn't bring shame, disgrace to others. We should be that good neighbor I think sometimes the question we should ask though is who can be be a neighbor to? Oftentimes in that uh when I read about the neighbor, I think of Luke chapter number 10, verses 29 through 37, where we see what God classifies as a neighbor. In that story we see the Good Samaritan, a man going from Jericho down to Jerusalem, who was uh attacked by thieves, who was attacked by robbers, and left their Dad And you know a priest goes by and looks at him and walks on. A Levite goes by, studies him out, and goes on. But it was the Samaritan, the one the Jews wouldn't think, who stopped and helped this man, took care of his needs. You know who can we be a neighbor to? Those who are in need. By the way, one of the greatest needs that I can think of, Pastor was mentioned, is the need of salvation. We can be a neighbor there. We can help others with that Well, I think in that passage though, one of the things I want to point out though, just because you're a good person does not make you a good neighbor I think of the priests, many would look at that person and say, you know what, that's a person we look up to. We look up to our pastor. And in that story, though, he was somebody that everybody looked up to, somebody they expect to be right. He walked right by that man Then there was the Levite. Somebody who worked in God's house. Somebody who served the Lord. And when he stopped, he actually looked, he studied the case of this man, but he just kept on going We would look at that maybe as somebody that works in the church today. You know, these were two good people, but they did not stop and meet this man's knees. They were definitely not good neighbors. The Samaritan did. You know, you may say, you know, I'm a good person. I do what is right. Are you helping meet the needs of others though? Are you being that good neighbor? Do not do evil to them, do not bring shame to him, but help them out and be a good neighbor. I see be a good neighbor. Another characteristic of having the presence of God in their life. Having good values. Having good values. Look with me, if you would, at verse number four. In verse 4, as I read, and come to this passage, it says, In whose eyes a vile person is contempt But he honored them that fear the Lord. The word bow there is an anti-resting word. It has this idea. It has the idea of something that is abhorred, cast away, despised. In our day and age is something that you would say, ew, or yuck to. You think of a little kid. That's the idea of this word vow, something that does not want to be looked upon. You know, if you look at Isaiah in the passage of Isaiah, Isaiah tells us that the vile person is one that has iniquity in his heart. He does what? Is wicked. And we look at this man and we see that he is contemned. That's an interesting word, not to be confused with contempt, contemned. It means to disesteem. Now when you disesteem something, it means you do not highly think about this. And when we come to this man and what he thinks of vileness, what he thinks of this abhorred, disgusting person It says, you know what, that's not something he's going to esteem. What does he think of esteem? What does he honor it as the Bible call He glories, he promotes, he honoreth those that fear the Lord. The word fear there has the idea of the reverence or to revere. You know, when we look at this and we say somebody that fears the Lord, they have a respect, so to say, to the Lord, the things of the Lord. Notice that I said, you know, the the vow and the honoring has to deal with these people here. You know, the key to this verse, I think, is at the beginning, in whose eyes? This is what he values. When he sees through his eyes the wicked man, and when he sees those that fear the word If he had to choose which one he was going to be around, he was going to value those who value the principles of the Lord. You know, we need people like that People that don't promote the things of this world, people that do not promote the wickedness of this world, but people that look at God's principles and promote it. I think about the workplace. What do you promote there? How often do you promote the things of God? You know what Mark was talking about, what's going on in Sunday school? It's not that hard to tell people, hey, what's going on in our Sunday school You know, it's not hard to tell people. I do it all the time when I go to nursing home. And they uh enjoy I enjoy telling them. Hey we uh sorry I'm a little late here today, but our buses, they have just been tremendous. The people have just been coming on our buses You know, when you go out into society and you know see people out there, you know, what do they see that you like? I think sadly, so many times, it may not be something that's you know wicked or vile in this passage But they don't see that we value and treasure the things of the Lord. We need to be people that have an interest, a value in something that God values in. By the way, what does God value in? You know I know he values in lost souls. Do you value lost souls? How often do you want to go out and win souls to him? You know, track month's a great time to get the start on that You know, God values his word. How often do you value the word of God? How much time do you give to the word of God? You know, oftentimes I look at my life and see when I I below the word of God sometimes in my life and I think, you know, this is something God puts above his name. How often do we put it down? Why don't we value the things that are of the Lord? That's the kind of guy, that's the kind of person that has God's presence in his life. One who has good values. There's another principle I see in this passage. He stays true to his word. He stays true to his word. You go on to the passage that says, He that sweareth to his own hurt. And changeth not. Now the word swear there is not the idea of cursing. It's the idea we hear in the court that says, Do you swear to tell the truth and nothing but the truth? Taking an oath. That's the idea here. And it says, He sweareth To his own hurt. What is it saying? This man is true to his word You know, sometimes this man here in this passage, something comes up and it costs him. It hurts him. He has to make a sacrifice in his life to make sure his word stays true. You know how often, kinda goes back to with uh with his honesty, but how often do we make sure that our word stays true? I mean what do we do? What are we willing to sacrifice in our life to make sure what we say stays true? How often how much are we willing to stay committed to our vows? Now let me go and take it a step further. How often are we willing to stay committed to our vows to the Lord? You know, how many times have we You go on to the altar and you know you say, you know what, I'm gonna make this decision for the Lord. You know, you're firing up a vow now and then a couple days later that vow is just meaningless. You know, God takes these vows that we make, takes our word very seriously. In fact, God or Christ told us that every idle word we're going to give an account for Now think about that. Every word that's ever spoken out of your mouth, every word that's ever spoken out of my mouth, is going to be given account for. You know, there's going to be words on that day I'm sure of that I don't even remember about. But you know, that shows how much God takes seriously our word. And we need to be people that you know what, if we make that commitment, we need to stay to it. And by the way, it says in that verse, and changeth not. When I think of not changing, oftentimes I think of the Lord. I think this man is like this because our God is like this. Aren't you glad? Just imagine with me if you would If God kept his word as much as you kept yours, what would that be like? You know, aren't you glad that our God does not change? When he says, you know what, if you call on the name of the Lord, you are safe. You can guarantee it, you can bank one. Aren't you glad that you could say, like Jeremiah says, call on me and I will show thee great and mighty things which thou those thought that verse is still true to us today You know, God thinks his word is very important. What he says, making that commitment and keeping it, you know, the man that has God's presence in his life is the same way. He's willing to keep his word. And then there's one more and I'm done One more commitment or one more characteristic of the man that has God's presence in his life. You know what I found this one to be interesting, and I thought about how the word it and I worded it in so many ways I came down to this one, be respectful Be respectful. Look at me at the if you would at the last verse of this passage. In the last verse of this passage, as we come to it, it says He that puteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent. Being the I guess I would consider myself young, so what? Man, I am and looking at this word in this passage, I look down and said, what in the world is usury? I don't go around with my buddies and tell them, hey, you know, we want to use this word usury It's just not in our language. I was looking at it like what in the world is God saying here? So the the Bible scholar I am, I tried studying it out. You know, I wanted to find this out. What is God saying here when he says he that put not out his money to usury After studying looking up, the word usury there has the idea of interest to a debt. This man does not put his money into an interest to a debt. Now it may sound a little worried. Let me try to explain to you. This man does not have give money to somebody and then make them pay an interest that is ridiculously and outstanding unable to be paid You know, he cares about somebody so much that he's not going to let them borrow money and say, you know what, okay, you can borrow this, but you know what, you're gonna have to pay me back this amount, and there's no way they can do it But not only just that, it says also taketh reward against the innocent. That word taketh reward has the idea of a bribe. He's not bribed to go against the innocent. You know, and I look at this and I see this man's finances, you know, he's got respect to other people. He's not going to want to hurt them by you know making them pay back a lot, but he's also not willing to hurt the innocent by getting paid to do it Money is not his main concern. The people are. As you look at this, by the way, I know I'm trying to focus on the respect of other people on the people in this passage, but I wanted to point this out here while we were talking about it. You know, God does care about how you use your money. You know, God has mentioned things about that. He mentions the tithe. You know that we back to the Lord ten percent of what he has given to us He mentions the fact that you know we need to be good stewards. He mentions here in this passage, you know, there's certain ways, you know, you need to use that. You know, don't take bribes. You know, I'm pretty sure you know you study through your Bible, you can find a number of things God says about our finances. He cares about that. But when he comes to this passage here, I don't think he's only dealing with the finances. I think there's something greater here. And it goes with the rest of this passage. That's this. You know, we need to have a care for others. You know, when you look at Israel and study the history of Israel, this was fascinating to me. You know, some of the laws that they have, you know, some of them, I'm grateful that we no longer do those You know, some of those I'm grateful that that's what they did. But you know there's some laws there that they had that were very good moral laws and one of them had to do with this. You know, they took care and aiding to other people You know, they wasn't going to get try to get what they could out of them, out money-wise. They were going to do the best they can to help each and other individuals. That was their law. You know, we should be that way to others. We shouldn't try to burden others. You know, in this example financially, and other examples we can think of as well, we shouldn't try to be a burden to them. But as I mentioned earlier, we should be trying to help them, edify them, lift them up. That is the idea here. And by the way, this man also is described as having presence the presence of God as life. Now this is what I want to conclude with. Look at the end of the passage. He that doeth these things shall never be moved. When you have these characteristics in your life, David said, you know what, you're the man that you know you're good, you're doing what is right, you're being that kind of neighbor, you're being respectful. When you do this, you're stable. You know, we look in a world today that is very unstable. We look at a world today like, how can we make it? You know, David here says, you know what, you want to know what to do? And if it comes down to this, obey God. Doing what his word says. That's how you can be stable. And by the way, when you do these principles, not only are you stable, it mentions in verse 1, who shall abide in thy tabernacle, who shall dwell in thy holy hill? These are the characteristics of these people. These are the people that have God's presence in your life. Now what is your situation here, Dave? What is your situation when you stand before God today and he looks at you? Are you the kind of person that others look at and say, you know what? They have the presence of God in your life. I don't know about you, but I want others to look at me and I want them to be able to see God's presence in my life. I want them to see God Because when Christ looks at us and tells us what we need to be, He tells us we are the light of the world. He tells us when we do these works We are to do Him that others may see Him and glorify our Father which is in heaven. Others should see the presence of God in your life. Are they doing it? If not, these are some characteristics David gives to help us. To look at it and say, you know what, am I doing these things? So if you would, why don't you take that checklist out? Look at this passage and say, you know what, are these characteristics in my life? And if they are, you're well on your way to having the presence of God in your life. Head bowed and eyes closed. I'm not going to ask this question how we want to have the presence of God in our life. I look at people here, they're in church, they're wanting to do what's right. They're wanting something from God. I'm sure you want God's presence in your life. But maybe you're here today and you say, you know what? There's something in my life I know that I could fix to help have God's presence in my life Something that I could change, you know, that others could see God in my life. You know, I didn't get to spend too much time on about the testimony, but that's the idea here. Others should be able to see God in our lives. And if you're here tonight and say, you know what, Brother James, there's something I need to change so others can see the Lord in my life. And you want me to pray for you, would you slip your hand up and say, you know what, pray for me that I can get this change, yes, this is hands and the others. I just want to pray for you. Now I didn't touch on too much, but there's one other question I want to ask You can't have the presence of God in your life if you're not his child. He wants to save you, he's willing to save you, and he will save you. Is there anybody here that says, Brother James, I do not know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die? I don't know I know Christ is my savior, but I would like to know anybody like that all. Anybody at all. Now Father, I thank you so much again for the opportunity to speak Lord, I thank you for this message that you laid on my heart. And Lord, I thank you so much for speaking to my heart as well. And Lord, I pray that you help us to be people when others look at us, they see you. And I pray Lord that you help us have your presence in our lives. And Lord help us to do what is right. And I pray that you guide and direct us in your will in Christ's name. With heads bowed and eyes close, let's stand at our feet. We're having