Matthew Chapter five. Matthew Chapter five In Matthew chapter five, we have the beginning of the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus gathers some of his uh well his disciples together. We see in verses one to two, one and two it says And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him And he opened his mouth and taught them say. And this is a wonderful portion of Scripture as he uh delivers what we call the Sermon on the Mount. But I want us to this morning to emphasize these first few verses, which have we call the beatitudes And uh someone said it's uh a section that says uh be right in your attitude. And so uh I think it's important that we remember as we look at this That he is not telling us necessarily how to be saved, doesn't give a plan of salvation, but he's telling us what we are as Christians. If you are a believer here this morning, you have in you what we're going to read about. It's there Because you're saved. It's there because God possesses you and God indwells you. And so uh It's a matter of letting him reveal to us how he wants to apply this to our lives day by day. So uh let's read through these beatitudes, and then I want to zero in on one thought. In verse 3 it says, blessed. And of course we know this has the thought of to be happy, but but I think you can take that word and realize it's there because it is something God approves of. What God tells us here, he approves of. When it's evident in our lives, he approves of it. When we're active in what he tells us we are, he approves it. And that's what he's saying when he says, blessed, blessed are they, thee, poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the poor in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers. For they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which are before you. Father, we thank you for The Bible. We thank you for uh your spirit that gives us understanding. And wisdom of how to use that understanding. And so we ask you this morning that you would open it up to us in a personal, applicable way. Cause us today to see something that we need that would benefit us That would bring your pleasure in our lives. And God help us to have a desire to agree with you. And let you use this scripture in our lives today. Thank you in Christ's name. Amen. The first four of these beatitudes has to do with our relationship with God, and then the last four have to do with our relationship with each other, how we interact with one another. But we interact with one another the way God wants us to when we apply those that apply to Him to our lives. But I I want us to zero. Of course we wouldn't have time to go through all of these today, but I wanted to emphasize uh verse eight today. Verse eight Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the pure in heart. Now he's talking about a clean heart. He's talking about a heart that's right with God. And uh this is not something that you and I cannot have that we have to try to find or It's it's there. We have what's needed for a pure heart. The uh thing that we have to do is just agree with God about it, let him become active in our lives. in making this evident in our lives. But what I want to do today, I want to just sort of dissect this verse because I think this just sort of uh permits the whole thing here But I want us to think about how this can be applied to our lives today. So when you talk about the pure heart, the word pure Has two thoughts with it that I want to consider. First of all, it's dealing with an internal pureness. A pureness that you and I can have internally because we're saved. Because God is there. And it also has a pureness of relationship, and I want to deal with that, a pureness of devotion to God But I want to begin by having you turn back with me to Psalms, Psalms chapter 24. And I wanna just sort of see where uh he's repeating in a way the uh That thought of pure a pure heart. And in Psalms chapter 24, just a tremendous portion of scripture. It says in verse one of Psalms twenty-four, the earth is the Lord's And the fullness thereof, the world, and they that dwell therein You know what that's simply saying? Everything belongs to God. Everything belongs to God It began with God. He is Almighty God. There's nothing that exists that does not belong to God. Now this is important. It's important to have God in his rightful place. The evolutionist would have you think that we have the authority to be what we want to be in our own lives. The evolutionist it means that uh there was a big bang and Some animal crawled out of the water, and ever since then man has been becoming better and better and better. The creationist realizes man is becoming worse and worse and worse. And without God There's no hope. Romans chapter 1 is very clear in helping us to reveal this place is not getting better and people are not getting better. Man is getting worse and worse, and the only way that we can be better is with the grace of God, the presence of God. And that's what he's saying here. Notice verse 2. For he hath founded it upon the sea and established it upon the floods. Now look at verse 3. Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Or who shall stand in his holy place? Who's going to stand before God? Right. Who's going to stand before God? Verse 4, he answers it. He that hath clean hands And pure hearts, who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully. Who's going to stand before God? The person with clean hands and a pure heart. And that can only come through the shed blood of the Lord Jesus Christ. That can only happen by the presence of Almighty God. But once we're saved Once we receive Christ as Savior, then this becomes our life. If you're saved here today, you have clean hands, you have a pure heart. Now the fellowship may be broken, but because God lives within you, you Have the presence of that clean hands and a pure heart. And so that's what Jesus is saying. Let's go back there to Matthew chapter 5. That's what Jesus is saying. He's saying, listen You have an interpureness. You have an inter-cleanness because of God. Because he's there. But then he's the second thought is this, based upon that. There's a pureness of devotion. A pureness of devotion And this is what you and I wrestle with. This is what you and I must recognize and realize the importance of. Listen to this, James 1, verse 8. James says a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. In chapter 4, verse 8, he says, draw nigh to God. And he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and put your heart Purify your heart, ye double-minded. Now what's James saying? He's saying there has to be a pureness of devotion. Our devotion because of what God has done in our life. Because what we have in our salvation, we need to give our total devotion to God. And our responsibility is to make sure that nothing else becomes our attention. Our devotion. Now that's the battle you and I face. We are constantly faced with wanting to give our attention to something else. Or someone else in God's place. And we fight that battle. Why? Because we still have that flesh. We still have that old man. We have that uh we live in a dis a society that uh that's the emphasis Move God out. You have a right to anything you want. But as a believer, we have a right only to be totally devoted to God. Now think about this, and I know you it's hard to get a an illustration to really illustrate that, but uh think about your marriage relationship Once you get married, there's a total devotion in the marriage relationship. In that relationship, there's a total devotion to one another No one else can take the place of your spouse. No one else can meet the need that the spouse can meet in every way. And so we have a responsibility to give our devotion to our spouses And that no one else is to have our devotion that they're to have in the relationship. So that's what James is saying. He said, hey, God saved you He's put in you clean hands, a pure heart. He has put that in you. Now you need to be totally devoted to him. You need to not let anything else or anyone else move into the place that God deserves. And boy we face a battle, don't we? Huh? Well, he tells us why we face a battle. We face a battle because of the heart Because of the heart. Now, when he uses the word heart here, he is defining the place that you and I battle. Blessed are the pure in heart. What does he mean by this? The heart Has to do with the mind, the emotions And the will. That's what the heart involves. When uh when you get in the Bible and you see the word heart, it's not talking about in most cases. that uh organ that pumps blood through your through your body, it's talking about the mind, the will And the actions. The the heart is how we live Now think about that. If we're going to be pure in heart, then that means that we have to make sure there's a devotion to God. instead of letting anything move into our minds that would interfere with that. And that's the importance of this That's how we respond to that pure heart. How many times do we listen to something that interferes with God's place? What God wants to do in our life. I'll tell you what, you watch the news today, you'll be ready to fight, you'll be ready to worry, you'll be ready to do Do anything and everything except depend on God. You listen to the news They will uh put to thinking in your mind that God has lost control. That God does not exist. God has no place in all of this. Hey. God is right on schedule. And you and I need to realize that that when we watch somebody that says something and leaves God out of the out of it, they're trying to control our thinking. In other words, they're trying to affect our heart. They're trying to remove the pureness of heart from us. You uh got to watch what you read. And uh you make sure that uh uh it is God honoring that it's not doesn't interfere with God We have to be aware of the things that try to move into our lives. We are a things-oriented society. Aren't we? You have a right to anything you want. We do not have a right as a Christian. We are to desire to have the things that God wants in our lives and only let them come in the way God wants them to come in. Our devotion is separated sometimes. We become double-minded sometimes because we see something we want that God does not want us to have. And uh that that has to do with the thinking. Now, think about this. We make our decisions based on what we think. Huh? We our attitudes are affected by what we think What we hear, what we listen to, listen, uh people, everybody has an opinion about how you ought to do What you're supposed to do. Everyone wants to tell you how to do it. And God says, no, let me tell you how to do it. Now someone tells you, make sure it lines up with Scripture. But you and I often our feelings Our feelings come because of what we think Do you ever have somebody share something with you about a person? I mean you're standing there in conversation and all of a sudden they just say, say uh so and so and blah blah blah blah blah. Once they say that about that person in a negative way, a demeaning way, once they say that, it's there. It's there. And when you see that person or think of that person, that will come to your mind and affect your feelings. Amen. That's why he's saying you've got to realize the importance of the heart. You've got to realize that your heart is your thinking, your mind, and you've got to control your mind. You've got to make up your mind, I am not going to let anything come in that causes me to have feelings that I should not have because that leads to me doing what I should not do. That is the totality of the heart. That's what our heart is all about. And so you and I have a res responsibility. We have a responsibility to guard our minds and not let the things come into our minds that cause us to become double-minded in our devotion, and that God is put on the sideline while we respond. To what we should not have listened to, should not have heard. Now, why is this important? Because trouble comes from the heart. Our difficulties, our trouble comes from the heart. Your heart is a troublemaker. Your heart will lead you contrary to God. Listen to this. Listen to Jeremiah 17 Nine. The heart is deceitful above all things And desperately wicked. Who can know it? The heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Now what's he talking about? He's talking about our thinking. He's talking about our feelings. He's talking about our will that acts on our thinking and our feelings. He's saying, listen, you can't trust your mind. You can't you can't come to the place where the evolutionist is and think that you're going to get better and better. Your only hope, your only hope of being better, your only hope of having a clean mind, your only hope of of having a mind that leads you to the right feelings and the right actions is the grace of God Blessed are the pure in heart. You're different because you have received Christ as Savior. And you can react properly to God. You have a right to do that. But you've got to come to a place. We have to come to a place where we realize our minds, our feelings, our actions are desperately wicked, totally deceitful. Means the our our minds will lead us the wrong way. Our minds, our minds, by human nature, have no desire for God But God within us has put within us the possibility of being that person. Listen to what it says in Mark chapter 15. I'm sorry, Matthew chapter 15, verse 19 and 20. Matthew fifteen, nineteen and twenty For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries. Fornication, thefts, false witness, blasphemies. These are the things which defile a man But to eat with unwashed hands defileth not a man. What he's saying is, it's your inward part. It's your heart. And you've got to be aware of that. Now it says in Proverbs, listen to Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23, keep thy heart. With all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Okay? What he's saying is: guard your heart Make sure there's an inter that you respond to that intercleansing. Make sure your devotion is right. That you're devoted to God, He has your mind, He has your feelings, He has your actions, and you do not let anything pull you away From what God has put in you. Now, think about it. He lives within us. The Spirit of God is there. He's the one that Desires to keep us on track and attempts to get us on track. He's the one that has the plan. He's the one that wants to move us in the right direction. But we must realize that within ourselves, our human nature, our thinking wants to move us in our own way. Isn't it amazing How as much as you hate wrong thinking, as much as you despise having something that gives you wrong feelings There's an enjoyment of it. Huh? That's the flesh, that's the battle Now he's he's what he's doing here, God is giving us an impossible Instruction. Go back with me to Matthew chapter five And turn with me to the last verse, verse forty-eight. Matthew five, verse forty-eight. He says, Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father, which is in heaven, is perfect. Now God tells us, I want you to be like me. I want you to be like me. That's impossible. I can't be like God. I still have the flesh. I still have the battle of that old man. And yet he tells me, Be perfect, be like the Father He gives us, think about this, he gives us an impossible, an impossible way of living. He gives us an impossible request, command even. And then he gives us the grace to accomplish it. That's why you and I cannot let anything pull us away from This grace of God, the presence of God, the pureness that God has put in us. God has blessed us and privileged us. By putting putting in us a clean heart, a pure heart. He's blessed us by putting in us the privilege, the opportunity To listen to him, to choose his way. He's put within us the privilege of refusing. By growing, refusing to listen to things that will rule our lives. You ever seen someone that just enjoys anger? Have you ever seen someone that just enjoys gossip? Have you ever seen someone that just enjoys things and their life is all wrapped up in things? They've lost what he's saying to us. Either they're lost, they've lost what he's saying, or they do not know Christ as Savior. Because a believer cannot enjoy what God tells us not to be. We cannot enjoy not being devoted to God. We might enjoy it for a moment. But he will convict us, and he desires to draw us to a place that his grace can make a difference in our lives. What did Paul say? He said, God, I don't want this. Get this problem out of my life, but you know what God said to him? Paul, my grace is sufficient. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. Paul said, Therefore, I would rather glory in my infirmities that the power of Christ may rest upon me. You and I have to come to a place that we realize I can't be like God yet. But I'll tell you what I can do. I can grow To be more like him. I can grow in enjoying what he's done in my life. How do we do that? How do we do that? Well, let me give you some ways real quick. Just touch on these. First of all, in his word. We cannot live apart from his word. We must spend time in his word, not just uh scanning his word, but spending time. Studying his word. Also in creation. Job uh mentioned uh uh uh I'm sorry, uh the psalmist mention That he saw a storm. He said, and in the storm, the thunderstorm, he saw God. You and I can see God in creation. Hey, listen, in just the things around us, we can see God. We can know that God made it. And then in in the events of life We could see it. Job. Job went through those terrible events and then he came to a place that uh he said, Hey, uh now I see God. Now I see God. If you and I react properly to the events of life, then we can see God in And then also in the ultimate seeing him. Go back to Matthew chapter 5, our beginning verse, and let me Show you this last thought here in Matthew chapter five verse eight. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. You and I can see God today. You and I can see God in our life today We can see him in all of these ways. We can see him in his word. We can see him in creation. We can see him in the things that go on in our lives. We can see God But one day we'll see him, have that ultimate time with him. Who's going to see God? The person that knows Christ as Savior. Now, why is this important? If you sit here today and you're not saved, you ought to realize what you're missing, not knowing Christ. Back up with me. Back up with me to verse Verse 3. Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. He's talking about saved there. Blessed are the poor in spirit. The word poor has the thought of a beggar. If a person is saved, they come to a place that they realize I have nothing that's needed for salvation. Only God has it. I beg you, God, save me. I am trusting Christ. And if you're not saved, that's your only way to heaven. That's your only way to have uh an assurance of one day being with God. If you come to a place that you realize you have nothing to offer God, He has everything to offer you. And if you will just admit to Him that you're a sinner, separated from Him because of that sin. And Jesus Christ is your only way, then He will save you. He will change your life Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for helping us to grasp what's needed for Salvation, what's needed for our enjoyment of life day by day Just trusting you. Now bless as we examine our own lives and do business with you. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.