Take your Bibles if you would turn back to Numbers, the fourth book of the Old Testament. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Chapter number 14. We're gonna Read just a moment verse 24 again. Lady called the newspaper and says, Where's my Sunday paper? I went out and there was no Sunday paper there. The lady said, well, that's because it's Saturday. We only delivered the Sunday paper on Sunday Sunday she said, Oh, that must be why no one was in church today. And can I get a witness on that anyway? Numbers chapter fourteen. How many folks noticed my tan? Nobody. Man. We're in Puerto Rico. All we You got pictures of my tan, okay. service. Numbers chapter 14, if you would, I'd like for us to read verse 24 together, all of us in unison. Alright, ready? Let's read. But my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereunto he went. And his seed shall possess it. That phrase, another spirit, caught my attention. I have this verse underlined in my Bible, and I circled that phrase, another spirit. And I want to talk this morning about having another spirit. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father, we're very grateful for the service thus far. We ask, Father, that um You would continue to bless. Lord, where the songs have stirred our hearts. The fellowship has been a blessing to me. Lord, the spirit among your people is just such an encouragement. We're grateful for the beautiful weather outside. Lord, we pray the sunshine would shine in our hearts now. I ask, Lord, that you would take your word, apply it to each of our lives, our homes our situations as you see fit. Lord, you are the author of this book. And so with that in mind, Father, I want to get myself out of the way. I yield myself to you and present my body anew Fill me, I pray, dear God, with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would speak through me your word to each of our hearts in Jesus' name. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. One thing is very, very clear in the Bible, and that is this. God wants everyone to be saved. God does not want anyone to die and go to hell. God desires all men to be saved, and God will save anyone who will trust the Lord Jesus Christ, their personal Savior Regardless of background, regardless of education, regardless of nationality, regardless of uh their status in society God will save anyone that will trust Jesus Christ as Savior. In fact, the only category of people that God saves are sinners. If you're a sinner, then you qualify for salvation. And the truth of the matter is, for all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So God saves people of all stripes and backgrounds. God saves people of all national backgrounds. All we need to do is simply understand the fact that we are sinner, agree with God of our disobedience. are violation of his standards of righteousness, accept the fact that Jesus died for those violations. He died for our sins on the cross, paid the judgment of God for our sin, was buried, he rose again. He's alive forevermore at the right hand of God. And if we will call on him, if we will put our hope, our trust, our confidence in Jesus to forgive us and save us from hell, then we can have that assurance. We're on our way to heaven. So all stripes backgrounds. Uh several years ago I was able to go to Mongolia on a mission trip, preach in Mongolia. And uh you know what? I met Mongolians who had trusted Christ as Savior. We're just in Puerto Rico and uh Wednesday night at the opportunity to pre preach in the church down there. There's a young man, probably in his early twenties, I would guess. had just crust trusted Christ just a couple three weeks ago. Uh we've been uh in Dominican Republic, in Canada, and all around the world. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. So we establish the fact that God wants to save everybody. He will save anyone who trusts his son, Jesus, as their Savior. But God not only wants to save people from a life of sin and from the judgment of their sin and eternal hell, God wants to use those people whom He has saved. He wants to use us to advance the gospel to other people who need to be saved. He wants to use us to bring glory to him and how we live our lives. God wants to use us. Let me put it this way. God wants to use you. In his cause to advance his kingdom. You say, Oh, God doesn't want to use me. That is a lot. God wants to use you. Doesn't matter what your background is Doesn't matter what your education is, doesn't matter what the color of your skin is, doesn't matter what your bank account is, doesn't matter what your personality is like God desires to use you to advance his kingdom. See, oh I'm just a everyday Joe guy. God could never use me. Oh yeah, he used a donkey. If he can use a donkey, he can use you. And I know what some of you wives are thinking about your husbands right now. So God wants to use us to advance his kingdom. I'm stirred up about our missions trip. Um let me throw this out. I believe with all my heart God wants for some of y'all to go on a mission trip. I think God wants more than what are going. And go on a mission trip. I believe you say I I could never afford that. God God could never that would never be an opportunity for me. Listen, if if if you're convinced God wants you to go, if you have a desire in your heart to serve God, God will provide the way God will take care of it. I'm convinced of that. And so God will save anyone. God wants to save everyone. He will save anyone who trusts Christ. Those who trust Christ, and He saves from sin and hell, He gives them new life, God wants to use them to advance His kingdom. And bring glory to his son. Now whether that I I said mission church, but it could be anyway, giving out gospel tracts, in the clo anyway, working bus routes. We desperately need bus workers. And so God wants to use you. God wants to use me. Um, those who trust Christ, He saves them, gives them new life. God's desiring to use them. They step out and say, Lord, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to obey you. You want to use me? You tell me what to do. I'll do it. Those people, God will bless. God will pour out his blessings on them. God will give them joy and satisfaction and fulfillment in their life. Now I want to just throw out a little caution right here. And we live in a day and age, we have this We have this way of thinking in the our Christian world today that when we when when God talks about blessing his people, many folks immediately think financial blessing. God's definition of blessing us is not the world's definition of blessing us. Some people get the idea, oh if I if I get saved, I live for God, do what he says, get involved in advance in the gospel, winning souls and missions and whatnot, if I give my life that, boy, God will bless me, I'll be rich. Maybe not rich in this world's good, but I'll tell you what, you'll be rich in your heart and soul with the presence and joy and fulfillment of God You want to know what the blessings of God is, read Psalm chapter 1. That'll tell you what it means to be blessed. Now God wants to save everybody, will save anybody who trusts Christ. Those who get saved, He wants to use them. The people who trusted Christ and say, I'm going to live for God I'm going to trust them, obey, I'm going to step out and do what God wants me to do. Live for the Lord. Then God blesses them. Now that brings us to Caleb in Numbers chapter 14, verse 24. Caleb, I think many of us are familiar with who Caleb was and what his situation was. Caleb was one of twelve men spies Who were sent out by Moses to cross the Jordan River and to I'll put it this way, to survey the land that they were about to invade. Now you remember the situation they're in. Uh do I have the young people's attention? All the young people up here Uh when they start laying down on the pews I get concerned. We want you to be comfortable, but not that comfortable. Um God had called the uh can you help him there, Shirley, the young man. There we go, he's sitting up. Thank you. I forget what I was talking about. Caleb. They had come out of Egypt. The Israelites, how many people know the story? Moses, Ten Commandments, all that. Everybody's familiar. Ten plagues They come out of Egypt, and God wants to take that is a picture of salvation. God saved them. God brought them out of Egypt, set them free from bondage. God wanted Israel to go where? The promised land, Canaan, the land flowing with milk and honey. I like the Sunny School teacher asked her little voice class. Israel was a land flowing with milk and honey. What do you kids think that was like? One little boy raised his hand and said, sticky. And um but uh God wanted them to go to the promised land. And so they are beginning the process of they're out of Egypt, And they're beginning the process of getting into the promised land. It really should not have been that difficult of a thing. Just a little matter of time, then they got out, got over there, and accomplished it So, Israel has got everything, and they're at the the um Jordan River and uh they're at Cades Barnia actually, and uh they're gonna check out uh the land before they go in and invade it. So, they get twelve spies. They're going to send them across the Jordan, and they're going to spies Usually spy on stuff. So they're going to go up there and they're going to spy on the land. Actually, what they're going to do is survey it. Caleb's one of those twelve men. Now it's important to understand this They were not sent into the land of Canaan to determine if they should invade or not. Are you with me? They weren't saying, hey, you guys go see what it looks like, see if we can pull this off or not. You go and come back, give us a report, and then we'll decide whether we're going to do it or not. That was not the purpose of the spies. Their purpose was to go into the land and survey the land. I think the idea was For them to get in there, see how great the land was. Come back and tell everyone and say, hey, this place is something else. This is everything God said it was going to be. And stir the people up and get them excited about going in. That, I believe, was the intention. And so Caleb, Joshua, and ten others went into the land. And sure enough, being the good spies they were, they spied it out. They surveyed the land. You know what they found out? They found out that it really was a land flowing with milk and honey. In other words, it was very prosperous. Very fertile. In fact, they came across a vineyard where the one bunch of grapes was so large they had to put it onto a A stake. A stave. A stick. And um they had a carry on their shoulders. Now, I think sometimes we picture in our mind these monstrous sized grapes. The grapes weren't monstrous. The grape bunch was monstrous. Although the grapes may have been very large. But it's just this huge. And they come back, and uh sure enough, the land was everything God said it was. But there was a problem. When they got back, what happened was rather than simply giving a report as to the lay of the land and the prosperity of the land, here's where they started getting in trouble Ten of the twelve spies started giving their opinion. Listen, I don't believe God's too concerned about our opinion. God's more concerned about our obedience. Amen? They came back and started giving their opinion. Look with me if you would at verse chapter 13. And verse number 26. Just a page earlier. Chapter 13, verse 26. And they went out and came to Moses. These are the twelve spies who went to survey the land, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paren, to Kadesh. and brought back word unto them, and unto all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land. And they told him, and said, We came into a land that thou sendest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey. And this is the fruit of it. And then they showed that big bunch of grapes I was talking about. Now, if they'd have stopped there, they'd have been in good shape. But they injected their opinion. Get this. And it poisoned everything. Nevertheless, the next verse says, the people be strong that dwell in the land. And the cities are walled and very great, and moreover, we saw the children of Anak there. And the Amalekites dwell in the land of the south, and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amorites dwell in the mountains, and the Canaanites dwell by the sea and by the coast of Jordan. Come down to verse 31. But the men that went up with them said, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. Listen, the issue wasn't whether they were able or not, the issue was are they going to obey God or not? And so they're given their opinion. Verse 20 32. And they brought up an evil report of the Lamb, which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land through which we have gone to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof. And all the people that we saw in it are men of great stature. And there we saw the giants, the sons of Enoch, which come of the giants, and we were, look at this, we were in our own sight as grasshoppers. And so were we in their sight. They said, This is impossible. God has given, told us to do something that is not possible to be done These people are too strong for us. These people outnumber us. They have greater armies than we have. They have greater cities Greatly walled cities were unable. We look like grasshoppers compared to them. In fact, they considered us as grasshoppers compared to them They were not sent to see how strong the people were. How strong the nations were the people in the land was, how big they were, how wall their cities were, were it's irrelevant. God had already promised them that land that they would conquer it. God had already declared that to be so. Whether they could or not was not a factor in the equation. Then we come to chapter 14. Well look at verse 30 of chapter 13. Caleb stilled the people before Moses and said, Look at this. Let us go up at once and possess it. For we are well able to overcome it. Come to chapter 14, look at verse 24. Our text. God speaking, but my servant Caleb, because he had a what? Another spirit And hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land where and he went. And his seed shall possess it. Now stop and think with me for a moment. How many how many folks still with me? Everybody still with me? Okay, good. Stop and think with me for a moment. You have twelve spies As far as I can tell, there was no difference in these spies in their appearance. I mean they have their own unique characteristics, but twelve men. Just twelve everyday men. As far as appearance goes, Caleb didn't stand out And go through there and oh look at that guy. Wow, he really looks like something. No, that wasn't it. No, just twelve men. I think men are the ugliest things on the planet, but twelve men Um with one exception. Uh but anyway. So as far as appearance goes, they all um there is nothing outstanding about Caleb. Um as far as I can tell in studying this, as far as education goes, that was not a factor in any of this. Wasn't that Caleb was more educated than the others, or he was less educated than the others. It wasn't that he was ignorant. Wasn't that he was super intelligent. They were all the same, as far as I can tell I know this for a fact. Every one of those twelve had the same access to God as the others did. Caleb did not have any greater access to the Lord than any of the other twelve spices. He had no more, he didn't have a secret Message from God. Oh yeah, Caleb, the others don't know this, but I'm telling you, you can win. You're going to defeat them. They all have that same information from God So they all appeared the same. They all were basically the same education. They all had the same access and information from God. Caleb wasn't in on any secrets from God. They all knew what God had promised. As far as I can tell, they're personalities. Nothing outstanding about Jacob or Caleb. Uh that's not a factor, boy, you know. Uh Caleb just had a more positive personality. Do you ever meet people like that just bubbly over everything as Is er anybody know what I'm talking about? They make me sick. But um no, I'm teasing. Uh the it wasn't that, oh he's just his personality is such, he thinks everything's great. Uh it wasn't that way at all. In fact I thought this was interesting. The definition of the name Caleb. In the Bible, names were very significant. And often, not always, often, the name, the meaning of the name was very descriptive of the character of the person Or it gave you information about that person. So I'm trying to I'm studying this and I'm trying to distinguish, determine, well, was there something different about Caleb In his appearance, his education, maybe his personality. And I looked up his name, Caleb. And the Hebrew word Caleb, the meaning of the Hebrew word Caleb Is dog. Now let me ask you a question. How did Jews view dogs? They did not view dogs as God's man's best friend. They despised them. Dogs were nasty. The Gentiles were dogs. And Caleb's mom and dad named him dog. His name means dog. Now what's the significance of that? Maybe, maybe his personality, rather than being bubbly and positive, maybe he had a personality that rubbed people the wrong way. Maybe there was something about him that just wasn't all that pleasing. Maybe Caleb growing up was just Somebody nobody ever really thought could amount to much. Huh? But God says there was something different about Caleb. Wasn't his education. Wasn't his personality. In fact, if that name means anything, he may have had a coarse personality, not pleasant and bubbly, may have been a little turn-offish That's a good word. Turn offish. But God said that in one aspect, Caleb was vastly different than all the others And that was this. In his spirit. Now look with me if you would at chapter 14, verse 24. Look at that phrase, my servant Caleb, because he hath another spirit. Now look at that word spirit. What does it begin with? An S, a lowercase s. So it's not talking about the Holy Spirit. He's not saying that Caleb had more of God than anyone else did. As I mentioned a few moments ago, it's not saying that Caleb Caleb had greater access to God than any of the others did. When you find the word spirit in the Bible with a lower case referring to humans, it'll usually refer to one of two ways. It may talk about our spiritual being But many, many times, and the case here, it's talking about our attitude. Our attitude And I mentioned this many times throughout in messages throughout the years. What we mean by this is someone will say, boy, she has such a sweet spirit about her. What do we mean? She has a pleasant attitude. Uh boy, he is a bitter spirit. It's their attitude. God said, one thing stood out of Jacob, or of Caleb, and all the others, is he had a different spirit. He had a different attitude And what God meant by that was, uh what we mean by our spirit, what we mean by our attitude is this. And how you know, to try and define what our a person's attitude is, I put it this way: our attitude Is the way we think about things. It's how we process information about something. We think. That's our attitude. If someone has a bad attitude Then whatever's happening, they think bad about it. Their thoughts about it are negative or bad, critical. Someone has a good attitude, then the way they think about what's happening is boy, they're positive They're encouraging it, they're part of it. So he said Caleb had a different spirit. Caleb had a different attitude. Caleb thought differently than the other guys thought Caleb processed information differently than the others did. I like this one. Caleb processed God's promises. Differently than the other guys processed God's promises. When God said, I will give you this land, you will dwell in their houses, you will eat their crops. You will live and farm their land. These people will not be able to stand against you. The other spies, when they heard that, their thought was There's no way that can be true because we've seen those people. They're huge. They're more powerful than us. So their thought process, their attitude, their spirit Was different than Caleb's as to what God had said. Caleb thought, Caleb processed what God had said differently than the others did. in that he saw the giants of the land, he saw their walled cities, he saw their spears and swords and shields, he saw all their armaments. But his spirit, his attitude, his way of processing was, hey, if God said we can beat him, we can beat him. So Caleb had a different spirit. Caleb had a different attitude. He processed the information he received differently than the others did. Caleb was no different than the others in every way other than his spirit. He was an ordinary man. And I want to suggest he had an extraordinary testimony. He was an ordinary man, just like you and I, just an ordinary person, like every one of us sitting here. In fact, some ways he may have been somebody you think he never can't amount to much. His name means dog, after all. But he was extraordinary in his attitude and how he thought. And I want to say this. It doesn't matter what your background is. It doesn't matter what your personality may be like It doesn't matter what your financial standing is, it doesn't matter what your level of education is, doesn't matter what your national background is, if you can get your attitude right You can see God do some great things in your home, in your life, in your ministry. The attitude Everyone's behavior is determined by their attitude. Everyone's behavior is determined by the way they think. I travel with neighborhood Bible time for a number of years and been associated with many years. And we do little animal balloons and different things. And um and we've done it here occasionally. You get a balloon, and you fill a balloon with air. What's the chemical formula for air? H two oh is water, right? What? What is it? Just oxygen. So it's H two O. That's water. Just H one O. But um anyway. Forget all that. I'm gonna have 75 people come up to me afterward and tell me what it is. And it's everyone's gonna be different. Alright, here it is. Back on track. You have a balloon, you fill it up with air Just regular air, and you tie the bottom and you let go of it, what happens to the balloon? Might go slowly, but it's gonna sink, right? It's gonna float down. You take the same balloon, let all the air out, untie it carefully, let all the air out. You fill it with helium. Tie the bottom, you let go of it. What's going to happen? It's going to rise. Here's my point. What's inside? Determines what the balloon does. Right? What takes place in my thinking, my attitude? It's going to determine my behavior, my interaction with others, my obedience to God, the joy that I have of the Lord in my life. Caleb had a different spirit. There was something in the heart and mind of Caleb that was different than all the others. And all the others were Negative, all the others were disobedient, all the others missed the blessings of God. They died alone in the wilderness after wandering for 40 years. Because of their attitude, the way they thought about what God had said, the way they processed their surroundings, their environment, and what God had declared about it. Caleb had a different attitude. Our attitude determines whether we are hateful or whether we are happy. You say, oh, if I was in a different situation, if I was in a different circumstance, then I'd be happy. No, you don't need different circumstances. You need a different attitude. Our attitude, the way we think, determines whether we are courageous or cowardly. Our attitude, our way of thinking determines whether we are optimistic or pessimistic. Our attitude, our the way we process information, determines whether we are going to be complimentary and pleasant, or we're going to be critical and unpleasant. It's how we think. It's not our level of financial standing. I tell you, some of the happiest people, most pleasant, positive people in the world, greatest faith I've ever met in the world, are people of extreme poverty Some of those miserable, hateful, self-centered, unkind, unhappy people I've ever met. People of nice houses, drive nice cars. That's how we think. One of the most important aspects of my Christian life is my spirit Is my attitude the way I think? We're studying in Sunday school, Romans chapter 12. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your Mind, the way you think. Some of us need to change the way we think. Some of us need another spirit than what we have. Caleb had a different spirit. He stood for God courageously, and he was blessed of God tremendously because he had a different spirit. Now, what was the spirit? What was so different about his spirit? Let me give you some suggestions. He had an attitude or a spirit of great faith in God. That was his attitude. His way of thinking was: I can trust God. Even when circumstances are overwhelming, even when I look like a grasshopper in front of a giant, if God said we can defeat him, I believe God. That's the way I see it. Look what it verse 24 of Numbers 14 says. But my servant Caleb, because he has another spirit with him, hath followed me. Fully. To follow someone means you go behind them. You are trusting where they go. You have faith in them. Just follow me. I I'll get you where you need to go. Just follow me. All right. When I was when our oldest son was living in Colorado, he was working and outfitting. And uh went out there one fall to go elk hunting and we had to leave early in the morning. I'm not a big horseback rider type thing. I mean it's okay. I I've I've made my peace with horses, but um We were gonna ride, we were gonna go out, so we need to get like four the place we need to go, we need to be there before sunrise. So we had to leave the barn like four thirty in the morning. And we got these horses and I I I don't know. He says just this is a nice horse, just follow this, just sit on this one. I said, what do I do? He said just sit there I said, alright, what do I hold on to? Hold on to these things. Okay. If you want to stop, pull, if you want them to go, kick them. Alright. So Sam said, Sam said, I'll go first. Your horse will follow me. You don't have to do anything. They'll just follow me. So I can handle that. So we're going pitch black. We're going up through this canyon. And as we're going up you could hear water running on the right hand side going up. It's pitch black. I couldn't even see the ground. I'm just sitting on this thing. I could hear Sam's horse ahead of me and of course I was on my horse Now water running on the ground to the right seemed like it was getting farther and farther away. But it wasn't getting farther away out that way. It was getting farther away down that way. I thought, well that's odd. I couldn't see it, I couldn't even see the gram. And uh we're just running along, I was happy as could be. And the water's running. I thought that crick's getting smaller. You know? So we went out and we hunted and I scared the elk and we didn't shoot it and everything. But I did shoot a little deer. But um We're coming back and it's daylight. So we're riding over these little hills and stuff, and uh we come down and there's this canyon. There's this little this little and I'm not exaggerating. If I ever tell the truth, I'll point it out. Just this is the truth I'm telling you, that path was not 18 inches wide. Sitting on the horse, I could put my hand on the side here. And on now we're going the other way now, so the crick's on my left. Looking down the left, I mean that crick was I got my binoculars out. And that horse is going to cross that little band. I'm telling you the truth, I was never so scared in my life. I was hanging on for dinner. All that horse had to do was slip and we were and Sam's up there just reading a book Well yeah, about halfway through. I said, Sam. I said I'm scared to death. He goes, Yeah, all the hunters that come on this trail say that I said, no, I mean it. I'm scared. Because yeah, they always are right. He said this. He said, just follow me. Your horse will follow me. I closed my eyes, prayed so much. I said, is this the same trail we went up? He said, yep. I said, I didn't know it was that bad. He said, they all say that. The fact is, it was just a matter of faith. I couldn't see what was ahead. I didn't even know what my circumstances were. I was trusting my son. And God says that's the attitude He wants us to have about Him. An attitude of faith, following God. You say, well, if I do this. If God wants me to do this, if I do that, then all these terrible things are going to happen. That is the wrong spirit. Caleb had a different spirit. They all said, hey, if we go in that way, everybody's killed. Those guys are huge. Caleb said, no, if we go in the land, we're going to win because God said, I'm going to follow God. So he had an attitude of faith in God. It's interesting. Real quick, I want to show this to you. Come to chapter 13 again. Look at the last phrase of verse 33. This is fascinating to me. And it sends great insight on the wisdom of God. Look at the last phrase of verse 33. He says uh I'll read the whole thing of verse thirty three. I'll read the whole chapter. No, I'll just read verse. And there we saw the giants. Now notice that word Saul. We saw the giants, the sons of Anak. Which come of the giants, and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers. Now look what he says. He said, that's the way we saw ourselves. That's the way they were thinking And so were we in their sight. So they're presuming that the Canaanites saw them the way they, same way they saw themselves. But If you would come over to Joshua, just real quick, and chapter 2. Here, fast forward, and they're finally in the land. Forty years have gone by, all that generation is dead, they've crossed the Jordan, they're invading the land. Joshua chapter 2, they find this Rahab, she's a harlot, but she gets saved of all things. And notice what she says about how the Canaanites thought about the Israelites when they were coming towards the land in verse number 11. But look at verse 10. For we have heard how the Lord dried up the water of the Red Sea for you when you came out of Egypt And what ye did unto the two kings, the Amorites, that were on the other side of Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom ye utterly destroyed. Now look at this. The other spy says, They think we're grasshoppers, they'll just squish us Rahab, who's one of the Canaanites, says, this is the way we thought about you. Look at verse 11. And as soon as we had heard these things, our hearts did what? Neither did there remain any more courage in any man because of you. For the Lord your God, He is God in heaven above and in earth beneath. You know what she says The other spy says, we're nothing but grasshoppers. They see us like grasshoppers. They'll just squish us. You know how they were really thinking? Yikes Those Canaanites are coming in, they're gonna destroy us! They were scared to death So, when we operate and we think, when we don't operate by faith When our thinking is out of whack, you know what's true about us? We're wrong. They were dead wrong. Those other spies were wrong. Caleb trusted God, and sure enough, Caleb was right. You'll never go wrong having faith in God. Now that may sound straight, that may sound very simple, but it's a profound fact. You will never go wrong by following God, trusting him. Doing what he says. So if I do that, I'll get burnt. If I do that, I'll get hurt. If I do that, it'll destroy me. No! Faith says if I trust God, he'll bless me. What God says is so. Isn't that good? So he had an attitude of faith. 2 Corinthians 5. 7 says, We walk by faith, not by sight. There's other spies say, we see, we see, we see, we see this, we see that. We can't do it. Caleb says, I don't care what you see. God said, we're going to win. Second attitude, characteristic of his attitude, he had an attitude of total commitment to God. He followed God wholly. The word holy means with total commitment. Caleb followed God into overwhelming opposition. He followed God into overwhelming difficulty. Now think about it. For 40 years Caleb followed these rebels, these bad attitude, rebels. He followed them around. For 40 years burying them. I think the figure comes to like 800 funerals a day, or so, or 80 funerals a day. For all this generation to die in 40 years. And he follows them around and he goes through their hardship because of their disobedience. And yet he never abandoned his commitment to his God. You know what? We say this periodically. There are empty pews in our church and churches like ours all around the country. Because somebody, because somebody else did something, they got hurt by it, and they abandoned their commitment to God. Whether the person sitting beside me lives for God or rebels against God, it should not affect my commitment to Christ. And Caleb followed these rebels for 40 years, suffered hardship, difficulty because of their disobedience. And yet he never lost his commitment to God. Now let me throw this out. When we disobey God, we hurt others. When we're unfaithful to the Lord, you say, well, it's just me, it doesn't affect me. No, no, no. It always affects others. My obedience to God or my disobedience to God affects my children, whether I think so or not. Now here's the bad thing about it. It never shows up until years later after it's too late to correct it. Huh? Caleb, his attitude was that of total commitment to Christ. The church is in desperate need of committed Christians. Regardless of obstacles, regardless of difficulties, regardless of others' actions Christians who say, I am going to be faithful to God, I am going to trust Him. I am going to obey Him. I don't care what anyone else says. It doesn't matter what the others do. If their actions hurt me, I will still remain faithful to God. He had an attitude of joyful obedience. He followed me fully as the idea of satisfaction, joy, and fulfillment. I ran through Caleb's life here, and I searched and searched. I cannot find one hint of complaining on Caleb's part. Not one time does Caleb argue with God. Not one time does Caleb complain. About what others have done or not done. Not one time does he complain about the food or lack thereof or the uh or he doesn't complain about the heat or the dryness. All the complaining that takes place in the book of Numbers Caleb is never a part of it. And he was innocent If they'd have done what Caleb said, they would not have gone through any of that. But he refused to complain. He was happy in the Lord. He had an attitude of God is good to me, takes 40 years, whatever, God's still good. In fact, you want to know what God's attitude is towards complaining. Let me read to you quickly Numbers chapter 11 and verse 1. Listen carefully to this, and I'm winding down here. I'm about done. And when the people complained It displeased the Lord, and the Lord heard it, and his anger was kindled, and the fire of the Lord burnt among them and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts of the camp. God hates it when his people complain. God gets angry when his people complain. Caleb's attitude was that of joyful obedience. And you never find him complaining. You never find him criticizing. He says, we can do this. We can do this. Come on. God has promises we're well able to defeat them. But he never complains. He never complains. I tell you, there are some Christians, to be honest with you, I'd be disappointed if they didn't complain. But that doesn't make the Lord happy. We must allow Now I put this down, I mean this very soberly. We must allow for the possibility that a critical, complaining Christian may not be a Christian at all. Let me say that again. We must allow for the possibility that a critical, complaining Christian may in actuality not really be a genuine Christian Last of all, get an attitude of perseverance. Forty years following the Lord without getting bitter. 40 years of following the Lord without turning sour. 40 years plus of following the Lord without becoming critical. 40 years of following the Lord wit losing faith his heart was fixed No matter how difficult, no matter how unpopular, no matter how long it took, God was good, God was right, God was to be trusted and obeyed. That was his attitude. And boy, God blessed him. God blessed him. And you read his experience on the other side of the door in the promised land, and it is God pouring out his blessings, pouring out his blessings, pouring out his blessings. I want to be like Caleb. I don't want to think the way this world thinks. I don't want to think the way critical carnal Christians think. I want to have an attitude of faith. I want my thinking to be, yes, God is able. God will do what he says. God's word is true. I want an attitude of God's, I'm happy in serving Jesus. I'm gonna stick, I'm gonna fix my heart. I'm gonna stay in there. I found effective Christianity is pretty much long-term Christianity Just staying at it. Staying at winning this town to Christ. Just staying at it. Knocking on doors. Getting the radio out Putting ads in the paper and giving out God's. Just getting at it and at it and at it for five, ten, fifteen, twenty, thirty-five, fifty years. Just add it. When I was got saved at the age 19, started, God just dramatically changed my life. Started attending church. I was about 20, I was in what they called a young singles group. There's people aged from graduated from high school through about 25. There's a couple 26, 27, single vote. We had class and we do activities. It was a lot of fun. It was helpful. They discipled me a lot. The Sunday school teacher was very athletic. I mean just strong, in great shape. Reminded me a lot a little bit of me. But um Not very much. But he said, Hey, I'm a plan of bicycle trip. And we are going to ride from Philadelphia. We're just outside Philly, that spot. We're going to ride from there. We're going to go out through central Pennsylvania, up through the mountains of central PA Cross the New York side of Pennsylvania, drop down into New Jersey, come down the western co uh border of New Jersey, and then cut back over to Philadelphia. Said, we'll do it in one week. We'll leave Monday, get back Saturday. Ride bicycle. So I went out and bought a brand new English racer. Remember the English racers? And uh man, I mean it was like a lot of money and had a lot of gears and uh I got extra padding on the seat. And we're gonna go on this bike ride. We took off daybreak Monday morning. The plan was to not ride very far the first day, about 60-65 miles. You can ride 60-65 miles in one day pretty easily. That's not too difficult I mean I can't, maybe some of the other guys can't. It's really not that difficult. So we're gonna have a light day Monday. Then we're gonna get sore. Actually, I take it back. We're gonna have a full day Monday and then Tuesday was gonna be a light day. Because you'd be sore and tired. So Tuesday would be a light day. By then we'd be getting into shape. The rest of the week we'll crank it out. Well he goofed on his logistics The first day we rode 95 miles. And that was till we were right until dark, till we got to this place where we had to stop, get it all lined up. By supper time the first day, Monday, people were dropping left and right. Um so but I survived Monday. We said that I he says I really goofed. He said we gotta go 95 miles tomorrow also. Now that was supposed to be the light day. We gotta do the same thing tomorrow which we did. By now we're out in the western PA in the mountains And everybody got out and said, and this is what you started hearing. We can't do it. We can't do this. There's no way. Thinking. Follow me? Spirit. So we started out. And by noon we had a truck. The fellow's wife, he had this big truck, he followed uh, she followed us and she got sick and she had the supplies and all that and she would go to stops every so many miles. So we're riding along and there's a guy with me, Dave Henninger. And I looked at Dave, he looked at me, he came up beside, we're talking a little bit about how tough it is and people are falling off. There's about twenty of us in this. I said, Dave, I'm not quitting, I don't care. as meet that says if I die, I'm gonna die on this bike. So we established that. So that was fine. We're pumped up. We're going about noon the truck, it was a red truck goes up by us. The guy's wife, his name was Alan. Alan's wife was in there, and Alan's in the d passenger seat. Wait a minute, that's our leader. And he quit. And the back of the pickup is just filled with bites and people. And Dave looked at me and says, I'm not quitting. I said, I'm not either And I'm telling you, it got to the point, literally, where I had to convince myself to push that pedal down one more time. Alright, I'm gonna do it one more time. I'm gonna do it one more time We dreaded stopping because the moment you stopped your muscles tightened up. And then you'd have to go again. And by the end of the week, Dave Haninger and myself rode that entire trip 550 miles in about five days. I told that story to let you know how great a guy I am. What an amazing person I am. No, I told you that story because how we think affects what we do. And if we'll just determine God is good and I can do what God is wanting me to do, no matter how difficult it is, no matter how long it takes, no matter how what the obstacles are, if we can if we'll think that way We'll be able to do it. Won't necessarily be easy. Won't most likely won't be popular. But when it's when it's all said and done, you'll say, God can say, he had a different spirit. Spirit. Now what kind of Christian are you? Are you just like all the others? Or do you want a different spirit? You want to have the attitude of faith, perseverance. Joy. God will give it to us if we ask. Let's pray. Father in heaven, you know our hearts, Lord. I believe that our attitude is one of the most important aspects of our Christian life. And I pray you'd help us as individual believers to yield ourselves to you, to trust you, and say, God, regardless of the obstacles, regardless of the overwhelming obstacles, regardless of the But the difficulties gone, I'm going to trust you. I'm going to rejoice in you. I'm going to follow you. And Lord, let you get the glory. And souls be safe.