Nica on uh most likely his initial time there when he started the church and gave them some training at discipleship. Now he's writing a letter back to the church At Thessalonica. And uh he's been going through here. We've been working our way through this letter. And uh I boiled down this passage from uh chapter two down through or I'm sorry, verse two of chapter four, down through verse twelve, uh into four uh commandments that he gave them, he's basically reminding them of As I said previously, you could maybe look at this and come up with a few more than four, or maybe combine some together and get less. But that nevertheless that's what I did. I want to look at verse number eleven. This is The third instruction he's given him, commandment he's given him, verse number 11, notice where it says, and that ye study to be quiet and to do your own business and to work with your own hands as we commanded you. I've used this for a title. We're commanded to have a quiet disposition. Let's pray and try and break this down a little bit. Father, bless our time in your word this evening. I ask you to take this one verse, and uh however many words are here And the truths that are communicated through it, God apply this to our hearts and lives that we could be exactly what you instructed the church at Thessalonica to be And then through them to all of us. So please help us, Lord. Fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit. And you would be our teacher tonight. Teach through me, and that we can grow in our faith and be stronger for you. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I wish he would mind his own business. How many people ever thought that in your mind about someone or something someone. Or maybe you said it. I wish she would mind her own business. Uh how many folks ever say that? Why don't they just mind their own business? Well that's what he's talking about here. Um uh it's amazing. Uh now no doubt folks have thought that about us also. You know, often this is one way, you know. Uh it's amazing how wiser we are concerning other people's business than we are about our own business. When my wife and I became parents, we were living in Indianapolis. You know, uh all of a sudden folks showed up with all kinds of advice on how to be a parent. And we came to the conclusion, you know who the best parents are? Those that don't have any kids. They would constantly be saying stuff like, Boy, you know, if I had kids, uh, you know, if I had children, uh I have a pet peeve of evangelists, and if you'll notice Uh I I haven't heard them, but um uh none of you I don't think you'll hear any of the evangelists I bring through here say this. I had one years ago say this, and I don't have them anymore for other reasons, but um He would make this statement from the pulpit. If I was a pastor, and then he would go and say these things that he would do. And the thing I knew about him, he'd never been a pastor in his life. So uh it's amazing how wiser we are with other people's money than we are with our own money. You know, with how other people use their time than we are with how we use our time And so it's also amazing. Think about how much more we could accomplish for the Lord if we paid as much attention to our own business as we do to other people's business. What we could accomplish. Notice this verse again. He says that you study to be quiet and to do your own business. Um, God, and I've made this statement many times, and the more I study in my Bible, the more convinced I become of this truth, and that is this, God is concerned with every single area of our lives. You think about it. In the area of friendships or association with others, the Bible gives instruction there. Who we just should associate ourselves with, who we should distance ourselves from. and the characteristics of those that we should stay away from and the characteristics of those we should associate with. The Bible's concerned about our friendships, our associations, people we are uh with. Uh the Bible gives instructions on what it means to be a good friend. And uh those types of things. The Bible uh talks about our money. Now we don't like that, but the fact of the matter is the Bible talks a lot about finances I can't prove this. I've never did this study for myself, but there's a number of commentaries I've read in different uh Bible scholars, I guess you could call them, that have suggested that Jesus preached on money more than any other subject. He dealt with possessions and finances in the Gospels more than any other subject But that may or may not be the case, but I do know this God's concerned with how we use our money. God's concerned about our interaction with the opposite sex, and we looked at that in the previous passage. God's concerned Uh the God's concerned with how long our hair is for the men and ladies. Did you know that? No, he's not as concerned about mine as he is about others. But the Bible addresses that hair issue. About our appearance, our dress, the type of clothes we wear, how we use our time, our work ethic The Bible addresses that. The Bible addresses how an employer is to deal with and treat his employees, and vice versa. So my statement is this. The Bible, God is concerned with every area of our life. I can't think of an area of life where the Bible doesn't address in one way or another. Doesn't have some statement about it. Here, in this passage, he's dealing with our disposition. Now, we're in class tonight. You don't know this, but you're in Bible Institute tonight. Let me ask you this. What do we mean by when we say our disposition, what do we mean by that? What are we talking about? Anyone want to take a shot at that? Okay, our character to some degree. Our character would perhaps be affect our disposition. Our attitude would be a big part of it. My disposition, my attitude, the way I see things. Okay, uh how I think uh how I allow that to affect how I allow it to manifest itself, that would be something, our disposition. Uh I put this, and this would tie in with frame of mind. I was thinking uh uh this would tie in with attitude or frame of mind. Um just My attitude, the way I think about things, my frame of mind. God, I think this verse here is talking about our disposition. That's what I think, our frame of mind. Uh I broke it down. I I see three distinct statements here or points in this verse. The first one that I put down was this. He addresses the effort that is required to have a quiet disposition. Notice in the first part of the verse. He says, and that ye study to be quiet, to do your own business, to work with your own hands, as I commanded you. The first statement there, he says, you've got to study for this to take place. Now when we think of study, we think of getting books out and reading and getting ready for a test The word study here is interesting, and it's translated different ways throughout the Bible. It has this idea of putting forth an earnest effort The word diligent pops up as you do a word study on this word study. To be diligent, to put forth, I have came up with this definition, to labor diligently towards something. So he's saying here that if we're going to have a quiet if we're going to be quiet and do our own business and work with our own hands, if we're going to have this disposition about us, it's something we're going to have to work at. It doesn't just come naturally. Now I have two thoughts under that thought. First one is this. Success in the Christian life Requires diligent and constant effort. In fact, if you're going to alliterate this as I like to, I put success in a Christian life requires industry. You've got to work at it. It doesn't just happen. If somebody is a successful Christian, I can tell you one thing, it didn't just happen. They worked at it. There were some things they had to apply themselves to. They had to discipline themselves in some ways to accomplish that. How many folks here? All right, let me ask this. Would you agree with me reading my Bible on a daily basis is a very important part of being a successful Christian Christian. We we all agree with that. Goodness. Let me ask you this. How many folks in the morning you instinctively well let me put it this way, how many folks in the morning, if you didn't work at it, it wouldn't happen? Bible daily Bible reading. Come on now. There's a 10,000 things going on. It would be very easy just to push that aside and go and do everything else. But if it's gonna happen, I have to what? I have to make it happen. I've got to work at it. I've got to discipline myself. Alright, I've got to read that Bible. You say, well, I don't feel like it sometimes. God wouldn't want me to do something I don't feel like. Well, you haven't read your Bible very much The Bible asks us to do a lot of things that we don't naturally feel like doing. So my statement is this, and this thought is success in a Christian life requires industry. It doesn't just happen. I've got to discipline myself It must be important enough to me to put forth effort. There's a hundred things you can I can do, uh have option to do every day. But the things that are important to us are the ones that we invest our time and effort into. You agree with me on that? Things important. We have a back deck. And uh uh we got a little dog, Sam has a little dog there, Chief. And um sometimes if there's not real busy or whatever, I'll go and take the shovel and I'll shovel off the back deck so Chief can run up and down the steps and not in the deep snow 'Cause he's kind of a little sissy dog. And uh not really. Uh but uh uh if I had time. But you know, sometimes I'm kinda busy and that is not that important to me that I'm willing to take the time and the effort to go shuffle off the steps for the little doggy. It's just not important to me. And that's the way it is in the Christian life. We've got to determine what is important to us and what isn't. What am I willing to invest time and effort in? To become a successful Christian. Here he says, if you're going to obey this command, if you're going to be a successful Christian, you've got to work at this. You've got to put some time into it. You've got to put some effort into it. So, the effort required. One, success in a Christian life requires industry. I put this down. Number two, success in a Christian life requires inquiry. In other words, it requires research. The word study does include, in its definition, study. I need to look up what does the Bible say about having a quiet disposition? What does the Bible instruct me? Concerning my frame of mind, the attitude I have. What does the Bible say about it? What does the Bible tell me how to change my attitude? What does the Bible say? I protect myself from getting the wrong attitude So I've got to study. I've got to get it up and look it up in different types of things and research that and compare scripture to scripture if I'm going to have this down. So I've got to study To be quiet. It means not only do I research scripture, but I analyze my own condition. We ought to be students of ourselves, I think. I've tried to figure out, study and figure out where my weak places, weak where my weaknesses are, and what my strengths are. That is important to understand. I believe we are born, I think Bible teach supports this, we are born with certain dispositions. Towards certain things. Follow what I'm saying? Sometimes some folks are born with a more of a lazy disposition. Others are born very um industrious. They're just kind of they're that way If I realize, if I study myself and I realize I have a tendency to be lazy or I have a tendency maybe to be dishonest or whatever it might be, I ought to be aware of that so that I can shore that up and I can work on that. He says, study to be quiet. Alright? I'm not naturally that way. How am I? What does my mind tend to, how does my mind react to things? Do I get all worked up Do I withdraw and soak? How do I respond to that? And then what do I need to do to correct that to make it what it ought to be? Uh if I'm going to have the right solution to a problem, I've got to know what the problem is. Follow my thinking. And so he says, study. I need to study scripture. I've got to analyze my condition. And I think it's wise to get counsel from other godly people. You know, I'm struggling with this area here. I struggle with that. And uh, you know, I see the scripture says this, and I know of a tendency to be this way. Uh, you know, is there any you know how did you deal with that? How did you find victory? We were talking with somebody, Sandy Sunday between Sunday school and church about relating to people empathy and sympathy. And I still think I'm right, but anyway, uh I'm teasing kid. Um but uh we're this was the idea and that was this that um somebody let's say let's say just for sake of illustration somebody their sister dies And I can come up to him and I can uh I can say I can say, Well, you know, I'm really sorry, I feel bad, your sister dies. Uh uh Uh I I I'm sorry. But I really don't know what they feel like. You follow what I'm saying? I don't know how they feel. I don't know what they're going through. I've never I've never had a sister die. Now, suppose I did have a sister die Then I could come to them and say, honestly, listen, I know what you're going through. I I know how you feel. I know what it does to your mind. I know how your heart aches. I know that feeling, that emptiness that's there. Or, you know, you can fill in any person or oh, any situation. But I've been through it, I know what it is. And what I was suggesting between Sunday school and church was as a Christian, if we're going to help people, we need to do more than just share with them how they feel. We need to share with them what Christ did for us, how he helped me in that situation, and share with them how he helped me so that God can help them in that situation. Follow what I'm saying That's what the idea of study here is. Somebody that's already dealt with that, somebody that's already had victory in this area, I go to them and I glean from them. I get information and help from them so that I can have victory in that area. So there's a ton of truth in this one statement. Just study to show yourself, study to be quiet and to do your own business. So first thing we have here is the effort required. Everybody happy? Amen. Good. I just couldn't tell by looking at you. Um second thing I notice in this verse is not just the uh effort that's required, but there's some instruction given. Again, look that you study to be quiet and to do your own business and to work with your own hands. He instructs them to do three things. Study, be quiet, do your own business, and work with your own hands. Three things. I put them this way. First of all, the instruction was to be peaceful. To be peaceful. That word quiet is an interesting word, as it's used in Scripture. What do you think of, what do you associate the term quiet with? Lack of noise. We associate the word quiet with noise And particularly volume. Right? The equ would you kids be quiet Right? That's what we associate it with noise and volume. But in the Bible, the term quiet doesn't necessarily, isn't that narrow. It includes a quietness of the mind. It's talking about having a peace of mind. It's actually translated some places in the Bible to be at rest. To simply have my mind is at rest. The word tranquility Because of mine. H how many people w when I say tranquility you think of a cer you you you you under how many people does anybody have any idea what tranquility means is what I'm trying to ask Tranquility, it's just kind of a peaceful, the sun's setting, the water's calm, you got a fish and pull in, a little birds are tee-tee tee, everything's just uh Right? Relaxing and all that. That's the idea in this word here. It's not talking about talk loud It's talking about having a peace of mind. It's talking about um to be have have tranquility. Now look at this all in mind. He says that you study, put forth a lot of effort. In fact, one of the definitions of the word study was labor. Work hard, be diligent, put a lot of effort into being at rest. It's almost a contradiction in terms. We're to work hard at not getting worked up. And that's the idea of study uh to be quiet. Don't get worked up. Don't get your mind all in an upheaval. Don't get all riled up. Anybody here ever have something happen, somebody says something, boy, all of a sudden the old mind kicks in the gear. Anybody know what I'm talking about? He's saying, work very hard at not doing that. I can't believe that he said that word. Man, those gears are working everything. And he says, hold it. You've got to work hard at not letting that happen. You've got to maintain a quiet disposition. You've got to keep that mind from getting all worked up. We are to be, I like this, we are to be ambitious At having a quiet disposition. Kind of reminds me of guys, when I worked in, when I was in Bible college, I worked for just a brief period of time for a delivery service, ABC Delivery, out of Chattanooga, Tennessee. And we'd run down to Rome, Georgia, and down to Calhoun, Georgia, northern part of Georgia, we'd deliver stuff all over there. And there was one place, one factory, I think it was a carpet place, most of those Chops on ever carpet stuff. And again, there was two guys who were the laziest men I ever met in my life. I mean absolutely flat out lazy And we came to the conclusion those guys would work five hours to get out of five minutes work. I mean they come up with the most ingenious schemes and things how to avoid doing a little work. If they just did the work, it would have been less work than trying to get out of the work. You follow what I'm saying? That's the idea here. He says, listen, work very hard at not getting worked up Go towards that thing. So we're to be peaceful. It's the idea of self-control. Take your Bible if you will. Keep your place here. Come back to me with me to Proverbs real quick. Proverbs 25. And it's amazing as I was working through here how many passages in Proverbs tie right in to what he's saying here. Proverbs 25, look at me at verse 28. Verse 25 verse 28. Look what it says here. Verse 28. He that hath no rule over his own what? Spirit, small s, it's talking about our attitude, our frame of mind, the way we think. He that hath no rule over his own spirit, he has no control over his mind. Is like a what? What in the world is a city that has no walls, it's broken down, it has no walls? What is that city? What are the purpose of the walls? Protection, defense. That city has no walls, it's defenseless. There's not people can come armies can come and go as they please, take what they want. They have no control over their own destiny And he's saying, listen, if you can't control your mind, if you can't keep yourself from getting worked up, you have no control over yourself. If Mary saying something to me gets me all worked up, Who controls me? Who's controlling me? I'm letting Mary control me Right? If she says something and it gets me all out of kilter and my mind's racing, I'm working, I'm all worked up, it's not me. I'm I'm I'm like a city without walls Some of you just come marching in, say a few words, and have me all in ruins. You follow what I'm saying? I've got to be able to control. That's what he's saying. Work very hard At guarding your reaction to things and your mental reaction to stuff. That's the idea of quiet. So the instruction given, number one, be peaceful. Number two Be proper. Look what he says. That you study to be quiet and to do your own business Do your own business. Are you still in Proverbs? If not, come there. I meant to get this right away. Proverbs chapter 20 If you're still back to Proverbs 20, look at verse number 3. Now remember he says, work hard at this, study. To number one, be peaceful, keep your mind from getting worked up. Number two, be proper. Look at chapter twenty of Proverbs and verse number three. It's an honor for a man to cease from strife. Look at this next part of it, the last part. But every what's that word? Man, that's a strong word. Do you agree with me? God is making a strong statement here. Nobody in the world wants to be called a fool. Not by, at least by God. Look what he says, but every fool will be what? Meddling. What does it mean to meddle? Constantly getting involved in others people's business. We put it this way: sticking my nose where it has no business be. Right? Now, God uses strong terms here. He says every fool is going to do that. They're going to constantly be involved in what someone else is doing, what everyone else is doing. He comes coming back to 1 Thessalonians, he says, you study, you work hard, you apply yourself to not let that be true of you. You do your own business. Now, there's a world of difference between meddling in other people's affairs and trying to be involved in their spiritual growth and well-being. You follow what I'm saying? Sometimes preach sometimes after a message, folks will walk out and they say this in jest, I think. They'll say something like this, well, you got to meddling today, preacher. You know what I'm talking about? In other words, it was dealing with stuff going on. Does that mean is he saying here a preacher ought not to preach on what's going on in people's lives? No, he's not saying that at all. The preacher, in the position God has given him, is given the responsibility to deal with issues. Now there's an appropriate way to do it in various settings and situations. But it's not saying that we are to not help other people. We're not to be involved in what they're doing It means we are not to be, we're not to st uh we are not to deal with issues that really have nothing to do with us. You follow what I'm saying? I'm not to put my give my opinion and give my input and things that has absolutely nothing to do with me, no responsibility. Let me ask you this. My that and to do your own business. Let's step out of the Christian world, Christian world, just look in the secular world. What is our business? What is the business we're supposed to be doing? Not in the Christian world, in just our secular world. What's our business? Okay, now let's remove those spiritual and biblical, just All right, do your work. You're supposed to work your job, uh pay your bills, uh be the right kind of citizen. That's our business. Uh taking care of my family, fulfilling my responsibilities That's he says, listen, you do that. Fellas, you work your job. You take care of your family. You pay your bills, you raise your kids, you fulfill your responsibility. Now, what about in the spiritual world? And as Christians, what's our business? What's our business as Christians? All right, spread the gospel. I see in Matthew 28, summarizing our responsibility, our business as Christians, number one, to preach the gospel to every creature. Number two, baptize those that get saved. And number three, teach those that get saved and baptize to live for God Now that's our business. So, if uh what is he saying here? He's saying work very, very hard. As a Christian, you get the gospel of as many people as you can The ones that trust Christ, you do everything you can to get them baptized. Those that get baptized, you do everything you can to teach them to live for God and do what the Bible says. In your secular aspect of your life, you work hard at your job, you pay your bills, you fulfill your responsibilities, you do the duties you have to do. And let other people do theirs. Does that make sense? Let them uh don't meddle into their business. And um so just be proper. Number one, be peaceful. Number two, be proper. I put number three down here, be productive. That you study to be quiet, that's peaceful, do your own business, that's proper. And three, and work own hands. Work with your own hands. That's be productive. Three thoughts about work. I put this down. Work is hot is a high priority. There's two things that we have today that we got in the Garden of Eden. Two things we have today we got in the Garden of Eden. Number one is family. Right? Family was uh originated. If marriage and family was originated, Gordon Eden came out with Noah. Noah uh Adam. Um I'm glad you were aware of the fact that I made a mistake there The other thing we brought out of the Garden of Eden was work. Did you know before the fall, God instructed Adam to work? Do you know one of the reasons Adam was created was to work, to keep the garden and till it? That was hard work. You say, wait a minute, work is a result of the fall. It's a curse of God on man. No, it isn't. Work was given to man before the fall ever took place. And so work is a high priority. It's part of our, we're designed, we're created to work. Nothing is accomplished without hard work. We have folks come through here. We're going to have Brother Mattingley through here for a family conference Sunday and for the couples thing. Brother Mattingley, I don't know if some of you are aware of this, but he pastored a huge church in Louisville. Strong, good, strong church right now. They run thousands, they still do today Uh big Bible college well not big, but they're probably around a couple hundred students, I would guess, Bible college, and just a strong, powerful work uh going on there. Let me ask you a question. Do you think that just happened No, I know the man. I known him back when we lived in Indianapolis. The guy is a hard worker. Nothing is accomplished of any value that does not involve hard work. Now it may not be physical manual Uh physic uh uh manual labor might be mental But there's effort involved, the work involved. So God created, He says, be productive, work with your own hands. It's a high priority. Work is not only a high priority, it's honorable. Nobody respects a lazy man. Right? Well, I think the world of him. He just lays around and does nothing all day. Huh? He's the laziest guy in the world. I just want to be just like him Nobody says that. Nobody respects a lazy person. Work is honorable. It's a high priority. I put this down. Work is healthy. Work is healthy. Say, oh, it's killing my knee. Let me ask you a question. Suppose you go on vacation or you have a job where you don't do a lot of physical labor and then one day you got a day off or whatever and you do it you work really hard all day, maybe in the garden or whatever And at the end of the day, tell me if I'm right or wrong. Mentally, you feel good. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Boy, it felt good to work today Get out there and dig. Maybe your back's killing you and you cut yourself in the thorns or whatever, but in your mind, that was a good thing It's healthy to work hard. We're created to work. So what's he saying? He's saying Study to be quiet, but you put diligent effort into this. Then you just have peace of mind, be tranquil, you mind your own business, you stay at the responsibilities God has given you and your family uh you have as a family member You work hard at that, you work at that, let the others worry about theirs. Um by the way, that applies to churches. I have no business as pastor meddling in what other churches are doing Right? Now if they're preaching and teaching wrong, I preach and teach the truth and warn against wrong. But I don't write there was the re this is a little personal. I years ago I used to get a letter from another pastor who would constantly tell me what I should and shouldn't be doing That I shouldn't bring Dr. Williams in, he doesn't preach right, and I shouldn't bring Dr. Smith in and he's not that, and I shouldn't do this, I shouldn't do that. And I would always write back I'm just getting this off my chest tonight. I would always write back, thank you, thank you for your concern. Please pray that God would give me wisdom. I'd write them back. That's all I ever say. Then a couple three months or we'd have another meeting and I'd get another letter. And so finally, after about a year of that, I wrote back and said, you know, the wonderful thing about being an independent Baptist is I answer to Jesus Christ and not to another pastor for the decisions I make as pastor of my church. I never write letters again. They stopped coming. So what's true in that in ministry is true in However, God's given me a responsibility to be a witness, share the gospel, try and get other people baptized, teach them to live for God, and I don't have to meddle in someone else's business what God has given them, right? All right, we beat that to death. Let me give you number three, the last one. Then the information is repeated. Here he makes this statement again. Study be quiet, it's peace of mind. Do your own business, let's be proper, work with your own hands, let's be productive. As we what? He keeps saying that over and over again. Now we come in would I don't need to tell you this, but do this, just like we told you Verse 2, for you know what commandments we gave you. You remember we told you to do this, this, this, this. What's he doing? He's doing the same thing he's been doing the whole time. He's just repeating it over and over and over and over again. He's being very tactful about it. Paul had already told them to be at peace, be productive, be proper in their interaction with others. He had already told them that But he's saying, Hey, I'm giving it to you again, giving it to you again. How many folks here when you raise your kids or you're raising your kids You tell them to do something one time and it's all taken care of, settled. You never have to tell them to do it again. Anybody? How many people ever said this? If I told you once, I've told you a thousand times, make that ba Anybody? Yeah. You know what? That's exactly the way we are with God. God says, I gotta tell you again, I told you this before. I gotta tell you again. You notice good strong churches, the preaching is a little bit repetitious. Why was there one other time he preached that same thing? You know what? You read the Bible, you read Colossians, and then read Philippians. Same thing. Ephesians, Galatians, almost the same thing. It's just over and over and over and over. You know why? Because we're like a bunch of little kids. And we need God. How many folks here ever went to revival meeting years ago and God dealt with you about something and you and you did what God said you made it right. Anybody here Sure. How many folks here six months later you're right back where you started and you needed that revival again? So he said, Why do you guys have revival meetings every eighteen we uh uh every eight weeks? It's about how long it takes, you know, till we get messed up again and somebody comes through. So let's uh let's ask God to give us a quiet disposition. Let's work towards that. Don't let that mind go crazy when someone says, don't react to stuff. Let's work hard. Let's mind our own business. God, we've got our plates full. Amen. So he said, what do you think about that other church? Listen, my hand uh I've got enough with Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm not worried about anybody else. I got enough to do And so let's just stay at this. Father in heaven, I hope this was helpful tonight. I believe, Lord, we've uh preached and taught what this verse says here. I pray you'd help us apply it to our lives now. That we would be a godly people, that we would be proper and productive and and uh just at peace and our hearts and minds tranquil. And Lord, uh, that you would be pleased with us. We could be like to church at Thessalonica and rapture ready. When you come, we have things in place. Help us to stay at this, Lord. And I ask this in Jesus' name. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.