Bible and turn to the book of Revelation in chapter twenty-two. Revelation chapter twenty-two And we're going to read uh verse twenty. The Word of God says in Revelation 22, 20, it says, He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so, come Lord Jesus. Heavenly Father, I pray now that uh tonight that you would speak to our hearts through your word. May the Spirit of God uh lead and guide in our preaching and and all it's done, and may you get honor for it. We thank you, Lord, for this church and the testimony it's had through these many years. It's ups and downs and still Uh it's come out where it honors you. It honors you in word and deed and lifts you up and I thank you, Lord, for uh for this church and the and the leadership, the pastor that that the uh has been called upon to lead it at this particular time. And now, Lord, I pray that you would bless this message to our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. In that verse, that is the the last two uh How can I say it? It's the last promise, and it's also uh the the uh uh Last prayer. That's what I was looking for. The last promise is I come quickly. And the last prayer is, even so, come Lord Jesus. In John chapter 14, uh the cross, Calvary is just hours away from uh from the Lord Jesus. As he talks with his disciples, uh what do you think is on his heart the most? If you had but just a few hours before you were to leave your loved ones, what would be the message that you would want to portray? uh to those those loved ones. Be something that would be very important to both of you. In this particular case we're talking about Uh we're talking about the Son of God, we're talking about his disciples, we're talking about a ministry that Jesus is going to leave them and and uh we're talking about not just a uh But we're t we're talking something here that that uh is going to involve a world And so, what is it that Jesus wants to portray? What does he want to get across to his disciples at this particular moment in their life, knowing that Calvary is just a short time away and he was going to be leaving? What is it that's most important upon his mind? And he says this in chapter 14 and verse 1. He said, Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me In my father's house are many mansions if it were not so. I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you into myself, that where I am, there you may be also. And whither I go, you know, and the way you know. The one thing that Jesus wants his disciples to understand is that yes, he's going away. And of course later on he talks about the comforter that he's going to send, another one just like him that's going to be with them, and not just with them, but in them. But the one thing that he wants them to understand in that verse, in those verses there, is that I will come again. When you think about the uh the Old Testament prophecies uh of the first coming of Christ, and every one of those prophecies that were foretold uh hundreds and thousands of years prior to the full fulfillment of it, we uh uh every one of those promises been fulfilled uh in the Lord Jesus. If those promises in the Old Testament that were given were fulfilled Is it not reasonable for us to believe that that whatever Jesus promises in the scriptures in the New Testament That he is going to fulfill those promises. He's going to keep every jot and tental. He did it in the Old Testament. Why not the new? We know that he's not a liar And so the one thing that he wanted his disciples to to know and to understand is that I'm going to go, yes. But I will come again. And there's a reason for it. He's not just going to come again and you know walk around. That's not it. But he says, I'm going to come and I'm going to receive you to myself. That makes the promise even more precious to me. To know that the Lord Jesus is not just coming back, but he's coming back for me. I hope you can say the same thing, he's coming back for you. There's a that personal element that's involved in this process. I know your pastor, he he's been preaching on along the same line. uh these past few Sundays. And perhaps um some of the stuff that that uh we'll talk about uh this evening is going to be repetitious. But uh I I don't know about you but I never get tired of hearing about the second coming of Jesus Christ. There's something there's something about that that just brings a almost brings a tingle to the heart. It uh stirs you up inside and and uh your mind begins to to ponder uh the wonderful things that's going to be available. This world that we we live in is is a world of chaos. Physically it's it's in chaos. Uh Ring of Fire, the volcanoes are out over the around the Pacific, you know, they call it that the Ring of Fire. And they're they're still active. It's it's a world that's groaning and travailing in pain. We see the the storms that uh that ravish our shores, and some of the worst ones we've ever had have been just recently. And not just one or two, but three or four. I mean, uh, it just seems like there's a constant bombardment that's taking place. Our world is in is in chaos physically. between the storms and the and uh the volcanoes and and uh of of course there's there's always the uh the naysayers that are they're talking about uh some great uh comet that's gonna come and wipe us out. But you know, we need to stick with scripture, don't we? It's gonna be a comet, you know, it's gonna hit the earth, and it's gonna wipe out a third of the population, but uh we're not gonna be here to see it. That is if you're safe. We're not gonna have to worry about that part of it But I'm just saying that that our world is is ready for something. If you just uh listen to to to the secular world, You you hear them talking about uh something is gonna is gonna happen. You know, and and maybe they even throw out some dates and then you know, by this particular time uh dates, well we you know we don't we don't believe in that stuff, you know. Uh there's only one who really knows when Jesus is coming back when and that's of course the the Father. So we don't worry about that. But I know that it just seems like that that a lot of people, a lot of people, not just religious people, not just uh born-again Christians, not just uh the uh independent Baptists, but But people, just different uh different ones in in the various uh uh uh parts of our world, you know, in the political arena and the uh the social arena and so forth They just there's something that's something that's going to take place. They don't know what it is and uh they don't know even what kind of a thing it's gonna be, but but they just feel like there's something is going to happen. We're just ready to to you know, something is bound to happen. Of course that's That's where they bring in well, there's gonna be a sunflare that's going to come and and wipe out our uh our electric grid and that's gonna plunge the world into darkness and that's gonna bring on the ice age and that's gonna wipe out humanity But they're they got their minds set that there's something's going to happen. And I think there is. Only I think it's going to be along the lines we just talked about I believe Jesus coming back. And I believe, I believe it's going to be in my lifetime. Some of you are wishing I just right now, I it all it most makes me do the same thing. But uh you know, they're just I mean I uh I can't help but look forward to it. Uh Well well we're supposed to be we're supposed to be looking for that coming. I know we're in in the book of uh I believe it's the book of Titus The there's a verse of scripture there that uh that I want to read. It says this Uh I'll just read a couple verses ahead there. It says, uh, exhort servants to be obedient to their masters and to please them well in all things, not answering again. Not proloining, but showing all good fidelity, that they may adorn the doctrine of God, our Savior in all things. For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men, teaching us that denying ungodliness and worldly lust Uh we live we should live soberly and righteously and godly in this present world. Looking For that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave Himself for us that that uh he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify in himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works, looking for that blessed hope And that glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ. We're supposed to be looking for him You know uh I was I was looking for uh uh something that that I could uh maybe uh read to you that would uh kind of bring out this thing about looking. And here's uh one that I found. This is a Uh Dr. Lee Robertson, I think this was one of his accounts. It was in one of his books. I think I got it off your shelf back there years ago. It says, uh, one night says, while I was preaching uh in uh Jacksonville, Florida, I arranged for a man to pick me up at 3. 30 the next morning so I could catch my plane at 4. 50 to go home. I went to a motel. I got an alarm clock from the office. I set it for 3. 15 in the morning. I went to bed around midnight and I thought I would uh go right to sleep. But I kept thinking about that alarm clock, about the time it would go off. I looked at it at 1 o'clock and then at 2 a. m. I glanced at it again. At 3 o'clock, I looked at it again. I began wondering how the alarm would sound when it went off. Would it be loud or soft? Would it awaken me if I went to sleep? I think the time from 3 o'clock to 3. 15 was the longest I had ever known. At 3. 10, I got up on the edge of the bed and I looked at the clock. I waited for it to go off at 3. 15. And when it finally started to ring, it seemed to explode like a shotgun. Relieved, I turned it off. I could get up now and begin traveling. Now there's a of course a story behind that. He said, I offer this simple illustration to say that it's far better that we don't know the time of the coming of our Lord We can work through the day rejoicing as we work, look expectantly towards His return. We can lie down to sleep at night when troubled, resting in the Lord and knowing that in His hands all things will be done right. And that's good common sense there, isn't it? That's just good wisdom. If we knew when it was, I could just I've d how many of you have done the same thing? You set your clock and then you can then you started worrying about whether it's going to go off. I've done that. I've done that myself. Look at that thing, get up one o'clock, two o'clock, three o'clock, and as it approaches well you can that now you can't sleep because it's ready to go off. Now you're afraid you're gonna go to sleep. You can't get up And it just you know just it just and then finally when it does go off you know Yeah. We're better off we don't know when when the timing is. But boy I tell you, we're supposed to be looking. We're supposed to be in it. And what it's talking about is not not to, you know, stand there looking at at the clouds. We know he's coming in the clouds. But I'll tell you, it doesn't hurt for us to get up in the morning and look out the window and look at the cloud and say, you know, it could be today Yeah, it could be today. Maybe this morning. Now, what does that do to us whenever we anticipate his presence in our life? Well, the ha it has something to do with how we live. That second coming ought to affect our it ought to affect our life. It ought to affect, you know, how we how we deal with people. If we knew at the very next moment, you know, uh that we're we're dealing with somebody and it's getting kind of a heated situation, and but if we knew that uh In the next moment, Jesus is going to, we're going to be standing in front of him. Do you realize how fast that's going to happen? Now uh you know, we know the verse, don't we? You know, in the moment, the twinkling of an eye, Well we know how fast a twinkle is. I mean it's uh you want to see how fast one is? Wanna see it again? But it's gonna happen fast. And so we're standing there, we're right in the middle of really spewing out some nasty stuff, you know, and The and all at once you're looking at the Lord, he's he's he's standing there looking at you. Yeah, you were saying, what was that? What was that thought that you just had in your head? You know. Maybe it you know Of course, during that instant, we are going to be changed in a moment, twinkling of an eye So we get there, well we won't remember what we're gonna say anyhow. Go ahead and say it. That's all right. No, don't go say it Well, the reality of the coming is is something that's that is settled as a matter of faith. And uh That's that's that blessed hope that we have. Not that, boy, I sure hope he, you know. It's not that kind of hope we're talking about. The blessed hope is a is a positive thing. It's something to look forward to and realize that this is an event that's going to take place. It's just a matter of time and it's God's timing on that thing. The blessed hope. Even the name has a ring to it that makes me feel good inside. When I think of the blessed hope, that's a special, special, special, special uh uh Gracious virtue that God extends to us. The reality. I will come again and receive you unto myself. That must have been a comfort to those disciples as they they heard the Lord say that, knowing that he couldn't lie. The angels confirmed that back in the book of Acts chapter 1, if you want to slip over there with me. Acts chapter 1, and we're looking in verse 11. And probably we should quote that verse too, couldn't we? Which also says, says while they were looking up, they were looking steadfastly towards heaven, verse 10, as he went up, behold, Two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. So it was reaffirmed uh in the book of Acts, that same thing, that he's going to come again. The angels said it. So Jesus says it, and the angels say it, and then the Lord Himself says it there in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4. In that uh chapter that that talks about that that trump of God and the excitement that's gonna take place. Well, I I don't know. There's What takes place right after the right after the rapture of the church, right after the trumpet of God and the voice of the archangel, and we're chained a moment in the twinkle of the eye, and we're taken out of here Uh the this crippled put on in corruption and so forth. When that all takes place, boy what's going to take place right after that is going to be something. You know, if you're if you're here tonight and and you've uh you know you never trusted Christ as your Savior, all the things that we've talked about just in the past few minutes All those things are for Christians. They're not for you know, it's not for the world. Jesus is not coming back for the world. He's not coming back for you if you're not one of his. The only ones that he comes back for Is that one? The Bible says, as many as received him, to them gave you power to become the sons of God, even to believe on his name. And it's those people that Jesus is coming back for. Those of us that know him as their personal Savior, the one that has the Spirit of God living within, because you see, the Spirit of God implements this whole thing. Jesus is coming back, but only the Holy Spirit, those filled with the Spirit of God, is going to be raptured out and meet him in the air. Boy, if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, them also would sleep in Jesus will God bring with him For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent Of course that word prevent is precede, them which are asleep. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with a voice the archangel Wonder what an archangel sounds like. Ever wondered about that? You reckon he has a a nice tender voice? You figure it's a it's a melodious sound in his voice Somehow or another, I think it's going to be beautiful, no matter what it is, right? And the dead in Christ shall rise first, and we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together. And there's where the word rapture comes from, the catching up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. Isn't that a comfort? To me that that That's what this is all about. It's that moment when we'll we're going to see him face to face. You know, the Christian is not is not uh encouraged to look at death, even though death is that is that trans is that transitional thing That is going to get us from here into the very presence of God. But we're not to look for death. That's not that's not you know, I I we're not supposed to think, well, sure wish I'd die today because I want to see the Lord. That's not what we're supposed to be looking for. You know? We're not even supposed to be looking for heaven. Say, well boy, I wish I could go to heaven today. That's not what we're supposed to be looking at. What we're supposed to be looking at is we're supposed to be looking under Jesus. We're supposed to be looking at him, looking for him, watching for him, waiting for him, him, him When we see him, or we're going to be like him. That does something to you. We're going to be like him. When we see him, we're going to be like him. And in that moment, the twinkling of an eye of when we go from this this body of flesh and all at once it's just dropped aside and we're changed in the moment in the twinkling of an eye. that moment we'll see him and we'll be like him. We'll have his his desires and his heart and his and and it's going to be wonderful. Him. That should be the focus. Looking for him, waiting for him, waiting for him Because he's going to come in a moment, a twinkling of an eye, one day. And I don't think that day's that far off. We have the guys who know a whole lot more about prophecy than what this evangelist does. And they talk about all the things that are taking place in the world today that looks like it's just leading us right up to that moment where we step off into eternity. Right, you know, ready to step off into into into that new life, that change in the moment twinkling of an eye life. They say it's just that close. There's so many things that have come together that that just makes sense that he can't wait much longer. And I believe, I believe he's I believe he's ready. I believe that that he has this angel with the trumpet getting ready to blow. I think he's licking his lips. Maybe you could give him a couple pointers, huh? And or maybe he'd give you a couple of pointers there. I'm sorry, you do you did good, buddy. You did good. But you do you see what I'm saying? It's uh I believe we're right at the place where one is not going to be long. And we're going to all at once We're going to be chained the moment the twickly alien this old corruptible body is going to put on a new body. I don't know what uh some of them said, well it's going to be a a thirty year old body. Well Right now I'd take that. You know. But really it's it's going to be so far superior to a thirty year old body. that I I don't even think about, you know, thirty year old that's nothing. It's gonna be something uh you can walk through a wall, how about that? If it was gonna be like him, he did it, why couldn't we It's gonna be something special. The reality of the second coming. I don't think there's any any question we have the verification from Jesus' own lips and from the angels' lips and I just believe it. The rapidity of it, the Bible says it's going to happen quickly. I come quickly, fast, in a moment, the twinkling of an eye. It's going to happen just in a moment. And then the result of it. The result of the second coming, is going to be number one, I believe God is going to finally be able to say, finally, finally it's happened. And I believe he's going to be satisfied. In the book of Isaiah, he says this, he shall see of the travail of his soul And he shall be satisfied. That's in Isaiah 53. 11. As to ourselves, we who were guilty and held deserving and all the rest of it. But we're going to have a glorified body. We'll be fit. Fit for heaven. Fit for eternity. What I can't even imagine, but it's going to be exciting to go through that thing The church is going to have a promise fulfilled when that happens. That promise is found back in the book of John in chapter 17. We know the that that prayer that Jesus prayed, and he said this He said, Neither pray I for these alone, that is the Jews, but for them, that's the Gentiles, also, which shall believe on me through their word. That they all may be one, as thou Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us, that the world may believe that thou hast sent me. You see, the the church today is fragmented. Right of Christ is is I mean they're they're all over and split. There's doctrinal differences that keeps brothers and sisters at odds with one another. Not basic doctrine that that uh has to do with salvation and so forth, but But uh, you know, Nazarenes can't fellowship with Baptists, and Baptists can't fellowship with Methodists, and Methodists can't fellowship in Uh and I I realize that the you know they there's areas that uh we disagree vehemently with those different denominations. But there's born-again believers in those some of those denominations. People who've who've read their Bible, they not necessarily believe the doctrines of the church that they belong to, but they b they believe the Bible and they and they've trusted Christ as their personal Savior. And one of these days, uh all the Christians are going to meet him in the air. When he steps out on the clouds and and calls them by name. It's a I believe I I believe that the the picture is is when Lazarus is laying there dead. in the grave for four days. And Jesus speaks his name. Lazarus come forth. And Lazarus comes out of the tomb, still wrapped in his clothes. And his his burial clothes. And I believe that's the picture that I'm going to see. I'm going to hear, I'm going to hear a trump of God, and all of us I'll hear Don Conard Williams. in the moment, in the twinkling of an eye. And then I'll hear my wife will hear Nan Williams. She doesn't like her real name, though won't say it. You'll probably call her Nan. You'll be nice to her. And she'll be gone. And each one of us, I believe, will hear her own name at that moment. With the trump of God, and we'll be gone. And we're going to meet up there all at once. Here we all are. We've seen Jesus. We've looked around and here's a home. Couldn't I and there's dad over there, mom, you know, and there's my uncle and Aunt Betty's there, and and there's all these other friends and loved ones. All standing around and they're all admiring the Lord Jesus Christ. They're looking at the one who saved them. And then they have time to glance around and see their loved ones standing around them. It's going to be a wonderful time. The church is going to have a unity there that uh it never had, and then it'll be moving toward that Mary's Supper of the Lamb, where they'll uh be able to fellowship once again. The rapture of the church, what a wonderful, blessed hope it is for you and I. You're here tonight and perhaps you've got yeah, you've got physical problems that are are plaguing you. Maybe you've got emotional problems or the chaos around you is almost overwhelming. I want you to understand there there is peace that's coming. It'll take place when Jesus steps out in the clouds and he calls your name. The trumpet of God will sound. And we shall be changed. Are you saved tonight? I hope everyone in here is has the knowledge and the assurance. That if they were to die right now, they'd be in the presence of the Lord Jesus. But if you're not saved, you understand this. Understand it real well now. Understand this. If you're not saved, and the rapture takes place and all the Christians are taken out. I want you to know that you are not going to have a second chance. You're not going to be able to say, well, yeah, oh yeah, that's what brother we was talking about the other night about this thing called the What was that? Um rapture, yeah. Oh, okay. I think okay, Jesus, I want to come in I want you in my heart now. Come on, I I'm I'm receiving I'm sorry about that 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 really straightened that out for me because there are some books that were written, novels that were written that give the wrong impression on that. Because it says in those books that uh that a man will have a second chance. You know, he'll see that uh he's got some loved ones that went up in the rapture and now I'll just I'll get saved and so now he has to go he gets saved and then he goes through the tribulation. Not so, I'm sorry. Bible says that that you'll believe a lie, that you might be damned. And God is going to send that delusion. That you'll believe a lie and be damned. So now's the time. I think do I hear it Trumpet sound. Now's the time to get saved while you have the opportunity If we can have these lights out, let me show this last chalk drawing. I hope it's a blessing to you.