Luke chapter number seven, I want us to notice, just verse number five, this morning for our message. Luke 7, verse 5. The Bible says, For he loveth our nation. And hath built us a synagogue. He loveth our nation. Talking about this centurion that approached the Lord Jesus. So let's pray, and I want us to consider this, loving our nation. He loveth our nation. Father, We come to you, thank you, Lord, for the Word of God. Thank you, Father, for the Church of God that we can assemble together here in your name. What a joy it is. Lord, my heart has been blessed. I've been encouraged this morning already, just being around your people, these songs, that choir song, all this has helped me, Father. I'm so grateful. And I pray now as we settle down and we look into your word for a little bit. I ask that your Holy Spirit would be very present here in this congregation, this auditorium now. And I ask that your Spirit would take the words, your words in the Bible and through my lips apply it to our hearts and lives. Lord, we love our nation. God, we're burdened for it. We're concerned. I ask you would help us now to see our role and our responsibilities as believers. in our country. Fill me with your spirit is my prayer. As I said, I yield my will. I pray, Lord, you guide my thoughts and my words as I speak. They just be exactly what you have us to have me to say. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I want to begin by saying we believe the Bible is God's Word. There's no doubt in my mind, and we as a church, as a congregation, as a body of believers, we hold to that to the fact that the Bible is the Word of God. Every word of it is true and right and accurate. Our responsibility is very simple. Our responsibility is simply believe what it says. Follow its instructions. Claim its promises. Heed its warnings. And just follow its instructions. And so as we look in the Word of God, we notice here in our text we have this centurion. It's interesting, all the events recorded in the New Testament. All the events, apart from prophetic statements about future events, but all the historical events that are recorded in the New Testament take place under the authority of the Roman government If you pay attention, nothing happens outside of the realm of the Roman government, their authority. From the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Humanly speaking The whole reason Jesus was born in Bethlehem was because Caesar Augustus declared a tax that all the world should be taxed. He was the Roman authority in that area. He announced this tax, and that's what, again, humanly speaking, drew uh uh Joseph and Mary uh down to Bethlehem for Jesus to be born there. Now we understand God overrules all of that, right? That was all part of God's plan. But humanly speaking, it was a Roman authority, a government official that put things in place and made it necessary, humanly speaking, for Joseph and Mary to be in Bethlehem. And then all the way to the end of the book of Acts, when Paul is taken as a as a prisoner to Rome. From Jerusalem. And under the authority of the Roman legal system, he appealed highest authority in the Roman government. He appealed to him because he obviously wasn't getting a fair trial there in Jerusalem and in Israel. So he appealed to Caesar in Rome And the Roman authority says, all right, you appeal to him, we're going to send you there. And they sent him in bonds to Rome. And there his story ends scripturally. um with him uh as a house prisoner, basically, under house arrest. All through the New Testament. We have um uh references to Roman, the Caesar of Rome. Kings, governors, captains, centurions, soldiers, all through the Gospels, all through the book of Acts And all the epistles are written under these this uh government authority. So it's interesting. So Rome played a key role. The Roman system of government, the Roman nation. Centurion is mentioned here. This is a centurion. I got looking at centurions. I got studying what the Bible says about him. What do we see? I found that there's 20 references in the New Testament to a centurion. There are seven specific centurions mentioned in Scripture. The first one mentioned in Scripture is this fella here in our text. We also have an account, a shorter account of this event in the Book of Matthew, but it's the same guy So the very first centurion mentioned in Scripture is here in Luke chapter 7, what Pastor Matt read a few moments ago. The next one mentioned in Scripture isn't until the crucifixion of Jesus Christ. And there, as Jesus hung on the cross and there's thunderings taking place, the darkness settles down the earth. In Matthew 27, verse 54, we have a centurion that sees Jesus Christ He sees the effect of the judgment of God for your sins and my sins on Jesus Christ, how that affected the earth. And the earth shook and the sky went dark as Jesus entered into that time of the wrath of God upon him And the centurion, of all people there, the centurion cried out, surely this is the Son of God. A centurion, a Roman soldier, officer. The next one mentioned in Scripture is the very first Gentile convert in the book of Acts. After Pentecost, a fellow by the name of Cornelius. He gets saved, the old boy. And he's a centurion, a Roman officer. Then you go on down there in Acts 21. It was a centurion who arrested Paul in the temple. It was a centurion who saved Paul from being scourged. In Acts 23, two centurions escort Paul into the presence of Felix, the governor of that area. And then it was Julius, a centurion, who took Paul by shit to Rome. So we have seven specific centurions referenced in the book, in the Bible, in the New Testament. Now the interesting thing is, uh I don't know what you know about centurions, but um they were an officer And their responsibility, anybody want to guess, if they're a centurion, how many soldiers they would have under them 100 century centurion. Now it's reading some said, you know, sometimes it might be eighty. Generally they had a hundred or in that range. A centurion's responsibility was to oversee these hundred soldiers. That involved training them. In many ways, he was much like what we would understand a drill instructor in our in our military. A centurium would have been, he would have been responsible, take that new recruit Uh they didn't re uh they were uh uh drafted in, uh but they would take that new recruit and then he would break them and he would train them for military service for combat readiness That was the centurion's responsibility. How many people have ever been under a drill instructor at all? Anyone here? So you know a little bit what their mentality might have been. And just nice guys, friendly. So the centurion's responsibility was to train these soldiers, bring them in, roll recruit, train them to be hardened. uh uh combat ready uh soldiers. And by the way, the Roman military was very, very powerful. They were very effective at what they did. They were very efficient. They knew how to win wars. And so the Centurion would train these fellows. He was also responsible, not just for their training, but maintaining their discipline. He had to keep him in line, keep him in shape, and uh so that whenever a war would break out, whenever there was an issue, these guys were ready. And so he had tremendous responsibilities when they would go into battle in the event where they a war would break out or They would have to go into battle. The centurion, he didn't sit behind the lines and send the soldiers out. The centurion, the responsibility, was expected not to send them, but to what To lead him, he had to be a man of courage. He had to be a man of confidence, of leadership. They had to have leadership abilities To be able to lead these men into this horrific combat where they're using swords and shields and arrows and spears. I mean, it's bloody. Hand to hand, face to face. And so a censorian was somebody significant. He was a man of leadership and responsibility. Now here's, I started to say, here's where it gets interesting to me. I got looking at what does the Bible say about these centurions? How is the centurion portrayed in Scripture? Are they portrayed as these rough, hardened, gr uh hateful, violent men? And the interesting thing is I looked at what Scripture says about centurions, it doesn't present them in that light at all. In fact, the centurions in Scripture are presented as quality men. Men of character, men of integrity. Men who, from what I see them described in Scripture and what the Bible says about and how they respond These look like men of that we can respect. Men of uh in fact in some cases men of great faith in God Notice there in verse number in our text it says we'll look at this here in a little bit more detail, but at the end of verse number nine, Jesus speaking of this specific centurion here He says, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel. Now a centurion is a Roman soldier, he's a Gentile And Jesus said about this man, this military leader, drill instructor, trainer Lead her into combat. Jesus says, I have not seen such great faith among all the people of God as what Jesus here has. Would you agree with me? That's pretty flattering. That's quite a statement to be made about a centurion of all people. Highly respected. Men of tremendous character. That's how they're presented, all through scripture. As I said in Matthew 27, the centurion standing watching Jesus die. And he says he feared greatly Now, this is a man that no doubt has killed people in battle. This is a man that has trained people, men, to kill and fight and win. And he sees Jesus being judged for your sins and my sins. The Bible says he feared greatly. And he said, This is the Son of God. This is the Son of God. Centurions. Centurions. This fellow here in our text, as I said, he's the first centurion mentioned in Scripture. And We have this account of where he engages the Lord Jesus Christ. If you would look at verse number two. It says a certain centurion servant. Now we're not given his name, and we don't know a whole lot of his background other than what I just gave you generally about centurions. But he had a servant. Now, picture in my mind, I hope I'm engaging your imagination a little bit with me here, picturing in your mind this centurion And I don't know about you, but what you think of a hardened military, perhaps combat veteran w what they would be like to me that somebody may be cold hearted, uh cold blooded But look what it says about this guy, a certain centurion servant who was dear unto him. A servant that was dear unto him was sick and ready to die. Now you need to understand Roman culture a little bit. Servants were usually prisoners of war from previous battles they brought in Servants, many times, were maybe somebody that had been in debt in an overwhelming way. There's no way they could pay it back. And so they would sell themselves as a servant In other words, servants weren't people that you would think of someone like a soldier like this, that they would be dear to them. I guess what I'm trying to say is generally servants were expendable If your dishwasher uh is sick and it's almost dead, what do you do with it? You throw it out and you get a new one, right? That's pretty much the way it is. And by the way, if your husband is your dishwasher, don't throw him out and get a new one. Amen. But this centurion, he had a servant, and that servant is dear to him. The word dear there means he loved him, he was precious, he was valuable to him And his servant is sick unto death. And he seeks out Jesus Christ to come and heal his servant. He had heard of Jesus Christ. He had heard what he had done. Maybe he had seen him perform some miracle. But he sends, now notice it's interesting here. He says there in verse 3, and when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews. Now it's important to understand the Romans did not appreciate the Jews, and the Jews hated the Romans. We'll see that here in a bit. So he gets these Jews, somehow he has some sort of relationship, respectful relationship with the Jews, that they would even care about whether this guy servant is sick or not, whether Jews would even care. Let alone go and find Jesus for him. Now maybe he threatened them. I don't know. It doesn't suggest that. But notice what the Jews say about this centurion to Jesus. So they show up And um uh they come to Jesus, verse 4, and they besought him instantly. In other words, they come rushing in. Whatever Jesus is doing, they come rushing in and they say, Jesus, you've got to do this They're begging him. They're pleading him. Saying, now look what they say about this centurion. Everybody with me? Are you with me? Alright. They said, saying that he was what? Worthy, whom he should do this. You're going to be hard pressed to find a Jew. Saying that any Roman was worthy of anything. They wanted him out. They did not want them there. The interesting thing is these Jews say this centurion is worthy He was highly respected by the Jews. That's what the word worthy means. He's worthless. He's respected. We highly respect him. Jesus, if you can do this for anybody, you can do it for this guy. He deserves it. Now I circled the word for that phrase there, he was worthy, and I come down to verse number six and notice his statement to Jesus. And Jesus went with them, and when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying to him, Now look what the centurion says about himself. Now stick with me here this morning, would you? This is what the centurion. The Jews said to Jesus, he's worthy. The centurion says about himself, Lord, trouble not thyself, for I am what? I'm not worthy. I'm not worthy for you to even come into my house. And so he was highly respected by others. But he had a humble opinion of himself. And this is my opinion about his opinion. I think that's what appealed to Jesus Christ. I'm telling you, humility, I've said this before, and I don't mean to be irreverent towards God in any way. I think you know my heart. I know God knows my heart. But as I study Scripture in my own experience, it's like God cannot resist humility. You go back in the Old Testament, the most vile kings, Ahab, the most wicked, perverse, vile kings in the Old Testament If they would humble themselves before God, God's mercy erased all judgment. Listen, not like Independent Baptist Church, Pastor Leatherman. If we don't do anything else, if we don't learn anything else, We have got to learn to humble ourselves before our God. Humble. I am not worthy. And by the way, that wasn't some self-righteous, oh, I'm not worthy. You know what I'm talking about. I believe this was a genuine view of himself. I'm not worthy. What a man, this centurion. He recognizes two things about the Lord Jesus Christ. He recognizes that Jesus is able to heal the sick. He understood the power of God that was upon Jesus Christ. He understood what Jesus was capable of doing. Jesus could heal my servant. And not only that, he believed, he was convinced that Jesus was had the authority and the power To simply speak the word and his servant would be healed. He didn't even have to be in his presence. He didn't have to touch him. He didn't have to all he had to do was speak the word And his son will be healed. He understood the power of God. So here's a centurion, a Roman Gentile, a man of warfare, violence. Yet he understands the power of God. He understood who Jesus Christ was. He understood the authority that Jesus had. There's no doubt in my mind, this man understood Jesus Christ was and is the Son of God. The Son of God. He was the Savior the Jews had talked about. He's the Messiah the Jews had been looking for for years. And here a Roman centurion recognizes who this man is. Centurion recognizes two things about the Lord Jesus, his ability and power to heal the sick, and his authority to just speak the word. He understood who Jesus was. And though the Bible doesn't say this expressly, and I I want to point this out, this is my assessment. This is what I think is true. I think the old boy got saved. Jesus commented on his faith. He obviously understood who Jesus Christ was. He put his faith in Jesus Christ and there's no doubt there's no i I I'm convinced someday I'll get to meet this guy in heaven. I believe the old boy got saved. You say, God save a soldier? Uh yeah, amen, Nathan, right? Praise the Lord. God save a soldier. And so, what an amazing man this guy is. He's a man of compassion. He cared about his servant. He cared. He was a man who had humility. Not worthy. And he is a man of great faith in God. In fact, Jesus comments on it. I've not seen such great faith in all Israel. His faith is what earned him his answer to his prayers. Faith. Listen, I'm not a centurion. I haven't led men into battle. I've done nothing great in any way, shape, or form by any stretch of the imagination. But if I put my faith in Jesus Christ, he'll save my soul. He'll answer my prayers. He'll lead me in my life. He'll take care of me. If I trust him, if I trust him. Say, oh preacher, I'm not anybody much. I don't think God wouldn't save somebody like me, God wouldn't lead me, God wouldn't answer somebody like my prayers. I tell you what, doesn't matter who you are or what you are, put your faith in Jesus Christ He'll save you. He'll hear your prayers. He'll answer you. He'll lead you. Amen or not? Man of great faith. Man of great faith. Now it's important to understand this servant was healed because of the centurion's faith. His fate. Now there's a statement in verse 5, and we read it at the beginning of my message, my text, that caught my attention as I was reading through this some time ago, and I've had it highlighted for years But that little statement, he loved, verse five, he loveth our nation. He loveth our nation. The nation he's talking about is the Jewish nation, Israel. These are the Jews saying to Jesus about the centurion, He loveth our nation. The Jews hated the Romans. The Jews, the Romans to the Jews and the eyes of the Jews, were an occupying force. Israel had been under the by the establishment of God an independent nation for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years, thousands They were God's people. This was God's nation. This is the nation of Israel. They had great kings in their past, great exploits. And now, through a series of events, the last several hundred years from the captivity and things fell apart, and now Israel is occupied by this pagan heathen, ungodly government of Rome. They hated them. They were an occupying force. In fact, there was what we would call militias would rise up within Israel throughout uh the this time frame and they would fight against Rome and try and gain their independence back from Rome and Rome would crush them. You ever read of the Maccabees during that period in there? And others. They hated the Romans. But this Roman centurion loved Israel. He loved Israel. They were an occupying force to the Jews. They were godless pagans. But yet he loved their nation. In fact, he loved them so much. Look, it says he built us a synagogue. He recognized their worship of Jehovah. Not only did he recognize it, he wanted to advance it He wanted their faith in Jehovah, their worship of Jehovah to go forward. He wanted to facilitate it. He wanted to nurture it and help it. I believe this old boy was a believer in Jehovah. Now, Rome, they had all kinds of pagan worship. It was awful. Sodomy and perversion and violence, abortion. It was awful. They worshiped their Caesar. In fact, in fact, part of the basis of persecuting the Jews or the Christians later on Part of the basis of that was because they were drawing away, people were getting saved, and they're worshiping Jesus, and it was drawing away the worship of Caesar. Remember when the Jews came and they're condemning Jesus, and one of their appeals to Pilate was, he says uh worship he won't worship Caesar as king They worshiped their Caesar. And yet this guy loved the nation. He built them a synagogue. This centurium was something else And it says he loved our nation. This week we're celebrating the 249th birthday of the United States of America. On Friday, July 4th. 249 years. And listen, I've I've I've declare it openly, without hesitation, without shame I love my nation. I love my country. We as a church love our nation. We love our country. You don't have to be around here long. In fact, you don't just drive by. You kind of get the idea, huh? I think we need some more flags out there, personally. We love our nation. I was reading about a theologian years ago from England. He had made a statement about what it means to love your nation. This is what he said. He said when you love your nation, he said to love one's nation means to love the place that that nation is. The resources, the land, the place that that nation exists, United States of America, North America, where we're located. I'm telling you, we have a, God has blessed us with a beautiful nation. I was down Tuesday evening and I took a little time and I had Tuesday evening free and I went down to Savage Reservoir. I was down there fishing And there was a guy there and uh they were just sitting when I was putting the boat in and he came over talking to me. I noticed on his truck he had Wyoming license plates on his truck. So he was asking me some different things about the lake and different stuff and we're talking a little. I said, I see you're from Wyoming. He says, Yeah. He said we just moved back to Virginia. We got a place up at Deep Creek and we got to talk a little bit And I said, well I lived in Colorado for a number of years. I said it's beautiful out there. We loved it. He goes, oh, he says, that's one thing I miss. It's beautiful out there. I tell you, if you haven't been out to the Rocky Mountains, you ought to go out and see the Rocky Mountains Everybody ought to see that it's just amazing. I said, you know, we came back here. I said, I never thought we would live in a place as beautiful as the Rocky Mountains, Colorado. So but we come back here to Garrett County and I tell you Garrett County is just as beautiful as Colorado. It's just different. It's just different. I tell you, I love our country because of how God blessed. What a beautiful place we have to live. What a wonderful place to live And so he said, one when you love your nation, one thing is to love the place it's at. Another is to love the people that are around it. By the way, I love Garrett County. I'll tell you, we fell in love with this place, raised our boys here. What a beautiful place. And then he said it means to love the people that are around us. The people. Wherever you go in the United States, now uh uh you bear with me, you know me well enough. I understand I'm not ignoring the fact that we've got problems Serious problems. But I'm telling you, there are a lot of good people in the United States of America. Everywhere you go. What you see in you I I I get out every week I get out and knock on doors and I talk to people in our community sound around surrounding areas. Every week I talk to on their doorsteps, uh in their driveways every week. I'm telling you, the people I meet out there and what I see in the media are two different things. I know there's garbage out there, but I'm saying there's some good people. I thank God for that. Are you with me this morning? Bear with me, I'm going somewhere here. So the place and the people. He said it means to love our past as our nation. I'm telling you, the United States of America has a rich history. What a great heritage we have. Now, uh as a man as individual people, we are no better than anyone else. Father, we are no better. We are all sinners. And if anybody is anything in the eyes of God, it's because of the grace of God as given to us in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. But I tell you, we have a great heritage, a great history. Very unique nation in that we were started on the principles of the Word of God, the very foundation of that. We must never forget that Don't let the modernists steal our heritage from us. We're founded by God-fearing people. God-fearing people. And so to love our nation, it says he loves our nation. He loves our nation. We're far from perfect. The United States is far from perfect. We're we have a mess on our hands, and to be very frank, it's getting worse. But I love our nation. I'm grateful to be an American. Now, four things. I only got a couple minutes. A few things we can do to benefit our nation, to express our love for our nation. Number one, we ought to establish a personal faith in Jesus Christ. In other words, every one of us needs to know for sure, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that we have trusted Jesus Christ as our personal Savior, that our sins are forgiven, that when we die we go to heaven and not to hell. If we want a good nation, we need to make sure we have a personal faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We don't have time. I want it to do a little more jumping around the Bible, but in John chapter 3, a fella comes to Jesus Christ by night. His name was Nicodemus. And the Bible makes a point that points out that he was a ruler of the Jews. He had authority in the nation of Israel. I don't know what his position was. I don't know if he had a title, but he had authority in the nation of Israel, the nation that this centurion loved. Nicodemus had a place of authority in that nation. And he comes to Jesus Christ by night. He says, I know you are thou art a teacher, come from God. No man can do the things thou doest, except God be with him. Jesus' immediate response was not, you better be a better politician. His immediate response was not, you better have better laws. You better do this. It wasn't anything related to government or authority neg uh his immediate response is, Nicodemus, you need to be born again. You need to be born again One of the best things a person can do for the United States of America is make sure they have a personal faith in Jesus Christ, have assurance of sins forgiven. When I die, I go to heaven, not to hell. Ye must be born again. My thinking is this. What in the world good would it do to live my whole life in the what I consider the greatest nation in the world and die and go to hell. Say, thank God for my country. Praise the Lord. But if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, you're gonna and you die that way, you're gonna end up in a devil's hell. Come on, uh uh am I right or wrong? Just being American doesn't make you a child of God. I was shortly after I got saved, I mean a month or two after I got saved, I started going out soul winning on Thursday nights with the church. There was just it was a large church, about six hundred people. There's only a handful, a couple, two or three or four maybe would go out visiting I didn't know. I just, I'm a new Christian. They're talking about, man, I want to tell others about Jesus. I want to help other people get saved. So I showed up and that night nobody else was there. It was just me, a two-month-old believer. And so they had a track rack there, so nobody was there. Wait around a while. So I grabbed a handful of tracks and there was apartment complex behind the parking lot of the church, so I just walked over there And just starting on I didn't know what I was saying. I didn't uh Pastor Matt didn't teach me on soul winning class what to say. So whatever. And so I'm getting I'm knocking the door and uh they come to the door, hi. And I said, can I give you a gospel track? And um and then there was one lady came, I gave her a track, and I said, Are you a Christian? She goes, she goes, of course I'm a Christian. I said, oh, that's great. I was more excited about here than she was. And uh I said, oh, that's great. When did you become a Christian? I was born in America. Listen, being born in America isn't doesn't make you a Christian. Like Billy Sunday said, being born in America doesn't make you a Christian any more than sitting in a garage makes you a car So number one, I need to make sure I'm safe. Do you know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell? If there's any doubt, if there's any question there, you need to come to Christ to get that settled. I can't save you. This church can't save you. No church in the world can save you. The only person that can take away your sins and my sins. The only way to be forgiven for my sins against God is through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. He's the Savior. Number two, I put this down. We need to pray for our nation. We need to pray for our nation. Now I do want to turn here, if you would, take your Bibles and turn with me to 1 Timothy chapter number 2. 1 Timothy chapter number 2. It's a lot of things we can do, and we have we we have the opportunity, a very unique form of government. Now it's spread a little bit through the c world Where we can actually have a say in much of what takes place. We can actually have a part in choosing our leaders and our laws. We can make phone calls. We can have some influence, but I'm telling you, the greatest influence that you and I can have in our country is not at is not in Washington, it's at the throne of grace. Look at 1 Timothy 2, verse number 1. I exhort. That word exhort is a strong word. Paul is it's a borderline rebuke. I exhort, therefore, that first of all, before you do anything else in your government Supplications. That is earnest praying. Prayers. Intercessions. Giving of thanks Be made for all men. Then he gets a little more specific in verse 2. For kings and for all that are in authority. Why? What are we praying him for? Look what he says. That we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and all honesty. For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. Can I say this based on what I just read? If we're not praying. For our nation and for those in authority, if we're not praying for them, we are disobeying a clear command of God. We need to pray. In our personal time, as a body of believers, pray. Pray that we can live peaceable, that we would have peace and not war. Pray that we would be safe, our cities, our towns would be safe, our streets would be safe Pray for our authorities that they would know Christ and God would give them wisdom and in His sovereignty turn their hearts. To do the right things that are for our nation, the things that glorify God, that line up with Scripture. That's what we pray. And he says supplication, that is earnest prayer First of all, I think every citizen ought to vote. I think you ought to prove you're a citizen to vote, but every citizen ought to vote. But first of all, we ought to be on our knees praying. And then vote, follow me? So pray for our nation. Pray for our nation. Our nation needs God's help. Amen or not? Our nation needs God's mercy. We have viless, vileness, wickedness marching in our streets. We need God's mercy. You know, pray, humble ourselves and pray that God would have mercy on our nation. We need God's direction as a nation. God's direction. We need God's protection. Brother, I'm not worried, to be honest with you, but we hear this talk, nuclear, nuclear, throwing that term around. I tell you, we need God's protection. You say, oh, we got the right guy in the White House. We're going to be safe. No, it's not the guy in the White House. It's the guy on the throne of the universe that we need protection. Pray, pray for God, protect us. James 5, 16 says the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much. There's no hope. Nothing can change in our country. I beg to differ. The Bible says the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Our church needs to pray for our nation. Our family at the family altar time Needs to pray for our nation. You've heard me say this a thousand times. I'll say it again. There ought to be in every home, there ought to be a time of family altar. We gather around, read the scriptures, pray together. And part of those prayers need to be for our nation. Mom and dad and the kids praying, God, help us. Personal prayer time, alone with God, public prayer. We ought never to put on a show. Nothing we do for God ought ever to be for a show. Are you listening? Nothing we do ought to ever be for show, but we ought never be ashamed to pray in public It's been my honor numerous times to pray for the Republican Party, their big meeting, open up in prayer. That's a good thing. Courts ought to open in prayer, all these types of things. But you and I as believers, we ought to pray. We ought to have no hesitation. In the middle of Walmart, if something comes up, there's a need, you're talking, say, let's pray. God help us My wife and I got married on February 14, 1987. That was the last century. On February 14th. Pretty smart, huh? We went up to um Gatlinburg. We were in Chattanooga. We got married in Chattanooga for a honeymoon. Saturday we went up to Pigeon Forge. And we had a honeymoon suite and all that. And I mean it was it was something. And uh we got there and they gave our room away to somebody else. They messed up And so we stopped at Motel 6 on the way up on Route six seventy-five going on whatever that route is there. Anyway. We got up next morning. We're going to go to church. Say, you went to church in your honeymoon? Yeah. So we're down at the breakfast area. We're sitting there, we got our little buffet, we sat down, held hands, I bowed my head, thank you, Lord. For my wonderful wife, my new life, thank you for this food. And we just prayed, just said a little simple little prayer. We got up and there's this couple over there looking at her. So I went No I didn't. Finally the guy comes over and he says I saw you prayed. I said, yeah. He goes, God bless ya. And walked away. He said, what's the big deal? The big deal is somebody saw us praying It affected them, had an impact. Can you imagine if all across our land, every restaurant, four people pray, they'd bow their head and pray, what a difference that would make Huh? Just the whole atmosphere. Pray, pray, pray, pray publicly. And then I gotta quit. I put this down. You need to have personal faith in Jesus Christ. Number two, we need to pray for our nation. Number three, live pure and righteous lives. Let's not be hypocrites. Alright? Let's not be phony. Let's not be one thing we come to church all pious and religious and then get out Monday and be no different than the world. My Bible says righteousness exalteth a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. The most deadly thing facing America, infecting America, is sin. It's a reproach to our nation. David prayed in Psalm 51:10. He said, Create in me, O God. A clean heart. Oh God, renew a right spirit in me. Let my heart and mind be clean and pure. Let my attitude be right. Our nation needs a righteous people. The greatness of a nation is not its military, not its economy, and not its wealth. The greatest greatness of a nation is its integrity and its character and its purity. That's what exalts a nation. Someone said America is great because America is good. And if America ever ceases to be good, it will cease to be great. Let me ask you this. Is America good? Are we good? Are we righteous? Are we pure? The way we talk, the words we use, the places we go. The things we watch, the stuff we listen to, the way we behave, the way we treat other people. Are we righteous? That's what America needs, pure and righteous lives. Clean, with good attitudes. The only salt and light in this nation, it's not in the state house or the White House. Salt and light is in the church house. We're the only salt in this country to preserve it. We're the only light in this nation to point people to Christ. Believers, we are the salt of the earth. We are the light of the world. We're it If we lose our savor, if our light goes out, our nation has nothing. Has nothing We've got to live righteous. We've got to be pure. Hypocrisy killed Israel. And hypocrisy is killing the United States. I am absolutely convinced, I've been saying this over and over and over. I am absolutely convinced if our churches were what they ought to be, our nation would not be in the shape it's in right now. We need revived, alive, godly churches on fire for God. I hope you're praying for our church I hope you're praying for revival. Because our nation needs it. And last of all, the preaching of the gospel. The preaching of the gospel. Every person in the United States of America needs to know about Jesus Christ. Every person in North America, every person in South America. Europe, Africa, Southeast Asia, all around the world, they need Jesus Christ And I hope it's not just me talking. I hope it's not our church folk just sitting here listening to me talk. I hope it's a fire in our soul to get the gospel to everybody in our country and in our world. Everybody. I was up at Walmart had our little free Bibles sign up Friday night I just had the evening free. I said, Oh, threw it in the back of the truck, bro, drove up there, just set up in the back of the parking lot, put my little chair out, little table, had Bibles. People come by Uh can I get one of those Bibles? Yeah, they're free. Give them a Bible, talk to them about the Lord. Just it was a blessing. What a joy. I sit there, my truck is all rusty on the one side. I thought I'm probably scaring people away. So what I decided is I need a new truck. Dave says, your truck's okay. I said I know, but I still I want a new truck. But anyway. People need Jesus. Preach the gospel. Do you know this is it? I gotta end. In Sodom and Gomorrah. Lot went down there. He lived there for an extended period of time. He became a leader in Sodom and Gomorrah. Lot And the angels show up to Abraham. They say, We're going to judge. We're going down to Sodomur to see if it's as bad as what it is. And they knew. And Abraham comes and says, Let me ask you a question, he says Will you judge and destroy under the wrath of God Sodom and Gomorrah if there's fifty righteous people there? And they said the angels respond, angel Lord says, no, if there's 50 righteous people there, we won't destroy it, we won't judge it. Abraham thinks a little bit. He says, before you go, what if there's only 40? I mean, there's hundreds of thousands of people. What if there's only 40 saved people righteous? They said if there's 40 there, we won't destroy it. We won't judge it. Um 30? There's 30 people we won't destroy. We'll withhold the judgment of God. There's 30 saved people in those cities. What about twenty? What if there's just twenty? We won't destroy it for twenty One last. What if there's only ten? My son, his wife. His girls, their husbands, grandkids. What if there's only ten I said we won't destroy for ten. Sodom and Gomorrah was destroyed. The wrath of God was poured out on those ungodly nations Lot and his daughters, the only ones that come out. There wasn't even ten people saved. There wasn't even ten saved people in those whole cities that would spare God's judgment. I don't know what percentage of the population 10 was. I'm sure it was a very, very small percentage. My question for America is: assuming that principle applies to our country. What percentage of believers in our nation? What what's the threshold Where we get below that threshold and God's wrath falls on our nation. And you follow my thinking? Say, what's the answer to keep God's wrath off our nation? The answer is soul-winning. Running buses, getting as many people on the streets on our buses, get them in here, teach them about Jesus, teach them the Bible. Go out Thursday nights and knock on doors and talk to people about Jesus Christ. It's the hope of our nation. Send out scriptures. Broadcast on the radio. Personally, give out tracts. Do all we can to win people to Christ. Father, I ask you to help us. We love our nation. And God, we want you to take us and use us. to help our nation be what it ought to be. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many this morning would say, Preacher I need to pray for my nation more deliberately, more consistently. I need to pray for my nation. Is there any like that, preacher? I need to incorporate that in. Maybe as a family prayer time. Maybe getting out on Wednesday night's prayer meeting church time? I need to pray. God bless you. Hands all around. Why don't we just ask God to help us, to discipline us to do that, burden our heart to do that I wonder if there's some would say, Preacher, I know I need to live a better Christian life. I've allowed stuff to come in. I know there's stuff in my life that is not right. Attitudes and things that are not right And it grieves the Holy Spirit and it quenches his ability to work in our land, our community. And you say, Preacher, pray with me that my heart will be clean. And my attitude would be right. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Oh, I need God to help me. God bless you. Hands all around. And then this matter of reaching the lost Being a soul winner. How many would join me, say I need to be a more active soul winner? And be more aggressive, more involved, getting after this thing. God bless you, hands all around. One last question. You know for sure you're saved. You know for sure that your God has forgiven your sins, that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell. It's only through Jesus. You'd say, Preacher, I'm concerned about that. I'm concerned. I want to know my sins are forgiven. I don't know, I'd go to heaven, not to hell when I die. I'm concerned about it. Just slip your hand up. I want to pray for you also. Is there any at all like that, Preacher? I'm not sure. And I need that settled. Any at all? Any at all. Father, I ask you'd bless now. In Jesus' name