Four Matthew chapter four Since uh football was mentioned I will have to say that I am a sports fan. And living in DC, I uh course I root for two teams every Sunday Uh, the Washington Redskins and whoever's playing the Philadelphia Eagles. So I just wanted to state where I am in all of this. I'll tell you what, I uh pray for the red skins more than root for them anymore. Pretty bad shape. Matthew chapter four. And let me uh read Beginning in verse 18. It says, And Jesus, walking by the Sea of Galilee, saw two brethren. Simon called Peter and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishers. And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men And they straightway left their nets and followed him. And going on from thence he saw other two brethren, James, the son of Zebedee. And uh John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets, and he called them And they immediately left the ship and their father and followed him. Now, Father, we want to ask you tonight to Help us to see some things from your word that would strengthen us in our personal relationship with you. I pray tonight that you would cause us to listen to you with not just open ears, but open hearts. With a desire to profit from the scripture tonight We're so guilty of often just going through a service routinely Acting as if we already knew everything and did not need to hear from you. I pray that we would not be guilty of that tonight. But help us from the very beginning of reading this scripture. Help us to have a desire in our hearts to gain something That will affect us spiritually. We pray in Christ's name. Amen. Jesus is just beginning his ministry. As a matter of fact, back in verse 17 it says, from that time Jesus began to preach. And to say, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. He's putting together his congregation. He's starting his ministry and what he's doing is for these next three, three and a half years, he's putting together a group of men That he's going to deal with. He's going to train them because there's going to be a day when he leaves and goes back to heaven. And when he does, he wants a group of men that will faithfully continue. In Acts chapter 1, it talks about them continuing what he began And uh so this is an important time. And of course, I think this is an important portion of scripture because It deals specifically with what he wants to do and how he's going to do it. I'm afraid sometimes that you and I are prone just not to listen. As he tries to make us, as he tries to uh put us in the place that he can depend on us to carry out the plan he has for us. But so tonight what I want to do, I want to break down verse 19. And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men So let's start by thinking of those two words, follow me. He says to these these four men here that he is speaking to. at this time, and he simply tells them, I would like you to follow me. Now he's not saying to them, I want you to just follow my footsteps, walk behind me, just go where I want you to go where I go and and sort of mimic what I do. That's not what he's saying. The thought there is that they are to become a part of him. They are to become one of him. They are to They are to become what he needs them to become. So it's not just a mechanical following him Now here's the thought I want you to get right here is he's talking to some brand new Christians. He's talking to some men that he has some great plans for. You and I sit here tonight, and we've seen some of those plans fulfilled. We've seen what he had to do in their lives. But think about it. He's dealing with brand new Christians, and they have no idea what lies ahead. He's got men here that uh he's going to use to preach when thousands are saved. He he has men here that are he's going to use to to pen scripture. Think about that To pen his word that will be used for all eternity on earth So these are men that he's chosen, but they're new. They have no idea what's ahead. And yet they need to learn He he needed to teach them. As a matter of fact, you remember when Peter in Matthew 19, 27 He said, Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all. and followed thee, what shall we have therefore? Now that you're saying that something, saying something like that to God. Uh right in the face of Jesus. Hey, we we left everything and followed you. Now what's in it for us? I think it revealed that Simon Peter needed some changing He needs some things done in his life. It doesn't sound like someone that's going to stand before thousands and preach the gospel and see them come to Christ, does it? Doesn't sound like somebody that's going to pen scripture, but it is. Christ has a plan. And he's asking Peter to follow him so he can become that person. In Luke chapter twenty-two, thirty-three. Peter said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both into prison and to death. He needed some changing. So these men that he's dealing with, they need to follow him because they need to learn of him. James and John, you remember what they did? You remember when they uh They told Jesus, boy, when you uh come into your kingdom, we'd like to sit on the left hand to right hand. Right? We'd like to be special. You remember when they uh they uh went into this town and preached the gospel, the people wouldn't respond. And so uh they said, why don't we just call fire down from heaven and destroy the whole crowd? He is dealing with some men that he has a plan for, but he is dealing with some men that needs great change. But they are not ready for that So he's saying to them, follow me. Just let me show you what you need to be so I can use you the way I want to use you. Now, I want to ask you tonight. I want you to think about this tonight. And here's what I want to get across. Where are we tonight? Where are we in that plan that God has for us? Because you know what? You and I are often guilty of having an attitude that we know what can be done in our lives So we don't have to listen to God. Now we won't we wouldn't think that way, but that's the way we act. I know what God can use me to do. I know what I'm capable of doing. I'm no I know what I know and I know how how smart I am and I know how uh uh you know what I have to contribute to God, I know what I can do. And so we don't listen. When all the time God has something he wants to do, if he can just get us to stop thinking we know so much. And just follow me. Just follow me. Now, really, this is a decision That has to be made. Because you see, the rest of what he's saying there will never be done until he gets us to the place that we're willing to follow him. That we're willing to listen, that we're willing to have an attitude that I can do anything God wants me to do. God can make me anything He wants to make me. I am not limited because of what I know or don't know, what I am or am not I'm not limited because of my background, my heritage. I'm not limited by anything except not listening to God. Not following God. God can make any of us anything He wants us to be But he cannot do it until we're willing to follow him. Until we're ready to make that decision, I'll listen to you I'll walk with you. I'll be faithful to you. Now, after that He says, follow me and I will make you. Follow me and I will make you. In other words, you can't make yourself what I want you to be You can't you can't get what I want you to be in a classroom. You can only get it from me, he's saying. I will make you. If you will if you will agree to follow me, then I will get involved in your life. To make you. To make you. Now let me ask you tonight. As you sit here, think with me. Where do you need to be made? Right now. Where do you need to be made? Where do you and I tonight need God to make us? What do we need done in our lives? I used to come home when my uh girls were at home, teenagers, and uh sometimes I would come home and my wife would have all of this paper. in a a room. She'd have the whole room, the floor just covered with pieces of paper, different cutouts, different shapes of paper, and it was just a a literal mess. And then I would come home maybe the next day, and she had this material cut out on all of these people pieces of paper. And to me it was just a mess. It just And then she would start putting it together. She would take this piece of material that looked like a rag And she would take it and put it with this other piece of material, and then she would get that together, and she would take those and put it with this other piece of material. Piece by piece she would put that thing together and then she would have a beautiful dress for one of our girls. It looked like a mess to begin with. Isn't that how we look sometimes? Huh? Don't you think sometimes we just look like a mess? And God said, listen, you might think you're a mess, and other people might think you're a mess, but I can make you I can make you. I used to work on an assembly line, automobile assembly line. I know some of you have. How many of you have worked on the an automobile assembly line? I thought I thought Ed, I thought you and Chester worked out in Baltimore. What's that? Okay. Okay, you just fiddled around, you didn't work. Right. Yeah, yeah. We're not gonna go there. I'm I'm I'm shutting up. But I used to work on a automobile assembly line before it was all all of the automation. And boy, I'll tell ya Uh my dad uh uh told me one time, he said, they ought to take every junior in high school between the junior and senior year, that summer, they ought to make them work on an automobile assembly line. He said, if they had to do that, man, they would make something out of themselves. They wouldn't want to do that. But uh I worked on this line. And uh, you know, they would start at the beginning of the line with just a piece of metal. Uh one job I had, I worked where they uh this they had an overhead line And the body came on this overhead line and then they had this line on the floor that uh had the frame and they put the things together on the frame and then there was a time when that body was lowered to the other line and they m the uh body was connected to the frame. And that thing would just go through. My job right there was I had to grab, I had to put the tailpipe in, grab the tailpipe, and hold it to the manifold, put a uh a gasket in between the two, and then I had to hold it with my thumb and finger, put two screws in there, and then take an air gun Tight nose things. I mean, I worked a night shift. The next morning I would get up and my hand would be together like this. I couldn't get it apart. I'd have to run warm water on it for about thirty minutes to get it get it working. But uh it was just i piece by piece that car I mean it looked like a mess. I mean nobody go down to dealer and buy it right there It was just a frame and a and a body and and no steering wheel, no engine. But piece by piece That thing would go up that line, and these men would add apart and add apart and add apart. And eventually it would come off the end of that line a beautiful automobile that someone would look at and say, I want to buy that. I'll pay the price for it. The finished product, ready to be used. And that's what I see here. That's what I see when he says, I will make you. Because you see, you and I, we're just, we're on the assembly line. And we have really, we don't know what needs to be added. Because you see, what he has planned for us determines what needs to be added at that point. And so he's moving us on this line, and he comes along and he says, okay, you need this added to your life. So he brings in a set of circumstances that causes us to understand I need changed. We won't see a need for change unless he shows us. As a Christian, that a Christian, that's what he does. I mean when when you and I have a difficult situation, it's not necessarily him reaching down and getting us. It's for a purpose. Something needs to be added. A decision needs to be made. We get that change, and about time we get that change, we move down the line, and boom. All of a sudden maybe somebody comes into our life and it's just a conflict. You ever had a person that just rubbed you the wrong way? Huh? I mean uh on your job or some place you shopped and you ever have somebody that when you saw 'em you went the other way? You know? Uh do you ever think God brought that person into your life for a reason? Nobody comes into our lives that God doesn't bring into our lives And so when somebody comes in and it rubs us the wrong way, we need to realize something needs to be added here. A change needs to be made. Why? Because he can't use me the way I am. He wants to make me. And so we get fixed and we go on down the line and maybe a sickness comes and and uh we go down the line and maybe a financial crisis comes and we go down the line and uh something else comes. And as a Christian, God is moving us. And he's moving us in his plan, and he's moving us toward his plan. He's moving us To be able to use us the way he wants. And when things happen in our lives that are difficult, it's because he's making us And he says to us, follow me. What's he saying? He's saying, you stay on the line. Don't get off the line. Don't get upset and get off the line. Don't get offended and get off the line. You follow me. You stay on the line. If you'll stay there, he says, I will make you. Now the thing you and I have to decide. Here's the thing you and I have to decide. We have to decide. I'm going to stay there. I'm going to follow him. I'm going to stay there. I'm not going to quit. I'm not going to get out. I'm not going to try to try to uh uh be the authority of my life, I'm going to stay, I'm going to follow him. If you and I, see, that's our job. That's our only job. Follow him What we become is up to him. Our commitment is to follow him. Our commitment is: don't vary. Don't get upset. Don't get stared. Don't get offended. Don't get out. Don't get off. Don't get angry. Just follow him. And if I'll do that, he'll make me. He will make me something That will surprise me. He will make me something that one day I'll be able to look back and say God did that. I didn't do that. Oh, I may have made a mistake, I may have didn't d I may have done the wrong thing at a at some point, but I stayed. Online enough that he was able to make me and use me. Now tonight Every person in this room, undoubtedly every person in the room wants that. Don't we? We want we want to be able to get out there one day and look back and say, God did that. God made me, God used me, God's changed me, or he he can make a change He can change us if we let him. And he can make us something that we rejoice about. Huh? I will make you. What you and I have to decide is, I'm just going to stay online with him. I'm just going to follow him. I'm just going to stay as faithful as I can to him. I'm not going to become the authority of my life. I'm not going to try to try to determine uh what ha what where I go and what I do, I'm just gonna follow him. And he said he told these men, he said, now if you'll follow me, I will make you Fishers and men. Fishers and men. And that's what this conference is about. Right? That's what this week is all about. This week is about God being able to reach down and say to some folks Here's how I want to use you in worldwide evangelization. Here's how I want to use you in missions. And if and if we don't watch, you and I will try to make our own determination of how that's done. Huh? We will tie we will try to decide. Well, this is what can be done, this is what no That's not our, that's not the decision we should make. The decision we may should make is just to follow him. Just follow him. We're not going to become the fissure of men that he wants us to be if we start making our own decisions We follow him. And as we follow him, he makes us. You say, well, what's that got to do with faith promise? And what's that got to do with this? If we follow him, now think about this. If we follow him and make the decision he wants us to make. He puts in our possession what he wants us to use We don't make ourselves. Well, so and so uh you know they got they've got it they can give. And no, that's not the idea. The idea is to follow him. He provides. He provides. And God God provides for us to fulfill his plan in our lives God puts in our possession what is needed to fulfill His plan in our lives. But that doesn't mean his plan is going to be fulfilled. He might put something there And then you and I do not follow him, and so his plan is not fulfilled because we misuse what he put there. And so he's not able to make us what he needs us to be. So what we have to do is to say, with what I have, I'm just gonna follow him. Doctor Lee Robertson uh Anyb it was well known that anyone that came into his office, uh that's that he was the uh pastor of Highland Park Baptist Church at President of Tennessee Temple uh schools. And it was well known that anybody came in his office with financial difficulties. The first question that was going to be asked, do you tithe? If they did not tithe, he would not give them any advice about finances. Because he said, if you don't tithe, uh God can't do what needs to be done in your life And what he was saying was, hey, listen, you're offline. You're not following him, so there's nothing I can do for you. You've got to choose to follow him. If you follow him, then he's going to take care of all this. But if you don't, he can't make you. Now we want to be fishers of men. We know we have a responsibility. We know that we've been given a command. But it's not just It's not just missions. It's not just worldwide. It's right here. Reaching people. You see, if you and I are following him, he will make us, which means he will put us in the place Where he can use us to be a fisher of men if we're if we're following him. The problem is we just get we just get in our routine and we lose sight of the fact that that we can we can see people saved. We can see people saved. I uh my son been telling uh preacher, uh I was in I was in a service there at Holman and uh I don't have as many meetings as I used to have because of uh health and age and so I don't go like I used to go. I used to I used to get home June and I for years. We got home on Monday and we left again Wednesday. And we'd get home Monday, and we'd leave again Wednesday. We got home just a day and a half, two days, and we could wash clothes, pack 'em again, take off again. But we had to cut back. And uh I was home to service uh one night and uh uh my son's our pastor and And uh we were standing there at the end of the service and all of these Filipinos that are in our church, we have an international church. And uh these Filipinos they they they mingle, I mean they're part of the service and with everybody, but but at the end of the service they'll get together and just fellowship and talk and they'll do it until they turn the lights out. And I was standing there with my son one night and I said uh uh look at those Filipinos. I said, they just get together and have a good time and talk and they just enjoy it. And Mike said to me, he said, why don't you start a Bible study class with those Filipinos? Well, I hadn't even thought of that. And so I thought about it a few days and I called him back and I said, I'll do it. And June and I now have this Bible study class, which is our Sunday school. But man, we have this we had this uh we we were call we did call it a Filipino American or American Filipino class And uh then we had some of these, we had a Vietnamese girl come in and some others, and so we had to change it to uh uh American Asian class. So my uh son says we're having AA meetings on Sunday morning. But uh we have this Asia class. And man, it is exciting. I mean it's it's a new place for June and for me. And uh just a new avenue. That God just opened a door. And I have a fellow that works with me, and he teaches it when I'm away. But boy, we started seeing people saved Got this uh guy that's married to an Asia uh to a Vietnamese girl, I mentioned that, and and uh both of them have gotten saved. And uh then I had a Filipino uh couple and their daughter coming and and uh we went over and sat down with this the father The daughter was saved, the mother uh professed to be saved. I went over and we sat down with the father and and uh just shared the gospel. I have never seen in all of my years I've never seen anyone So happy to get saved. I mean, people get saved. I mean they're they're happy. I mean he was excited. He started smiling and laughing, and man, he was so excited. I talked to him about baptism. He said, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I'll be baptized. He said next morning Uh that was on a Saturday, so Sunday, I told my uh helper there, uh Julio, I said, Julio, you s you go to him uh just as soon as you start the invitation, tell him you'll walk forward with him Well man, uh Julio didn't have to go out there. I mean he shot out of there and up that aisle and big smile on his face, and he was excited to get saved. What I'm saying is God will put us right in the place if we just follow him. If we just follow him, he will make us fishers of men. The reason you and I do not win more people to Christ is We make the decision we're not going to. We're not going to whisp witness to them. We're not going to give them a track. And all the time We know the Holy Spirit saying, do it. Do it. And all he's saying is, just follow me, and I will make you So why don't we decide tonight? I'm going to become more aware of following him. I'm not going to worry about what I become. I'm not going to worry about how I do it. I'm just going to follow him. And I'm going to watch him make me. I'm just going to watch him make me. I'm just going to do what he wants me to do. I'm going to be where he wants me to be. I'm going to stay in the Bible. I'm going to have a consistent prayer life. I'm going to be in church. I'm just going to walk with him and follow him. And I'm going to watch him make me. And if you and I do that this week, we'll know exactly what he wants us to do in worldwide evangelization. Amen. Let's pray. Every head bowed, every eye closed. How many folks tonight will say, preacher? If I know my heart, that's what I want. That's what I want. Would you pray with me and pray for me that God would help me to become aware of that? That I would just follow him. Would you slip your hands up all over the building? That's what I want. That's what I want. I want God to do something. That I know only God can do. Let's get along with him tonight. Make you an altar up here and ask him. Ask him not to let you Just push this thought aside. That you'll not just but but that you'll ponder this Be reminded of this. Let's stand as we pray. Father, bless the invitation tonight and bless as we do business with you. God We've tried a lot of things on our own and found out that maybe we're not what you want us to be at times. And God, we've also seen some things that have happened in our lives that we know are there because we just followed you. I pray tonight for these that have raised their hands, others that desire to do so. And I pray tonight that you would help us to leave here with a willingness on our hearts, with a desire. to follow you. To just get on the assembly line and let you move us. Let you make us. Blessed now as we do business with you. Heads are vowed, eyes are closed, the pen is placed