Wherever they were banished from their paradise. And his compassion was the sages, I'm holding through the ages. Of a love that remains the greatest ever that he gave him a love. Only done to agony on a giveaway. And my heart and bore my brain. Sacred life for God alone Shouts of praise for her throughout the land. As Jesus loves we pass through science case in the gloom of Calvary's sorrow, touch the hope of bright tomorrow when the heart. I'm a loving father turned away for God the love that he gave enough. And reached my heart and warm my brain who was more herself. Wanted to re Thank you, Jennifer. Appreciate that. Psalm chapter 41. If you would turn there with me, Psalm 41 is our passage for this morning's message. My wife and I are were helping young lady that started dating a fellow with a wooden leg. Come to find out she broke it off, so she was dating us So you pray for him. We're not really counseling a lady dating a guy with a broken leg. That was Jimmy Shelton, our missionary in Puerto Rico, said that. Notice, if you would, Psalm 41 and verse number 4. I'd like for us to read this verse together in unison, if you would, Psalms 41. And verse four. Ready? Read it with me. Here we go. I said, Lord, be merciful unto me. Heal my soul, for I have sinned against thee. Read this in my devotions uh a week or so ago, and um that one phrase, heal my soul, stood out. uh in my mind as I read that. And I circled that in my Bible. Heal my soul. That's my message for this morning. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven We're grateful for uh all that's taken place here this morning. The singing, the fellowship's been a blessing. Lord, now as we look into your word, we ask that you would um help us put aside the cares of the week God help us put aside out of our heart and mind the various issues that would cloud and hinder you speaking to our hearts I pray that you would open our hearts and minds that we would be receptive to what you have for us. Lord, I believe that you've directed me to preach on this passage, and Lord, with that in mind I yield myself to you, my will, I present my body anew, and I pray that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, and God, you would speak through me to our hearts that which you have in mind and what you know is best for us. So bless now. Next few moments I ask in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Wednesday nights we've been studying the Beatitudes. I've really been enjoying this study. It's been a challenge to me. And we've been emphasizing the fact that it is important for Christians To learn to view the world and view our lives through the through the lens of Scripture. to see this world and and have a scriptural worldview is what I'm trying to say, rather than trying to understand the world with our limited understanding, with our sin-stained mind. But rather seeing what life is all about, seeing what the world is all about from God's perspective through the Word of God. As I've been saying on Wednesday nights, viewing the world through the lens of Scripture. And when we do that, we have a clearer and a more accurate understanding. of what this world really is about. Now, to do that, if I'm going to view the world through the lens of Scripture, if I'm going to view the world through the prism of God's Word, then I need to know what God's Word says. I need to know the Word of God. I must be a diligent student of God's Word. These last twenty-one years that uh been able to be here and be a part of Mount Lake and be pastor here. We have emphasized, and many of you can testify to this, we have emphasized very strongly the importance of Christians studying and reading and meditating in the Word of God on a daily basis. And again this morning, I want to challenge God's people, those of us that know Jesus Christ as Savior, I want to challenge you, make it a daily habit Schedule it into your daily routine, time spent in the Word of God, reading the Bible, studying it, looking up words, memorizing it. And asking God to apply it to our lives. When we do that as Christians, it enables us to see what's happening out there in the world, it enables us to see what's going on in our lives From God's perspective and be able to deal with these issues a whole lot better. David was able to do that David is the human penman here in Psalm 41 of this chapter, and of course it's given by inspiration of God, but David was the human penman behind us. And David understood. David knew the Word of God. And David was able to see his life. Not from his limited perspective down here, but he was able to see his life from God's perspective He was able to see the things that other people were doing around him, the things that God would allow into his life. He was able to see that from God's perspective. Because he knew the Word of God. He had a he was looking at the world and life through the lenses of Scripture. That way, thus he was able to deal with hardships From God's perspective. People, if you study the life of David much, you know that he was treated unjustly on many occasions, very severely. And yet he never got bitter. He never uh lost his faith in God. I mean, he had his ups and downs. He made some terrible decisions. But for the most part, he was able to view life from God's perspective and able to understand that God was working, God had a plan, and ultimately God was in control. I can see where this world, looking at our world situation from man's perspective, could get hopeless. Yeah, you follow what I'm saying? I mean from our perspective it looks hopeless. This whole world is on fire. Morally speaking. I mean just spiritually. This whole world is absolutely a mess. And we look at our country. And I don't know about you, I love United States of America. And I look at our country and I look at what is happening to us morally and spiritually. And my heart is broken. And if all I could do was see what's happening from man's perspective, it well you'd want to throw your arms up and say it's hopeless But I'm here to tell you, God is over all. And when I am able to understand Scripture and look at the world and look at perspective from uh look at life from God's perspective, Then things begin to make sense. Then I can see, hey, wait a minute, God is in control. God can take the worst circumstance and turn it around and make it right God can meet the greatest need. God can bring revival to a nation and turn that thing around. He can. And so it is important. And we've emphasized this all these years. It is important for God's people to spend time studying scriptures, reading, at the very minimum, reading a portion of God's Word every day, memorizing. Getting that word of God into my heart and mind so that I can see life and understand a little bit better, a little clearer, what God is doing, what God's accomplishing. So how many folks here? You're saved and you know it. Say amen I want to challenge you. Just make it part of your daily routine. I'm going to schedule in a daily Bible reading time. By the way, the right kind of church is not afraid of Bible reading members. It's not a threat in any way. The Bible is our sole authority. Amen? And that's what we operate by. And so, now I said all that to say this. It's not enough to just know the Bible. That's not enough. I need to know the God of the Bible. And David, I put it this way: David not only knew the word of God, David understood the heart of God. David understood. If I can, I'll put it this way. David knew the word of God, but more than just what this Bible says. He understood the God of the Word. I put it this way. David understood how God thinks. David understood how God feels. He had a grasp of how God operates. It is one thing to know God's word. It's another thing to know the God of the Word, to understand God. Now, I uh granted, God is so far beyond us. He is infinite. We are finite. We are never fully going to understand God in all his aspects. But we can get to know God. And to learn and understand and have such a relationship with him that we begin to understand his heart. We begin to understand what God loves. And how God feels towards certain things. And that is so important. David knew that. He knew that. Now, I notice verse number four. Now with all of that in mind, knowing the word of oh let me stop and say this Do you know it's possible to know the Bible, to know have verses in the Bible memorized, and die and go to hell It is possible to have huge portions of Scripture memorized and die and go to hell. I said this: it's one thing to know the Word of God, it's another thing to know the God of the world. And my question here, right now, at this point, is this do you know for sure that God has forgiven all your sins? And that whenever the day comes for you to die, and that day is coming, whenever the day comes for you to die, that God all your sins are forgiven, and that you will go to be in the presence of the Lord and not go to hell. Now, we can only be saved the Bible way, but just knowing Bible verses doesn't save us. I need to personally accept Jesus Christ as my own Savior. Putting my faith and trust in Jesus and Him alone, come in my heart and life and forgive me and save me. Let me give just brief testimony. I know for sure. Listen I know for sure there is not one doubt in my mind that, God forbid, if I would die today, I know for sure that I would go to heaven and be in the presence of God. Now somebody might say this, well, that preacher's awfully presumptuous, he's awfully arrogant, he thinks he's so good that he'll die and go to heaven. No, I am a wretched, wretched sinner. But on May 7, 1979, I put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, and my Savior forgave all my sins, came in my life, and gave me eternal life. And he promised I would never perish. Any person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, God forgives all their sin, past, present, future, all forgiven. And he gives them eternal life. That even when this body dies, we still go on and we live in the presence of God. Isn't that a wonderful thing? And so my challenge is this, not just to know the Bible. Well, preacher, I can quote John 3. 16, praise the Lord, but do you know the God of John 3. 16? Do you know him as your personal Savior? Then once you've accepted him, are you growing in your faith and you have such a relationship, a growing relationship with the Lord, that you're getting to know God And what he's like, and how he works in my life, and how he works in the world. That's where David was. Now, as I said, let's look at verse 4 here. I notice the first two words, verse four. I said, Lord be merciful unto me. I said Although, well, that's an interesting way to start a verse. I said, Lord be merciful. I said, Lord be merciful unto me. So I got looking up that little phrase I said, and I noticed how it's used other places in the Bible, and I looked up some de uh definitions and different things, and I came to this conclusion And David uses that statement several places. I said, I said. And I believe what he means by this, I think the implication here is this. Did you ever hear someone do this, or maybe you have someone in your family? Well, like I always say, you ever hear that little phrase? Well, like my mom uh had this little saying. When you say, like my mom, she says, You ain't got nothing good to say, don't say nothing And uh anybody ever hear that? And uh I thought that's not a very good thing to say. Uh but yeah uh well like like mom always says, you ain't got nothing good to say, don't say nothing That's good advice. That's kind of what I think is taking place here. David's saying, like I always say, Lord be merciful to me, a sinner. I said, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. I believe this is what we're dealing with here. David was known for continually referencing the mercy of God. Like I say, Lord be merciful to me, a sinner. It was, I think what he's telling us here that David is in the habit. Of constantly referring to the mercy of God, the mercy of God, the mercy of God I was thinking as I was studying this, I thought of my wife's uh father, my father-in-law, Kenny Shifflet. He died how many years ago? Eight, ten years ago, something like that. He uh died of cancer And we were able to be down there with him when he passed away. And the evening he died in the middle of the night. And that evening um Well, I spent the day with him before he passed away, and then that evening, and he was real restless. He'd get up during the night. And we were talking all that day, different thing, and I noticed that uh he kept saying, I'm just trusting in the mercy of God. The mercy of God. He knew time was coming. He knew he didn't have long. And in every conversation we had that day, he would one way or another reference that God is so merciful. That God is so merciful. By eleven o'clock, uh I heard movement out in the kitchen. This was down at his place and uh down in Richwood, West Virginia. I come out and there he was standing and he had a um a coffee or something, he was uh standing there in the kitchen. We talked a little bit. And uh he said, Dennis, I'm just trusting in the mercy of God. The mercy of God. And you know what I and then that night we next morning came out and we found him. He had passed away in the night. And you know, every time I think back to Papa Kenny, we called him, I always think about those last days I spent with him, and he would reference the mercy of God. God is so merciful, the mercy of God And that is what David is here. Like I said, I said, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. David was known for his referencing the mercy of God. That was part of what he said. Now, let me stop here. What do we mean by God's mercy? What are we talking about when David said, Lord, be merciful me, the mercy of God. What are we talking about? We have a very simple definition we've tried to use around here The mercy, God's mercy, is simply this. God not giving me that which I do deserve. You follow what I'm saying? Not giving me that which I do deserve. Now the grace of God is the other side of that. The grace of God is God giving me something. I do not deserve. That is grace. Now, what is it that God offers mankind that he does not deserve. What does the grace of God offer to man? Well, God offers man eternal life. We don't deserve it. We're sinners, and David will reference that here in this passage. We've sinned against God. We have broken his law. And God, in his grace offers to us complete and full forgiveness. He offers to us eternal life to live in his presence, even though we have sinned against his law. We have broken his standard of acceptability. And yet in his grace, he offers forgiveness. He offers eternal life. Now, the mercy of God, as we said, is not getting that which I do deserve. Now, as a sinner, what do I deserve? A sinner before a holy God. I deserve God's judgment. I deserve separation from God for all eternity in a place called hell. And uh ultimately the lake of fire. And as a sinner, I deserve judgment. But God, in his mercy, offers free forgiveness and free uh and offers to save me and remove that judgment. Isn't that a wonderful thing? Mercy is a good thing to reference often God has not done for me that which I deserve. I tell you, we live in a mixed-up world, don't we? We got people out in the streets, we got people in Washington and state capitals demanding our rights. I want what I deserve I tell you what, if we saw it from God's perspective, we'd say, God, have mercy on us. I don't want what I deserve. I've sinned against God. I've said things that absolutely violate the holiness of God. And I don't we I don't want God to give me what I deserve. I want God to be merciful to me. Can I get a witness? Hey, we've done things that are absolutely shameful before a holy God. We don't want God to give us what we deserve. We want God to be merciful to us. We want God to withhold his judgment off of us. Like I say, that's what David's saying. I said, Lord, be merciful unto me. That's what he was known for. That's what he would he would uh in the habit of saying. And so that tells me something about David. That tells me that David not only knew the word of God, but he knew the heart of God. David understood That our God is a merciful God, that our God delights in forgiving sinners. Our God loves To withhold his judgment from those who will come to him seeking his mercy. Whenever we are overwhelmed by hardship, I'm talking to some folks I know for a fact that I'm talking to some folks right now who have broken hearts. And you come to church and you put a smile on, and you're trying to be a good testimony and be a blessing, and thank God for it. That's the way it ought to be. But I know for a fact that in the hearts of people sitting here now There is brokenness and there is grief and there is heartache. And I'm here to tell you, we have a God that is so merciful. And we can come to him in those times of heartache and brokenness, and we can come and say, God, be merciful to me. God, in your mercy, help me. I'm talking to some folks this morning. I know it for a fact. Folks this morning, it needs some wisdom from God to make the right decisions. And significant things, if they're going to grow in their Christian life, if I'm going to be everything that God intends for me, there needs to be some hard decisions made. You know what a good thing to do in that time when I need wisdom of God and I need to make the right decision and important issues? Good thing to do is come before God and say, Lord, be merciful to me. God, give me wisdom. God, be merciful and show me the right thing to do. Help me to have the courage to make that decision. Lord, be merciful to me. You read David's life, he was a great man. Do you agree with me on that? I admire David. I look forward to the day we get out in eternity, be able to meet David. Won't that be a wonderful thing? He was a man, the Bible says he was a man after God's own heart. In other words, he knew not just the word of God, he knew the heart of God. He knew what God loved. He knew what God, how God operated. He was a man after God's own arm. But David was a man that had failed God miserably. Horrendously. David committed unthinkable sins with Bathsheba and murdering an innocent man murdering Flying in the face of God in pride and rebellion, numbering the people when God told him not to. David knew what it was like to fail God. He knew what it was like to deal with the guilt of sin. But he knew the heart of God. And he knew that even in his failure, God was a merciful God. And he could come to God and find forgiveness. I may be talking to someone young or old and you've failed God. You love the Lord, you want to do right, you're a saved person. But that old flesh And that battle got strong, and you failed. And you've said things you know that are displeasing to God, and maybe you've done some things that you know are displeasing to God. I say to you this morning, as a child of God, appeal to the mercy of God. Read Psalm 51. David understood, a broken and contrite heart thou wilt not despise. David knew the heart of God. And he knew that even as a Christian who had failed God and sinned and done wrong, he didn't lose his salvation, but he knew he could come to God and have that fellowship restored. Because God is merciful. He understood that. Um we're not told the background of Psalm forty one. I like to whenever I peach preach from a chapter I try and look and get the background and what the setting is and Sometimes it gives you insight as to what's being said and why, and maybe the circumstances around you and glean some insight there. And so I looked at Psalm 41, I looked what the Bible scholars and everything had to say, and to be honest with you, I couldn't come up with anything. I don't know what the setting was when David penned this. We don't know what the circumstances were. We look at the in the chapter itself internally and we pick up a few things. I see in verses one through three, it looks to me apparently David was not well physically at this point It looks like he may have been dealing with some sickness, maybe some uh pretty severe sickness. We don't know what it was. I notice there at the last part of verse 3 Verse three says, The Lord will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing that will make all his bed in his sickness. Was David referencing himself there? Maybe he was dealing with some sickness? I don't know I look at verse number four. Obviously, we're going to see this. David had sinned against God very seriously I said, Lord, be merciful unto me. Heal my soul. Verse 1 through 3 references this physical illness. But he doesn't say, Lord, heal my body, and God can and will do that many times and will appoint us. But here he's saying, Lord, heal my soul. And then the last part he tells us why. For I have sinned against thee. And so David perhaps was dealing with physical illness when he penned this. Verse 4: it's very obvious he was dealing with spiritual sin. He had sinned And then I look at verses 5 through 9, and we don't know exactly this situation behind us, but it looks to me like he's been being treated unjustly by others. He says, There my enemies speak evil of me. When shall he die and his name perish? That's what his enemies are saying about him. If he come to see me, he speaketh vanity. His heart gathereth iniquity to itself. When he goeth abroad he telleth it, All that hate me whisper together against me. Against me do they devise my earth An evil disease say they cleaveth fast to him, and now that he lieth he shall and now that he lieth he shall rise up no more. I mean they're just saying David's sick, he's dead, he's over with. Yea, my own familiar friend, in whom I trusted. Which did eat of my bread had lifted up his heel against me. So I look here and I look, man, David looks like he's dealing with some sickness. He did something that was very sinful against God. His people, others, and friends are treating him unjustly, people he trusted. I mean, he's in a situation here And right in the middle of it, he says, I said, Lord, be merciful unto me and heal my soul. For I've sinned against thee. I want us to notice two thoughts from this passage real quickly. Number one, I see we have a two-fold prayer request in verse number four. David asked for two things. Number one, he asked, Be merciful unto me. And number two, he asked, heal my soul. Be merciful unto me, as I pointed out earlier. Mercy is not getting what I do deserve. Would you say that with me? Mercy is Not getting what I do deserve. Let's say it again. Mercy is not getting what I do deserve David is saying to God, God, I know I deserve your judgment, but I'm asking you to not give it to me. Be merciful unto me. I think it's interesting. Whatever the circumstances are, we're not told, but David does not blame God for his circumstances. David does not blame God for his sin. I've seen people, as I said, we pastored here 21 years and been in the ministry since 1985. So I've been around and worked with people a little bit over the years. And I've seen many, many times where you have someone, maybe an unsaved person, sometimes I've seen Christians have this frame of mind A Christian will deliberately disobey a clear command of God. I mean they'll do it, they know it's wrong, and deliberately disobey God. You know what I found out? When I disobey God, there's consequences. Anybody ever can I get a witness? I found out if you touch a hot stove, you burn your hand. I found out that if I disobey God, there's negative consequences And I've seen people many time and time again that deliberately disobeyed God, deliberately sinned against God, and then turned around when the consequences came, blamed God for their circumstances. Blame God for those consequences. Listen, David's not doing that. David's not blaming God for whatever the circumstances we're in. He recognizes I need God Now I'm not blaming God, I'm asking God for mercy. He's not angry at God for the consequences of his own actions. He's asking God for mercy. Best thing to do when our heart is broken is appeal to the mercy of God. The best thing to do when I've sinned against God is to appeal to the mercy of God. Whenever I'm overwhelmed with the circumstance of life, maybe it's some of my own doing, best thing to do is appeal to the mercy of God. Oh God, be merciful to me and help me. God help me, be merciful me to help me. David simply crying out, God, be merciful to me. I believe That when you and I appeal to God's mercy, it will bring greater peace to my heart Than anything a psychiatrist or any drug in the drugstore can do for me, the mercy of God can do much more. Listen, there is not a concoction man can come up with that can bring peace to the heart of a person like the mercy of God can. David's crying out, God, be merciful to me. That's where the source of a peace of heart comes from. Crying out and appealing to God's mercy will bring strength to my soul, will bring relief of guilt. Um do you ever notice how many folks here have found yourself getting older? It's only one other option And I found myself, like you, getting older. You know what I found? The older I get, this body starts doing strange things. Can I get a witness? Now I won't go into detail. Praise the Lord. But I tell you, I've got hair growing out of places it never grew out of before. Nose and ears. My wife said, good heavens, it's a jungle in there. She's looking at my And you know, sometimes we take different medicines and concoctions to try and bring relief to this whole body. Can I get a witness? How many people have a little how many we got an older cra how many people have one of those little pill things, you know, each day? Can I get a Yeah. Praise the Lord for those things I tell you what, there's not a pill in the world that can bring relief for guilt. Huh? We got folks going around, some of us going around with awfully heavy packs of guilt on our backs. You ever experienced the guilt of sin? Conviction sin? It's like a bowling ball down inside your chest, in your heart and soul. I'm telling you, a sendred PM and going to take that away. There's not a medicine, there's not a There's not a process, a formula that man can come up with that can take away the guilt of sin. But I tell you what, David found something that can. It's called the mercy of God. He cried out to God, be merciful to me. Be merciful to me. It's interesting. You read through the Gospels. And if you pay close attention, you find people over and over and over again coming to the Lord Jesus Christ saying this: Lord, have mercy on me. Lord, have mercy on me. You find devil-possessed people, Lord have mercy on me. You find the father of a son that is so messed up and And demonic stuff and the devil has absolutely moved in and destroyed him. And the father cries out, God have mercy on me You find some blind men, as Jesus passed by, they say, Thou son of David, have mercy on me. And everyone tells them to shut up, and he cries louder, Have mercy on me. All through the gospels. You find people that are sick. Lord have mercy on me. You find the blind crying out, Lord have mercy on me. In Luke chapter 18, verse 13, in verse chapter 18, Jesus tells the story, two men went up to the temple to pray. The one is a self-righteous Pharisee, and he says, Lord, I thank thee that I'm not here as this publican. I tithe, I do this, that, and the other. And then it's the publican's turn to pray, and he gets up and he doesn't even lift his eyes to heaven. He just smokes his breast and he says, Lord, be merciful to me, a sinner. All through the Gospels, wherever Jesus went, people came to him seeking mercy. In fact, in Luke chapter 16, you even find a man in hell. So Father Abraham, be merciful unto me. Send Lazarus, he may dip the tip of his finger in water and cool my tongue, for I am tormented in this flame. Mercy. Mercy. David said, Lord, be merciful to me. Lord, be merciful to me. That is a prayer the unsaved person ought to pray. Lord, be merciful to me Come into my heart and be my savior. I believe you died for me and rose again. If you're here this morning, you're under the sound of my voice And you do not know for sure that your sins are forgiven, that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. If you don't have that settled, I'm here to tell you, you can look to Jesus Christ and find mercy and forgiveness and eternal life If you're looking to our church or any other church, you're not going to find mercy. We can't save your soul from sin in hell. That baptistry cannot save anybody from sin and hell. Putting money in the offering plate will not bring mercy of God. But looking to Jesus Christ. This brings the mercy and forgiveness of God. The unsaved person ought to cry out to God, be merciful to me, a sinner, come in my life and forgive me, give me eternal life. By the way, the backslidden Christian, that's a good prayer for the backslidden Christian to pray. You say, what do you mean by a backslidden Christian? Now some folks will teach a backsling Christian as someone that was saved and lost their salvation. That is unscriptural. Listen, I want to reiterate, a saved person can never, ever lose their salvation. If they do, then Jesus lied. Because Jesus said, I give unto them eternal life and they shall never perish. If God gives someone eternal life and they perish and go to hell, that means Jesus what? He lied. And I'm here to tell you, Jesus cannot lie. So what are we talking about? When we talk about a backslidden Christian, we're talking about a Christian who is out of fellowship with God. They are not living for the Lord like they should. They're saved. Let me give you an example. You read in the Old Testament Genesis, you read about a fellow by the name of Lot. Peter tells us Lot was a saved man. He's in the presence of God, even now as I speak. But he was not a good Christian by any stretch of the imagination. He was terrible. You read in the New Testament about a church in Corinth. Paul refers to them as brethren, saved people. But I'm telling you, they were a mess. They were living in sin. I mean horrendous sin. If you and I would have gone and visited the church at Corinth on vacation, we would have walked out of there and said, I ain't never going back to that church again I mean, they were a mess. They were fussing and fighting, carrying on, living in sin. But they were saved. You know what they were? They were backslidden. They were out of fellowship with God. They're under chastisement of God. There was people in the church at Corinth dying, sick and dying, simply because they were living in such horrendous sin. And they were under the chastisement of God. They were backslidden. You know what the best thing to do is a Christian? I may be talking to a Christian this morning. You're saved. You know you're saved. But you're out of fellowship with God. You know what my plea to you this morning is? You come to Christ and call out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Not for salvation, that's settled, but to be for restoration. Am I making sense? So the unsaved person needs to come to Christ. God be merciful, me the sinner The same person's out of fellowship with God that has sin in their life, ought to come and say, Lord, be merciful to me a sinner. Deliver me from this sin The person, the Christian here this morning that's gone through tests and trials and difficulties, you want to say, God, be merciful to me. Help me in this test The Christian here this morning that's heartbroken ought to cry out, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. The Christian this morning that's sick and afflicted. Cry out to God for mercy. I'm telling you, God can save the lost. In his mercy, God's mercy will restore the backslidden. God's mercy will strengthen the tried infested. God's mercy will help the heartbroken. God's mercy can and often does heal the sick. Mercy of God. David said, be merciful to me. So his first request is, God, be merciful to me. His second request is this: heal my soul. Now that phrase just caught my attention. Heal my soul. But I can relate to that. To have my soul healed. It doesn't say heal my eye. It doesn't say heal my foot. Doesn't say heal my disease. God can and often does heal these things. We got people in our church could stand up and testify, God healed me in an amazing way. Right or wrong Or his brother Andy. He could testify that. Doreen testify to that. Many around here testify. Hey, God can and does often heal. But that's not what David's praying for. David's praying not to heal my eye or my foot or my back or my uh my ears, my death. He's saying heal my soul. The greatest healing there is is the healing of the soul. God can heal a tragic disease of sickness, but eventually that body is going to die. But when God heals a soul, that's a wonderful, wonderful thing. Heal my soul. God can and does heal sickness, but the greatest need of man is the healing of the soul. The healing of the soul. So David asked, Lord, be merciful to me. Then he said, Lord, heal my soul. But then the last part, that's the twofold request. Then we have a personal confession. Look again at verse number four. Lord, be merciful unto me as sin. Be merciful unto me. Heal my soul. Look at this. Here's his confession. For I have sinned against thee. For I have sinned against thee. I've stood by the graveside of little infants that God, in his wisdom and purpose, called home to heaven. I tell you, that's a grief to stand by the scrave of a child. Amen or not. That's a grief. I've been by the grayside of folks who bury mother, father, dear loved ones, a brother, sister, close friend. Many tears have been wept in the front of the but many tears have been shed in front of this church here, gathered around casket. Loved one going on to heaven, called home. Tell you that's a grief. But I'll tell you, there's a grief that's even greater than any grief of this world. That is the grief of a sin-sick soul. To have sin, the pain of a sin-pierced conscience. I put this down. The root of all pain, the root of all pain is the sinfulness of man. In one way or another, it comes back to the sinfulness of man. I think it's interesting. David says, For I have sinned against thee. He doesn't make any excuses. He doesn't say, Lord, I did wrong, but it wasn't my fault. He accepts full responsibility. I will never find peace of mind until I accept responsibility for my own actions. As long as I'm blaming someone else, as long as I'm blaming something else, peace of mind will never come to my heart and soul. David said, I have sinned against thee. He doesn't make an excuse. He doesn't offer any qualifications. Now, Lord, I sinned against thee, but it's really not that bad. Lord, I could have sinned a whole lot worse. Ah, Lord, I'm not as bad as that guy across the road. Now he is a sinner We were out in Solwood the other week and uh I was talking to a lady and she goes, She goes, See those people down there? They really need what you've got I said, really? She goes, oh yeah. Make sure you talk to them. They really need it. I said, well, how about you? Well, you know. We were in Indianapolis when I was youth pastor there. We had a uh ministry down in the jail but county jail. Now Indianapolis county jail was huge. And uh every once a month we went down there Sunday night, we preached, and we'd have about forty, forty-five, fifty prisoners would come out. And we'd preach to them, and then sometimes we'd get to sit with them and talk to them a little bit And the one guy and uh I was with the pastor and we were talking this one guy and kinda trying to go through the gospel and got about being a sinner. He says, Yeah, I'm a sinner. He says um he says I killed a guy And I thought, I hope they unlocked those doors there. And so he said that he had killed this guy. And we're going on and he said, but you know, he says, I'm not as bad as the guy a couple cells down. He killed three people So well praise the Lord. You're not so bad after all then. My point is this, if we're looking for someone worse than us, we'll always be able to find somebody But that's not what brings peace of mind, finding someone worse than me. What brings the peace of mind is saying, Lord, I have sinned against you. Bad. It's not right. It's sin. So David, when he says I've sinned against you, he doesn't give an excuse. He doesn't put any qualifications. And I put this down. He's not simply patronizing God. All right, yeah, God, I sin. You're right. We see that sometimes around soul when it will knock on the door and uh go through the plan of salvation and Say, uh, we're all sinners. You know you're a sinner? Oh yeah, right. Yeah, I'm a sinner, I'm the worst. And they're just saying that to patrons. You know what I'm talking about? They don't really mean it, it's just saying that trying to get you out off their porch or whatever. And David's not doing that, all right, yeah, Lord, I send. No, no, no. He's grieved over. This is a genuine confession. He said, Preacher, I'm a Christian, I'm saved, and I've sinned against God. What should I do? How do I deal with that sin? Exactly the way David did. Number one, appeal to God's mercy and then acknowledge it, accept personal responsibility for it. God, I did wrong. And I'm appealing to your mercy. That's what David did in Psalm 51 after he committed adultery at Bathsheba. Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this evil in thy sight. No justification, no excuse, no qualification, no patronizing, just genuine, humble confession of sin and appealing to God's mercy. Sin ultimately produces sorrow. And genuine personal confession will appeal to God's mercy. A mother approached Napoleon. You've heard of Napoleon the great conqueror. A mother approached Napoleon about her son. She wanted a pardon for her son. Napoleon pointed out to her this mother that her boy had committed some very, very serious crimes. In fact, he had committed them twice. And justice demanded the death penalty on her son. The mother said, This: Sir, I do not ask for justice. I plead for mercy. Napoleon responded, Your son does not deserve mercy. The mother said, It would not be mercy if he deserved it All I'm asking for is mercy. Oyan said, if what you are asking for is mercy. Then mercy is what I will give. And he spared her son. What do we need from God? We need the very same, God, that David prayed for. God, be merciful to me and heal my soul. Where are you at this morning spiritually? Let me ask you this. Do you know for sure that God has completely forgiven all your sin? And that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell, that you have eternal life. Is that settled? If there's a doubt, if there's a question, God's mercy is available, you can come to Him and appeal to that and find full forgiveness. and assurance of a home in heaven. That's the Bible teaching. Are you here this morning? Are you saved? You know you're saved. You've trusted Christ, that's settled, but you say, preacher, I'm not the Christian I ought to be. And there's things that in my life that I know are wrong. And I'm struggling with these. And I want God to help me. I say to you this morning, appeal to his mercy. God will be merciful. He will help us. He can and will deliver us from those things that are hurting our growth, our spiritual growth, those sins that creep in even as a believer. God can and will help us if we cry out, Lord, be merciful to me. Maybe you're going through a heartache. Maybe somebody has treated you wrong. I mean, your heart is broken. Somebody you cared about and loved, and you say, preacher, how do I deal with this? I say to you, appeal to God's mercy. Our God is merciful. And he will help us if we'll but trust him. Does that make sense? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us this morning. Lord, we don't want to just know your word. Lord, we want to know your heart. Lord, as we see David, he understood your heart. He saw your great mercy, your love for us, and your willingness to Withhold that which we do deserve and help us if we'll just trust you and look to you and put our faith in you I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed before I finish this prayer out, is there any this morning would say, Preacher, I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. God has forgiven me. I've got that matter settled. I can give you scriptural support for the fact that God has saved my soul. I have a home in heaven. But You say, as a Christian, my life is not what it ought to be. And the Spirit of God has touched on some sins in my life that I know are there. I hate it. And I want God to help me and deliver me. And you'd say this morning, preacher, I'm going to appeal to God's mercy to help me and give me victory in my life. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. So I look to God for mercy. Is there any like that? Have the uplifted hand, preacher, pray with me. God bless you, hands all around. I'm telling you this fight with sin is a lifelong battle. We trust Christ as Savior. It becomes even more pronounced. We're more sensitive to it. God bless you. Many hands all around. How about it? Any others? Preach or pray for me. I need God's mercy. God bless you and several others. Now let me ask you this. Is there some this morning say, preacher, my heart is broken? And God is putting me through a hard time, putting me through a challenging time. And I need God to be merciful and help me and strengthen me through this difficult hardship. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me. That God would be merciful to me and help me be strong in the midst of this trial. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you, a number of hands around. And we do go through trials. James talks about that One last question. You'd say, preacher, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven, that when I die I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I'm telling you, God doesn't want you to go to hell. And the ball is in your court. Are you willing to look to God for mercy and forgiveness by trusting Jesus? How many would say, preacher, pray for me? I want to know that God has forgiven all my sin. I want that settled in my heart and life. Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about my soul. Pray that God will help me. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand, Preacher? I don't want to go to hell. I want to know I'm going to heaven. And I need God to help me settle that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me I need to have that matter settled in my life. How about it? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. I saw a lot of hands. You know our hearts. Help us, Lord, to do as David did And cry out, God, be merciful to me, heal my soul. And God will do that. I believe that, Lord. So help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. This morning, God spoke to your heart.