Open up your Bibles. Anywhere is good, but if you want to follow me, go to the book of John. And chapter 6. You know, as I was driving up here the last couple days, I was praying, and my desire was to preach a message out of the book of Acts. Pastor, you'll never guess where what passage I was thinking about preaching from. You got it. I I I I I wanted to preach that and I just uh but I wasn't comfortable. You know, I I I wanted to, but I wasn't comfortable and I I didn't know why and I preached a message that I want to share with you tonight last year. out of this passage in John, and then this morning when he announced his text, I said, Oh, I know why now. Amen. I couldn't have done justice to it the way your pastor did. That was good stuff, brother I suggest you keep on knocking. Amen. So y'all find your place there in John chapter 6. I don't know if y'all do this or not, but would you be willing to stand if you're able while read God's Word? That'll both give him some respect and your pew will break Amen. I don't plan on being real long. Pastor, what time are you normally done? Now, I was in a church in Sebring, Florida, many years ago. I got there just at the last minute on a Sunday night and met the pastor I hadn't never met before. And he did his stuff and then gave me the pulpit. And I said, Pastor, how long do I got? What time do I need to shut down? And he said, Oh, brother, preach as long as you want. But we're leaving at nine. So I'll I'll try to at least get you out of here by nine. That'd be all right? Amen. Ah, okay. Alright, well we gotta do what the pastor wants, right? Amen. It's always wise, especially for a missionary, do what the pastor wants. Well, uh, let's look at this passage here. I know you know the story, but I want to look at it again and see if I can't help you just a little bit this afternoon. John chapter 6 And verse 1, it says, after these things, Jesus went over the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. And a great multitude followed him because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased. And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples. And the Passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh. When Jesus then lifted up his eyes and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread that these may eat? And this he said, to prove him, for he himself knew what he would do. Philip answered him, Two hundred penny worth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little. One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, There is a lad here. Which hath five barley loaves and two small fishes. But what are they among so many? And Jesus said, make the men to sit down. Now there was much grass in the place, so the men sat down in number about 5,000 And Jesus took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down, and likewise of the fishes, as much as they would. When they were filled, he saith unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost. Therefore they gathered them together and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves which remained over and above unto them that had eaten. Now let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, thank you so much for this great privilege and honor you're affording me right now. Thank you for these wonderful people. I felt so welcome, so blessed to be able to visit here. And Lord, I pray that you would meet with us for just a little while longer. There's some people here tonight that are hurting. There's people here going through some difficult situations. There's some people who soon will be and don't even know it yet. Just every one of us, Lord, has needs that only you can truly meet. I pray that you would do so this evening, because only a God like you, Father, can meet the needs of so many different people through one simple message. But you can. And I pray that you do. In Jesus' name. Amen. Y'all can be seen that I was in a service once there was an evangelist who got up and and read his text and started preaching And and he forgot to tell us to sit down. So I try to remember always you know as I was standing there going, man, my feet are getting tired here, buddy. I'm not listening to you, you know So I try to remember and tell folks to sit down. Amen. If I ever fail to do that, just go ahead and sit down. I'll pick up on it. Amen. So this story, I just want to lay out a few things for you here first I'm not a real smart man, but I I'm very well read. Dr. Zeus, Hardy Boys. Hey, the good stuff. You know what I mean? Mad magazine. Anyone remember that? Alfred E. Newman. That's me. What may worry? You know, I I didn't worry about it Uh but I I learned to read as a ver my mom was a teacher, and she taught me to read before I ever went to kindergarten, and I fell in love with it. I I can't I can't hardly sit still without reading. And uh you know if there's not something to read, I'll read the cereal box. I don't care, I'll read anything. Read the labels. That's how I learned about nutrition, brother. Keep reading the labels, you know But as I was reading, I came to understand something, and I want to help you with this because I fear that many of us Miss a huge opportunity, especially regarding the reading of God's Word. You see Especially like, for instance, this story. Y'all know it pretty well, right? Anybody never heard this story before? Yabah, it's one of the most well-known stories in the Bible. The feeding of the 5,000. And the problem is that as we read the Bible, well hopefully you're reading daily going through it at least once a year. It won't take you but about 15 minutes a day, if that And you'll get to these stories, these passages, and you won't pay a lot of attention because you know the story. Right? And that's a mistake, my friends, because every time you go through it, there's something more for you You need to take your time. Now God's given you a gift. Every one of us, some of them have a little bit more of it than others. It's called imagination. And it's a wonderful gift from God as long as it's under control. Now you don't keep it under control, it might take you a place you shouldn't ought to go. But under control, if you look to the Lord for help, for direction, but let your imagination take you into the story, you understand that you are A product of your experiences in life. Right? That makes sense to you Well, if you get into the story, if it comes alive for you, it's no longer a story that you know. It's something you experienced. And you are a product of your experiences, and that's how the Word of God can come alive in your life. And and it's wonderful. Now you can't be in a hurry doing that. And I spend a lot of time driving, a lot of time by myself like you, brother. My wife can't always go with me. And and so I I've got a pretty good imagination, at least that's what I was told. Uh it's not o well it's not always a good imagination, but it's always imagination, amen. But I I've I dwell on these stories. I think about them. I want to bring out a few things this evening that I think could help you. Maybe you haven't caught or haven't noticed, or just slightly different perspective. And there's so many clues in here to give us the scenario of what's going on. The Lord's well, every story in the Bible's got these if you pay attention It says here in verse 1, after these things, Jesus went over the Sea of Galilee, which is the Sea of Tiberias. So he just crossed over this huge lake. Y'all are familiar with lakes. You got a beautiful one right out here. Little bit smaller than Tiberius, but same idea. Amen? And a great multitude followed him and watched this. This is important. They found him because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased. So these folks weren't following him around. Oh, I want to go hear the preaching of Jesus. Oh, I want to learn more about the Lord. No, they wanted to see a show. That's what they were doing. They wanted to see something dramatic, exciting. They wanted to see miracles. They want to be able to go back home and say, I was there. Yeah, you should have been there, buddy. I saw it myself. That's what they were there for And don't you know Jesus knew that? Just keep that in the back of your mind a little bit there. And Jesus went up into a mountain. You are familiar with them around here too, aren't you? Uh now where I live we've got mountains but you you probably would call them landfills Amen. It's flat. Now they they call it the valley, the Rio Grande Valley. But it it's not a valley, it's a valley. Now there's a little dip where the water runs through. That's about it. Amen. But it it's called the valley. Don't ask me why. I just gumble what they say But Jesus went up into a mountain and he sat with his disciples. And here's another clue. Now catch this, and the Passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh. That's the old-fashioned way of saying it was close. It was springtime. That's when Passover is. Connected to our so-called Christian uh celebration of Easter. You know, with me springtime. So He's out on the mountainside. It's springtime. He there's a sea right by there, but there's a mountainside. Can you start picturing this in your mind? You know, you've got something better than 4 HDK or whatever they call that nowadays. You've got it, man, that's like a hologram in there. Really? I did studies many years ago. Actually, I'm a trained hypnotist. I don't mess with that no more because it's not good for a Christian. Uh I I learned a lot about what a how a mind works and do you know do you know why your dreams sometimes are so real you wake up thinking that You know why that is? Because your mind can't differentiate always between imagination and reality That's important to know, but that's also why this can come alive for you That's some good stuff if you let it let it work in there and apply it, not just this evening, but every day as you read his word. Let it come alive. It is, it's a living word, my friends The Passover was nigh when Jesus then lifted up his eyes and saw a great company come unto him. He saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread that these may eat? And the very next verse tells us why he said that. You know, he always knows what he's doing. We don't always know what he's doing. In fact, often I've got no idea what he's doing. I'm just hanging in there hoping I survive it. Amen. But if I don't, it's all gain, so I really don't worry about it It says in verse 6, and this he said to prove him or to test him. That's what the proof means. Like you go to prove a car before you buy it, we won't test it. Modern just kicking the tires, right? This he said to prove him watch us, for he himself knew What he would do. He already had it planned out. He's got this settled. And my friend, he's got everything settled for you too. He already now sometimes he's going to prove you Sometimes he's going to put you to the test. But it's not because he's mad at you. It's because he knows what he's doing and he wants to help you, to grow you, to let you participate. In the life of Christ. What a privilege! What an honor that is, my friends. He's gonna prove Philip here. And Philip answered him, not doing real well on the test. I can relate to that. And he said, 200 penny worth of bread is not sufficient for them That every one of them may take a little. Now understand this a penny was a day's wage So we're talking 200 working days. Now they work six days a week. So we're looking at better than six months. of average wages and to Philip's mind this is an astronomical amount of money And he's like, we can't do this, 200 pennyworth won't even cover. That'll barely give everybody a bite That reminds me of when I first knew down in Mexico, a pastor friend of mine took me down to the state of Guerrero. That's where Acapulco was, but we were up in the mountains. and went to a little place north, I guess it was north, up the mountain from Tlapa. That's where the Tlapa Neco Indians, you would call them, indigenous people live. And there was a a fellow named Artemio Flores. He had he's one of the Indians. He had grown up there. Went to the big city, got an education, and got saved. And went back to preach to his fellow Topanekles. The problem is they didn't want to be preached to They didn't want nothing to do with it. They tried to kill him. They tried to burn him out. They threatened him. He got shot at during the night. It was wild, but he persevered, and there is now a thriving church in that community. Well, this was already done before I got there. And the preacher, my preacher friend and I went down there. They invited him to come priest. When we got there, they had this As little pulpit, I guess you call made of wood, more like a podium, and they put a little grass uh Roof over that. Now nobody else got the shade, just the preacher. They built it for him. It was outside because they were expecting more people than their little church could hold. And then off to the side there was another little shade grass thatched roof thing, and there was a pit there, and they were cooking in that thing And you can smell it, man. It smelled good too, I'll tell you what. It was hard to pay attention to the preaching, because it smelled so good And and crowds came. I mean crowds. I come to find out people, many of the people have walked since the day before. No sidewalks, no roads. Actually when we were driving up there, we had to wait for a pulldozer to clear part of the road where the heavy rain from the day before had washed out the road. And so it's mountain jungle. That was wild. And so they built these little benches, no backs on them, and they were filled. There's people, families. had come in from all over to come hear the preacher. And my friend Brother Lewis got up and and and preached a great message and and oh man it was it was a mini revival. And then afterwards, like Baptists should, they had a meal. Amen. And so we were sitting around and I was the only gringo there. And of course this one fellow come up by he wanted he wanted to test the gringo amen. He tried some of this salsa. It's not hot. Don't you believe it when they tell you that I couldn't breathe for at least five minutes after I tried it. And he had a good time with that. And the people are mean, especially the Baptist, amen. And but he's I'm sitting there eating and in my opinion any kind of meat stuffed in a tortilla is good stuff. Uh especially when it's greasy. I I always tell him I like them when the grease is dripping off my elbow Well that's not healthy. Well a guy died of something. Might as well be something good. Amen. But we're sitting there eating. This same fellow says, you know what you're eating? I said, I got no idea He said, that's an ox. So interesting. Never had an ox before. He said, do you know what that ox is worth, what it cost? No sir, I've never bought an ox, never even shopped for one. I've got no idea. And he said that represents better than one year's wages for any person around here. And that floored me. What's an average wage in this area? Maybe forty, fifty thousand a year? Sixty? Well, I'm gonna move up here. No, but it's cold. No, forget it. Can you imagine? A church family spending $50,000 or $60,000 to honor a preacher for one message. That's what these folks did. And that's what's in the mind of Philip. We'd have to spend this kind of money to feed these people. It was blowing his mind. He's like, Well, what are you asking me? We don't have that kind of money. And one of his disciples, verse 8, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him, This one want to park for a few minutes. There is a lad here Which hath five buttery loaves and two small fishes. But what are they amongst so many? And I got to thinking on this and trying to imagine it, trying to live it. And I'm thinking How did they get this boy's bread and fish? Now I've heard this pastors preach many times some great messages. And nearly every time, if not every time, is it referred to this boy's lunch. Which maybe it was. I don't know. I know they didn't have SpongeBob lunch boxes back then though So I and they didn't even have Walmart bags. It was probably in a basket. And I got to thinking now this was not a planned meeting There wasn't flyers put out in the community. Hey, come here, Jesus, the miracle worker, on the mountainside this afternoon. Don't miss it. There was no announcement, it was spontaneous. So why would a little boy run around with a lunch Although when I was little, different world nowadays. When I was little, I'd leave the house at sunup during the summer anyway. I'd make a peanut butter jelly sandwich Stick it in a baggie and stuff it in my pocket. I didn't ever get washed up. It was gonna be that way in my mouth anyway. And and leave. And and eat crab apples and raw rhubarb and just whatever I can find. I had no problem with that. That was closer thing to a lunch I carried with me, but I'm thinking I don't believe that was this boy's lunch And my experience in Mexico gave me some insight. Now, my in-laws, for example, they're in Guadalajara. Well, my mother-in-law passed, but they lived in Guadalajara. And my mother-in-law would take her little cart or her little basket every day, and she would go around the corner to where they sell the tortillas. and buy a kilo of tortillas. That's enough for the day for the family. And then she would go down another block to the meat market. Or maybe another block this way to buy a chicken. Buy them live. You pick it live. They pop his head off while you're waiting. Scared the fire out of my son doing that. He picked it out. He thought I was going to take chicken home And he watched him pull that thing's head off. He wouldn't eat chicken for about a year after that. Poor little guy. But uh then she would go to the the vegetable stand to buy some vegetables Are you right? And this was a daily thing. They didn't go to the grocery store and shop for a week or two at a time. They went every day. There was no now we bought them a refrigerator as a young couple Well not a new one, but we got 'em one. They never had one before. Didn't know what to do with it. Seriously, they never didn't have every putting but Coca-Cola in there It's just, it was boring to them. Now understand they didn't have any of these conveniences back then And what's this boy doing with five barley loaves? The barley loaves are loaves of bread about that big, like a large tortilla, but they're thicker. You know what pita bread is? And Greek bread? It would be similar to that. A little thicker maybe. And he ain't gonna eat five barley loaves. I'm sorry, that ain't gonna happen And and a couple fishes now, you don't just wander around all day carrying fresh fish. I grew up for a couple years of my my youth by a lake. I I did a lot of fishing. It don't keep. You catch it, you eat it that same day, or you're going to freeze it, one or the other. Right. It might last if you got a refrigerator until the next day. But they didn't have refrigerators. Are you with me? So I'm thinking on all these things. Now, what was this boy doing? Then it occurred to me that this young man And call him a lad that would basically to understand Old English, that would be like a junior age boy. Not a teen, that would be a young man. Not a child that would be like kindergarten under. Junior age boy, a lad. You with me still? What's he doing with a basket with bread and fish? And thinking, well, I bet his mama sent him to the store, to the market. To get the food for the day. And like any normal boy, he saw a crowd and forgot all about his mission Now he had already picked up the fish and bread, and he saw this problem. I gotta check this out Any of you fellas remember those days? My wife accuses me of being that way still. We were at this carnival thing down in Mexico once and there um huge fight with police and everything broke out. So I went over there to see what's going on. She goes, don't go over there. They'll shoot you up. But I want to see what's going on. Uh yeah. Now some of you go, oh that's silly. Well, yeah, but I still did it. And I can imagine this lad going to find out what the crowd's about. Now if you remember as we read the story It was not until after the Lord had the bread and fish that he had them sit down. So they're probably all standing wanting to see what's going on. Y'all be going to a parade this coming week, right? Our where where I lived from nine years old to I left home was on the corner of a main drag in our suburb and we had an annual it was town called Buffalo Grove, Buffalo Grove Days The Sunday before Labor Day, and everybody lined the street to see the parade. And they always had the Shriners with their Harley Davidson motorcycles. I fell in love with them back then And and they drive right and they toss out candy. And I wanted to follow them. Amen. It was cool machines and candy. That's my yeah, I want that And I always had to work my way up to the front. Are you with me? Because there are no adults out there. And they all bring their lawn chairs and all this stuff. They didn't care it was my yard. They wanted to see the parade too. So I had to get through them to get out where that where I was going to get the candy. And I'm picturing this though a Thinking I oh man here's adults, he's a young boy. I can't see nothing. He'll work his way up there and excuse me part. Now you start doing that as an adult and someone will say, hey But a little boy, they just let them go through. Right? Y'all been in situations like you know what I'm talking about And he works his way up front. First, he wants to see what's going on. That's the whole reason he stopped He's wanting to see what's going on, and I'm thinking on this and thinking on this, and and listen, somehow or other Andrew got from this boy the fish and bread. Right? Hey kid, what you got in the basket? Hey, give me that. We need it No, I I ain't buying that. Somehow or other, that boy Overheard what was going on and offered it I can't picture Jesus accepting it any other way. Now use your imagination. If you come up with another plan, I'm open to listening to it, but I'm sorry, I've thought this through many times And the only logical way that fellow was there with a basket with bread and fish on a hot spring day out away from town. Are you with me? And was ready and able to give it, he had to have been privy to that conversation they were having. You know how he was privy to it? He got close enough. And when you get close enough to Jesus, you start hearing his heart and hearing what he wants to do. And as you do that, God, this while lots of people don't want to get close, because they're afraid God's going to touch his heart to give. Right? That's why a lot of people don't like it when the missionary comes, oh he's gonna ask us to give. But you're not giving, you're investing. Can I pause for a moment and point something out to you? Wouldn't you say 22,000 pieces of scripture? Think with me for a minute. These will be put in the hands of people who need it. If we can just believe God would bless one percent Resulting in salvation. I'm sure he could do better than that. But let's just be real conservative. Are you with me? Uh it's dangerous saying you're conservative nowadays, but that's all right. If they shoot me, I'll win. Amen. But if only one percent That'd be 2,000. No, 20 200. 10%, okay. 220. 220 souls at 1%. Is that worth your trouble? Now multiply that. Last year, the Lord, through our little ministry, allowed us to put out fifteen million pieces of scripture through Mexico, Central America. That's a hundred and fifty thousand. But I spent twelve years in Mexico, planted churches, taught in a Bible college. I ran a children's home and as that was beyond my my belief that God could use me for. But now I'm getting goosebumps thinking about it again. We're at eight million so far this year. I've got at least two more two or three more loads to go up, another one going to Lacey, probably early December Millions of people, and you've got a part in it. Man, that gets me up in the morning. I don't know about y'all. That has nothing to do with the message, that's but like need to be said, Amen. That's that's free, won't even charge you extra for that So let's get back to this little boy. He must have got close enough to Jesus. And that's what I want you thinking on this evening. How important it is to get close enough to hear him speak. Normally, he'll speak to you through his word. But it's not just reading words, it's getting close to Jesus and hearing them as his words. The words are life. And when you do that, you'll start hearing his heartbeat and hearing what he wants to do. And if you let him who let you be a perk, as we're going to see in just a minute, what thrills me to no end. This little fella gave up his food and he might have had some regret. I'm going to be in trouble when I get home. Mama sent me for the food and I just give it away I even gave away her basket. I worked with bus kids for a long time. I can see a lot of them doing that. But they wouldn't they wouldn't worry about it. But this this fellow gave that to Andrew. That's the only thing that makes sense to me. And Andrew brings it to Jesus. And Andrew, he's lost too. He like What's this going to do? That's you know a couple people, maybe. Well the Lord here remember he already knew what he was gonna do He already knew that little fellow was going to be there that day. He already knew about all these details flowing into place just right And please don't lose sight of it. He got all the details of your life already worked out. He's got every little thing that's going to happen, good and bad. And he's got it handled. That song where where'd that brother go that sang just a little bit ago? There he is, way back there. I see the shining dome there. Amen. I got one of them too. When I was young, I had hair down to here and God said we're going to balance that out, brother. I don't know about you, but I you know he made some perfect heads and others he covered with hair. So take take courage Amen. There you go, amen. He knows what I'm talking about, right? You know there was uh a story, there's uh a fellow that was losing his hair in the front And he was told that's because he's a thinker. And another fellow was losing a hair in the back of his head. And he was told that's because he's a lover. And so I said, well what about me? I'm losing all. He says, you just think you're a lover But anyway, Andrew's over there giving Jesus this food and says, you know, what good is this going to do? And Jesus having a plan. He's always got a plan Always. I I usually just fly by the seat of my pants, but he's got a plan. And he said, make the men sit down. If you look over, I believe it's in Mark, he talks about having them sit in groups organized in hundreds and fifties. You know, Jesus has organized everything He does. It's just amazing. The whole, all of creation is so perfectly organized, the only upset is you and I. Everything else works exactly as it should. But if you will get in sync with him, you will too. And oh man, that's a good place to be. So he has them all sit down. There's about 5,000 men. I've also heard, well, you know, there's 5,000 men, so there must have been 5,000 women, and then every family has at least two kids. There's 20,000 Well, the women probably were not out and about. Some were there, surely. And most of the children probably were not there. Remember, there's a multitude following him around. But there was at least 5,000, a good crowd. I'd like to have 5,000 in a crowd. That's a good crowd. Amen And so he has them all sit down, and of course, you know the rest story. He goes goes through and feeds them. And then this is what tickles me, this is what encourages me. And Jesus, verse 11. Took the loaves, and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down, and likewise of the fishes as much as they would. In other words, everybody got all they wanted. Right? But how now again was at least five thousand That would have taken days for twelve guys to hand to every one of them That's why I go back into Mark and Lord had them set in groups. A hundred, fifty. Someone responsible for each group and the disciples and uh I believe the Lord multiplied the baskets. How else do you juggle in the bread here? Oh man, yeah, that one's still good here. Five-second rule. They had to have something to carry them around. No, I'm sure those disciples always carry around empty baskets just in case. No, man. Somehow don't they you don't use your imagination folks that's it's fun really you can enjoy the story somehow these guys they had baskets Didn't have Walmart plastic bags yet. They would have worked well, but I didn't have them yet, right? So the the disciples didn't just See the miracle, they got to participate in the miracle. They were a part of it. And my friends, that's you. With this right here, that's you You're participating in the miracle of salvation of souls, countless souls. I'm sure it'll be a whole lot more than 220. Now, you know, some of them will not be read, some will get thrown out, some will be damaged, but the majority of this that you've worked hard to produce is going to end up in the hands of people that need it. And God's word will not return void. And the disciples and they're going on, I can imagine Peter, man, I gotta get me one of these baskets, because it never ran out Here you go, here you go. Oh look, there's more point I got. Here you go. Oh man, look at the Lord. Hey, hey Lord, can I keep this? My wife would like this, yes Peter was married. He'd be a fool to get a mother-in-law without being married. Amen. Don't you believe what the Pope says? He was married, that boy Listen folks, God is still in the feeding the multitudes, but what he wants to feed them is not bread and fish. It's spiritual meat, and you're participating If God would let if you pray about it, get close to him like that lad, he might just tell you, come up off 65 bucks and help a box, get where it's going Well, that's a lot of money. That's just a couple dinners out nowadays. I remember stopping for a cup of coffee, 79 cents. Now you stopped at $1. 79, $2. 79, $3. 70. It's just coffee. This ain't gold. Come on, folks. And then there's those stores, what do they call it? Five bucks? Oh Starbucks. Well I call it five bucks. Because that's the cheapest coffee they got Come on, yeah, think about, you know, I I understand your pastor told me that your missions conference was very successful. That you'd raise some more money to take on more missionaries? Praise God. I'm for all of them. I want every one of them to be successful. I want everyone to have his needs met, and then some. Amen. And that that just thrilled me. I really I wished I could have been here for it. But God had a plan. I keep telling my wife her fall was not accidental. Do you think I did it on purpose? Well, no, that's not what I'm saying, baby, you know Listen folks, God is using you, but he wants to do more. Watch this. I don't know what y'all did, what y'all promised, what y'all are doing. for missions, but I promise if each one of you here tonight would add one dollar more to whatever you're doing, you could take on one or two more missionaries right there. A dollar a week, less than a cup of coffee, unless you're cheap like me and buy instant. Then you get like AB cups for ten bucks, you know. This this stuff is valuable. This this is more valuable than anything you could do for anybody And you can be just like Noah. We're gonna in just a few minutes, we're gonna pray over this. We're gonna ask God to bless and use it. Because believe it or not, I'm going to shut up in just a minute. Of course, most preachers say that ten times before they actually do, but I won't go more than five more times. We're gonna pray for this stuff and God's gonna use it. And He knows the part you played And I let me just close with this idea. The Bible doesn't say this. It tells us that they gathered up twelve baskets. Curious, there were twelve disciples in twelve baskets. That's why I think he somehow multiplied the baskets. I think, and this is because uh uh what I know of my savior I don't believe he sent that boy back home without any food. I think he probably sent him home with twelve baskets. That's it, you know, you don't have to agree with me. That's just how I as I imagine the story, I see him coming home and his mama, where have you been? My mama, I've been worried sick and I'm gonna kill you. Wait a minute here Where have you been? Well, I stopped. I asked what I figured. Wouldn't you stop? Well, what's all this in your hand? Oh, that's what I want to tell you. Look at it. It's this guy named Jesus. I heard of him Well he was he was speaking out there and and and I gave him my fruit. You did what? You know yet You imagine the conversation how you like, but believe me, the neighbors were there. Ask them. Don't verify it. I'm not mad. You sure you're not lying, boy? Well goodness, he gave me that. He gave it to you? Where'd you take that from? No, no, no, really. That's the kind of Jesus I serve. I suspect he's the one you know, isn't it? You really think if you pony up to help cover the cost of a box of this God's not gonna pay you back and then some come on I don't know what kind of God you serve. The God I serve gives me a million times more than I ever gave him, and I give them all I got. You'll never outgive God. That little fellow learned that lesson that day. You know, he never told us his name, but I am convinced. It never tells us that he got saved, but I believe he's sure he did. And we're gonna meet him. He's probably named Juan or Jose. Oh, that's right. I'm in a different crowd. Okay, John or Joe. I forget where I'm at sometimes. Are you with me folks? This this this is uh again like the pastor brought this morning. This really happened. It's not just a story. It really happened. These are real events And it will come alive if you allow it. And then as you share this story with other people, you'll be relating what you experienced, not what you read. I can tell you stories all night, things that the Lord allowed me to experience. Since I've been a Christian, I don't want to tell you stories about before that. They're not good stories. But since I've come to know the Lord forty-three plus years ago. And they're my experiences. This is one of my experiences. As I'm telling you the story, I'm hearing the wind blowing off the lake. Hearing a bug flying around, the cool green grass The murmur of the crowd, even when they're trying to listen, they're no crowds are never quiet. I see this little fellow working his way up there wanting to get close to he just wants to see what's going on. And he got close enough to hear what's going on and wanted to participate. And there's a bunch of you folks that that happened too, that's why you do this. Don't stop. Talk others into it. Get more involved. See if you can double this next year. They're laughing. I I know that these folks are having a lot to do with it and they're laughing. It's not you doing more, it's you getting more people doing it. Then you double it Right? And God can multiply your efforts if you put forth the effort. That's all you gotta do. I'd love to talk more all night, but you wouldn't love it, so I'm going to stop here. Twelve baskets out of one. I wonder how we'll multiply all this I think he could do a lot better than one percent. I like I like to think about that. I I enjoyed Being in Mexico, being on the front lines, so to speak. But I don't believe I've ever done anything more productive than what we're doing now Because the greatest soldier in the world can't win a battle if you don't give him any ammunition. And the greatest soul winner in the world can't win any souls if you don't give them the material to do it with. And you're doing that. You're a great people. Not because you're so special, but because you're serving a great God. Every head bowed, every eye closed I'm going to pray and turn the service over to your pastor and we'll he'll close it down. We'll have our dedication of these scriptures And be assured, be assured, they will serve their purpose. Father, thank you so much for these good folks. Thank you that they took the time to come in here this evening, not really knowing what to expect, but I believe most of them expected to hear from you. And I pray that they did just that. I pray, Lord, that you've met some needs, encouraged those who needed it. I may be convicted of you who needed that. I have no idea. I don't never met anybody before today, other than the pastor. So Father, do what only you can do. We play if you bless the last few moments of our service tonight. But take the truth that you brought to these people's minds and hearts and carry it with them throughout their days. that they might continue to serve a living God, a giving God, a loving God, who just wants to bless and use and allow us to participate in his miraculous work. Father, please bless now as on you can, I ask in Christ's name. Pastor, if you would, please.