I'm going to read this whole section together because I want it all in uh uh I want it all together in uh in context here. We're not gonna look at all these verses. But if you would, notice verse 13, I'm going to read down through 23. It says, And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said unto David, The Lord also hath put away thy sin. Thou shalt not die. How be it? Because by this deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. The child also that is born unto thee shall surely die. And Nathan departed unto his house, and the Lord struck the child that Uriah's wife bare unto David, and it was very sick David therefore besought God for the child, and David fasted and went in and lay all night upon the earth. And the elders of his house arose and went to him to raise him up from the earth, but he would not, neither did he eat bread with them. It came to pass on the seventh day, seventh day after David confessed his sin, it came to pass on the seventh day that the child died. The servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead. For they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spake unto him, and he would not hearken to our voice. How will he then vex himself if we tell him that the child is dead? But when David saw that his servants whispered, David perceived that the child was dead. Therefore David said unto his servants, Is the child dead? And they said, He is dead. And David arose from the earth and washed and anointed himself, and changed his apparel, and came into the house of the Lord, and worshipped. Then he came to his own house when he re and when required they set bread before him and he did eat. Then said his servants unto him, What is this thing that thou hast done? Thou didst fast and weep for the child while it was alive, but when the child was dead, thou didst rise and eat, eat bread And he said, While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept. For I said, Who can tell whether God will be gracious to me that the child may live? But now he's dead Wherefore should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me. I've entitled it, as you remember from last week, The Heartache at Home. Heartache at Home. Let's pray together. Father, we read these sad events in the life of David, this sad phase of his life. And we want, we ask, Lord, that you would please teach us from this, help us to learn from David's mistakes. In this case, I pray you would hedge our hearts and minds about that we could uh that we would be the men and women you'd have us to be. Protect us from the old sinful flesh And Lord, this world's allurements and the devil's temptations, I ask, Lord, that you would use this passage we're going to look at and the thoughts we'll share. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will and I present my body anew. And this is my desire, Lord, that you would speak to each of our hearts, myself included, as we need And Lord, apply these truths as you know we needed them applying in our lives. And I ask this all in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Again, I'm just kind of recap what we said last week. I am impressed with David on so many levels, not with the decision he made concerning Bathsheba and Uriah And all the events associated with that. But I'm impressed with David that when he came clean, he came clean. I said he couldn't his confession is uh it was a very humble confession. It was very sincere. He was very thorough. He didn't leave anything out. That was very biblical. He uh didn't try and defend himself or excuse himself. He just came clean. If you remember, we pointed out last week, I made a three statements about David's sin that I believe is true about any sin, whether it's adultery with uh Bathsheba or it's something you and I may face on a weekly basis. One thing, if you remember, we said uh we talked about the how dynamic sin is and what we said by that was the power of sin. Anybody here ever know someone and they messed up, they sinned, and you thought, wow, that's surprising. I'm surprised that somebody like that would do that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sure, we probably all know someone. And that tells you, I mean, some of God's greatest servants, both biblically and in church history. Some of God's strongest Christians succumbed to the power of sin. And not to re-preach what we said last week, but I do want to emphasize this: we ought never to play with sin. It's like trying to have a pet rattlesnake. You know, about the time you think you got that thing under control, about the time you think you got that thing tamed, that's about the time it's going to strike and take you down And so the dynamic of sin, the power of sin, then we pointed out how deceptive sin is. I'm telling you, I say this often, and not a week goes by, I don't think of this. But this old devil that we're dealing with, and this old world we're living in, can make that which is wrong seem so right, and that which is right seem so wrong. And I'm telling you, Satan is a master of the skies. And sin is so deceptive. It promises pleasure and it brings pain. It promises joy and it brings sorrow. And then We notice how destructive sin is. James chapter 1 verse 15. Sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. And here's the lesson. I was thinking about this the other day. We were up at the meeting and we were preaching and talking different things. It came back to mind. If only we could see The ugliness of sin before we commit it, as we do after we commit it Remember me saying that last week. But that is so true. We think, oh, it's not that bad. This isn't that much. And we step in. Then afterward, boom. And we say, what was I thinking? Anybody ever say that about yourself? What was I thinking? And if we can just get to the point where we think about that sin before we commit it, as we do after we commit it, we wouldn't commit so many, I'm sure. And so the destructiveness of sin. The destructiveness of sin. By the way, that's why all these accounts are recorded in Scripture, so we can see what the consequences are. And so, immediately after his confession, Nathan makes two declarations. Number one, he declares that David is forgiven, and this is what we looked at last week. 13. Nathan said, God hath put away thy sins. We said this forgiveness, number one, requires biblical confession. We talked about that. David did it. It's received by faith. We don't find David doubting or disputing whether God forgave him or not. God said he forgave him, and David accepted it. By faith, he believed that God forgave him. And by the way, I'll reiterate that here again this week. If we confess and forsake our sin, if we confess it biblically, God is faithful and will forgive. We don't got to carry that guilt around with us. We don't got to carry that weight of guilt around with us. We got to by faith. I've heard people say to me, preacher, God could never forgive me for what I've done Don't ever say that. That's a lie of the devil. We can deal with it biblically. God forgives. How many people are glad? God forgives our sin. Woo! And we take it by faith. We take it by faith. And then sin removes all God's judgment and punishment. He said, thou shalt not die. It removes God's judgment and God's punishment. Once we're forgiven, we are never judged for our sin. I reiterate again what I said last week. God never punishes a saved person for sin. Jesus Christ took all that punishment for us. He'll chasten us, he'll deal with us, and this is what I'm trying to get to tonight as there's consequences, to even forgiven sin. So Nathan's first declaration was this, the forgiveness of David's sin. The second one, which we'll look at tonight, is the fallout. From David's sin. Now I use that word fallout on purpose. I looked it up and I want to make sure I understood clearly what That word means, to use it, we had the forgiveness of a sin, but there was also some fallout. And fallout, that phrase fallout, simply means this, results of or the product of, or the outcome of it. Another word for fallout would be the consequences. You know, they talk about they drop a bomb and after the bomb's over, there's what? Fallout from that bomb. There's um there's uh um What do they call it when uh uh not casualties, um collateral damage is the word I'm trying to say. Uh it's more than just the target is damaged Folks around and property around, the fallout. The word fallout has a negative connotation. It is negative in its character. And the fallout from David's sin was negative in its character, in its nature. Now here's the point. This is what I hope you'll get tonight. And I'll try and elaborate and explain biblically this point. But it's this: forgiveness of sin does not necessarily remove the fallout from sin. You follow what I'm saying? It doesn't necessarily remove the consequences. When I confess my sin and God forgives me, I confess it biblically God forgives me. He removes that chastisement maybe. He removes that judgment on my sin. He forgives me for that. I no longer fear God. I have full access to Him. But that does not mean there's not consequences. That does not mean there's not fallout. I can be forgiven for my sin and yet suffer consequences of my sin. How many people understand that? You understand it, right? And that's what we see here with David. If you would, take your Bibles and turn with me the book of Galatians. Now some of y'all know exactly where I'm going with this. Galatians chapter number six and uh verse number seven and eight. Galatians chapter six, verse seven and eight. These are some verses every Christian ought to be very, very familiar with. I have them highlighted in my Bible, underscored in my Bible. And again, it's something we ought to be very, very familiar with, and maybe preachers should preach on it more often than they do. I've preached on this numerous times. Galatians 6 verse 7. Notice what it says. What are those first three words? Be not what? Deceived. Don't be fooled. Don't, can I put it this way? Don't let anybody convince you otherwise Be not deceived. God is not mocked. Now here's the statement. How many people are already familiar with this statement before I even read it? How many people are familiar with it? God is not mocked Whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also what? Read. Has nothing to do with forgiveness. It's the natural law, spiritual law of God. Whatsoever man soweth, that shall he also reap. Now look what it says, verse 8. For he that soweth to his flesh, shall of the flesh reap what? Corruption. Talk to me now tonight. But he that soweth to the Spirit shall the Spirit reap life everlasting. David sowed to his flesh. Do you agree with me on that? Bathsheba and then his fear and his uh killing Uriah and others and then lying, that's all flesh, flesh, flesh, flesh, flesh. In fact, if you would come over to chapter 5 there, you're probably on the same page right there. Look at verse 17 for the uh I'm sorry, verse 19. Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these. Very first one, what? Adultery. David showed to the flesh adultery, fornication, uncleanness, masciviousness, idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulence, strife, seditions, heresies, envies, murders. David, the flesh took over, and he sowed to the flesh, and he that soweth to the flesh shall of the flesh reap, say it with me, corruption. Corruption. So do not allow anyone, we must not allow anyone to convince us that I can mock God, that whatever I sow, there's not going to be some reaping for that. Don't let anyone convince me it's not so. I must not allow myself to believe otherwise. What we sow, we reap. And we find this here with David. I put this down. I was thinking about that. I thought, well, why is that the case? Why doesn't God, when He forgives me of my sin, Why doesn't he erase or protect me from all the consequences of my sin? Did you ever wonder that? He forgives me. He removes his wrath, his judgment off of me. But why doesn't he step in and intervene and keep me from all this heartache that David experienced in his home? Why didn't God keep him from that? Yeah, I think there's a couple reasons there for that. I really do. Um I put two down. Um well let me make this statement first. It is the grace of God that brings forgiveness of sin. You understand that, right? Amen. Everybody gets it. God's great. He doesn't have to forgive us By his grace, he gives us something we don't deserve, the forgiveness of our sin. It's the grace of God that brings forgiveness of sin. And it's the grace of God, now get this, it's the grace of God that enables me to endure the consequences of my sin. The grace of God doesn't necessarily remove the consequences, but God's grace gives me the ability to deal with those consequences and to endure them and benefit from them Um God's grace. We say, oh, I wish I wish God would just say uh take all the consequences of my actions. Anybody here have something, maybe did something years ago, and you think, man, I wish uh I wouldn't have to deal with the the fallout from that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Sure. Probably all of us, we're honest. Say, oh, I wish I didn't have that. I wish I didn't have to deal with this. Listen Whatever the consequences may be, whatever the fallout may be for our sin, even though we're forgiven, whatever it may be, I'm telling you, God gives grace that we can handle it and we can deal with it And we'll see that in the life of David. From this point on, for David, nothing's the same. It is heartache. We're going to see it here in a bit. It is heartache. It is disappointment. It has hurt all the fallout from that one nuclear sinful bomb that took place And for the rest of his life he's dealing with that fallout. But God gave David grace to be able to deal with the consequences And some of his greatest Psalms that he wrote under the inspiration of God were written during that period of fallout. When he grasped what the grace of God was, how God can enable him. strengthen him and and uh uh give him the grace to deal with these consequences. And so uh it's the grace of God that brings forgiveness and it's the grace of God That enables us to deal with the consequences. I can't live with the consequences of my actions. Oh yeah, God can help us. God can give us that grace and enable us. We read Sunday morning in Philippians chapter 4, we looked at verse 19. What's Philippians 4, 13 say? I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me. Yes, we can deal with those consequences. They're not pleasant. If we could go do it again, we wouldn't want them. God helps us. God helps us. And I thank the Lord for that. I put down consequences of our sin are actually an act of God's grace. I think it's better for us, I hate to say this, but I believe it's true. I think in some cases it's better for us to deal with the consequences of our sin. than if we didn't deal with the consequences of our sin, even being forgiven. I came up with two um Two aspects of consequences of sin that show the grace of God. Number one, I think consequences of sin are a form of chastisement. Now there's a world of difference between judgment and chastisement. Judgment is the wrath of God being poured out on an action. Forgiveness removes the judgment of God, but it does not remove the consequences And chastisement, I believe those consequences are a type or an aspect of God chastening us. Now, we know what judgment is. What is chastisement? What would be another way of describing the chastisement of God? The correction. Chastisement means to correct. To take a wayward child, and God chastens him and he brings him back where he needs to be. He gets his head back on straight. A person is out of whack spiritually. A child of God is out of whack spiritually. God brings chastisement. Sometimes that's the consequences of their action. And God uses that to chasten them and get them back in whack. They're out of wack. Um and so chastise I think fallout of our sin and consequences of our sin, God uses that as a form of chastisement to correct us and bring us back. What's the old saying? A mistake made once is a learning tool, but a mistake made twice is by what? Anybody know that saying? Yes, by a fool. In other words, I didn't learn anything from the first mistake, and I went back and did it again. I wish I could say I never made the same mistake twice, but uh I can't say that So consequences are a form of chastisement to correct us, to get us back where we're supposed to be. So consequences, fallout from sin is a form of chastisement, but I think it's also a form of deterrent. To keep us from going back to that same thing. I've been reading in my devotions, I just I'm into Exodus now, but I was reading about Jacob, and I thought about Jacob. Remember he fled from his brother and went over to Laban. He got um uh Leah and um uh not Rebecca, Leah and Rachel, and uh he married that and that whole fiasco. And then him and Laban had that falling out. And finally God told, he was had all these consequences. He was the trickster, he was the liar, he was the deceiver, Jacob. And then he had all these consequences, all this fallout from his deception and everything. And finally, all those negative things that were happening to him drove him back to Bethel. Back to Bethel. What if he'd have been a trickster and all that, just confessed that God forgave him, but there wouldn't have never been any consequences? I'd say he probably stayed over there with Laban. Never come back to Bethel, never come back to Bethel. I wonder how many people got out of church, got away from God They made some dumb decisions. They confessed that God forsake it. And now they're dealing with consequences. And it brings them back to church, back to the Lord. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody ever hear that fellow? We call him the prodigal son What if he'd have gone to that far country and everything went great? Everything went well. But in the hog pit, the Bible says he came to himself. Because of all the fallout from his actions and brought him back to the Father. And so God allows us Even though he forgives us and his forgiveness is great, his mercies are new every morning. He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. But he allows us to deal with the consequences often, and I think one of the reasons is to get us back there where we need to be and help us stay there. Consequences are never a form of punishment, and I already mentioned that. Now I see two consequences here. Come on back there. The second Samuel. Everybody with me? Everybody doing all right? Middle of January, it's cold, then it gets warm, then it snows, and it all melts. Well it didn't all melt, did it? So let's uh let's ask the Lord to help us here. I noticed two things, two consequences to David's action. Look here at verse number 14. Nathan's speaking, he said, God put away your sin. You're not going to die. Howbeit, there's the fallout. Because by this deed Thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to do what? Blaspheme. Blaspheme. First thing I notice here is the derision of God's enemies. The derision of God's enemies. The word blaspheme. We think about blaspheming God. The word blaspheme means to despise. Means to scorn, to speak evil of, to treat lightly To spurn. The whole idea behind that word blaspheme there is the idea of disgust and rejection. And what is Nathan telling David? He's saying, David, because of this deed you've done, this action you've taken, this decisions you've made, The enemies of God, you've given them an opportunity to be disgusted with Jehovah God. You've given them an opportunity to reject the God that they need so desperately. I think, and I'm pretty confident on this. I think the greatest damage done to the name of Christ, the greatest damage done to the body of Christ, In the name of our God, the greatest damage done is not done by liberals in liberal seminaries. It's not done by the drug addict. It's not done by the wicked politicians. It's not done in Hollywood. The greatest damage done to the cause of Christ and the name of Christ and the body of Christ, the greatest damage done is by the actions of Christians. Brings more harm to the church. Brings more harm to the cause of the gospel than anything the outside world can possibly do. I don't mean to pick on people, it's just a good illustration. We're older, most of us here have been around maybe. Anybody remember the name Jim Baker? I'm telling you, I don't know anything about the guy. I read his biography years ago. I tell you what, his actions and that nonsense they got involved in did more damage And what the world does is just takes advantage of some of that nonsense and they lump us all in with it, and it gives them an opportunity to reject and despise the name you and I love so much. Christians falling into sin, Christians preachers and people getting involved in ridiculous stuff And uh man they just bring it up. I remember back when that Jim Baker garbage was going on, then another fellow got involved, it was just kind of spread. I'm out knocking on doors, I think we were living in Indianapolis at the time, I think, I forget where we were. But oh, I'd be out knocking on doors. And inevitably those names would come up. And it was always in derision And we're always something, and I try and say, listen, that's we're not that's not what we are. That's not Bible Christianity. But that didn't matter. They had a little grip to get a hold of. They had something to use. Um, you know, and I hesitate to say this, but a school that was at one time a very reputable, solid school. I had a little scuttle butt here lately with a fashion show and I don't know if any of you saw it, but uh um and the guy just horrendous doing a fashion show in a Bible college blows my mind But I tell you, I've been reading the comments people are saying as this report is coming out. This guy dressed like a girl carrying a crawl. It was just ridiculous. And the comments coming out by people that hate Christ, and people that hate the gospel, and it just opened the door for scorn and Shame and reproach and rejection just pouring in. And they said, Oh, we messed up. We're sorry. And I'm glad they did that. That was the right thing to do. But nevertheless, the door is open And it comes pouring in. And Nathan says to David, you've given opportunity for the enemies of God to blaspheme the name of our God. Let me ask you a question. What do you think that did to David's heart? David is a man after God's own heart. You can't help but feel the passion and love that David had for Jehovah God. You read the Psalms. And now the awful realization comes pouring in on him. The things you've done have brought an opportunity for that one you love so much. And now be blaspheme. I'm telling you, I think that was one of the most devastating things in the heart and mind of David. What have I done? What have I done? And so his actions, one of the fallout, one of the consequences of his decisions, his sin, he's forgiven, he's completely forgiven, but the consequences Is it brought great harm to the name of God and uh gave opportunity blasphemy? So it's the derision, one of the fallouts was derision of God's. Can you imagine what the Philistines are saying about David and his God right now? He's been fighting the enemies of God his whole life, almost, his adult life. And now he's opened a door and they can just pour it on him. The second thing, the derision of God's enemies, but the second fallout, Nathan tells him, is the death of his son. And I'm telling you, that's devastating. Look with me again at verse 14 and the second half. How be it, because by this deed that thou hast, by this deed, Thou hast given, number one, great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme, the derision of God's enemies. Number two The child also that is born unto thee shall surely die. The death of his son. Now I want to take that word son, singular, and I want to put an S on it and say the death of his sons. Because this little baby here isn't the only son of David that dies. That fallout continues down. Our title of our message is Heartache at Home. And David's actions continue on into his children. Come over to chapter, here in chapter 12, come over to verse number 5 and 6. This is right after Nathan approaches David. Remember, he told him that little parable? About the poor guy had one lamb and the rich guy had a whole flock. Remember, the traveler comes by, takes, steals the little poor guy's, kills his, gives it, feeds the traveler. And how did David respond? Let's review. How did David respond? What did he do? Man, he lost his cool. He blew up. Hypocritically so And then he went overboard and requested and that's what I want to look at here. Look what he said should be done to the fellow that took the poor man's land. And David's anger, verse 5, was greatly kindled against the man. And he said to Nathan, As the Lord liveth, The man that hath done this thing shall surely die. Now look at this. And he shall restore the lamb how manyfold? Fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity. Fourfold. Fourfold. You know what happened? David received his own sentence I want to show you some things here in verse number 18 of 2 Samuel 12. And it came to pass on the seventh day that the child what? That's one. That's one. Would you turn over to chapter thirteen, verse 28 and 29? His son Amnon rapes his sister for lack of better term And look with me, if you would, at verse 28, chapter 13. Now Absalom, that's another one of David's son, had commanded his servants, saying, Mark ye now When Amnon's heart is merry with wine, and we're going to study this in the coming weeks, and when I say unto you, Smite Amnon, then kill him. Fear not, have not I commanded you, be courageous and be valiant. And the servants of Absalom did unto Amnon as Absalom had commanded. And all the king's sons arose, and every man gathered him up and upon his mule and fled. That's two. The little baby. Now we have Amnon. If you would, come over to chapter sixteen of 2 Samuel and verse number 14. 2 Samuel 16 and verse 14. Here's Absalom has raised up a rebellion against David, and they're counter-attacking. And David told them, Don't kill my son Absalom. Just take him, don't kill him. And the king and all the people that were with him came weary and refreshed themselves. And Absalom And and uh all the people, men of Israel, uh I don't think I have the frame same reference. Let's look at 17. Is that where I want? Maybe eighteen. Yes. Uh chapter eighteen, I'm sorry. Chapter eighteen and Verse 9. And Absalom met the servants of David. David's, you know, they're in a fight with his son, and Absalom rode upon a mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak. And his head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaven and earth, and the mule that was under him went away Well you don't you can't tell me that's not an act of God. He's running away on this mule. There's a low branch, has a Y, very tight Y in the branch. And he maybe he's looking back, I don't know, and he's running, and he comes up right when that branch is, and that branch, his head gets stuck. That branch, and he's hanging there, and the mule runs out from underneath him. And a certain man saw and told Joab and said, Behold, verse 10, I saw Absalom hanged in an oak. Joab said unto the man that told him, Behold, thou sawest him, why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? And I would have given thee ten shekels of silver in a girdle. The man said unto Job, Though I should receive a thousand shekels of silver in my hand, yet would I not put forth my hand against the king's son. For in our hearing the king charged thee and Abishai and Atai, saying, Beware, none touch the young man Absalom. Otherwise I would have wrought falsehood against my own wife. There is no matter hid from the king. Thou thyself wouldest have set thyself against me. Then Joab, then said Joab, verse 14, I may not tarry with. He said, I don't got time for this. I may not tarry thus with thee. He took three darts in his hand, javelin type things, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak The ten young men that bare Joab's armor compassed about and smote Absalom. I mean they all laid into him. And what? Slew him. There's three. There's three. You got the baby. You got Amnon. Now we have Absalom. You say, wait a minute. He said fourfold. Come with me to 1 Kings, if you would. In chapter number two, this is years later, David's gone. Solomon is king, he's just become king. First Kings And chapter number two. And uh let me get there first Kings chapter two And notice with me if you would, verse twenty-five. Bear with me here a moment. Let me get my place. First Kings two twenty-five. What happened here is you have uh uh um You have uh Adonijah, one of David's sons. Solomon is king. Adonijah set himself up as king. He was going to kind of undercut Solomon, and that didn't work And then in a verse, let's go back to verse 13. And Edenijah, the son of Hageth, came to Bathsheba, the mother of Solomon, and said, Canst thou speak peaceably? And he said, peaceably. And he said, I've moreover, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And she said, Say on, this is David's son, uh Adonijah. Thou knowest that the kingdom was mine, and all Israel set their faces on me, that I should reign. How about Howbeit the kingdom is turned about and has become my brother's, for it was his from the Lord. So he knew it was the Lord's will. And now I ask one petition of thee, deny me not. And she said unto him, Say on And he said, Speak, I pray thee, unto Solomon the king, for he will not say thee nay. He'll do what his mother asked him to do, that he may give me Abishag the Shunammite to wife. And Bathsheba said, Well, I will speak for thee unto the king. And Bathsheba therefore went to King Solomon to speak unto him for Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her, and bowed himself to her, and sat down on his throne, and caused the seat to be set for the king's mother, and she sat on his right hand. Then she said, I desire one small petition of thee, I pray thee, say me not nay. The king said unto her, Ask on, my mother, for I will not say thee nay. She said, Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah, thy brother, to wife. Now look how Solomon responds. And King Solomon answered and said unto his mother, And why dost thou ask Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? Ask for him the kingdom also? For he is my mine elder brother, even for him and for Abathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zariah. Then King Solomon swear by the Lord, saying, God do so to me and more also, if Adonijah have not spoken this word against his own life. Now therefore, as the Lord liveth, which has established me to set me on the throne of David, my father, and who hath made me an house, as he promised, Agenizh shall be put to death this day. King Solomon sent by the hand of Beniah the son of Jehoiada and he fell upon him that he died Now come down to verse 27. So Solomon thrust out Abathar being priest, that he might fulfill the word of the Lord which he spake concerning the house of Eli. So what happens here is you have David's son and Adonijah He tries to set himself up as king. God's will with Solomon. That didn't work out. So now he wants one of David's concubines. I want her to be my wife. And Solomon sees through all of that. Now it's implied here. But Solomon sees through all of that, and he sees Adonijah still conniving. To get David's wife here, David's concubine to be his wife, and then he's going to set himself up again, and Solomon takes his life. That's number what? David said, he'll restore fourfold. And David received his own sentence, lost four sons, I believe, as a consequence for David's actions. David made judgment on an imaginary scenario where a man took a little lamb from his neighbor. That David hypocritically had taken the wife of his neighbor. And the very sentence that David placed upon that imaginary that fictional man David received himself. Here's what I want to end with. Would you come to Matthew chapter 7 with me? This is a Sermon on the Mount. We end up, two places I end up a lot anymore is Proverbs and the Sermon on the Mount. Jesus makes a statement in Matthew chapter 7 and verse. Number one and two, and then he elaborates on it. I just want to notice, Matthew chapter 7, notice says, judge not that ye be not judged. Now, question, is it saying we shouldn't use discernment? No, he's not saying don't use discernment. He's not saying don't make any judgments at all. There's certain cases where you can't do that. Then he says, verse 2, and this is where I think it applies. For with what judgment ye judge? It shall be what? Judged. And with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. David brought down harsh judgment on this fictional character. He didn't know it was fictional, he thought it was true, and then he got very angry And then reality set in. You know what happened? David was judged by the very same standard. He judged that guy. He was measured by the very same measurement. So the fallout from sin, heartache at home. I'm glad God can forgive us. Amen. Oh, thank God He forgives us. But don't think that, oh well, I'll just do this. I know it's not right, I'll do it, and God will forgive me. We must never, ever, ever presume upon the forgiveness of God. Because there's fallout, there's consequences. Now God uses that, but they are not pleasant. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that we can learn From this horrific event in David's life. Lord, protect us. Lord, help us to think. God help us to be careful. Help us to understand how much you love us. And that your instructions, your warnings, and your perimeters and limits you put on us are for our best. I ask you to give us grace. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how we would say, preacher, I need to think things through a little bit more. I need to be a little bit more careful. I just see God's dealt with my heart some areas And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will give me discernment. Help me to be careful. Any like that? Preacher, I need that. My hands raised. My hands raised. Maybe there's some, and again, I'm not going to have you respond to this, but maybe in your own heart. Maybe there's some you think, man, I'm dealing with fallout, dealing with consequences. Decisions I made in the past and actions I've taken, and it's just, it is what it is. Don't despair. Don't think I can't deal with this. I'm here to tell you God loves us. He gives us grace to enable to grow through that. Become stronger in our faith and closer to the Lord. We're going to see that in David's life. As horrific the consequences were, yet the grace and help of God was even greater. Father bless now, we're going to give a little mentation. Help us, Lord, to respond in faith in Jesus' name. Amen.