We need to figure out exactly what you know, where it's going to be. We know there's only two places. And uh if if if God h hadn't uh uh told us that we wouldn't know it But he gave us this book, and this book uh enlightens us uh to his truths. And uh This may not be a true depiction of what heaven really looks like. Uh i I know it's just a piece of paper and you just can't do anything on paper that would be uh, you know, uh And make it look like it for sure. But I thought it was really a you know, it's pretty and and uh uh it does uh take your mind to that that point I uh I can see the apostles as they uh gathered there in uh uh the upper room. And uh they were talking to him and and uh Jesus uh he told him this And I'm over in the 14th chapter where he says, let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my father's house are many mansions. Well, you know, I I think about that. I don't know uh you know how you know how he determines whether everybody gets a mansion or One mansion's bigger than another mansion. I I don't know anything about that. Uh if I just get there I'm just gonna be so happy, you know And I really mean that. If I just get there I'll be I'll be tickled to death. You know, I've got uh parents over there and and uh I got a dear uncle and a dear aunt that has going on and uh grandpa and grandma, you know, I it just starts thinking about all those people I'm gonna see again one day. It's it's just gonna a and you know the amazing thing is I believe in heaven we're gonna have a a uh a body like uh uh like our prime would be here. you know, like twenty-three years old. Maybe thirty years old, I don't know. But the point is I think it's you know we'll have perfect bodies and uh we'll recognize each other And uh uh I'll be looking forward to seeing your mom. 'Cause uh she's a sh she's a character That that uh well you can tell that by the daughter that she raised, you know. So uh By the way, uh we have uh a bunch of pictures back there on the board, and uh uh if you buy them, then the money goes in my pocket I just thought I'd tell her. She doesn't get a penny of it, I get it all. No, uh But they are uh some of the pictures, you know, I think uh you'll like something back there surely and uh if you do why uh get one if you can if you can uh talk her down Good luck. But uh I don't think you'll have any luck with that. But anyway, stop back there and look at the pictures and and uh by the way, you come up and and look at this picture and after the services are over. Of course we'll be showing all four of the chalk drawings uh uh under the black light after the service is is finished here tonight. But I I was th I was thinking about about this verse. I got off on a a little tangent there, but uh He says, I go to prepare a place for you, and if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and receive you unto myself that where I am there you may be also. And whither I go, you know And the ways do you know? And that's when Thomas asked him, said how how do we how do we know where you're going? And Jesus said, I'm the way. the truth and the life, no man cometh to the Father but by me. And so that's what we're we're gonna look at some uh verses of scripture and and uh uh talk about heaven a little bit tonight and I I maybe it'll it'll encourage somebody to want to go there. You know that's that's the whole thing, isn't it? Uh when you get get it right down to the bottom the nitty gritty of life It's just a a matter of of uh I mean we're here for such a short amount of time. You know uh uh so what if you have a million dollars when you die Or if you have fifty cents when you die. Or you have a dog or a cat when you die, or you have a horse when you die, it doesn't make any difference. Because uh you're still going to die. Make sense? And so uh what if we what should we be concerned with? If we're just here for a snap of the finger, then uh why should we be concerned about this life uh other than living it the best way we can and uh according to God's word. And so um as we look at at uh these verses um I just want you to know that that uh uh there's only two places you can go. It's either heaven or hell And I realize that there's young people in here and so forth, but we need to understand that uh preaching the whole council of God means preaching on hell just like it does heaven And so we'll be doing a little bit of that tonight too. Heavenly Father, we we come to you tonight and we thank you, Lord, that you we have a good crowd tonight and And uh they've been responsive and and and uh I love 'em and and Lord, I believe they love uh Nan and I. We've uh just enjoyed many years uh together under your word. And uh we've got to know a lot of these folks uh personally and they've become good friends. And we just ask you, Lord, to uh just bless our time around the Word of God And uh use this to bring honor and glory to you your name. And we ask you, Lord, uh Lord, to to uh bless the chalk for him when we show it under the the colored lights. In Jesus' name we pray Amen. And amen. I had a I had an outline here somewhere. Isn't that awful? I just stuck in my Bible. I I said to myself, self, you'll remember where that's at. It wasn't in my Bible. I'm sorry, okay. I just couldn't see anything. Whenever we're anticipating a change of address, why we want to know some things about that. Uh you know, w when we uh left uh Maryland here uh many years ago and went to North Carolina with Carnation Milk Company, why uh one of the first things I wanted to know was uh number one where are we going to live and where's our where's the church that we're gonna go to. That was important to us. And uh we found a church right away and and a place to live and And uh that's what we did. Well that's the way it is with the with a Christian. A Christian ought there ought to be a desire in a heart to know everything they can find out about the w about the place that they're going Because it's a uh it's it's a beautiful place. I've been uh you know, I I watched a little bit on uh Ruku on the uh uh the Webb, James Webb telescope. I don't know whether any of you follow that at all or not. But uh this this telescope is able to see galaxies now that that are f you know, so far away that uh uh I mean it it's just amazing what they've been able to do. But uh the the point is that uh I look at that uh the the pictures from that uh telescope And in my mind, I'm saying, you know, God created all that. He created all that, and uh they haven't found the end to the universe yet They haven't found the end of it yet. That's still going. As far as they can see, there are still more galaxies out there. You know, and to me that just boggles my mind. But at the same time, um When I think about that, I think how big the universe is. How big the universe is God's bigger than the universe because he's the one that created it. Now that's that's amazing to me. And uh so uh when I think of of that And I see that that that heaven is is beyond that. Now the picture that we have here is a s is a a period of time when uh John, remember in the back of the book of Revelation, why John is taken by the Spirit of God, uh taken forward and shown all these different things that are going to take place. And uh one of the the things that he s noticed was the angel took him to a place where he could see the uh heavenly city come down. And uh here's a city that's fifteen hundred uh uh square m uh squares in i in any direction it's fifteen hundred miles. And uh now of course that's what I say my picture is not not you know exactly like that. It's not quite fifteen hundred miles, you know, wide, it's only about four feet or something like that. But it's but the important thing to remember is that that uh God has a place prepared for us. And when it says prepared, uh it's talking about not just preparing a place, but it's also preparing us. Because if we're not prepared to go there, we're not going And so that's the important part about the message. Are you prepared to go to this place that God has been doing the preparing? Heaven is a real place. Uh I've heard uh I've heard other preachers, uh big preachers that talk about heaven and hell and so forth. And I don't know why they carry a Bible, because they certainly don't believe what my my Bible tells me about hell and about heaven. I heard one preacher say, well, really h hell is just a separation. It's not really uh any fire there or anything like that. And uh I wonder what Bible he was reading, because my Bible told me that there's uh there's torment in the flames. Uh and so there has to be uh has to be fire there in order to get that. But it's uh it's a real place. It's a place just just like my house is in in uh Campbellsville, Kentucky. Um There's a real place called heaven. Jesus came from heaven and he went back to heaven. And he's coming again one day soon, I hope. So it's uh it's a real place. He says, I go to prepare a place for you. And uh it's a place of residence. As I said, Jesus came down from heaven, he went back to heaven Heaven is a prepared place. He says, I go to prepare a place for you. Uh how do we prepare people for heaven? Well, that's the reason you uh uh line up all these boxes with books in them, and these books are the Word of God or portion of the Word of God And the idea is to put those into people's hands so that they can read 'em and say, Oh, that's the house how's we get to heaven and so they can repent of their sins and pray and trust Christ as their Savior and be born into the family of God and one day we'll see him in heaven I look forward to that uh that day that uh we get to meet some of these people that uh we help, you know, uh by sending these boxes of of tracts and boxes of uh the Word of God out to them. It's uh it's exciting So uh it's also uh do you ever wonder how many people's gonna go to heaven? How many people? You know there's been people going to heaven uh from way back in Adam's day That means that today the people that are going to heaven, and that's a lot of people going you know going to a place that God has prepared for us You know, the Bible tells us that uh that uh uh hell doth enlarge itself. It's on a regular basis that hell actually uh increases in size. Why is that? Because there's more people coming and God makes us uh makes makes sure that there's a a place for the all the g that uh deserve to be in that place. And of course uh Uh all of us deserve that, don't we? It's only only by the grace of God that uh that he saved those who trust him. Then uh uh I noticed that that uh uh When God prepares a place, I know in in my in our home, when we moved down to uh uh Statesville, North Carolina from from d from here We moved down there. We wanted what we wanted was a nice little home that uh we could uh rest in the evening, kick her feet up, you know, and and sleep and and be comfortable and just know that we're uh gonna make it and it's gonna be you know, gonna be comfortable and and and easy going. Uh We of course we had a few surprises about that. We didn't realize that they had uh water bugs down there that was that big. But uh we found that out quickly Could the point that I'm getting at is simply this, that where if God is preparing a place for us I believe he's going to take care of every little uh nick and cranny to make it perfect for each one of us. I think that the the place he prepares for us is going to be a place that is prepared for just you and just me. I think he's gonna be uh you know uh he's gonna have all the the little things that's gonna make you uh more happy and and enjoyable in this place where he has placed you. So it it'll be a It'll be a place that's uh beautiful and it'll be a place that uh has all the comforts of home in it. Uh But I'll tell you one thing, it's not going to be a place where you you can just loaf around. That's not going to be in heaven. Because it's going to be a place that's busy. You're going to be a place uh in a place where uh You know, you'll i notice there's some some churches uh um churches are different, aren't they? Uh every church is a little different. Uh some churches we go to and we we preach uh uh in uh preach uh meetings and uh the uh As soon as the back door is open, uh it's just like a bunch of mice and they're all gone and the place is empty and I'm just standing there looking around. By myself, of course Nan's there. She she get she doesn't get out at the very beginning. She waits until everybody goes, then she goes. But uh uh uh Some churches though uh enjoy fellowship. I notice that about this this bunch here. Uh I noticed you kind of stick around and uh I know she come in early and and and You're yakking and talking and bothering everybody else, you know, and you're you but you're just you you enjoy being together. You know that's the way it ought to be in in a c uh in a church Uh, if if you're one of those that uh slips out as soon as the door is open, you're missing everything. Because a lot of what happens in the church happens after the service is over and everybody just talking and and John about this and John about that and and that fellowship is is precious. It's precious to God. God thinks of that uh fellowship is an important thing because he wrote a book on it in 1 John So um understand that uh heaven's uh heaven's gonna be a a special place, a place of fellowship, place of of business And you say, What kind of work will we do? Have a lot of the work we're gonna be doing is not gonna be work at all You know, if you enjoy uh uh if you have a job and you enjoy doing it, it's really not a job. It's just, you know, uh you just enjoy it, period. So Uh heaven's gonna be a busy place. They'll be singing and praising and serving God and and uh glorifying God and uh you know uh A lot of times we don't have time for testimonies in our s our church services, but in heaven we'll have plenty of time. And uh I'll be glad to tell all my story how I got saved and And uh you may have to hear it uh five or six million times. I don't know, in in heaven you have a lot you know, to listen to a lot of it. But uh and I'll be listening to yours I'll have to listen to yours five or six million times too, you know, so but the important thing is that uh uh it'd be a time of fellowship It'll be a time of of a blessing, a time when uh uh we can just uh you know, kick back and and and enjoy what life really is all about. And that's just praising God and and enjoying uh the fellowship of each of uh other believers. Uh I th I thought about uh all the people that have been saved in in our meetings, uh, different places around the country. country and we were down in Puerto Rico, the preacher's been down in New Zealand and Australia and different places like that. You know heaven's gonna be a place where we'll be able to talk to those folks that got saved down there Uh th those of you that uh helped with this fingerprint ministry and and uh all those things, uh those people one day'll be c come up and hugging your neck and saying, Hey, you know, if it wasn't for you I wouldn't be here because you're one of 'em that uh helped put those together. You say, Well how do they know? Well because we're gonna be just like God I said like God. I mean something that He's he's gonna hold for Himself and I'm just saying we're gonna have some uh understanding and wisdom that we don't have here on this earth So uh heaven's a busy place. Heaven is a is a place of Christian fellowship. Uh let's see. Uh One thing about it we won't have to worry about uh the devil's crowd and and in our fellowship, you know, messing things up. Heaven is a desired place. And uh it's showed by it it's uh uh that up heaven is uh an eternal place. There's only one way there. He said uh when he was questioned about it, he said, I'm the way, the truth, the life, and no man cometh to the Father but by me. The Bible says that Jesus is is the is the only he's he's the the one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. I know there's uh those who who do not uh believe that. They believe if you just uh you know live a good life and you do your works and do all that, then everything will be okay Uh and God will look over the fact that his son died and and all that. But uh the truth of the matter is God's gonna hold everyone to the same uh uh to the same uh uh book And uh this is the book that's going to be judging 'em, each one of us. Now, let's talk a few minutes about this place called hell. We talked about heaven, to place fellowship, to place of love that we'll never understand until we get there. There's something about uh Christian love and God's love that uh uh is is just totally amazing. But uh place called hell. I uh I heard a preacher one time talk about uh what he believed about hell And what he believed was he didn't believe. That's what it was. He didn't believe. And uh but he said it was uh Uh how do you s how do you put it? Um well it w it it was like uh well one thing was just just separation from God. You just you know, without God you you'd be uh very unhappy. Well you know The unsaved crowd is pretty unhappy with or pretty happy with without God the way it is. So I don't think that's gonna hold up, you know, in in the court. But uh Uh the unsaved crowd, they they could care less until it comes right down to dying. I've heard stories and and uh from preacher friends that have witnessed uh people who have passed away, some saved and some not saved. Now I'll tell you, uh, from my observation and what I have learned through the years, uh, I would rather die saved than die unsaved. From what I can gather, it's a pretty scary thing. I can remember one guy that was uh was was dying was in the last uh uh last moments of his life. And he was he was being burnt up. That's what his legs were were being burnt and he I mean that was how he felt and he was just screaming out about the flames and he went out into eternity with uh that thought on his mind and and uh with those words in his mouth. And then I've heard of Christians who at that last moment of of uh last breath and so forth looked over in the corner and they either saw an angel or saw Jesus come to take him uh take him out of the room and take him escort him on home. Uh I don't know, I I kinda like the last one the best and that's the way I'd like to go. I'd like to be escorted out by the Lord Jesus and and uh and presented to uh To the Father by him. In this picture here, it's uh uh it may be a poor representative of heaven But it has some of the essentials. There's a there's a gate there, and that gate is going to open up to those who have been born again by the Spirit of God. And uh we have the earth down at the bottom there, and when when I turn the lights on, you'll probably notice that uh there are some individuals that are walking up the stairs into heaven Those are those who have been born again by the Spirit of God. And uh and I I hope I hope that the picture turns out as good as uh I I think it will We're talking about this place called hell, and we've all gone through the the uh uh verses Many, many times we've heard it preached on. And I'm going to just to remind you of what it says in verse 19 of uh Luke chapter 16. Where the Word of God says, there was a certain rich man which was clothed in purple and fine linen and fared sumptuously every day. And there was certain a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was which was laid at the gate full of sores, and desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table And moreover, the dogs came and licked his sores. And it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried up uh carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom. You gotta remember this was back before the the crucifixion and before uh Christ uh died on the cross for our sins. And so there was uh two compartments to a place called Hades or Hell And uh one of 'em was uh the the place of uh where the fire and and the s the torment was. And then there was Abraham's bosom, which was a picture of uh peace and and uh And the uh the he in heaven. And uh says and it came to pass that the beggar died and was carried to the uh by the angels to Abraham's bosom. And the rich man also uh died and was was buried And in hell he lifted up his eyes. I noticed that uh as soon as he died and was buried, he lifted up his eyes. It was just that quick And it says that uh he lifted up his eyes being in torments. So we see there again uh the teaching of of the fire and torment in this place called hell And uh seeing Abraham afar off and Lazarus in his bosom, he cried, he said, Father Abraham, have mercy upon me But there is no mercy in a place called hell. And it says uh and Lazarus said he that he may dip the f tip of his finger in the water and cool his tongue from torment in these flames. So there again we have a verification of the flames and torment. But Abraham said, Son Uh remember that thou in thy lifetime had received uh thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things, and have and but now he is comforted uh and uh thou art tormented. I don't have to tell you what that verse means. It just means what it means. And besides all this, between us and you, there's a great gulf fixed. And I believe there is a great gulf fixed, and it is a gulf that separates you from God. The Bible says that your sin has separated between you and your God, and your iniquities has hidden his face from you, that he will not hear your voice. And so there is that separation uh that uh if you do not separate here, uh you will be separated down there, that's for sure. And it says, and neither can they pass to us Let me read uh uh back up on that. So that they which would pass from hence to you cannot, and neither can they they pass to us that would uh uh come from thee And this brings up an another thought, and that is that the the the at one time uh there there was taught pretty heavily that there was a purgatory, you know, where people uh went to to uh wait till they're they were fit to get in on into heaven and so they w had to go through a certain thing and people could put money in the uh jar or whatever they do and burn candles and all that stuff. Uh but there is no purgatory. Uh w when the rich man died, he was in the torments. He was in the flames. And uh when the uh Lazarus died He's carried right to Abraham's bos bosom. And that's that's what you need to keep in mind. And so uh There's a couple other things in this uh passage that uh you no doubt have heard and I'll just repeat it, but it's worth uh mentioning because there may be someone here that is hung up on it And then he said, I pray thee, uh therefore, Father, that thou wouldst send him to my father's house, for I have five brethren. Isn't it funny how we get concerned about uh uh about our our kinfolk when it's too late to do anything about it. That's a tragic part of this whole story. And uh Abraham said to him, They have Moses and the prophets, uh let them hear 'em hear them. And that's what you that's what you say uh today. Uh there's preachers in in uh on a radio uh hour after hour uh on the TV, uh on our computers, uh books all over the place. I mean uh uh a person uh is a fool to be lost in this day A fool to be lost in this day. Abraham said, They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. And he said, Nay, Father Abraham, but if one went to them from the dead Oh, well Jesus died and rose again from the dead, and they still don't believe him. And he said to them, If they Uh hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded though one rose from the dead. My friends, there's two places to go when you die. Death is not something that's way down the road somewhere that's going to finally catch up with you. The Bible says, Boast not thyself tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth That's uh that tells me that that we need to understand that God deals in the present He says uh w uh uh girl slipped my slip my mind. Slipped in and slipped out so fast I didn't get a hold of it. Um That's funny when that when it happens. It's not funny for you guys, but it's kinda funny for me. It's appointed a man once to die, and after that the judgment. So I want us to do the so I want to show this chart drawing to you and uh I trust it'll be a blessing And uh then we're going to have the invitation, and after the invitation, we'll uh take this uh portable black light, show each of the chalk drawings. Folks, listen, this uh I don't know how many more years I've got to uh come up to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Uh this is one of my favorite places to come. It's a it's a good place. It's a good place because of the friends we've got and and because you take care of us and love us and and uh there isn't anybody I know of that doesn't like to be loved And uh I just want to thank you. Uh uh my wife and I uh we just uh had thought it uh you know would have liked to spend more time up here, but uh sometimes we can't do what we want to do But uh I hope you'll be praying for this uh praying for us as we uh head out and uh we'll be the word willing we'll see uh maybe we'll s catch you next summer or maybe next next fall. Uh Heavenly Father, now as we show this chalk drawing, I pray that you'd uh settle our minds on what we've been talking about. Lord, I I haven't preached anything these folks haven't heard a dozen times or a thousand times. And uh and yet I can't help but feel that uh that perhaps there's someone sitting out there right now. that does not know you as a savior and they've just been putting it off and putting it off. And Lord, it's uh one of these days it's gonna be too late. I pray the Lord that they might might see that. See that awful awful uh gate opening and uh and the fire coming out of it and uh the angels uh bearing them and throwing them down in that that pit I pray, Lord, that uh you'd help us to help us to see our loved ones that are lost in that awful place, screaming for a drop of water to wet their tongue. Help us, Lord, to to be so concerned that we do something about it. Help us to be uh careful to uh Uh do the work we're supposed to be doing. I ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Amen.