So uh we appreciate our law enforcement vote. Colossians three, I just want to read verse uh 1 and 2, our memory verse, if you would. Let's tell you what, I know we already quoted this together. Let's go ahead and read this together in unison, if you would. Verse number 1, Colossians chapter 3. Ready? Here we go. If ye then be risen with Christ. Seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. Set your affection on things above. Not on things on the earth. I want to speak this morning on heavenly affection. Heavenly affection Let's pray. And when we pray, would you just ask the Lord to speak to your heart this morning, challenge you, encourage your faith, and help us just grow in our faith? And uh I'll pray the Lord fills me with his spirit and speaks through Father, uh, we come to you this morning. This is your your day, Lord. This is the Lord's day, and we acknowledge that, Father, and uh this is your church, certainly not ours. And so we're asking you on this day, in this service, Father, that your presence would be here in an evident way. I pray you'd challenge us from this passage. I pray that you would help us see clearly how it applies to our lives. I pray that your Holy Spirit would speak to each of us and make that application as each of us have need. No doubt it's different for many, if not all of us. And so uh challenge us in our faith. Lord, if there's someone that does not have assurance, cannot honestly say they know for sure their sins are forgiven on their way to heaven. I pray the day would be the day of salvation. And so, Lord, help us make good decisions in this next hour. Fill me with your spirit. I present my body anew. Yield my will. I pray that you would speak through me to our hearts. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. The Book of Colossians, small book in the New Testament, four chapters. It was actually, we call it a book in the Bible. It's actually originally just a letter. That the Apostle Paul had written many, many years ago to a church in a little town of Colossae. Now that letter was written under the inspiration of God. God moved upon Paul to write down exactly what God would have him to write to that church, and this letter was actually shared with another church not far away in Laodicea. And uh they shared that thing back and forth. And uh it's part of the Word of God. Uh just a little background, I think, will help us maybe appreciate uh what Paul is saying here in our text and really through the whole book, that the town of Colossae, it's a Greek city. It was a Greek uh using city as exaggerating. It wasn't that big, but uh it's a pretty good sized town. At one point was a very, very prosperous city. Uh there's a lot of commerce going on. Economically, they were very prosperous. They were pretty powerful in that region of Asia Minor. Uh they were very it was a very popular place to go. People would like to go there. Anybody think of a city, maybe in America, that's very prosperous and people like to go there. Very popular. Anybody think of Was it? New York City, B1. A lot of people, let's go to New York City. Our ladies are going to New York City in uh December. Pray they come back. And um uh uh and so Ron, you want to go too Where? Accident, Maryland. Very prosperous and popular. I met someone up there by accident. So that's a uh Colossi was not like accident. It was a little bigger, a little more prosperous, and uh very, very popular area. However, um Earthquakes hit that region. One damaged the place pretty bad, the history books tell us. Another one hit not too long later, several years later, and uh really put a hurting on the city, on their uh economic um uh standing, and it really never recovered, the city never really recovered uh from those two um earthquakes. They did rebuild it, but it was never the same. It was never the same. When I was reading about well actually by the year 400 AD, quite a while after this was written what we're studying here, the city ceased to exist. It was just abandoned and uh no longer existed. Um it wrote when I was studying a little bit about the city there, the history, it reminded me a bit of uh my wife's hometown, if you're familiar with Central West Virginia. She grew up in uh Nicholas County, Richwood, West Virginia. Anybody here ever been to Richwood, West Virginia? Anybody know where that's at? Um at one time Richwood was a pretty booming town there in the mountains of uh West Virginia. They had coal mining was huge. Uh the timber industry was big, big, big. In fact You're going to be glad you came to church today. You're going to find something out. The largest clothespin factory in the world was at one point in Richwood, West Virginia. Well, how many people know what a clothespin is? But you go to Richwood today and it's just the shell of what it used to be. Floods have done devastation to this town and the economy, coal uh industry went down, moved out and timbers down. And uh so that's a little bit. I'm just trying to paint a picture a little bit of what the city was where this church is located that Paul's writing to. So it's an economically depressed town, not real popular. It's going down pretty fast. But there's a church there And the church at Colossae is an interesting church. We don't know if Paul started it directly or not But we do know that Paul, on his missionary journey into this region of the world, this Asia Minor area, had gone to a city of Ephesus Now Ephesus at this time was very prosperous, very strong. They're doing good. And he planted his feet there for two years. He settled in there, and he got a church in Ephesus up and running In fact, just a book or two before Colossey, you have the book of Ephesus, Ephesians, the book of Ephesians. That was a letter that Paul had written later on back to the church that he had started there in Ephesus. And out of that church, that good, strong church in Ephesus, out of that church were other churches started in that part of the world. It was one church planting other churches. Or to use some terminology preachers use a little bit, is one church mothered these other churches. Birth these other churches. And there was a number of them around there that had come out of the church there in Ephesus. And let me just say this as an aside. That is the biblical patron I believe churches should start churches. And uh we've tried to be involved in church planning over the years here with our church. We've helped uh in number down in Petersburg, Brother Perine down there. We were active and helped them get started up in Pittsburgh. We helped Brother uh Paul Lint years ago and Mike Clark. uh some downstate, a couple we supported and helped a little bit down farther downstate. And so that's what happened. There the church in Ephesus, very good, strong, powerful church, grounded and other churches being started out from there. We don't know, as I said, we don't know if Paul went out from the church at Ephesus and started this during his time there. Most likely the church was sending people out. Paul was constantly discipling and training young men and others and sending them out. If you come back to chapter one, now just bear with me, I'm sending the background here a little bit Come back to chapter one. Notice with me verse number seven. And a fellow is mentioned here. We believe him to be the pastor of the church there. It is possible, some scholars speculate, that he may have been the man that actually came to the city and started the church there at Colossae. Look at verse 7. As ye also learned of Epaphoras, Epaphoras, our dear fellow servant, who is for you a what? Faithful minister of Christ. So, based on that statement, there we believe he was the pastor of the church, possibly possibly the one that started uh uh for the church. Uh started the church. Now, the question is Why is Paul writing this letter back to the church? Usually when Paul's writing a letter to a church and he's moved on, you know, it's a number of years later, he's moved on, he's on another missionary journey starting churches And he's writing back to this church at Colossae. And usually when he does that, there's a reason. It's not just a friendly letter, hey, just want to let you know I'm thinking about you. You know, it's not something like that. There's a purpose. There's something he needs to address. Now the church at Colossae was in its early days a very, very good, strong church. Now, what do we mean by a good, strong church? By that we mean they are grounded on the Word of God, doctrinally and practically. In other words, what I mean by that is they don't just believe what the Bible teaches, they practice what the Bible teaches. See what I'm saying? So at one point the church at Colossi was a good strong church. They held they were grounded in the Word of God. They were actively doing what the Bible instructs the church and Christians to do. I mean, they're getting after it. And so at one point it was a good strong strong strong local church there however things were changing um False and unscriptural teachings were starting to creep in to the church there at Colossi. Human reasoning. Human reasoning was beginning to replace the clear word of God. And so there was a change taking place. There was a shift in the teaching and the understanding. There was a shift taking place in the authority of the church Let me ask you a question. What is the sole authority of a true biblical church? The sole authority is what? God, or more particularly, God's Word, the Bible. This book is our sole authority for all faith and practice. That's a Baptist distinctive. And so the church was shifting They were changing, though at one day, Papyrus, no doubt, and perhaps still was to some extent, man, he would thunder the Word of God and he would preach that book right there. challenge the people of God to have faith in God and accept the word of God and and live by the Word of God and serve God. And man it was a s it was a it was the place. It was happening. How our God was there But something changed. There was human reasoning, human philosophies, man's ideas began to creep in. And now the teaching and preaching of the Word of God is being replaced by human reasoning, by human philosophy. You say, man, what a mess. How would they let that happen? Can I say this? That has been pretty typical throughout church history. That has been pretty typical throughout church history. Church will start and it'll be strong. We're sticking the Word of God. The Bible's our authority. We're not changing. We're going to do what that book says. That book there is the Word of God. That is our sole authority for faith and practice. Everything we're going to do, everything we teach and preach has got to square up with that book. And we say what? Amen. It's exactly the way it should be. And God blesses that. And God honors that. But man being man, with our sinful fallen nature. And our sinful, self-centered reasoning begins to shift and begin and begins to bring in their own ideas. And bring in their own. Anybody here know of any churches that at one point were good, strong, gospel preaching churches, but now there's just nothing, just a shell left. Anybody know what I'm talking about? False doctrine creeps in and comes in and they get far from that book. Now let me just take this opportunity to say this. It's been here 26, we're working on our 27th year. I give my word as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I give my word. As long as I've got my right mind and God gives me grace, we are going to stand on that old book right there. We ain't moving from it. We're not bringing in man's ideas. We're not bringing in vain philosophies. We're not bringing in false teaching. We are going to, by the way, we must be vigilant Against false teaching coming in. Because we are absolutely immersed in a world of false teaching. And we could spend a whole series on that. But let me just say this. We will not allow any type of works salvation to be taught or preached from this church. We are not saved by works. We're saved by grace through faith. That not of ourselves. It's a gift of God. We're going to preach. Now this becomes a little relevant, more so maybe. We're going to preach what that book says is sin, whether it's popular in the world or not. It's not our, we do not have the luxury of deciding what is right and wrong. We do not have the luxury of deciding what is sinful and what is not sinful. That is established for us in the Word of God. Amen or not. And so we could go down the list. And by the way, we're not going to s we're going to keep claiming the promises of that book. Claiming the promises, both the positive and negative. And so this is what's happening at the Church of Colossae. This teaching, and we don't know exactly, had something to do significantly with Christ. He mentions in the first couple chapters these vain philosophies and human reasoning coming in And uh, as I said, this has been uh uh this has been characteristic of churches all from the beginning, back way back in the book of Acts, all through church history to our day. I know a fellow pastor up in the Northeast. Good strong church, probably three times our size, powerful, buses, soul-winning, missions, uh preaching the old book. And uh going on, and uh I don't know I didn't know the pastor real well. I think I met him a time or two, but I knew his son very well. We went to school together And uh his his son married another gal, and I knew her and Kathy knew her, and uh his son went off to somewhere on the mission field, was a missionary for years, and unbeknownst Boy, got tied in with false doctrine, some false teaching. Daddy didn't wasn't even aware of it, I don't think. And so daddy came the time, he's getting older, he's the time to re- I'm gonna step down and maybe do conference meetings and and they called the boy come back and pastor that church. Well, he wasn't there long. He started teaching and preaching stuff that's not found in that book. He started teaching and preaching doctrines that are based on man's reasoning, not on the clear uh clear teaching in Scripture. Anybody want to guess what happened in that church? Started going down, going down, people are bailing. The people have been trained. Well, they say that's not scriptural. That's not Bible. And that thing went down, down, down until finally they said, we've had enough of this. And uh they asked him to they asked him to leave And uh praise the Lord, they were able to get another good guy back in there, and he built that thing back up. You know how he built it up? He started preaching this book again. Started preaching this book again. And so I'm saying this for the sake of our church, folk, that we need to stick to this old book. We need to stick to what this Bible teaches. I try to, and we I did this in Sunday school, I try to, if I've got an idea or an opinion about something, or I'm maybe I'm thinking something, I try to point out, say, hey, this is what I think, this is my opinion We must never replace our the Word of God with our opinions. The Word of God is the authority Word of God is the authority. Now we can speculate and look and that. So anyway, uh that's creeping in. We must be vigilant to maintain our faith in and our commitment to the word of God. We need to plant our faith in God's Word and keep it there. That's what we need to do. Well the times are changing. Yeah, but God's Word doesn't change Oh, society's different. Yeah, but God's Word's not different. Oh, the morals, you've got to keep up with the times. No, we need to keep straight in God's word. Got to keep straight in God's word. So the church had a problem. Paul had to address that. And I think it's interesting, and it'd be a great study, this whole book But uh what he does in addressing it is he he me he addresses the preeminence of Christ. Now, what do we mean by the preeminence of Christ? I got a little study on that word preeminence, and it means this, to be superior in excellence. I just put it this way. I just kind of have to boil things down so I can understand it. In other words There's nothing in this world greater than Jesus Christ. Those ladies sang. Do you hear what they sang a little bit ago? Jesus is all the world to me. That's what you sang, right? Okay, good. I thought I was. I don't have a lot of strong confidence in my memory anymore, but In other words, he's saying, listen, hey, you church at Colossi, you got your own ideas, you got these philosophies and thinking and morals of the world creeping in Hey, I just want to remind you, there's nothing and no one greater than Jesus Christ. He's preeminent Jesus Christ Hey, uh if i i if you've met Jesus in salvation, if you've trusted as your Savior, if you have a relationship with Jesus Christ, you know exactly what I'm talking about when I say nothing no one's greater than Jesus. No one has ever done for me what Jesus Christ has done for me. for me. No one has ever loved me as Jesus Christ has loved me. Can I say this? No one has ever forgiven me the way Jesus Christ has forgiven me. He's preeminent. There's nothing greater. What our young people need to understand. They need to know Jesus. There's nothing greater in life. Adults, moms and dads, they understand there's nothing greater, there's nothing will help your home and your marriage and your children more than knowing Jesus Christ. He's preeminent. He's preeminent in his excellence. I found this definition. He's preeminent in his place of priority. In other words, no one or nothing is more important than Jesus Christ. I tell you, this old sinful nature, let me see if you agree with me, this old sinful nature wants to push my relationship with Jesus Christ aside and get caught up in other stuff. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's a constant thing. And I need to say, no, no, no. Most important relationship in my my life is my relation to Jesus Christ. You say, oh, preacher. Important relationship in life is with your spouse. Uh it's important, but it's not important than the one with Jesus Christ You know what, if the relationship with Jesus Christ isn't what it ought to be, it's going to be a hard time keeping the relationship with the spouse what it ought to be. Well, the most important relationship with my children. Oh, yes, that's important. But not more important, Jesus Christ. You know what every child needs? Every child needs a daddy that knows and loves Jesus Christ as his Savior. Every child needs a mom and a dad that knows Jesus. I'm telling you, it'll make a difference in the home. It'll make a difference in the life of the children if we have Jesus Christ a priority. In our lives, in our home. It's of Christ, the preeminence. He holds the highest place of influence. I hate to say it, but this whole world has a powerful influence on Christians. And I say this: this whole world has a powerful influence on our churches. And alive, we look around, we see churches becoming so much like the world. And lowering biblical standards and pushing aside clear Bible teaching to be relevant and embraced by the world. We're not concerned about embracing the world or being relevant to the world. We're concerned about being true to this old book. And by the way, we preach this gospel the way it ought to be. It'll become relevant. It'll apply people. The Holy Spirit, that's the Holy Spirit's job to apply it to people's lives. I hope you understand what I'm saying. And so the preeminence of Christ, and he's addressing this shift that's taking place by exalting Jesus Christ, and among other things. Now, like most of Paul's writings, the first half of the book is very doctrinal, very doctrinal teaching. Teaching, truth about Jesus Christ, His deity, His Creator, Doctrine, Doctrine, Doctrine. Then you get to chapters three and four, the second half, and he gets very practical. And it's like, okay, this is how it applies to your life. Here's the truth about Jesus Christ. Alright, this is how you and I should respond to that. Here's the truth about God, our Creator. This is He's holy. He's loving. He's just. He's the judge. Alright. Now that's how this is how it affects my life. This is about how it affects how I live. How many people believe Jesus coming back again? Amen. I woke up this morning. This happens a lot. I woke up this morning. Maybe today my Lord will come for me. And that song I was in the shower. Kathy was over here. I'd go back clean up in the shower. Maybe today I'm just singing away. And uh I noticed all the birds flew away from the bird feeder and And uh dogs and cats running for their lives, howling. Uh but uh uh maybe today. Now let me ask you a question. How many, let's ask again, how many people believe Jesus come by Bible teach Jesus come back in? Sure. Let me ask you this. Don't raise your hand. How many of it is affecting the way you live? Oh yeah I believe that. Uh I get on social media a little bit. It's interesting. Some people will put a verse about second coming. Uh they'll post a little Bible verse something about day tur two later they've got cussing and drinking and everything else on there. Yeah, I believe Jesus coming back again. Doesn't affect the way I live And Paul's addressing that. Saying, here's some truths about God. This is what the Bible says. This is what the Bible teaches about God. This is what God's like. And this is how it should affect your life. This is how it should affect your life. And so the second half, chapter 2, chapter 3, and chapter 4, he gets very, very practical. Now I said all that to get to our text. This is the transition part of the book. And if we could, you could do a long study on chapter 1 and chapter 2. And then he begins chapter 3. And he starts making application. And I think it's interesting how he begins the practical part of this letter. Look with me again, verse one of chapter three. If ye then be risen with Christ, If ye then be risen with Christ. My first observation, I have two. My first one is this, Paul begins with a presumption. If then ye be risen with Christ. He's making an assumption here. He's presuming that they have been risen with Christ. Now the question is, what in the world does it mean to be risen with Christ? How many people believe Jesus lived a sinful life? Anybody here? Believe that? Jesus lived not a sinful, a sinless life. Wow. I'm telling you, false doctrine creeps in Let me let's rewind. How many people here believe the Bible teaching that Jesus Christ lived a sinless life? I'm glad you didn't raise your hand earlier. Um uh how many people uh believe he lived completely, never said anything sinful, never thought anything sinful, never did anything that was anything other than pleasing. to our holy God. You believe that? Sure. That's the Bible teaches that. He never cussed, he never lied, he never thought selfish thoughts. You can go down the list. He fulfilled the law perfectly. Without fail. No one else has ever done that in old history. Never will. Only Jesus Christ was capable of that. Uh how many people here believe the Bible teaching he was crucified and died on that old cross? I mean died. Crucified, died. Sure, we believe that. How many people understand and believe the teaching is buried for three days and three nights and that Big one. Hi, people back up from the dead. Sure. Now what does it mean when it says, if ye then be risen with Christ? What do you mean? That was 2000. What does that mean? Now I'm oversimplifying. I'm going to try and explain it briefly, but let me just give an oversimplified answer to what that means. If you I'll put it this way, if you've been saved If you've been saved, then the following statements need to be true. Now that's an oversimplification because when we get saved, a lot of amazing things happen that we spend the rest of our life learning and realizing. And just briefly, when he says, if you've been risen with Christ, here's what happens: the moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, their standing before God changes. Instantaneously, my standing before God Jesus. May 7, 1979, at 10:30 at night, I bowed by my bed up in the attic, and uh I I called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior, and God saved me. And something changed that I was not fully aware of till quite a while later. My standing with God changed. Before that moment that I accepted Jesus Christ Savior, before that moment, I was under the judgment of God. My standing before God, I was not accepted by God, I was separated by God. My sins had separated me from God. The only thing I had to offer to God for him to accept a holy God for him to accept me was my own works. And Isaiah says that our righteousness, our works, the good things we do, as far as our salvation is concerned, are just filthy rags. They're of no value. But the moment I accepted Jesus Christ as my Savior, all the righteous works of Jesus Christ, that 33 and a half years that he lived fulfilling God's law perfectly. That record was put onto my account. And now, at the moment I trusted Christ, now I stand before a holy God. No righteousness of my own, nothing to make me acceptable to a holy God. But now put on my account before God, I'm as righteous as Jesus Christ. How many how how many people say that's mingling? In other words, and and man we this is so fascinating. And I learned this over I didn't know this right away. I didn't I I as I studied my Bible, I began to see this. And when God looks at Dennis Sutherman and anyone else that knows Jesus Christ as Savior, that's genuinely be saved. When God sees you, He sees you and I as righteous and as holy as Jesus Christ. And in this phrase here, if you then be risen with Christ, has the idea, it's like as if I was crucified, my sins have all been paid for, and I came out of that grave with Jesus Christ. And I'm as just and as forgiven and as pure and as holy as Jesus Christ is. You say, Brother Leatherman, I was talking to your wife. You ain't that holy. Brother Herman, you ain't that righteous. I know. Practically living it out, I'm not just my legal standing before God is concerned. God says, oh, he's righteous. He's holy. He's he's ride with Christ. I think this might cut now. He's risen from the dead, and uh uh I accept him because of what Christ did for him. Does that make sense And so the the the presumption here on Paul's part is, hey, Christ, if you've been sick You know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. You've been genuinely born again. In that case. Now, that's not to suggest that Paul thought they weren't saved. There's nothing here to indicate he doubted their salvation, but he's laying a premise here. If you are saved Then the following things should be true. So the moment a person gets saved, my standing with God changes. And then also my spiritual awareness changes. Second Corinthians five seventeen says, if any man be in Christ, he is a what? New creature Things changed, not just my standing before God, but things changed in my heart and soul. I'm born again spiritually. Now I'm a child of God. I have spiritual life. I have spiritual awareness One thing, several things I noticed that happened when I get this out, I noticed that I became concerned about my spiritual well-being. Before I got saved, I could care less. I could care less about heaven or hell, or I could care less about pleasing God or what was you know, my spiritual health, my spirit I didn't care about that. Sin. Who has so what? Who cares? Yes, sin, yes, great. Uh but you know, when I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior And there was there was conviction leading up to it on accept Jesus Christ Savior. Suddenly, I became very concerned about that Yeah, hey, I'm a spiritual being. There's more to life. Let me say this. There's more to life than just the material aspect of this world. Man, there's a spiritual bar. You're a spiritual being, every one of us. We're going to spend eternity, heaven or hell, somewhere. And when God saved me, and I began realizing that, and I was reading my Bible, and I accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, suddenly I became very concerned about my spiritual well-being. I'll tell you one way it played out in my life uh when I I never in the world thought about I never in the world thought about going to church. Good grief is just old people and um boring people went to church, just weirdos. And um you know after I got saved, I thought nobody dad wasn't twisting my arm, nobody's beating my head, but you know, Sunday came around, you know what I thought I thought I ought to go to church. Good heavens, what in the world got into Leatherman? I tell you what got into him, Jesus got into him. And God changed. And now I was concerned about my walk with God. So a new perspective, new priorities, new values. I'm telling you, salvation makes a difference in the life of the person that gains salvation through faith in Christ Uh new a new concern about my spiritual well-being. And then also a concern about other people's spiritual well-being. God saved me suddenly. I thought I need to start telling people what the Lord did for me. And uh I got saved Monday night. I went into work Tuesday morning. I was working in a meat packing plant there and uh showed up in the morning and um Uh no cigarette and uh um Dornan I didn't cuss that first day I didn't cuss too much. Um but uh I will tell you this. The day after I got saved, a couple bad words came out of my mouth, and I felt so terrible. I was so convicted. I thought, what in the world? The 24 hours before. Never b never gave a thought to it. But I trusted Christ. Now a little word. Uh you know, the the meat came out and I slit and cut the meat wrong. A bad word comes out. I thought, oh man, that was wrong. Isn't that something? And I thought I need to let these other and they all saw something was different. One guy came up to me and said, Leatherman, what's gotten into you? And there's what you could hear them all talking around, saying, Letherman, oh, Leatherman, oh, what in the world, Leatherman? And um so we had a break, and they can't I said, I last night I accepted Jesus as my Savior Oh brother, oh Leatherman's joined a cult, he's gonna shave his head, wear white clothes, and be uh Hare Krishna And um, but you know what? I became concerned. When God saved me, something changed in my heart and life. I want other people to get saved. You follow what I'm saying? And so he says, if you be risen with Christ, then uh and that and he's not doubting, he's saying, but if you've been genuinely born again, you've you're s your Your perspective on life is changed. Your burden for others changed. If that's true, then uh you need to follow uh you need to follow these uh instructions here coming up. So what I'm saying is these next few statements are extremely important for the believer. If you're here and you're not saved, these verses have nothing to do with you It won't apply. It won't help you. The very first thing, the most important thing for every person is that we trust Jesus Christ as Savior. Get my sins forgiven. Get in a standing of acceptance with God, not under the wrath and judgment of God, but accept Jesus. He'll forgive you. He'll give you new life. He'll accept you. And then this stuff here applies. You follow what I'm saying? Everybody alright? Follow what I'm saying? So what does he say? He makes a two-fold appeal, and I just got a couple minutes. Let me give it to you quickly. He makes a twofold appeal. Notice what he says there in verse 1. If ye then be risen with Christ, right, if ye genuinely born again, look what he says. Seek those things which are above. Seek those things which are above. The word seek there means to eagerly desire something. It has the idea of an urgent pursuit. For something. Pursuing that thing. It's not just uh happen to be glance around uh you do ever go uh do you ever go in the store fellows, do you ever go in a store with your wife and you really could care less what they're selling here? You guys are afraid to raise your hand, aren't you? She's right beside you. And um But you act like you're interested. Anybody know? Uh come on. Ladies, when he goes to Cabela's, you're the same way Oh yeah, that's a beautiful T set. Ah, it's a lovely purse. And uh you kind of walk around, eh, that's nice. Okay. And she says, oh look for a Uh I don't even know what I'm talking about. Look look f look for a light chartreuse uh Yamineti dress size seven. Okay. And you're just kinda uh look you know anybody know what I'm talking about? That is not what the word sheik means here. The word seek here means with intensity. Man, uh uh uh if I don't do anything else, I'm gonna find us If I don't do anything else, I'm going to accomplish this. I tell you, when I was studying the meaning of this and looking how it's used other places in the Bible, I came up with this illustration. An Olympic athlete I'm telling you to attain the position of being in the Olympics in whatever field of sport it might be. You don't just casually walk into that. Everybody understands that, right? There is intense preparation. I mean some of them from a young child. They're up in the morning. They are intensely preparing themselves for that worldwide competition to get that gold medal. They want that more than they want anything else. More than they want popularity. More than they want riches. More than they want pleasure. More than they want anything. I've got to get that gold. I've got to get that gold medal. Intense preparation, intense discipline. That is the idea behind this word he uses here, seek, with intensity. Now, what are we supposed to seek? He says, seek those things which are what? Above. What do you mean above, Paul? Where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. The things of God. The things not of this earth. I want to remind you, this world, this material world, is temporal. How many people know that? This is temporary. 2 Corinthians 4. 18. For the things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. That verse, God used that to help bring me to Christ. I read that in my Bible. And I thought, everything I'm living for, everything I'm investing my time and effort and energies and resources in, everything I'm living for is on this earth. And it's temporary. And it's going to burn up. It's a waste of time. It's a waste of investment to live for this old world. I'm only going to be here a short time, and eventually everything here is going to be gone. I began to realize there's a whole nother realm that I can seek after, invest in, and that's the spiritual realm, the kingdom of God. And that's eternal. And that's eternal. This material world is temporal. What I'm trying to say, hey Christian, if you've been saved, if you know Jesus Christ as Savior, don't put your roots down too deep in this old world. Don't get caught up in trying to get everything this world has. Now, has God given us things to enjoy in this world? Sure, we can enjoy our time here and understand that, but that's not our pursuit. That's not our focus. That's not our what we're seeking. We're seeking those things which are above, which please God, that we can invest our time and effort in. That are going to be eternal They're going to last forever. That's one reason uh I I want to invest time and money in soul winning and world missions. We get other people saved. That's an eternal thing. We gave out almost a uh probably around a thousand tracks yesterday down at the fair uh at the uh um at the parade. And uh I don't know, there might be somebody right now as I'm talking to you sitting at home, sitting in a car, reading one of those gospel tracts. There may have been a bunch of folks bowed their head. You know what? When this old world's gone, my life is over, this old world's gone, there'll be souls in heaven maybe because of what was done yesterday. And you gave out tracks this week, and you've witnessed And Paul was saying, listen, if you've been saved, if you've been born again, if you're genuinely saved, uh, you know, we got stuff here on earth and this is a wonderful place. It's beautiful. There's a lot of exciting things. But man, that's not what our focus is. That's not where our priority is. That's not where our uh our goal is, this whole world Uh we're seeking for the things above. Uh not only is this world temporal, but this world, this earth, uh our time on earth is temporal. How many people thought it would take you longer to get how old you are than what it did? I thought it would take a whole lot longer to get to this page. James says in chapter 4, verse 14, he says that life is a vapor. This morning the sun came up and uh some of you had frost and we had heavy dew. That sun shone on the parking lot and a little vapor came up as that asphalt heated up and that moisture uh um Evaporated and that little vapor goes up and say, oh, and you look out, and that's your life. Just it's gone. It's gone. Job chapter seven, verse six, he said this: My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle. We were up at Springs last Friday, a week ago, and uh there was a lady there in the one thing, and she was running a little uh uh weaver's uh little what's it called? Loom. Loon? Loom? And she's running that thing and she's pressing and that thing's just going. I'm trying to follow the thread, and I walked away, I was dizzy, and uh man that thing's flying. And Job says, that's your life. It's over. Boom. How many people here, someone you knew or loved, a family member, and they're gone, and you seem like, man, how could that happen so fast? Just coming on Again, in Job 14, he says, this man that is born of a woman is of few days. Few days. Moses said in Psalm chapter 90 and verse 12, he said this, understanding that life is just temporal, it's so fast, it races by. He said, This teach us to number our days So that we may apply our hearts to wisdom. You know what's foolish? To live my life and invest my life in something that is temporary and is going to be gone before I know it. But rather seek those things which are above. Invest myself in the things of the Lord, eternal things, that last beyond this whole life. Last beyond this whole life. We had uh when I was youth pastor, we used to take the kids down to Cincinnati, Ohio. There's a big amusement park. We used to go there. We had a boy in our youth group that uh had was in a wreck as a young teen is before I got there and he was badly injured, permanently, physically injured, and he would never be able to uh work. I think he did end up getting a job as he became an adult, but uh he had this massive, massive insurance um uh settlement. And the kid was loaded. I mean the guy had so much right. But it was and and uh it was uh he was only allowed so much what do you call that? He it was a trust and he'd get so much a month they would give to him. He didn't get the whole thing until he was older Um and uh I love the guy. He he's a great guy. And uh but um we'd go on this trip and we start and p and the kids would have to bring, you need fifty bucks It's going to be thirty dot thirty-five dollars I think to get in and fifteen bucks by snacks and food on the way down and back. So you need fifty dollars. Everybody had their we check, fifty bucks, fifty. All right, you got it Uh I didn't want to have to pay their whole way for him. And uh they get in and uh we go never failed, we go about a mile or two down the road and the girls, we need to stop And so I say, all right, just a minute. I drive as long as I could until they're about to choke me and they say, stop! They said, all right, so we get off. And old Old Steve would go in there and uh he'd buy everything. He'd buy a six pack of Coke and he'd buy bags of chips and he'd come out and um and he'd give it to everybody. We'd go down another couple miles of girls, Peter, stop. By the time we got to the fair, Steve would come up to me and said, Pastor Dennis, can I borrow $35 from you? I said, Steve, you got more money than all of us together. I'll never have as much money as you have. He goes, yeah, but I blew it all on the trip here. I lent them $35 We laugh at him and say, oh, young guy, foolish. You know, been pastoring all these years. I see some Christians do the exact same thing. Spending all their time and effort and money and everything on this old world seeking the things of this world and never give a thought that there's a whole eternity yet Just burn it all up. Get to heaven, stand before the Lord and saved, yeah. Heaven, yeah. Lord, uh what'd you do? Nothing. Nothing. No crowns. Give to the Lord. And Paul's saying to this Corinthians, listen, if you're saved, if you're saved, don't you seek the things of this world. How foolish. You seek the things of God, invest your life in the things that are eternal. Christ died for you. He gave his life. He suffered hell for you. He's worthy of it. It's a worthy investment. Then he says, and I gotta end, he says, set your affection. First of all, he says, seek the things above, and then he says in verse 2, set your affection. On things above. The affections, that word affections, there's an interesting word. It means the things I think about. The things I think about. Set your thoughts, your meditation, your thoughts on things above, not on things here. And we get so caught up in the affairs of this world. I am so disgusted with our government. I'm so disgusted with our society I'm disgusted with me. It's an old sinful world. And if we're not careful, we let all the affairs of the world control our mind and control our thinking. And we don't even give thought the Lord and the things of God. I put this statement down as I was studying this. That which captures my heart controls my mind. Controls my what I love controls how what I think. When I was dating Kathy Manda falling in love with her. And after a while I got, guess who all I could think about? Was Kathy. Everything was Kathy. Kathy, I wonder if I'll get her. I was traveling Bible time evangelists. Every church we show up. You got any letters from anyone here for me? Uh waiting, every time that we didn't have cell phones back then. Back then, they used to have the phones attached to the wall. You couldn't just walk around. You had to stand there. And uh any phone calls? Why? 'Cause she captured my heart and it controlled my thinking. You know what he's saying to those believers? You let the Lord capture your heart. You fall in love with Jesus Christ, and guess what all you can think about? Lord, my Bible says that will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. Oh, preacher, I'm so worried. Oh, I'm just uh I'm a nervous wreck, stress. All saying, listen, if you're saved, you just fall in love with the Lord. You fall in love with Jesus Christ. Your affections, your thoughts, your desires, what your thinking desires will be to Jesus Christ. And he'll give you peace and he will bless you. Very rich man had no children, him and his wife. He loved his wife dearly. And lo and behold, they had a son. They were later in years when the child was born. Through childbirth there were some problems, and it wasn't long after the boy was born that his dear wife passed away. He's very wealthy. He was a multimillionaire He'd have anything in the world, but he loved his wife and he loved his son. And when his wife died, he was devastated. And his boy became his whole world. He loved that boy, but he knew he couldn't take care of him. He had responsibilities, big enterprises. So he hired a dear maid, just a poor lady in the neighborhood, but she was a good lady, she had character, trusted her, and he hired her to come in and help care for that little boy. And she did. And she raised, she treated that boy as if he was her own. She loved him dearly. She raised him up. And late in his teens, the boy came down with a sickness. And before they knew it, the boy passed away. And the daddy was devastated. Devastated. His wife, now his only son, no other family. That's all he had. And in fact, his heart was so broken it took its toll on him physically, and it wasn't long till Daddy passed away. Mom's gone, the boy's gone, now daddy's dead. There was no family, they couldn't find a will or anything, and so finally the state came in and said, we need to take over this uh this estate here. And they had a big auction, a big estate sale, and bought in the uh auctioneer and they made it public and the crowds were there. And the very first thing they put up for auction was an old picture they had of the boy. It's pretty large. He had hanging in the house there. And that was the very first item up for auction by instruction And uh they auctioned off, and who give me $500 for this painting of this boy? Nobody's interested. $400, $200, $100. Somebody give us fifty bucks. Nobody's interested. He's dusty. Just a boy. Nobody knew him. The dear m lady, that caretaker, she was poor. She just had a couple dollars in her pocket, but she loved that boy. And she saw nobody was buying it. She thought, I might have a chance at that. If I can just buy that picture, I'll give two dollars. Show to the lady there. Went up and got the picture, and they were setting up for the rest of the item. She took it back and wiped it off, and when she turned it over. Some documents fell out the back of the frame. She picked them up and looked at them, and she didn't know, but they sure looked important. So she went up to the fellow up front there that was helping set things up and she goes, Well, I got this picture and out the back fell these documents here, and I don't know what they are, but they look important. He says, let me see that. They had a lawyer. They said, come over here, look at this. Lo and behold, it was his last will and testament. You know what it said? Whoever buys this picture. gets my entire estate. If they cared enough for my son that they would want this picture, then they can have everything I have. And that little poor house lady, housekeeping lady, little maid, became incredibly wealthy because of her love for his son Paul's saying here, I believe, to the to the Colossian believers, if you're saved, you're saved, you fall in love with my son, Jesus Christ. And I'll bless you. And everything I have is yours. And I'll give you peace of mind, and I'll give you purpose, and I'll give you meaning, and I'll take care of you. If ye then be risen with Christ, if you're saved, seek those things above. For Christ sitteth at the right hand of the Father. Set your affection on things above, not on the earth. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray you'd help us to love you, dear Lord. Help us not to get caught up in the things of this world, this old temporal world. You've given us eternal life You've given us an eternal home with you. I pray that's where our focus would be. That's where our love would be. Lord, I didn't have time, but this is a decision we make. Set your affections. Seek. That's something we decide to do. I pray your Holy Spirit would help us this morning to decide that young and old, I'm going to live for Jesus. I'm going to love him. I'm going to live my life for him. I'm going to seek Heads bowed, eyes closed. How many say, preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved. It's for real. I know I'm saved. I just want to commit my life. To seeking the Lord and living for Him and pleasing Him with my life. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. I just want to dedicate my life to seek the Lord and set my affections on him. Maybe some of those old worlds kind of got a grip on our heart. This old world's got our the lights and tinkling of this world has caught our attention, our affections. We need to put that aside and say, no, no, no. The Lord Jesus Christ, don't be like demons who loved this present world and forsook the Lord. Let's love There's some here this morning say, Preacher, there's some decisions I need to make in my Christian life. Maybe it's baptism, maybe it's church membership, uh, maybe there's some other things, but you'd say, preacher, there's some decisions I need to make in my Christian life. And you'd say, pray for me, that God will help me to trust them and make that right decision. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. There's some decisions I need to make, witnessing or whatever it may be. But they're there. God bless you. Number of hands. Is there someone this morning say, preacher, I'm not saved? I can't honestly say. I know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die. And I need to know that God has forgiven my sins and that I'm accepted by Him through faith in Christ. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure my sins are given on my way to heaven. I'm concerned about that. And I need to be saved. Any at all? Anybody at all? Just slip your hand up. We'll pray for you. God will bless you. Father, bless now our invitation I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together. Jennifer's playing the invitation hymn as she plays.