Chapter number five. Again, I want to thank Pastor again for this opportunity that he's given to me to allow me to speak on his behalf. Again, I mentioned it on Sunday. I couldn't believe, you know, that He'd take somebody that was just re straight out of college and he would allow me to be able to take his place while I go to college this time. I really appreciate him that he allowed me to have this opportunity. And I don't take it lightly. 1 Peter chapter 5, I want to read four verses, and then we'll get into the message. Verse 6 reads: Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking him whom he may devour, whom resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. I've been tired of my message deceiving, heed the warning signs Heed the warning signs. Let's open in prayer and then we'll get started. Father, we love you and thank you so much for this day, Lord, and I thank you for your blessings to us each and every day. And Lord, I want to thank you for the opportunity to serve you. Father, I ask Lord that you give me strength to be able to speak, Father. And Lord, I again I ask that you would just speak through me, that your word would use me, not me use you. And Father Lord, I pray that you'd help us to understand the message here that Peter has for us. Father, we ask that your will be done in our lives, and we'll give the praise for all in Jesus' name. Amen. Heed the warning signs. As we come to this passage here, I notice a number of warnings that Peter gives. We have warning signs throughout our daily daily life. I like this warning sign that I found Most of you know what this one is. Some of you who may have ran one of these warning signs disobeyed it before. But this sign was not put up just for looks This time was put up to warn you about something. You know, you might want to look both ways before going across this intersection. You might want to stop and let this pedestrian go by So we see this warning sign around. Now maybe the younger people in here have seen this one before and thought this was an opportunity to have some fun. But most of us when we look at this sign here, we say, you know what, I might want to avoid whatever this sign is telling me not to go to Danger, do not enter. And we have signs that we can think of that warn us of different things. Here in 1 Peter, I see that Peter gives us some warning signs. Some signs that we could heed to and would do us some good if we would heed to those warning signs. So what are these warning signs that we could heed to? In verse number six here, I see the first warning sign. It's a warning sign to the prideful. A warning sign to the prideful. You look at that verse that says, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time. Now you look at that verse and say, you know what, the word pride does not appear here at all. And you know what? You're right. It's nowhere in this verse. Look at the previous, though you find this warning in that verse. I'm getting my head myself mentioning that verse. But you look at that and you see the opposite of humbleness or humility is pride. And Peter warns us about being prideful. Well I find it interesting the world does not do that. In fact, as I was looking for a definition of this, I got online, looked at dictionary. com, and this is their definition of pride. It's as a high or inordinate opinion of one's own dignity, importance, merit, or superiority, whether as cherished in the mind or as displayed bearing conduct Now, whether you look at this definition or not and get the wrong idea from it, when I looked at this, I found it interesting that they didn't point out the sinfulness of pride. I looked at it and I found that it was interesting that they were lifting somebody up You know, this person lifts some their self up in their own mind. And you look at the world's standards today, that's their idea. You know, it's okay to have pride. It's okay to look at yourself like that. You know, it's okay to put yourself up on a pedestal But if you look at the world standard for pride and you look at the Bible standard for pride, I think you come up across two different ideas for the word pride. In fact, if you look through your King James Bible there And you look at the word pride, you'll notice that it's found more often than not in the Old Testament. And most of the time when that word is used, well before I say that, if you look at each and every word that is used, it has the idea of arrogancy. Now that does not completely match up the definition of the world standard. You know, this some more has the idea of, you know, you're bothering somebody. You're lifting yourself up But you're also putting others down. That's the idea of the word pride. Now some may say, you know what, the world's idea of pride and the biblical term pride, they're two different prides. But it's not the case. What it is is just the world changing the definition of the word pride. And you know, when we lift ourselves up and put ourselves up on that pedestal, we are setting ourselves up for danger. Now I point out that it means arrogant But most of those definitions also convey that it's arrogant conceit that will incure the wrath of God. Arrogancy that brings to us the wrath of God. Now think about that for a minute. You look at any sin in the Bible, most men will not come up with this sin as the first thing that in their mind of a sin that they would consider something deserving God's wrath. You think of sin, most people say, you know, murder, you know that deserves God's wrath, you know stealing, you know things like that. But pride? See if you have your Bibles, turn to Proverbs chapter number six. Proverbs chapter number six. While you're turning there, I want to share with you some things that Proverbs has to say about pride. I wish I had time to go into detail about this. Proverbs chapter 8 verse 13, the fear of the Lord is to hate evil, pride and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the forward mouth do I hate. Proverbs 1112 When pride cometh, then cometh shame, but with the lowly is wisdom. Proverbs 13:10. Only by pride cometh contention. But with the well advised is wisdom. Proverbs sixteen eighteen pride goeth before destruction, and a haughty spirit before a fall. Proverbs twenty twenty-three, a man's pride shall bring him low But honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. You look at the world, and the world says, be prideful, think highly of yourself, and do all these things for yourself. It doesn't matter how, just make yourself the best. And it says it'll give you fame, it'll give you some sort of joy, it'll give you satisfaction. But if you look at the book of Proverbs, what it says it gives you is it gives you shame, it gives you poverty, and eventually it gives you destruction. This is not the way we are supposed to go, is the way of pride. Now, before somebody gets the wrong idea, somebody may use the statement, I take pride in my country. That is not what I'm talking about here at all, the issue I'm talking about here at all The pride that we're dealing with here is a pride of lifting oneself up above everyone. Above another, maybe just another individual. You're lifting yourself up. We're not saying we don't take pride in our nation. I'm proud of being an American. But if we are lifting ourselves up just so that we can say, you know what, I'm pretty good I'm pretty special. I'm a somebody. Peter here gives you a warning. Hey, watch out for that. Look at Proverbs 6, as I told you to turn there. Look at verse number 16 Proverbs 6. 16 says this, these six things doth the Lord hate, yea, seven are also already an abomination unto him. Now when I read that, I think the first thing that I would read next would be something like murder or some sort of sin of alcohol or something wicked And something wicked does appear next, but it's not what man thinks usually. The first thing on God's list of the six things he doesn't like is a proud look The world doesn't look at it like that. But see how God sees it. Something God dislikes, something that he hates, something he cannot stand, a proud look You know, it's a wonder Satan doesn't use this tool. Why in the world do people get so prideful? Satan probably loves this tool. Think of back in the Garden of Eden. You know, he told Eve, you know you don't have to listen to God. You know you can eat You can be a God yourself. And even before that, when Satan rose up against God himself and said, you know what, one day I will be like the Most High. That issue of pride. And you know what? Satan still today is trying to get people to get this little sin we see it into their life. Something that God does not like. We see the sin how God displa is displeased with it. And even though the world promotes it, God does not. And if you're here tonight and you say, you know what, it's all about me. You know, I can do this. I can do that. You know, I have this. I have that. You know, you're setting yourself up for destruction. You say, you know what, I deserve to have this because I am so much better than them. They don't need this. You're setting yourself up I like how in the mother's verse we just read that pride brings contention. You know, a lot of fighting happens just because we're so prideful. You know, I'm better than them. They don't need that. I'm better than them, I'll have to show it to them Pride hurts our lives. Even in this passage we can see that. I mentioned verse 5. If you read verse 6, it says, humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God. I once heard a preacher say, if you see that word therefore, you should look and see what's therefore. So back up with me to verse number five. It says, Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you, be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility. Here's the reason. For God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. I got to studying that and I looked at that and resisteth Such a strong word has the idea of to range oneself against. Now I don't believe Peter's teaching us that we can lose our salvation here. I believe he clearly teaches us that we can be secure of our salvation. But one thing he does teach us is that fellowship with God, you can easily break it by just having a little bit of pride in your life. You have pride in your life, and you're trying to serve God, you're trying to do the will of God, it just does not work. You're ruining yourself with this pride. But it doesn't only just stop there. It doesn't just say God resisteth the proud. It also says He giveth grace to the humble. I don't know about you, but I like to be in that second category: grace. Getting something we do not deserve. Boy, I think of the blessings of God that gives us each and every day that we don't deserve. I think of salvation. You know, we didn't deserve that, but God blessed us that he sent his son to die on the cross. cross to save us. You know, there's so many more blessings we could have, but you know what? There's so many blessings you can hinder if you have this thing called pride in your life. By the way, note that we put ourselves under the hand of God. That shows us how we can get rid of that pride. You see, when you put yourself under the hand of God, I love Joshua chapter 4 when we learn that verse that teaches us. us that all the world may know the hand of the Lord, that it is mighty. You know, you look at the hand of God, you see his might. I think of creation, the worlds that he created. I think of salvation, as I just mentioned, how he sent his son to die on the cross for us. I think of man, how he breathed into him life And on and on you can go. Israel, how he delivered them from Egypt. The Red Sea, how they got to go through on dry land, Jericho, how the walls fell down. You can look Look through the Bible. Daniel, how the mouths of the lions were shut. Now let me just ask you something. If you ever have a bit of pride in your life next time, think of this. When's the last time you created a planet? We laugh at that, but think about that. We think we're something. We think we're so high we're lifted up, but yet God here created the whole universe. Hey, when's the last time you breathed life into a man? When's the last time you helped somebody cross the Red Sea on dry land? And we look and we say, you know what, we are something. And then we compare ourselves to who we're supposed to, and we realize we're nothing. Hey, Peter's got a warning here for those. Oh, by the way, let me go back here, backtrack here just for a second. When we say humble ourselves, we're not talking about becoming a doormat for someone. somebody. When we say humble ourselves, we're talking about having the right priorities, putting people in the right places. I love how somebody you came up with the acronym for joy. Jesus others you Where is God at in your life? And by the way, don't forget about others. You know, respect have respect for others. If you get the idea of pride that you're better than somebody, you need a chance to Check that out. Pride will ruin you. Also, when I say humble ourselves, I don't mean that we put ourselves and say, oh, I'm a nobody. You know, I'm just trying to serve God. You draw pride into yourself just by having others look at you and how meek you are supposedly. So be careful of that. Peter's warning to the prideful, prideful, humble yourselves. You are on your way to ruin if you do not. So we saw the warning to the prideful. Next I see the warning to the pitiful. We get down to verse number says, casting all your care upon him, for he careth for you. The word care there appears twice, and I find it interesting they don't mean the same exact thing. The first care there has the idea of a burden, anxiety, something that you just fly out worried about. That's the idea of the first care, casting all your care upon him. You know, we can all think of something that's a burden to us. Maybe it's a bill to pay, maybe it's your job, maybe it's an illness. Hey, a family member that gives you all We all have those burdens in our lives. And Peter has a warning to you, you don't be pitiful about it. Cast all your care upon him. You look at that word casting, it has the idea of throwing a pawn. It doesn't have the idea, okay, God, you know. No, you just give it out to him Down Benskola, I think I saw this best display. I can't remember the speaker's name to save my life, but I think he displayed it best. But we had this, and somebody stole all my hymn books. How about that? But we go through life, and you know what? Imagine this pew here is your life. You know, you could say this is worth a day. This here is worth a month, this is a week, this is a year. Whatever you see this period of time as, you can view it as that. And you're going through your life and you say, you know what, I got all these bills to pay. You know, I don't know how I'm gonna pay 'em. Got all these financial problems. I got stuff I gotta worry about. I just don't know how I'm gonna handle it. And you come here, oh I got this illness in my life. And I got these things over here and I got this job and I got this family. And by the end of the the day you've got all these burdens and you just keep adding them and you're adding them and you keep worrying about them And you have so much sorrow in your life because you just hold on to them. By the way, that can cause bitterness real easily. Holding on to those burdens. Now let's see in light of this passage. But before I do, by the way, remember Galatians chapter 6, verse 2. It says, Bear ye one another burdens. You know, even if you see somebody with a burden, bear it. In other words, help them out. There's people out there you can help that have a burden right now. Thanks for somebody like that. But this passage in particular, can I get Andy to come up here and help me? Now I know some of you are going to have a hard time with this, but imagine if you would that Annie right now represents the Lord Jesus Christ And the Lord Jesus Christ, in this passage, we say, casting all your care upon him, here's what you do. Oh, I got all these bills to pay. You know, Lord, I really don't know how to take it care of this. But you know I know you can take care of it. And I got these problems with my family and I really don't know what but uh Lord I'm asking you to help me there. And Lord, oh my, I got these car payments. I got the sickness now, Lord. Doctor says I need to get some medicine, more bills, and you know what? And if you let God take care of that, how much easier is it for you? You casted all your care upon Him. You know, I'm not going to throw those handbooks down, but you know what? It says throw it. Take it to the Lord. You're like Danny, you could be seeing. You know, you say that sounds too simple. You know, the Lord wants to help you. Because by the way, you know that other care there? You know what that care means? For he careth for you? That care has the idea of he has interest in you The Lord loves you and wants to help you with your problems. Instead of saying, you know what, I got all these bills I can't pay, go to the one that owns the cattle on a thousand hills And saying, saying, I got this illness, I don't know what to do about it. Go to the great physician. Saying, I got all these family problems. Hey, he's got the greatest family of all, the family of God. And we can go to him and cast all these problems on him Peter give us another warning. Warning. Don't be pitiful about these problems. Hey, cast all your care upon him, for he careth for you. We got one more warning here. Hands found in Verse number eight. We've seen the warning to the prideful. We've seen the warning to the pitiful. This warning's interesting. This one hasn't had anything to do with the sin. This is a warning to those with potential. Look with me in verse number eight. Verse number eight says, Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking. Whom he may be devour. We have a warning to us that may have potential to serve the Lord Jesus Christ. What's this warning? First of all, be sober. Now that is not telling you that you should stop your drinking and stop the drugs, although you shouldn't be on that already. But when you read that word sober there, that has the idea of the same if you look at The strongest concordance, you find that same word behind it. It's the same word used in other places as temperance. Now you say, what in the world is that? Self-control. Now if you want a better definition of that, take self-controlled. moving around control self. Pretty easy, isn't it? But sometimes we have a problem with that, don't we? Controlling ourselves. You know that saying comes along And we say, oh, you know, it's just that evil sin. You know, it's the worst one I have. And, you know, I just gotta give in to it. No, you don't. Exercise that self-control. You know, Paul said in Philippians 4. 13, I can do all things through Christ with strength in me. And he can give you the victory over that. Say that burden that you have in your life. Hey, Peter just already mentioned that. Cast your cares upon him. Control yourself. Be able to take care of those situations. Be sober. Be vigilant. That has the idea of watching. You know, keeping an eye. When you put the two together, it has the idea of this military term that you look and you're ready for battle. Why? Because you have an adversary The devil. It's interesting. I see this devil described in a number of ways in his past. I see him, first of all, described as the adversary. Hey, don't try to blend the world's things with our things. You know, I hate it when people try to combine this idea of especially with music and try to combine the world and try to mix ours and say, you know what, as long as Jesus is in it, it's okay. You know, we have an enemy out there And that's the devil. And we shouldn't be giving him any of our ground. We should be conquering him. We need to go and fight him. We need to be sober. We need to be vigilant. Watching out for him, being ready for him. Controlled. In control. He's an adversary. He's also very strong. The Bible describes him as a roaring lion. He could have chosen any animal, but They chose one of the strongest, one of the scariest, one of the best. Because that's your adversary. You know, you look in the book of Jude and you see Michael the archangel When you look at his situation, he asked the Lord to rebuke the devil. Why? Because he's a powerful enemy. But remember, we have the one that's power more powerful than him on our side. And he's willing to help you if you will just go to him. We have an adversary. We have a strong adversary. We also have a busy adversary. This devil's not taking no coffee breaks. You look at him, he's walking about seeking whom he may devour. It wouldn't surprise me if he's in this room right now, wanting to destroy somebody that's in this room. He's a busy devil. He wants to devour you. By the way, he's a hungry one. He's looking about seeking whom he may devour, who he can destroy, whose life he can just flout ruin. Hey, you know what? If you can give a little bit of ground to the devil and get a little bit of sin there, he likes that. But he wants more than that He wants to see your life ruined. He doesn't want to see you as a Christian going on for God. He doesn't want to see you doing things for him. He doesn't want you to go to the altar and make a religion. He wants you to just be content the way you are We have that enemy, the devil. Notice I said this is a warning to the potential. Why do I say that? Look with me at verse number nine Whom resists. There's that word again. Having the idea of range to oppose. He's going against. Who's he going against? Who resists steadfast in the faith. Now there's two ways you can look at this. Number one you can look at it and see that he's solid. He's stable against those who are in the faith. Or you can look at the stepbacks as those who are solid, who are standing firm in the faith. Either way, he's going against the people who are working. He's only against the people who are doing something for the Lord Jesus Christ. Hey, if you go ahead and make that decision to go out on soul winning, he's going to be on you. You know, if you make the decision that you're going to be at church three times a week, and if they have more, you're going to be there too. He's going to be on you. If you're going to be reading your Bible every day, he's going to be on you. He's after the target that has potential for the Lord Jesus Christ because he does not want that potential. You know, the adversary's not dumb. He knows if he can take out the best of us. You know, he may not get the victory. He knows he's lost, but he can get as many as he can for destruction. He wants your life ruined. And Peter says, this is a warning to you Keep your eyes peeled. Watch out for that. Look out for that. I looked at three warnings here. I'm going to close with this Many of you have probably seen this warning sign. Handheld cell phones. Use prohibited while driving. Now I don't know how many of you break this rule. I'm not going to ask how many of you break this rule. But a number of people do break this rule right here. By the way, it is a law, but it's also a warning. But it says handheld cell phone use prohibited while driving. Now, listen to these statistics. In 2009, 5,474 people were killed in the U. S. because of accident that involved distracted driving. Another 448,000 were injured. You say, well, those are pretty significant numbers. Of the 504 5,474 killed of this tractor driving, 995 of that involved reports of a cell phone use. Now you say 995 people lost their lives because they ignored this warning. Now you guys can come up with your own illustration, think of your own warning, and you can think of all the people in the world that ignore that warning. It probably is a tragedy, I'm not gonna lie. But you know there's a warning sign that's given to each and every one of us. And you know many across this nation and across this globe are ignoring the warning sign that they're are given, known as the Bible. You say, oh, it's not that big of a deal. I want to read this here, and I'll be done. Listen to these statistics. I got this from down when we were in Louisville, Kentucky with the youth conference. Now these are just the teenagers. You say, okay, that only involves teenagers. This is the teenagers of the world. Think of everybody in the world This is for teenagers. This is for every 24 hours in a day. Every 24 hours a day, 2,989 children witness the divorce of their parents. Every twenty four hours three thousand two hundred and eighty eight teenagers will run away from home. Every twenty four hours two hundred and eleven teenagers will be arrested for drug related crimes. By the way, this is not every year. This is Every 24 hours, every daily period. 1,629 teenagers are placed in an adult jail for some reason. Six teenagers will commit suicide. Think about that. Today, six teenagers committed suicide. 438 teenagers will be arrested for drinking. 2,861 teenagers will drop out of school. 7,742 teenagers become sexually active. 1,167 Six teenagers girls become pregnant. 8,219 teenagers acquire sexually transmitted disease. 3,742 abortions are conducted, and 1,136 teenage girls will deliver a baby in these 24 hours. Now you look at those statistics, that's just teenagers. That's not the whole world. And you tell me people's not ignoring the warning sign? Folks, we got something we need to do. We need to, as ourselves as Christians. I'm speaking to myself, by the way. When I was preparing this message, this was heartbreaking. But we need to start listening to the warning sign. We need to start obeying it. And we can start right here. There's three right here. You know, we need to watch out for pride. We need to watch out for carrying all these burdens instead of just giving them to our Lord Jesus Jesus Christ. And then when you are walking with the Lord. In fact there's probably some in this room that are right now on track with their Bible reading. They're on track going to church. They're on track with their prayer life. And I'm all I'm happy for that. I'm thankful for that We know the devil's got a target on you. And we need to heed the warning that we need to watch out for him. Because if we're not, if we don't heed the warning, we're going to become another statistic. I don't know about you, we don't need any more statistics in that area. But we could use some people that heed the warning side. I encourage you heed You're here this evening and you say, you know what, Brother James? Somewhere through that message, the Lord just spoke to my heart Maybe it's the issue of pride. Maybe you have that little bit of pride in your life. Maybe it's just the fact you have so many burdens and you haven't been taking it to the Lord. Or maybe you have been walking with the Lord. You're a strong Christian. But you need to ask the Lord to help you to stay that way, not let the devil get any ground. If you're in any one of those categories and you say, Brother James, just pray for me that the Lord will help me in this situation. Would you just slip your hand hand up. Yes, I see those hands. Anybody else say, Brother James, I'd like for you to pray for me. That the Lord will help me. Any others? Yes, I see that hand. Any others? Yes, I see that one. one. Yes. One more question and I'll be done. Is there any here that says, Brother James, you know what? I do not know 100% sure for sure I'm going to Heaven. If you do not know that the devil already has victory for you. But you can change that. You can accept Christ tonight. With heads bowed and eyes, because if there's anybody that would say, Brother James, I do not know 100% for sure that I'm on my way to heaven, but would you pray for me? Would you pray for me about this situation? Anybody at all like that? Father in heaven, we love you and thank you so much for this day you've given to us. that you would help us to heed to the warning signs. Father, I ask that you give us strength to do your will. Lord, as this invitation is given, Lord, I ask that you work in our hearts. Be with our prayer time later, Lord, that you would heed to our needs as we uh lift them up to you. In Christ's name. Amen.