But a letter from the Elizabeth Raynema, uh Elizabeth and Peter, came Tuesday, December twenty-eighth, last evening. Actually I think I got it this morning. But I wanted to read this to you. I thought this was such a blessing. A couple of the ladies in the church already got this. Says their pastor and friends When I emailed you last year around this time, my husband and I had high expectations of visiting with you in the new year. Today, we have high expectations of moving to Oakland in the new year. What an exciting change, praise the Lord. Waiting seems hard and difficult, but we all know it will move fast in his time Because our children do not come home during the Christmas break. Uh Andro is in Bahamas to help and work for his school friend whose family has a business there. Well I feel bad for him And uh Phoebe decided to stay with her school friend in Virginia because she has to go back to school early for interterm. Two of us spent a quiet but blessed Christmas day. Though we knew we were missing fellowship with other believers, we have never so felt the missing of sweet fellowship with the saints in Christmas Day after we spent a month with you at MLIBC Thank you very much for your loving attentions and prayers while we were with you last October. Surely it was a pleasure and honor for us to spend a month with you in the church. When the people ask Peter how he finds himself as a retiree, his answer is he's busier than before his retirement. Indeed he is busy to find out all the laws and regulations pertaining to setting up the radio antenna on the tower. Uh then she talks about some physical things she's doing much better She says the Lord has proved himself to be a good shepherd to us through the year again. We know he will lead us in the coming year for his name's sake. And that's the reason we present ourselves a living sacrifice wholly acceptable to God, which is our reasonable service. Then he thanks us for the sermons and the messages and all that. Isn't that a blessing? And so we gotta keep them in prayer as uh we're working on getting them over here. All right. Where did I say? Isaiah sixty-one. Now you're gonna have to bear with me. I am just about made my mind up. Let me get my thing on here. About changing Bibles. Relax. It's King James. But um uh I for since nineteen eighty For somewhere around there, I've been using the old Schofield Bible all these years. I always thought I would die using the old Schofield Bible But I've been looking at these Cambridge Bible, and uh I've been kind of toying with it a little bit and just and I'm thinking about switching over this year to the Cambridge, so that's gonna mess me up Do you ever have one Bible you use it a lot and um you know, you don't know the exact reference, but you know it's the right page, top left-hand corner. Anybody know what I'm talking about? That's going to change And so uh I'm I'm a little nervous. And so um uh I'm gonna use it tonight. I decided to use it tonight, so if I can't find verses You'll understand why. Isaiah chapter 61 and verse number one. Isaiah 61, verse 1. This is a prophetic verse. And you're going to know immediately who quotes this in the New Testament when I begin reading it. It says, uh, Isaiah 61, verse 1. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. All right, who's. Who is this referring to? Let me read on. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. Whose Yes, Jesus Christ. Remember when he was in a temple and they asked him to read from the scriptures? This is the passage he read. And then when he was done reading, and he cut halfway through verse two and he stopped And then he said, this day is this passage fulfilled in your eyes. So he's telling them that passage is referring to him. Now with that in mind, let's read this The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because the Lord hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek. Now look at this next phrase. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted. Now we're looking at the family life of the church, interacting with others in various situations. We talked about those who are weak in the faith. They're weak in their understanding of the Word of God. We talked about those who are defeated and who uh have gotten made a bad decision and messed up somehow. How do we interact with them? We talked about those with whom we disagree Maybe uh some issue that we have a disagreement, how to handle that. Tonight, I want to look at how to help people who are brokenhearted. Now most of our studies on this subject is how does God help me when I'm brokenhearted That's most of what you preach on that God helps the brokenhearted. And thank God he does. Amen. But here's the issue tonight I want to address. How do I interact with someone who's brokenhearted? Something has happened, their heart is shattered, their world's turned upside down, how do I interact with that? How do I help that? And so that's the subject. Let's have a word of prayer. We're going to look at this verse and a number of others, and I'll I'll share some things with you. Father, I ask, Lord, that uh you would bless now our study of your word I pray that you'd fill me again with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you again tonight, Lord. Present my body. And please teach us, Father. And I ask myself included, teach us how to help folks who are hurting. Lord, give us wisdom, give us what we need to be that kind of church and that kind of people. And so we we ask now you have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't think I have any sound on this mic here, Dave. Either I don't have it on or I don't Let's see, it's on now. I think we're good. Thank you. Isaiah 61. One of the aspects, now as I mentioned, this is referring to Lord Jesus Christ. He quotes it in the Gospels. And says that he fulfills this. This is him. So we notice from this that one of the ministries of the Lord Jesus Christ, one of his aspects, is to bind up people who are brokenhearted. Now, what does that mean? I got studying the phrase there bind up. It simply means to bandage. If somebody is injured, they cut themselves. Somebody else comes along and they bandage that up. The idea, as I went through the definitions and the explanations of that phrase, I came to this conclusion. The idea of binding up is this: to keep something from getting worse Alright? So somebody has fallen, they've got a gash. I'm gonna come over. My responsibility is to bind that up. I can't necessarily make it well I can't take the gash away, but I can do some things that keeps that from getting worse to bind it up so infection doesn't get in there so that when it eventually does heal, it's not Some hideous scar there, um different things to keep it from getting worse. Now the other phrase I w considered here is the word actually, the word brokenhearted. Who is he talking about The word brokenhearted here is making reference, and it's used various places throughout scripture. It's talking about those who are emotionally hurt. They they are emotionally, I like this definition, emotionally crippled. Something has happened that has hurt them emotionally Their heart is broken. And that's a very descriptive word itself: a broken heart. One of the definitions is this, and I think many of us here can relate to this, is to be shattered. Something is so devastating has happened that their entire world has fallen apart. They're shattered. They're emotionally hurt deeply So the Bible says that one of Jesus' purposes, one of the aspects of his ministry is to bind up the brokenhearted. To make it and keep it from getting worse. Now, turn with me, if you would, to Isaiah chapter 40. Just a few pages back, Isaiah 40. And verse number one, this is God's instruction to Isaiah. And so by application, we uh feel an obligation here to this. Look what he says. He says, Comfort ye. Comfort ye my people. Israel, in the context here, has been hurt emotionally. They sinned, and their sin has brought upon them a broken heart. Their sin has brought upon them emotional devastation. And I'm going to end the message with this statement, but I want to inject it here again. It's important to understand the consequences of sin are heartache. Without a fail, we say the wings of sin is death, that's true, it's all that. But one of the things sin produces is heartache. And so he says here that Isaiah's responsibility to Israel, God's telling them they've sinned. Because of their sin, their experience heartache, their lives are shattered, emotionally they're shattered, uh, they've been hurt deeply emotionally because of the decisions they made and the consequences And his responsibility is to comfort them. In fact, he says it twice: comfort ye, comfort ye, my people, saith your God. What does it mean to comfort someone? We're a small crowd here tonight. What what does it mean? Talk to me here a little bit. What does it mean if I'm gonna comfort someone? I'm gonna try and make them feel better. Alright? make things better. Make them feel better. That's a good definition. Anybody else? I want to comfort someone. The word itself has this idea. It's a little bit more than just making them feel better. It has this idea, to share in their grief. It means to To seek to provide relief from that grief, which is where Ronnie said would make them feel better. And so One aspect of the Lord Jesus' ministry is to bind up the brokenhearted. We are told through Isaiah that we are to comfort people, that we are to have a reason we have a responsibility. to provide comfort, to provide relief to people who are in deep grief and brokenhearted. Alright? So I'm setting the stage here. Now if you would come to the New Testament with me, to 2 Corinthians. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 speaking about binding up the brokenhearted, comforting the brokenhearted. 2 Corinthians chapter 1 kind of tells us how we're to do that in a general sense. 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 3. Blessed be God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of mercies, and the God of all what? Ah, the God of all comfort. So God, we know this from Jesus, bind up and brokenhearted, God is a God that wants to share in our grief. Right? Aren't you glad for that? God is a God that wants to provide relief from our grief. He's the God of all comfort. He's able to share our grief. He's able to give relief from our grief. Now read on. Verse 4. Who, this God of all comfort, comforted comforteth us in all our tribulation? How many folks here ever went through a difficult time and God helped you? Anybody get a witness? Sure. That's what he does. He's the God of all comfort. He comforts us in all of our tribulations. He gives how many folks have ever made this statement, or at least you've thought this statement. I could have never gone through that without the Lord. Amen? We've been there. We say something else. I don't know how they do it without God. So God comforts us. But that verse, that sentence doesn't end there. Who, the God of all comfort, comforteth us in all our tribulation. Why? That we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. Aha. God lets us go through a heartache, a disappointment. God allows us to experience even a failure so that He can come and help us. And that help, that comfort he gives to us, he then expects us to take it, look what it says, that we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble. So it doesn't stop with me. I go through a difficult situation, whatever it may be. We'll talk about some specifics here in a little bit. I go through a difficult situation. I'm a Christian, I'm a child of God, God helps me through that. I pray, I seek his face, God gets me through that And you'll find this, if you haven't already, you'll find this. God will direct your path in such a way that you will cross paths with someone, guess what, that's gone through that. You know what God expects from us? Alright, I expect you to take the comfort I gave you when you were going through that, and now comfort them with the comfort I gave you. Follow what I'm saying? What he's saying here? But he doesn't end with that. That we may be able to comfort them which are in any trouble by the comfort wherewith we ourselves. Are comforted of God. So what's he saying? God's dealing with my broken heart is the pattern, the model that I'm to follow in my heart. In dealing with other people who have broken hearts. You follow the train of thought here? I go through uh uh whatever it may be. I lose my job, I my uh my income. cut into a third, I lose the house, whatever it may be, and uh I'm just shattered financially, my world is turned upside down, I'm deeply hurt, uh it's incredible disappointment. I'm dealing with failure. God helps me get through that. I pray, read my Bible, stay faithful to church. I do right. I just trust God. God gets me through that And then God expects me that the lessons I learned, the help I got from Him, He expects me to go out and be able to do that for others, then also And so he has given me the pattern to follow. I say this when uh uh I don't know if I always I don't do this a whole lot, but when I do, I uh I try to almost Always say something to this effect. Listen, God has allowed you to go through this, and I'll take them to this passage for the purpose of you being able to help somebody down the road with the help God gives you. And the great thing about that is, now this is for the one going through the heartache, the great thing about that is, is he It gives me some purpose. There's a little bit of an understanding why God may be allowing me this. It gives me something beyond myself, and that is such a tremendous help dealing with heartache. I know this isn't the end. There's purpose behind this. There's something that can come out of this. I can be a help of somebody else. So, with that in mind, one of our greatest ministries we can have As an individual and as a church is that of helping people who are brokenhearted. One of the greatest ministries we can have Somebody made this statement. He who preaches to broken hearts will never want for a congregation. And boy, that's the truth. We are surrounded by broken-hearted people. We're very good. See if you'll agree with me on this. We're very good at putting on a happy face. We're very good at smiling and singing, but all the while inside, sometimes we are just dying. Huh? Just hurting. And He'll say, hey, how you doing? Oh fine. And in reality, a world inside which is hurting and hurting, hurting. That's the world we live in. We're surrounded by broken-hearted people. As I was preparing this, I put this down. When dealing with a broken-hearted people, we live in a target-rich environment. If you're looking for someone that's brokenhearted you want to help, they're all around. We're surrounded. Um, how do we help people? If there are so many broken-hearted people, And um, you know, a lot of times you don't even know. They put on a front, we do that, we put on a front, people don't even know. How do I help? When I come across someone and I have this opportunity, I'm someone close to me Perhaps has gone through a divorce or they've lost their job or their child is turned against them and the things of God, their heart is shattered. What do I do? How do I help them Let me give you some suggestions and let me point this out right away. Me individually, I'm still learning. I don't want to come across and say, all right, Pastor Leatherman's perfected this. I haven't This is a lifelong endeavor. But we learn from things, maybe that you've had some experiences that you've picked up and you say, Boy, you know that really helped And uh you can jot them down, put these together. But I guarantee you, these are things we will be able to put to use because we are, as I said, in a target-rich environment. I'm talking even just inside the church Plenty of opportunity to help people who are brokenhearted. Number one, I put this down. Understand there are various reasons a person may be brokenhearted. There are various reasons, and a whole lot of reasons, people's hearts are broken. Sometimes it's very open and obvious, very public. You can see it. Other times, and I would suggest most of the time, it's not real public. It's not real obvious. I want to suggest to you that most people who are dealing with a broken heart, their broken heart is the result of something very personal. It's something very private and uh it's not known and they don't want it to be known, but they're hurting deeply What are some things that would cause broken heart? I think the dearest thing on earth is family. Dearest thing on earth is Christmas time. But I tell you, the most heart-wrenching thing on earth sometimes is family. Can tear your heart out. Um, parrot, a child and their parrot uh goes and does stumb things and and gets involved. I know I'm thinking of one situation where the parrot never drank, never smoked, got the f 45 years old, parents start smoking and drinking and carry on go crazy. And the kids' hearts were broken. You know, their late teens, early twenties, and here uh mom's acting acting like an idiot. Uh brokenhearted. Sometimes it's a child. You love that child, you poured your heart and life into them and and try to teach And then they go and completely reject everything you've taught, everything's important to you. And they just go, and your heart's shattered. You won't like to talk about that publicly. We don't make it That deal. It's a personal thing. Maybe a spouse. Person finds out their spouse was unfaithful. They find out, they come home and they uh have a letter from a lawyer divorcing you. And the world is completely turned upside down. I'll be honest with you. I think now uh uh I want to be very careful, but I think uh uh uh uh the losing A spouse to someone else is more heart-wrenching than losing a spouse to death. Absolutely rip your heart out. So sometimes it's family causes intense heartache, wound, emotionally handicapped and hurt. Sometimes it's physical. You go to a doctor, the doctor says, you know, as far as we can tell, you've got six months to live. Man, I had this and that. Sometimes people are very old. Sometimes people get very quiet. Don't tell folks. Physical. Sometimes the death of a loved one. And that's usually a very public thing. Sometimes it's financial Things climb up in the financial world, your financial world is falling apart, you're scared, you're worried, you're sick, and you're disappointed. And man, your heart's just broken over the situation So there's various reasons. Well, this is what I'm trying to say. There are various reasons why people find themselves with a broken heart that are so hurt. so emotionally hurt that we come across and we have opportunity to minister to. But we must never now and I would like to think this is not necessary to say, but I've been in this long enough We must never assume that their heartbreak is the result of sin or a lack of faith. Now again, I would like to think as pastor, you wouldn't have to say that to people. But reality of it is, and I'm thinking uh different situations over the years where folks have broken heart and a parent Christian, of all people, their first assumption is they must be living in sin. Boy, they mustn't have enough faith in God. That is ridiculous. You do not begin with that assumption. There's a thousand different reasons why this person finds himself in the situations they're in, and I'm in no position as a brother or sister in Christ to make that judgment. And so Uh must never assume that heartbreak is a result uh of their sin. Now a heartbreak ultimately is a result of sin somewhere, but it could be the another person And not necessarily going to be lack of faith on that person's part. Some of God's greatest people in the Bible were deeply brokenhearted. You think you think David you think uh Joseph wasn't brokenhearted when his brothers threw him in that cake from the saf when he killed him? Basically, how did David how did Joseph feel when he's being hauled off on that caravan down to uh Egypt and there his brothers, his family, as far as he knows, never going to see him again. You think he was brokenhearted? Did he do anything? Was it lack of faith on Joseph's part? No. God had a plan. God was allowing it. So there's various reasons why a person may be brokenhearted. I must never assume It's because they don't have enough faith in God or they have some secret sin or something, and God's chastening them. If God is chastening them, it's between them and God My responsibility is to try and comfort them and help them. Number two, I put this down. Don't try to provide a solution to their heartache. Especially right at first. They might later come and ask for help. But when uh especially when it first takes place, whatever the event is that breaks their heart The best thing to do is nothing. Just keep, I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but don't say, well, you need to do this and this and that and uh this there, and I'm going to fix it I don't know how many of you men are, but uh us men have a tendency to wanna if something's upset, someone's upset, we wanna fix it Like you come home, your wife says, ah, she's crying at the door. What's the matter, sweetheart? Everything! Well, what's everything? Oh, the whole day. Well what happened? Oh, why she Machine broke. Uh well what'd you do? Oh, turn the button and uh well what about was it plugged in? I don't know! She don't want the problem solved right then. What does she want, ladies? She just wants you to care about the fact she had a bad day. I want to fix the whole thing. Well why did you do that? Does this make any sense at all to anybody? So don't try and someone you come across a church member or someone that's close to a good friend and man they're bowing or whatever and you find out and uh first thing is that you know boy you know what what I was you I do this this this and stop doing that and do this that the other you're not helping them all right you're not helping at all now later on things come down they may uh come and say well you know how am I going to do this and you can sit down. But initially at least don't offer solutions. I've been at a funerals where um uh particularly if it's a younger person that passed away and uh family is involved and whatnot and before we even go and meet with the funeral director uh the family members are saying oh no what are we gonna do about this and what are we gonna do the last thing I need to do is sit down with them and figure out what all they're gonna do. What they need right then is to hear this. Don't worry, it's gonna be alright. We'll get it taken care of later. That's what they need to hear. I've been at funerals where people were just chewing folks out who were grieving over death alone, and they're chewing them out and telling them they should be doing this and stop doing it. And don't do this, and they're trying to solve the problem. They don't need the problem solved, they need someone just to listen to them and care about them. At least at that point Don't try to answer the question why. Fact is, we don't know why God allows some horrendous things to happen I thought about, and I was preparedness, I thought about when 9-11 hit. A bunch of well-known preachers, and I use that term a little loosely, uh got on TV and on radio and everything. And boy, their immediate response. I think Tuesday, Wednesday, they're out running their mouths and they're saying stuff like this. This is God's judgment on America for sodomites and all of that. You know what the country needed to hear right then? As God is still in control, we can trust God, we can turn to the Lord, He's going to be good to us. They didn't need answers to why it happened at that point. Now, maybe I'm the only one that feels that. But you know what? Those guys took a lot of heat for that. And I think justly so I think that was a stupid thing to say at that time. Now later on, you could work a certain up, maybe write an article and say, hey, look, you know Here's different things. But at that moment our nation was emotionally hurt. People were scared. And what they needed was comfort, not Condemnation, I believe. And so don't try to provide a solution to the heart aid and explain explain all the answers, why and all of that. At first, understand, I don't know all the details, I don't know what everything is there. Don't try and provide a solution. Number three, and I like this one, try and act as normal as possible They need to know, whatever the situation is, they need to know that their relationship with you is still good. That you still uh they're still your friend No matter what the thing is that broke their heart, they need to know that some things haven't changed. Um person comes home, a husband husband comes home, his wife is gone, left him. And uh ran off with some other guy. Man alive, his world is upside down. He needs to know there are some relationships out there that have Haven't changed at all. That they still love him, they still care about him, they're still his friend, even though this happened. And it's true with the woman, it's true with every member of the family family and all of these financial whatever situations they need to know that your relationship with them has not changed Number four, I put this down. It is usually best not to bring up the issue that caused the heartache. Don't constantly be bringing up. You know what happens, especially as time goes on? Start digging open that wound. Did you ever do that? Do you ever have a scab? You get picked at it, it just about healed up and you come by and pull that thing and it starts bleeding again. I never do that, but I've heard of other people that do that That's what we do. We have to be very careful about that. Now, let them bring it up. If they want to talk about the situation, whatever, boy, they need a listing ear. Don't always dump every time you see a man, how's the situation with this going? Just don't even bring it up. Um no use digging open wounds. Let them decide whether they want to bring it up or not. Number five, I put this down. And this is probably the best advice I think of all this. It's best just to keep my mouth shut. The most comforting I've found, I believe, the most comforting thing I can do when somebody's heart is broke is just let listen to them and let them lean on my shoulder. Just listen to it. It's amazing sometimes, people. I'm thinking of a number of situations. People come in and say, Pastor, any fun of the sit down and man their heart is broken and they don't have anybody they can tell the details to or whatever. There's nobody they can talk to And they sit down and they just pour their heart out. And they tell you everything, and this, that, and the other. And I'm sitting there. And it goes on 45, 15 minutes, half hour, 45 minutes. And finally they just exhausted. They said it I said, Well, listen, let's pray. I pray with them and they walk out and say, Thank you, Pastor, you helped so much. I didn't even do anything I said, listen. That's what they need. Uh they just need a shoulder. If you go to a uh a funeral and somebody's there and their heart's work, maybe it's a child or a a young couple and one of the spouses just been married and one of the still in the record something. And they're absolutely shattered. Don't do, and I think I mentioned this before, don't do what a lady did a funeral just a few years ago down somebody outside the church that did the funeral And this lady, this guy was just crying. He was a young man, probably 25, 30. And this woman was just all over him. Stop crying. Don't cry like that. Stop it. And I wanted to slug her. I want to make her cry. That was the dumbest thing in the world. You know what the best thing for her to have done was sat down beside him and cry That's what he needed. Just keep the mouth shut. Give them a shoulder to cry on. Share their tears. Something that has helped me is whenever I do a funeral, I see I sincerely try this with all my heart. Never I do a funeral, I try and put myself in the shoes of the person who lost the loved one. If that would be my wife or my mother or my son How would I feel? What would I be going through? You know, I found out when I'm thinking that way, I can sit down beside everyone and they start weeping. You know what happens? Tears start coming out. It's not fake. I'm not putting on a show. But I f I I hurt with them. You know what? That helps people. If somebody is heartbroken And you're there and you're assuring them that they're nothing's different, they're still your friend, that you uh uh you you uh you you're just hear them. Listen. And they're crying and they look up and they see tears coming out of your eyes. That does more to comfort, I think, than any word you could possibly say. Comfort ye my people. Just keep your mouth shut. Give them a shoulder to cry on. Share a tear. Sometimes, you know what? Sometimes just put your hand on their shoulder and just squeeze a little bit. Maybe behind the elbow, you come up and just squeeze them behind the elbow. Maybe you shake hands, just put another hand on top and just Sometimes that means so much. You know what it is? It's a non-verbal expression. I care. I'm sharing this with you. Now, having said that, I want to throw two cautions out under this. First of all, I need to keep all references to my own experiences to a minimum. Now, what I mean by that, sometimes, in a situation depending on what it is, it may be appropriate to say something like this, just very briefly. Well I know what you're going through. Maybe it's a young person. Let me just make this personal and you guys know my situation. I can say to a young person, I say, you know, I know what it's like. My mom left my dad when I was 14. I know how you feel. But I've got a Stop there. He doesn't want to hear my story. He doesn't want me to sit down and take an hour, tell him all these things. That's not helping. So keep my mouth shut. If I did go through something he's going through, express that to him, just very minimal, as little words as possible, stress that to him, and just leave it at that. And then listen. The other caution I want to give here is, number one, keep all reference in my own experience to a minimum. They don't want to hear my story. But the other caution in under keeping her mouth shut is this. Be especially careful with man and woman situations. Here's uh maybe it's a coworker or somebody and they come in brokenhearted, whatever it may be, their child went off or whatever, and I mean they're just shattered. And they're emotionally their world's upside down. I mean you put whatever situation Same result. As a man, I want to comfort her if I can anyway. But I've got to be very, very careful because her emotions are completely out of whack And it is very easy to get them into serious trouble. You follow what I'm saying? It's true, man, woman, woman, man, whichever situation is, you've got to be very, very careful. And so there I've got to use some wisdom and discretion. I can express comfort, share the burden with them, and all that, but I've got to do it in such a way That the emotions don't get them into trouble. You follow what I'm saying? And so it requires a little bit of wisdom Let me give you the last one. We said, number one, we said understand there's a whole various reasons why a person may be brokenhearted. Um not necessarily because of sin or lack of faith We said number two, don't try and provide a solution right away. Maybe later they may need to sit down and work some logistics out or whatever. Number three, act as normal as possible with them as you can Number four, usually best not to bring up the issue all the time. Number five, usually best to keep your mouth shut. If you do mention anything, your own experience, keep it very minimal. Be very careful with the opposite sex. Be very careful there about that. And then last of all, number six, I put this: express your confidence in them Depending on the situation, this can be very important. A person's a Christian. Their spouse left them or whatever. They feel like, man, I'm a failure as a Christian They may feel that way. I want to assure them, hey, listen, I've got absolute confidence in you, that you can be all that God intends for you to be And uh, you know, there are no second rate there are no second class Christians. Are they? Everybody's first place of God. And the way I get this, they need to know that you're still their friend. They need to know you still believe in them. And by the way, our church ought to be that way. As a church Folks ought to be able to come in here, church members, non-church members, ought to be able to come in here, and regardless of what horrendous thing they've been through, they ought to come in here and sense that God's people love them and we can help them and we have confidence that they can still, regardless of what the pass is, they can still be whatever God intends for them to be. I don't And the way I get the where I get this from is from a lesson I learned when I was in Bible college. Dr. Lee Robinson, of course, absolute church, great church. How many people recognize the name, Charles Wyoming. Everybody recognize that name? He's in their song books. He wrote the song, no one ever, I mean he's not in it. His name isn't there. Um, no, he wrote the song No one Ever Cared for Me Like Jesus. What a beautiful song. Charles Weidel was an evangelist. He traveled over the United States. He was living in Florida I believe at the time. He came home from meetings. His wife met him, I don't know the all the exactly how it panned out, but it came down to this. She told him I don't want to be a preacher's wife I'm tired of missing out on all the world. I think that was a quote from her. She goes, I want to enjoy what the world has to offer, and she packed up and left him. He was devastated. His ministry was gone. He was quite a singer, quite a pianist, and I believe if I have the story correct, it was about six months or so, a period of time went by. And he was one day sitting in the Florida, he was looking out over the ocean. And he plucked out the words in the tune of that song. No one ever cared for me like Jesus. You want to read the words. Beautiful. He wrote that, as I understand, Dr. Lee he got a phone call from Dr. Lee Robertson when Dr. Robertson found out about the situation with his wife. Dr. Robertson. Charles, I want you to come up here to Chattanooga. We're building an apartment room in one of our buildings. I want you to live there. I want you to sing in our buildings. church, I want you to speak to our chapel. I want you to teach our young people how to live for God and be evangelists and sing. He says, I want you to come up here. And I'm telling you, his ministry after that devastation was a is a thousand times more than anything he ever had before that. Why? Because one Christian expressed confidence in him. He said, I still believe you have something to offer. You still have a purpose and plan. I want you to come up here and be it. And when a person is brokenhearted, they need to know that there's still somebody that believes in them. That's what they need. That's what they need. Now, here's our problem We come to the Bible and we come to preaching. What's going to help my broken heart? What's going to help my broken heart? And thank God there's a ton of help in the Bible and from God for our broken hearts. Amen. Thank God for that. But God says, I don't want you to just end with that when I help you. Now, I want you to have a heart and ears that are tuned to broken hearts. And when you come across one, I want you to take all that I did and helped you. Now I want you to help that person with a broken heart. And let me use you. to comfort them just like you were comforted by me. Sin produces heartache, no doubt about it. Would you agree with me? Sin in the world is increasing. That means heartache is increasing. Right or wrong. If sin produces heartache and sin is increasing, that means we've got more heartache. And churches and Christians, we are to comfort those who are brokenhearted with the comfort God gives us. I like to look at our church this way: as a spiritual hospital. bring in people who are broken and hurt and whatnot, and we love them. We teach them the scriptures. We express confidence that God can make something out of them and use them. Just like God did for us. And see him go on. Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to help a broken hearted. That you give us wisdom, give us insight, compassion of heart. And uh I need it also, Lord. And so help us. With our hands bowed and eyes closed tonight. I wonder how many folks would say, preacher As you're preaching, there's a person comes to my mind. A person very clear in my mind that is heartbroken. Maybe it's a very personal, private thing, but you're in on it, you're aware of it When you say, preacher, I'm thinking of someone. God has brought them to my mind. And you say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me be a help to them. That I can comfort them. And uh use some of these scriptural principles to enable them to be healed. And to be strengthened through this. Is there any like that, Preacher? I'm thinking of someone in particular tonight as you're preaching. God bless you, hands all around. Now let's think of the times God has helped us. And let's take that and use that to help others. Ask the Lord to help you. Ask Him to fill you with His Holy Spirit. And God will use you and give you wisdom and lead you. Father, bless now our invitation. Help us to bring these names to you tonight. May be the beginning of a series of events that strengthens them and helps them through this. This time. Use us, Lord, we pray in Jesus' name. Let's stand against