Two blondes were working on a house, repairing a house, hammering things together, building a house, and the one kept throwing nails aside. She'd hammer and she'd get a nail and throw it aside and the other blonde came over and said, Why do you keep throwing those nails out? She goes, Well they made them wrong the head the the heads on the wrong end. They're facing back that way And uh the other blonde said, You idiot, that's for the other side of the house when you're hammering that way. All right. Mark chapter nine. I just want to read Try and get hooked up here real quick. I just want to read again verse 24. If you would take note of this father's statement here, verse 24. The Bible says, and straightway The father of the child cried out. Now, I don't know about you, but this next statement to me is heart-wrenching. The father, the child, cried out and said with tears, Lord, I believe. Help thou mine unbelief. I'd like to talk about uh this man and his desire for God to help him with his unbelief. Let's pray. Father, we ask now that you would bless our time in your word. Or we had a good Sunday school hour, and or we've had wonderful fellowship with your people this morning. The music's been a blessing. We rejoice in all of this I ask now, as we uh have our open Bibles before us, that your Holy Spirit would open our hearts and minds, and that what you have for each of us as individuals, no doubt, Lord, varies greatly. We're all at different stages in our spiritual life. We're at different levels in the strength of faith. Lord, you know each of us intimately. You know what our needs are. You know what our strengths and weaknesses are. So, Father, I ask this morning that your Holy Spirit would take your word, apply it to each of us in the many situations we're in. Apply it. Help us have faith in you. I was to trust you, to do what you instruct us to, that you would be pleased and you would bless us and our homes, our lives. I yield myself to you now, Father, as best as I am able, I present my body anew. Yield my will to yours. Fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord. Speak through me in Jesus' name. Amen. I think probably most of us, perhaps many of us, maybe most of us are familiar With this event that took place here, it's recorded for us in Scripture in the life of this Father and His Son. And very honest with you to the world, or Somebody who's an unbeliever, I guess we could say, to read this, it seems kind of fantastic that a child be possessed of a devil and these events took place. Nevertheless, we're convinced this is an accurate record of an actual event that took place in the lives of these people and in the ministry of our Lord, exactly as the Bible records for us here. As I said, many of us, perhaps most of us familiar, this child is possessed of a dumb spirit. Now, I think we understand when the Bible refers to the spirit as a dumb spirit, doesn't mean it's a stupid. The devil is not dumb. He may not be wise, but he's not dumb. So when he refers to a dumb spirit, as I'm sure we're aware, he's speaking about it made no sound. There was no communication from this spirit. Possessed him, but did not like uh the you remember the story of the maniac of Gadera in the cemetery. He had a legion Spirits and they would communicate. They spoke. They would speak through him. This one doesn't. So it's a dumb spirit that has taken possession of this small child, this little boy. In fact, verse 21, uh the Lord asks him how long since this came upon him, the father says, of a child. That phrase of a child, if you get Studying that a little bit, look up the meanings of the words where those words come from, it actually implies a very small, maybe a toddler type thing. This is a very young child. He's not a teenager, uh, he's not even a preteen, he's a very young child. Anytime the devil enters a life It is ultimately to steal and to kill and destroy that life. You find no other results when man enters into a relationship with the devil. Whatever degree that may be, it always turns out bad for man. Look at verse 18. Wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him, this spirit, devil's spirit, in the child. Wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him, and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away. Now just get a picture, mental picture in your mind of this little child and this happening to this little child. Verse 20. And they brought him the child unto Jesus. And when he saw him, when the child saw him, straightway the spirit tear him, the little child And he fell on the ground and wallowed foaming. Again, the father says in verse 22, the first part, the father describing The effect that the spirit has on his child. He says, of times it cast him into the fire and into the waters to what? Destroy him destroy him as I said anytime The devil, in whatever degree, whatever cat whatever category you want to place it, anytime the devil interacts with man. It is to destroy, it is to steal from man, it is to destroy man, it is to kill man. We can take time, go back and look at Job when the Lord removed the hedge. About Job, the spiritual hedge the Lord had put up. And when the devil was given permission, he immediately pounced on Job and began to destroy him. We must be very, very careful about the world's portrayal of the devil. They portray him as something comical. Betray him as someone stupid sometimes, or even worse yet, the world, Hollywood in particular, will often portray the devil as someone desirable. As sometimes as a hero. And the truth of the matter is, he's the exact opposite of that. Any pleasure. Any pleasure that the devil may provide for a person is temporal at best and ultimately ends in heartache and sorrow. And we ignore the reality of the devil to our peril. We must take them seriously. The devil never brings any real peace, never brings any real joy or fulfillment to any life. Now, here's the question as I was studying, preparing for this, the question came to me, how Did this small child end up possessed of a devil? How did that happen? In studying the scriptures, I don't see anywhere really Where the devil can just arbitrarily come upon somebody and possess them against their will or uh just Do it without some involvement on the person being possessed. How does a little child end up possessed of a devil? I doubt seriously this child has been involved in witchcraft. I doubt seriously the little child is listening to rock and roll music, which by the way is an opening for the devil in your life, without a doubt. Somebody say amen there. Boy, 20 years ago you'd preach that, the place had come unglued. Rock and roll. How did this child end up possessed of a devil? The answer is, I don't know. We're not told. Father and the son show up on the scene, the son's already possessed. So if we want to try and come to some conclusion as to how this happened, the very best thing we can do is suppose. We can guess. We can speculate. And my speculation is that somehow, somewhere In the lives of the parents, a spiritual quote unquote door was left open for Satan. Somehow, somewhere, the parents, either through neglect or deliberate disobedience, had given the devil an open door to their home and the child. And the child is possessed of a devil. Now again, that's speculation. You know, we can try and assign blame places. We uh and we can't do that. Definitively, definitely, we can speculate it best. But I do believe this. At some place, at some point, there was disobedience on the part of somebody That opened the door for the devil's influence. So he says, Preacher, are you saying that if I disobey God, I'm going to be devil-possessed or my kids are going to be devil-possessed? That's not what I'm saying at all. But I am saying this. When we disobey God or we neglect our walk with God, we give the devil ground in our lives. We allow him to have an influence in our lives. And believe me, he never misses a chance. To try and influence our lives. For instance, texting during preaching is an opportunity for the devil to distract and have somebody miss What God is trying to do in their life, how God is trying to help them. Amen We're not told how this situation came about, but my conclusion is there was some form of disobedience at some place that gave the devil an open door. So, whatever the case may be as far as the cause is concerned, now we have the Father, and he is torn up. He is shattered. He is desperate. I've got to find help for my son. So he hears of the Lord Jesus Christ. I mean, word is spreading like wildfire. Jesus is raising the dead, he's healing the sick, blind people can see, he's casting out devils. This father somehow hears of this. Finds out where Jesus is, and he takes his son there, determined that somehow he's got to find help for his son. When he finds where Jesus is, actually Jesus is up on the Mount of Transfiguration and a handful of the disciples are down there and and they meet up with them and he apparently tells them his situation and he asks them if they could help And the disciples do their best to try and cast this devil out of the child, and they fail completely. They were ineffective in having any influence on the devil possessing this child. Finally, the Lord shows up. He confronts the situation. And look with me, if you would, at verse 16. Let's read verse 15. And straightway all the people, when they beheld him, Jesus, were greatly amazed, running To him saluted him. And he asked the scribes, What question ye with them? So there's this big debate going on, fuss over this child Now, as I like to point out, whenever the Lord asks a question, I think it's important just to keep in our minds the fact that God, Jesus isn't looking for information. Right? God doesn't ask questions to gain information. He has all knowledge. Down here he says verse 21: How long ago is it ago since this came unto him? And the Lord knew that. So when God is when Jesus shows up and he confronts this father in the whole situation here and he asks these questions He's not looking for information. What he is doing is this, and this is a great thing. This is something we can all learn. He is giving the distressed father an opportunity to pour out his heart. He's giving this heartbroken, scared-to-death father, so burden for his child. He's giving him an opportunity to vent, so to speak. Share his heart. Get this burden off of him. I tell you what, sometimes it's good for folks just to have someone who can hear what's hurting them. Just to tell it I've had people were in situations where somebody was going through a heart-wrenching experience and maybe it was a situation where they couldn't talk with just anybody about it, and finally they had a had an opportunity to unload their heartache and and to tell what their fears were. And afterward they made this statement for the first time in a long time, I felt like a human being Just able to unload. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I think that's what the Lord's doing with his father. Maybe he was ostracized because of his child's behavior and the condition of his child. Maybe others were fearful of and suspicious of him or whatever. No doubt others had done what I did previously earlier in this message, tried to assign blame Trying to figure out what why is this? And the Lord says so in so many words, he says, tell me about it. Tell me about it. How long has it been this way? What what what is it? What's the deal? Well the Lord knew what the deal was He's given the father an opportunity to express himself. Well, to the father's credit, again, we don't know who or what situation prompted a child, a small child, to be possessed of the devil, but to the father's credit, he knew exactly what he needed. Verse 22, again, the last part he says, if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us. He knew what he wanted. He knew what he needed. And when he came in prayer to the Lord, which is what this is, prayer. He came with a very specific need, a very specific request. He knew what he wanted Jesus to do for him. Help me with this child. Make my child well. Listen to your prayers sometime. Listen to people when they pray. Now I don't want to try and foster a critical spirit of other people praying, but just listen to yourself when you pray. What do we ask God for? I think sometimes our prayers are absolutely meaningless. We're not asking for anything specifically. Lord just bless everybody. Well wow, what does that mean? What we need to do is Find out what we need and come to God and be very specific and say, God, I need this. Lord, help me with this. This is the situation. We must be very specific in our prayers. Father didn't just come to the Lord Jesus and just say, you know, what's the situation here? Well, you know, I just got some problems, if you could help me in some general way. Well, in that way at all. Now here's the sad thing. Sometimes people come to the Lord and they don't really know what their need is. Sometimes they know that there's a need in their life, but they can't nail it down. I'm thinking of Nicodemus. How many people remember the story of Nicodemus? There was something about the Lord that attracted Nicodemus to how there's only two people remember the story of Nicodemus? That's what I'm gonna mean. Nobody knows. Alright, if you want, I can preach that too. But um Nicodemus, the Bible says, came to the Lord by night. There was something about the Lord Jesus Christ That made Nicodemus aware of the fact that he had a need, but I don't believe Nicodemus knew exactly what that need was There was just something about the Lord. And he comes and he says, Thou art a prophet sent from God, for no man can do the things thou doest except God be with him I think what Nicodemus was saying was, I don't know what it is, but you've got something I need, but I'm not aware of what it is. And the Lord, as he always does, cuts right to the chase and he says, Except the man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of heaven. You know what the Lord was doing? The Lord was pointing out to Nicodemus what it was he needed, though Nicodemus wasn't really aware of that. And I'll tell you the need that every man, woman, and child has, it is the need of salvation, whether they're aware of that or not. It's the need of the Lord Jesus Christ in my life, in a very real way. And have a relationship with God, a living, communicating, back and forth relationship with my God and Savior, Jesus Christ. That is the need of every person. Now, not everybody's aware of that. In fact, around the world, you have people worshiping all kinds of gods and idols and theories and philosophies and religions. And at the bottom, at the root of every false worship, there is a recognition of the fact that man needs something outside of himself. And that need is the Lord Jesus Christ. But the Father's credit, he came to the Lord and he recognized there's a spiritual need here. He needed the Lord to deliver his boy from this devil. Now, I want to give you a few thoughts real quickly. And uh and uh see how the Lord applies this to our life. The first thing I'd like for us to consider this morning is the cause of this father's unbelief. Look at verse 24 with me again. This is where I take the title of the message. Straightway the father of the child, and that word straightway means immediately, right away. Straightway the father of the child cried out and said with tears, this guy's crying. Lord, I believe. Let me back up here a little bit. Come back to verse 22. He explains again to the Lord what the devil does to his child. Then he makes this pitiful cry, if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us and help us. Now he qualified his request there. Did you notice that? With the word if. That wasn't the smartest thing to do. But we gotta give this guy a break. He's in distress. Question: Can the Lord do anything? Yes. The the uh you know in our situation we look at and say, Well dummy, you should have said, Thou canst do anything, help us But I'll tell you, if we were in his shoes, I'm afraid we probably would have responded very much the same way, and I'll explain why. If thou canst do anything, why would he use the word if? Why would he even think that way? If he's not sure the Lord can do anything, why did he bring his son there in the first place? The Lord says If thou canst believe, the Lord turns it around. Because, oh no, the issue is not whether I can do anything or not. The issue is can you believe? Can you trust me? All things are possible to him that believeth. And straightway the father of child saith with tears, Lord, I believe. Boy, don't you wouldn't be nice if its statement stopped there? But he's honest. He says, Lord, I do believe, but help now mine unbelief. Why would he have unbelief? What caused that? It's fascinating when you study scriptures, see the variations in the level and strength of faith throughout the Bible. You read through, and it looks like to me sometimes somebody who you think would be strong in faith and not have any doubt and be just solid in their faith in God, they're the ones sometimes that doubt the most. Especially reading through the Gospels, you have um you have the religious leaders, those who took upon themselves to be instructors of others in the things of God and took upon themselves to be examples of the of the Jew that God would have them to be the Pharisees and the Sadducees, the Scribes and the Biblical lawyers. And you know what we find almost without exception? Very weak faith, if any at all. But you follow the Lord around, he shows up with an adulterous, fornicacious woman at the well, and man, she gets saved, believes, and wins a whole town to the Lord. You find a Gentile widow on the way to bury her child. You find another woman whose body is uh eat up and bleeding and for twelve years she's been that way and she has enough faith that if I just touch the hem of his garment I'll be made well. And so those who you would think would have present themselves as having great faith are often those with the weakest Or almost non-existent faith, and those who you think would be of little or no faith, and they are often ones who exercise the greatest faith. And so, here we have a desperate father. And he's struggling with unbelief. Now, I'm not sure what it is he's doubting. Is he doubting whether the Lord is able to heal his son? Or is he doubting if the Lord is willing to deliver his son? I think one of the causes of his doubt, I want to suggest, would be perhaps the severity of his son's condition. His boy is possessed of a devil. Man, who can do anything with that? No doubt he's been to the doctors, no doubt he's been to the religious leaders. No doubt he's Adam's various elders in his family. No doubt he's done everything he possibly can. Nobody can deliver his son from this devil This is an extreme condition. This is an impossible condition. How could anyone ever change this? But the great thing is, God specializes in the impossible. The great thing about all of this is God is an expert at doing that at which man considers to be impossible. So perhaps it was the severity of his son's condition that he thought, man, may I don't maybe God can't even help my son. Probably more of us have been in those shoes than would care to admit. At some point we've been in a situation And we just get the idea, and um we say something like this, it is hopeless Anybody ever been there? Anybody know what I'm talking about? This situation is hopeless Well, if there wasn't a God in heaven, that may be true, but as long as there's a God in heaven, no situation is hopeless. Let me just give you some scriptures. You got your Bibles? Turn with me if you would. And they're not far. Come over to Mark chapter 10. And verse number 27. If you're in the habit of underscoring verses in your Bible, and I think it's a good thing to do, boy, here's some good ones to highlight in your Bible. Mark 10 Verse 27. And Jesus looking upon them saith, look at his statement. This is from the lips of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. With men, it is what? Impossible. With man this is impossible, but not with God. For with God all things are possible. Turn with me if you would over to Luke chapter 1 and verse 37. The Lord is addressing Mary, angel actually is addressing Mary, Luke chapter 1. And Mary is kind of having a hard time dealing with this. She's going to have a child being a virgin. And to be honest with you, I can see where maybe she would struggle with that for a little bit. Verse number 37. God, the angel of the Lord pretty much sums it up for and says, all right, there's no room for argument here because look at verse 37. For with God, nothing Shall be what? Turn with me if you would, one more. Luke chapter 18. And verse number twenty seven. Previous to this, the Lord says it's easier for a camel to go through the needle's eye I don't know about you. I can't even get a thread through a needle sign. Let alone a camel or even a baby camel. You know what my son sent me to me the other day on an email? A videotape of two camels sitting in a car. It's actual real videotape. Two camels in a car and their heads are out just going Baaaa My question was, how did they get in there and why were they in there? Has nothing to do with the message, but the Lord says it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. How many agree with me, humidly, that's impossible? He said it's easier for that than for a rich man to enter the kingdom of God. And the disciples say, Good grief. Who then can be saved? Now I added the good grief part that wasn't in there. Look what the Lord says. This is great. He said, the things which are impossible with men are possible with God. Maybe this father struggled with unbelief. Maybe he said, if thou canst do anything, maybe he said that because his son's condition was so extreme. And he had gotten to the point it was hopeless, and by bringing him to the Lord Jesus, just shooting in the dark, maybe by some remote chance, Jesus could help him. But I don't know. I believe, but man, I don't know. I don't know. That's possible. I could see where that would be a problem for him. The problem's too big for even God. Now he's wrong. Amen. It's not too big for God. It's not hopeless. God can do the impossible. But perhaps he thought that. I think there's a second possible cause for his doubts. And I this one probably carries a little more weight, at least in my mind. First, we suggested the severity of a sun condition. Second of all, I think perhaps the powerlessness of the disciples. Caused this father to doubt. Speculation. Maybe he started out convinced that Jesus could do this He's healed others, he's raised the dead, he's made the blind to see, he's cast demons out of others, devils out of others. I know he can do this, I will travel however far I have to travel, I'll pay whatever price it is, whatever inconvenience. My son is too important to me. I will get to Jesus. He will make him well. He gets to Jesus, and Jesus is an heir, but his disciples are. Jesus' representatives are there. He tells them their story. They say, don't worry about it. We're Jesus' disciples. We're his ambassadors. We are his representatives. We can take care of this. And they embark on casting out this devil out of this little child. And they fail completely They're unable to. They are powerless over the spiritual being that's possessed this small child. The disciples, as I said just now, in many ways were the Lord's ambassadors. He had sent them out previously, two by two, to speak in his name. Declare his gospel. And so, perhaps in this father's mind, when the disciples failed It represented failure on the Lord's part. The powerlessness of these disciples was representative in his mind, perhaps, of the powerlessness of God. Of Jesus Christ. Many ways the disciples' actions represented the Lord's actions. In many ways, the disciples' words represented the Lord's words. The disciples' power represented the Lord's power. And when they came across as powerless, they presented the idea that their Lord was powerless in this situation. The importance of our testimony cannot be overstated. We are in many ways the Lord Jesus Christ's representatives here on earth. In fact, Corinthians tells us that believers in the Lord Jesus Christ are his ambassadors, get this, who stand in his stead. Who stand in his place before the world. Hey. And when we're spiritually powerless, you know what we're telling the world? When we can't have victory over some sin, when we are defeated by the sins of this world We're communicating to this world that there are some situations that even God cannot conquer Standing before the judgment seat of Christ is a reality that grips my mind continually. Someday I, individually as a person, will have to stand before Jesus Christ physically in person. And give an account of myself as a Christian to him. Not just me, all of us that know Christ. That grips my mind continually. And I believe one of the primary things the Lord is going to hold us responsible for when we stand before Jesus Christ. One of the primary things he's going to hold us responsible, or we're going to be accountable for, is our influence on others for the cause of Christ. Through my testimony, my Christian living, the words I say My level of obedience to the Lord, that influences others and it affects their understanding, their impression of who and what God is. And at the judgment seat of Christ, I will give it a kill to how my testimony influence others to either believe and trust in Christ or to doubt Him. If you would, keep your place here. We're about done, but if you would, come with me to one passage of scripture that is so important. 1 Corinthians chapter or I'm sorry, 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Would you turn there with me please? 2 Corinthians chapter 5, Paul, again under the inspiration of God, is making reference to the judgment seat of Christ. And in verse 10, 2 Corinthians 5, he says, For we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Now he's talking to believers. That everyone may receive the things done in this body, according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Now look at verse 11. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord. Now that terror of the Lord is referring back to verse 10. Standing before the judgment seat of Christ, giving account of myself. Paul said that is a, that is a, that just that terrifies me. Boy, knowing therefore the fact that I'm going to have to give an account of myself before Jesus Christ, that terrifies me to the point, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we what? What's the next phrase? Persuade men. We do everything we can to influence others to have a correct understanding of Jesus Christ. to have faith in him, to commit themselves to him. We are doing everything we can to have a positive influence for the cause of Christ because When I stand before the Lord Jesus Christ, the primary thing I'm going to give an account for is how I influence others to whether trust Christ or doubt him, to believe in him or reject him, to follow him or walk away from him. My influence has a powerful effect on others Paul doesn't say, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, having to give an account, therefore we bring glory to Christ. He doesn't say, Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, I love the brethren. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, I separate from the world. Now, we ought to glorify Christ in all we do. We're commanded to. We ought to love the brethren. We ought to separate from the world But the judgment seat of Christ is primarily how my testimony, the type of Christian I was, how that influenced others, whether to influence them to turn to Christ or reject him. What a fearful thing. The way I talk at work. What I say. The things I talk about. What I say about the Lord or don't say about the Lord, what I say about God's people, all of that, people are listening, people are listening, people are listening And they're coming to conclusions about our Savior by the things we say and the things we do. Huh? I think one of the causes of this father's doubts Was the poor testimony of the disciples. In fact, if you'll read the story in Mark there again very carefully, the Lord rebuked his disciples severely. He doesn't rebuke the father for doubting. He challenges the father. You're wondering if I can? That's not the issue Can you trust me? Then he turns previously though to the disciples and rebukes them, the wicked generation. How long do I have to be with you? Let me ask you a question. The people you work with, what impression of God does your actions and your words and your work ethic? Give the unbelievers where you work about the Lord. Now I'm not I want to be very careful when I say this. I don't mean this across the board. So If this applies to you, I'm not talking about you, okay? I'm just trying to get at him. And I mean that. It doesn't apply across the board, but I've noticed over the years And again, don't take offense at this. It's just an observation I've made over the years. That those who have the hardest time getting their loved ones Either to church or getting to live for God are often the ones the most critical of the church and the people of God. I'm just telling you an observation I made. Now it's not across the board. There's exceptions. Please understand But I found that folks who trash the church and the preacher to come and they just nothing's right and it's ever done this isn't that and this is wrong. And then they come and say, I don't know why I can't get my family to the Lord You knucklehead. Listen to what you're saying. Look at your influence. I'm afraid there are many people who do not believe on Christ because of the poor testimony of his disciples. I'm afraid there's a lot of people who do not believe on Christ because of the spiritual powerlessness of the churches who claim to represent Christ. So what's the cause of his unbelief? Maybe the severity of the situation. That could be, but I don't know. I think it's the powerlessness of the disciples. Influenced him. If he didn't think the Lord was able to do this, why would he have brought his kid in the first place? I think when he showed up, hey, he showed up at church and there was no answers for him. Why should I bother to go back there? Huh? Showed up at church and nobody showed the presence of God. There's no presence of God there. There was no, they were just fussing and fighting and like this and that and gossip. God's no different than the people I've been working with. Why sh what can he do? Like for a second of all consider the consciousness of the Father. In other words, something he was aware of. The Lord made it clear, and I already touched on this, but the Lord made it clear the issue was not with the Lord's ability or even the Lord's willingness The issue was, was the Father willing to trust the Lord in spite of the powerlessness of the disciples? Was the father able and willing to trust and have faith in God's ability in spite of the disciples' inability? Could he get beyond the failure of man and see the power of God? That was the challenge. And it's interesting, rather than arguing with the Lord, rather than proclaiming his own goodness, well, you know, I believe, but your disciples couldn't do anything, and I just No, he doesn't say that at all. You know what he did? Rather than arguing with the Lord, rather than proclaiming his own goodness, he recognized the deficiency of his faith. And in verse Come back in verse chapter 9, in verse 24, he basically agrees with the Lord. The Lord says, if thou canst believe all things are possible with him, he says, Lord, I do believe. He's crying. I believe. Help thou, mine unbelief. You're right. The deficiency is on my part. Not on yours, Jesus. I knew that from the start. I knew you were able, but it's my faith that is lacking. I think he was distressed over his lack of faith. Verse 24 says he cried out. I look that up. It means to cry out loud with desperation. I mean he's not he's he's being very vocal about this. Tears. His affections were affected. His emotions, I should say, were affected. He understood, this is so powerful. I think this father understood that his faith in God had a direct effect on his son's well-being. Hey, let me say a word to those of us parents and I am in the same boat with you. Our walk with God Our obedience to God, our faith and trust in God has a direct effect upon the spiritual well-being of our children. Now they have their own responsibilities. Proverbs puts more emphasis upon the child following and listening to the advice and teaching of the parent than vice versa, but nevertheless This father, if he doesn't have faith in God and trust Christ, his son is going to stay a mess He was distressed over his lack of faith. He was desperate to purify his faith. He was desperate to have a pure faith in God without any doubt. I wrote down, God, give us some fathers or parents who are desperate for a pure faith, a pure obedience for the sake of their children, for the sake of their associates. Last of all, I'd like for us to notice the request of the Father. Verse 22, have compassion on us and help us. Verse 24, help thou, mine unbelief. So all believers have an influence on our spiritual life. Hey, let me say something. Me as pastor, when you guys show up at church And I shake hands with you and we talk, we pray together. Wednesday night we kneel and pray. You are influencing my faith in God. You have an influence this way, an effect on me, encourage me. Yes, what we're doing is right. Yes, God is in this thing. I tell you, throughout the week we've been raising money for this radio station. You know, just trusting God in this thing and going step by step and boy throughout the week somebody shows up at the house and says, uh, here's an envelope, some money towards the radio station, and somebody brings it and say You know what that tells me? That encourages my faith. Man, God's in this thing. People are supporting it. The Lord, this thing's going forward. And we need one another. And our actions, our words, our encouragement, the things we say, it helps us grow. But Ultimately, the responsibility for my relationship with Jesus Christ stands between myself and Jesus Christ. Though we all have an influence, I cannot say, well, I'd be a better Christian if I had a better church. I'd be a better Christian if I had a better spouse. I'd be a better Christi is when you yourself get closer to God. And so he says, Lord help us. My faith is lacking. Our spiritual growth rests upon my trust and my submission to God. Any spiritual victory in my life or in my ministry is a result of the Lord Jesus Christ providing it. And we need to say, Lord, we believe in you. We trust you as Savior. But help our unbelief, Lord, we need you to give us victory. Lord, we need you to empower my testimony. I need you to give me victory over sin and disobedience. God, I need you to work through me and influence others for Christ. I cannot do this without you. Have compassion and help us. Lord, I believe. Help thou thine unbelief. You know what going to church is? You know what reading your Bible every day is? It's the Lord helping us in our unbelief. Lord helping us. We're getting promises from his word. My faith grows. Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by what? The word of God. It overcomes doubt, overcomes unbelief, and my faith grows. Lord help me. Lord help me. Lord, I'm looking to you to give me spiritual victory. I'm looking to you to give me boldness Looking to you to give me compassion for others. There's a preacher in Uganda was And in 1973, there were three men who lived in the area where he pastored. He was a very well-known preacher. 1973, three men were sentenced to be executed by firing squad. They were from his area. On February 10th, 1973. In the city of Cabal, K-A-B-A-O-E. The government instructed everyone in that town that they were commanded to come to the stadium and witness the execution. I don't know what these guys did. And this is his story. This is the preacher's story. Death permeated the atmosphere. A silent crowd of about 3,000 was there to watch. I had permission from the authorities to speak to the men before they died. Two of my fellow preachers were with me. They brought the men in a truck and unloaded them. They were handcuffed and their feet were chained. The firing squad stood at attention. As we walked to the center of the stadium, I was wondering what to say. How do you give the gospel to doomed men who are probably seething with rage? We approached them from behind, and as they turned to look at us, what a sight! Their faces were all alight with an unmistakable glow and radiance. Before we could say anything, one of them burst out, preacher, thank you for coming. I wanted to tell you the day I was arrested in my presence I asked the Lord Jesus Christ to come into my heart. He came in and forgave me all my sins. Heaven is now open. There is nothing between me and my God Please tell my wife and children I am going to be with the Lord Jesus. Ask them to accept him into their lives also. The other two men told similar stories, excitedly raising their hands, which rattled their handcuffs. I felt that I needed I felt that what I needed to do was talk to the soldiers, not to the condemned. So I translated what the men had said into the language the soldiers understood. The military men were standing there with guns cocked and bewilderment on their faces. They were so dumbfounded they forgot to put the hoods over the men's faces. The three faced the firing squad standing close together They looked toward the people and began to wave, handcuffs and all. The people waved back, the shots were fired, and the three men were with the Lord Jesus. We stood in front of them, our own hearts throbbing with joy mingled with tears. It was a day never to be forgotten. Though dead, the men spoke loudly to all of that district and beyond, so that there was a revival of life in Christ. which challenges death and defeats it. The next Sunday I was preaching to a huge crowd in the hometown of one of the executed men. Again, the field death was over the congregation. But when I gave them the testimony of the man, how he died, there erupted a great song of praise to Jesus, and many turned to the Lord for salvation. I believe. And in the face of death, these three criminals who had trusted Christ We're able to die in joy and victory, knowing they're going to heaven. And their testimony influenced many others to come to Christ for salvation Now, if three criminals could die that way with faith in Christ, surely you and I can live for Christ in a way that others are influenced and brought to Christ. God forbid, God forbid that anybody will ever stand before the judgment seat or the white great white throne judgment as an unsaved person and point to Dennis Leatherman And say, I would have believed, but his actions cause me to have unbelieved The powerlessness of his ministry, the sorry testimony he had. I thought for sure God was everything he said he would be, but when I saw how as powerless he was, I just didn't know. Wouldn't that be sad? Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us, Lord, to be real. Help us, Lord. To have your power, help us to seek, to have your spirit fill us and empower us as we share the gospel, as we go about our work-a-day week, that we can have a testimony of the reality and power of God. And that others would be drawn to that and see that they can find forgiveness of sins, that they can find victory over sin and the joy of the Lord in their lives. Lord, I pray you'd help us. I wonder, with our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, I wonder, this is between you and God. This is, I know this is personal. But I wonder how many this morning would say, preacher, you know, my testimony on the job is not a clear, strong testimony of the goodness and power and love of God. And I'm concerned about that. Maybe you say my testimony of my family is not what it ought to be. My testimony to my neighbors, my ministry that God has given to me has such little effect in I just need God's power on my life. I need God's presence in my life. I need it to be real. I need to have victory. There's only one person give you that, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. We come and say, Lord, help us. Have compassion. Help us. Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher, that's me I need God to help me. My testimony. My witness. My influence on others. How about it? Upraise. God bless you. Hands all around. Hands all around. Maybe there's someone very dear to you, like this child was to the Father. And you're desperate that they come to Christ. And you say, preacher, I have a loved one that's unsaved. I've got to get them, they've got to come to Christ. You'd say, preacher, pray with me that I could be diligent like this father. Maybe make a phone call, send a letter, invite him, go visit him, talk to him, pray more earnestly. Would you say, preacher, there's someone dear to me that needs Christ. And I'm burdened for him. Pray with me that God will help me see them come to Christ. Is there any like that? I'm thinking of someone, an individual very dear to me, a specific person. is all my mind. God bless you. Hands all around. Let's begin by praying for them. Oh God, have compassion and help my loved one. God give me power in my testimony Help me not to cause others to doubt, but they'd see me and they would have great confidence in your ability. Father, bless our invitation this morning, I ask, in Jesus' name.