Bibles, if you would turn there, 2 Kings chapter 9. I failed to mention we took the offering up to pray, uh, got an email this afternoon from uh how many folks remember Gerald Miller? Gerald Miller, his family and all the girls. I got an email. He is a representative now and I met him down at the National Sword Conference but um and knew this, but He's representing FBN, Fundamental Broadcasting Network, and he's gone out representing the ministry and preaching, and they're excited about it. Of course the family singing and all of that But I got an email this afternoon with the charathon uh this week. He is going to be on the air helping with the charathon, one of the guys drumming up support, and he is scared to death And so uh they ask if we would pray for him. And so if you think about it this week, listen for Joe, I think it's Tuesday and Wednesday, I believe, are the dates. Actually I have it right here. Uh Monday and Tuesday from 3 to 7 and Wednesday from 7 a. m. to 11 a. m. So listen for Brother Gerald on there, and he's a real blessing And also another thing, uh Brian and Sandy, they're uh they're not here tonight, but uh this morning after the service, Brian went out and he said, Pastor, my wife was texting me during church. I said, you gotta be kidding. I said, I didn't even know you both had cell phones. He goes, no, it was old school texting. I said, old school texting, what's that? He said, she passed me a note. She was writing notes and dancing. And so texting's nothing new. We've been doing it for years, the old school. But the funny thing that she wrote was this. He showed it to me In the Sunday school hour, I was talking about uh the home and the different roles. The husband has a role and the wife has a role and we need to understand our roles and accept our roles. And she wrote to him, I want a cinnamon roll. So that's the crowd I got to work with, you know. Second Kings, actually chapter eight. I'm going to read a fairly lengthy portion of scripture, and that's not indicative of the length of the message, but um This is this is a little there's a little chronology here and it it's a little complex so I'm not going to do a whole lot of preaching. I'm going to give you a little Old Testament history here and try and sort some things out and understand the uh the situation that we're dealing with in our text. A little bit of the context and then try and make some application. Of course, we're back to Elisha, and uh he has a role to play here. It's not a major role in this scenario here, but it is a significant role, and so we'll notice that in a bit. I want to begin reading in verse 24 of 2 Kings chapter 8. Notice the Bible says, and Joram slept with his fathers and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Ahazi his son reigned in his stead. In the twelfth year of Joram, the son of Ahab, king of Israel, did Ahaziah, the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, begin to reign. Two and twenty years old was Ahazi when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Athalai, the daughter of Amri, king of Israel. And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab and did evil in the sight of the Lord, as did the house of Ahab, for he was the son-in-law of the house of Ahab. And he went with Joram, the son of Ahab, to war against Haziel, the king of Syria, in Ramath Gilead. And the Syrians wounded Joram And the king Joram went back to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him in Ramah when he fought against Hazel, king of Syria And Ahazi, the son of Jehoram, king of Judah, went down to see Joram, the son of Ahab, in Jezreel because he was sick. Alright? You still with me? Let's start in verse 1 of chapter 9. And Elisha the prophet called one of the children of the prophets. And said unto him, Gird up thy loins, and take this box of oil in thy hand, and go to Ramoth Gilead. Now remember, Joram was wounded Came back to Ramoth Gilead, the fortress, to be healed of his wounds. Elisha sends this child of the prophet with this oil. To Ramath Gilead. And when thou comest thither, verse 2, look out there for Jehu, the son of Jehoshaphat, the son of Nimshe. and go in and make him arise up from among his brethren and carry him to an inner chamber. Then take the box of oil. Pour it on his head and say, Thus saith the Lord, I have anointed thee king over Israel. Then open the door and flee and tarry not. So the young man, even the young man of the prophet, went to Ramoth Gilead, and when he came, behold, the captains of the host were sitting And he said, I have an errand unto thee, O captain. And Jehu said, unto which of all of us? Unto which of all us? And he said, unto thee, O captain. And he arose and went into the house, and he poured the oil on his head, and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, I have anointed thee king over the people of the Lord, even over Israel. And thou shalt smite the house of Ahab, thy master, that I may avenge the blood of my servants, the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the Lord at the hand of Jezebel. For the whole house of Ahab shall perish, and I will cut off from Ahab him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up and left in Israel. And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nebat, and like the house of Basha, the son of Ahijah. And the dog shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel, and there shall be none to bury her. And he opened the door and fled Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his Lord, and one said unto him, Is all well? Wherefore came this mad fellow to thee? And he said unto them, Ye know the man and his communication. And they said, It is false. Tell us now. And he said, Thus and thus spake he to me, saying, Thus saith the Lord, I have anointed thee king over Israel. Then they hastened and took every man his garment and put it under him at the top of the stairs and blew with the trumpet, saying, Jehu is king. It's a hard time trying to come up with a title for this message. I've entitled it, Here Comes Trouble. Let's pray, and I'll try and explain what's happening here and apply it to our lives. Father, Lord, you've said, and we quote it often, that all scripture is given to us by your inspiration. And it's profitable. And so, Lord, some portions are a little complex, but we want to learn from them. And we've been studying the life of Elijah, so help us tonight, Lord. Help me. To be faithful to your word, to be correct and accurate. And I yield myself to you. Fill me with your Spirit and help us to apply to our lives, I pray you would apply to our lives, the truths and principles here so we can be the people you intend for us, and that we can please you with our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Now I don't know, reading through that, you can get lost in the Jehorams. and the kings and all the details taking place here. I'm going to try to take a moment and just sort out who is who And what is happening, and then as I said, try and apply to our lives. The nation of Israel is a divided kingdom. How many folks are familiar with that? You know it's a divided kingdom. Solomon's son, Rehobam and Joaboam, they'd split the country. And then you have the northern kingdom, which goes by the name, the kingdom of Israel. The northern kingdom is known in scripture as the kingdom of Israel. Now Israel as a nation as a whole is called Israel. But after the division, the northern kingdom was the kingdom of Israel. The southern kingdom was known as the kingdom of Judah. Very good. And so that is the situation here, as it is for most of the kings and all of the kings in this portion of scripture. The kingdom is divided. Right now, the leadership of both kingdoms is ungodly. They have got wicked kings. Now, the northern kingdom of Israel Their kings, for the most part, were ungodly. They had very few godly kings. They were a mess. Baal, Samaria was there, they had false worship, they had a false temple, and it was just a disaster. The southern kingdom, on the other hand, had a fair number of good kings. The Bible will refer to various kings of Judah, refer to them as they did right in the eyes of the Lord. And it'll go on, and none of them were perfect, of course, but The majority of the kings in the southern kingdom were pretty good. And I think primarily because of the influence of the temple there and the temple worship. And uh that was uh where God met with them. So, be that as it may, you have two kingdoms. One's primarily wicked, the other one's primarily pretty good, but at this present time they're both ungodly. They're both wicked. Now, why would they both kings be wicked? Ah. They both have a common influence. How many folks are still with me? How many folks are glad you came to church? Raise your hand. Amen. Some of you are catching up on rest. That's good. I'm glad we can be of help to you. God bless you. Both kings are ungodly because of a common influence. Anybody want to take a guess what that common influence was? Somebody said, Ahab. King Ahab. I don't like King Ahab. I don't like nothing about it. Every time I read about him, I get mad. I don't like him. He did a few things there. God was very merciful, but I don't like him. Ahab had ungodly influence. Ahab up to the top. Now question. Ahab ruled in which kingdom? The northern or southern? Northern, Israel. Ahab, up to his reign, his reign was up to that time the most wicked, perverse, ungodly. He was the most wicked, perverse, ungodly king that the northern kingdom had up to that point. Now there are a few that were later on that probably probably surpassed him in wickedness, but he was definitely one of the worst. His wife And I'm tempted to make political jokes here, but his wife, in my mind, was the most wicked woman that's ever lived. In my mind, Jezebel. Nobody names their kid Jezebel. Right? Why would you do that? Jezebel and Ahab had a ungodly influence On just about everybody they came in contact with, with few exceptions. Now, I'm going to try and sort this out. I was all afternoon, I was thinking, how do I sort this out in such a way that we can visualize and understand what's going on. And we got three boys down here and you guys are sitting at the right place at the right time. Would you three guys come up here? Sam, Robbie, and Kane You know you're in trouble when you got Sam, Robbie, and King coming up here. This is the Browning Brothers evangelistic team with their associate Sam Now here's the thing, just hold on there for a minute, guys. Here's the thing. The king at this time, the king of the northern kingdom, his name is Jehoram. What's his name? The king of the No, let me take that back. The king of the Southern Kingdom's name is Jehoram. What's the Southern Kingdom's name? Right. Now here's the kicker. The king of the northern kingdom's name is Jorum. So you got Jehoram and you got Joram. As if this whole situation isn't confusing enough to begin with. So, Ravi, you are going to be Jehoram. You come on down here. This is south. That's north. So this will be the southern kingdom. And here is the king of Judah Jehoram. Alright. Is he a good guy? No. Sam, you come here. I'm sorry, Sam, but you're Ahab. Sorry. You stand right there. Actually, at this point, you're dead. Good. Yeah, we're glad too. Jehoram marries Ahab's daughter. Boy, that was dumb. Ahab's daughter is influenced by Ahab. Right? Which makes sense. She's an ungodly woman, wicked woman. Jehoram, and for there's a lot of political reasons involved here. He marries her, he becomes a very wicked man because of his association with Abraham's daughter as his wife. Joram, up here in the northern kingdom, question, good or bad? Bad, he is Ahab's son. Now you guys gotta get in character here, all right? I'm gonna pick someone else. But um they were glad He is Ahab's son, and of course he's influenced in a corrupt way by Ahab. Alright, so are you are you picturing what's here? So you're dead. Go on and get out of here Jehoram dies And his son, so we don't have, none of you girls are going to be his son, Jehoram dies, his son, Ahazi. reigns in his stead. And so just imagine his son there. Joram, the northern kingdom, is the guy that Elisha's been preaching at this whole study of the life of Elisha. Remember all the things he's warned him. Remember when uh they blinded the Syrians and lead him in and King Joram said, What should I do? What should I do? And uh he as well give him food and send them over And uh that this is the guy, all right? So he's gone on. You've have Ahazi here, who is Joram's son, which would be Ahab's Grandson, very good. He's reigning in the southern kingdom. How many people remember Hazel, the previous sermon on Elisha? What am I, a dog? I would never do that. Remember he says, Elisha anointed him, says, you're going to be king of Syria. He says, and you're going to kill your master. And he goes, am I a dog? I would never do that. Then he goes home and does that He wets a cloth, puts it on his face, suffocates him. Hazai is now king of Syria. Alright, so you've got Northern Kingdom, Southern Kingdom, you got Joram, you've got Ahazi. who only reigns one year, but uh nevertheless you got Hazel out there, he attacks Israel. You've got uh Ahazai and Jooram Unite together a coalition, and they're going to fight together Haziel, the king of Syria. And lo and behold, they hold him off. They don't conquer him, but they hold back his attack. And the place where they stop him is, let me give you the name of it. We just read it here, is uh Up there in verse number 28, Ramath Gilead. That's a fortress, a town, fortress town. And they hold him off. They're out there battling the battlefield. Jehoram gets injured. He comes back. Jehu, his captains and his hosts are kind of there in Raboth Gilead with him, kind of protecting him, and he's recovering. Haziel is out there and he's being held at bay. This is fascinating, isn't it? This is better than Survivor Island or whatever they're called. They unite Joram, actually we'll make the battlefield over here. Ramath Gilead is here. Jehoram gets injured in battle. But it's not a mortal wound just yet. So he comes back to Ramoth Gilead. Guess who's in Ramoth Gilead? I don't like Joram Stand up. Well you're injured. Sit down. I don't like Joram. He's a chip off the old block. He's a lot like his daddy. Alright? He gets injured. Guess where an injured boy goes? Where does a boy go when he gets injured? He goes running to mama Guess who's that Ramoth Gilead? Who's his mother? Jezebel. He goes running back. He's not a good king. He's not you personally, but um He's not a good king. He's a coward. He never knows what to do in every situation. He has no idea what to do. And when he does make a decision, it's usually the wrong decision And so he gets running back to Jezebel of all people. Now, you can sit down. Now that's the setting. Does that make does that everybody comprehend what's going on here? Now it took me a week to figure that out. You got it in five ten minutes Both kingdoms, Ahazi and Zoram, are influenced heavily by Ahab and Jezebel. Ahazi is his grandfather. His daddy Jehoram was married to his father-in-law, so they were influenced. Of course, as his son, he's heavily influenced by an ungodly man Now let me stop here and make a little bit of application. When I studied this and realized the influence of Ahab at this point, I thought of this. We must be very, very careful who we allow to influence us Right? We must be very, very careful. Now I know some of you might think this, and I thought this. Hey, give him a break. It was his daddy. That's his parents, his mother and father. Of course he's going to be influenced by them. And that's true. But this is Just because my parents aren't right with God doesn't mean I can't be right with God. You know, I get tired of hearing people say, and I I don't hear it so much now, but in years gone by I've heard it uh throughout the years. Well, I was just raised this way, and you know that's what do you expect. That's the way I'm going to turn out. No, if you weren't raised right, it doesn't mean you can't live right Hey, uh just because your daddy was a drunkard doesn't mean you have to be a drunkard. My wife's daddy, and I want to be very respectful of them, thank God he got saved, but he was a drunkard. You know my wife never touched a drop of liquor Not one time, by God's grace. So we need to be careful. Even the influences we have no choice over. We have to be very, very careful who and what we allow to influence us. Our associations. For instance, Jehoram married Ahab's daughter. He knew what Ahab was like. He knew what his daughter was like. Now, granted, it was probably a political arrangement. He may have had little or no say in it. But the fact of the matter is, he is still held responsible for his own behavior. And this is another thought that comes as we study this. You and I are responsible for our own walk with God, regardless of what our spouse is or is not. Huh? You say, oh, if you if you were married to my spouse, you'd have a hard time living for God too. Well, it may be so, but nevertheless, you have a responsibility to live for God whether your spouse does or not Now, I'm not talking about being unkind. You ought to be the best wife you can possibly be, regardless of your spouse's spiritual condition. You ought to be the best husband you can possibly be, regardless of your wife's condition, but nevertheless My responsibility to God is not dependent upon my parents or my spouse or my children or anyone else. I am to answer for myself. So Jehoram has no excuse for being ungodly. Joram has no excuse, even though they had ungodly parents. Nevertheless, they are responsible for their own action. Now here's the thing, and I'm quickly running out of time. Seventeen years earlier. Now this is bringing us up to things. This is the setting. Seventeen years early, a prophet by the name of Elijah. Not Elisha, Elijah, Elisha's predecessor, under the inspiration of God, declared judgment on Ahab and Jezebel Alright? Claire judgment on that. Ahab said, Jezebel's still alive, but 17 years have gone by. And that judgment included the death of Ahab and Jezebel and their whole household. Seventeen years have gone by, I'd venture to say a lot of people have forgotten that judgment. Seventeen years can be a long time. The judgment itself is in 1 Kings chapter 21, but we won't take time. The time to turn there. I believe no doubt after 17 years, most people had forgotten. By the way, this fellow Jehu, who we're going to meet in a little bit, he was there when the judgment took place. Elijah had confronted Abraham. He was traveling. He went out and confronted him and putting in so many words. God has seen your wickedness. God has seen your ungodliness, your false worship. Jezebel, he's gonna the dogs are gonna lick your blood, and uh the dogs are gonna eat Jezebel's body, there'll be nothing left for the birds to eat of her body, and your whole household's gonna be killed. So Ahab is killed. A guards a bow adventure who we believe, remember we said before we thought maybe that was Naaman. It's very possible that Naaman was the one that pulled that bow at a venture, killed Ahab, but Jezebel is still alive, and this prophecy's not been fulfilled yet. And I would venture to say most people have forgotten about it. Listen, when God says something's going to happen, just because it doesn't happen right away doesn't mean it's not going to happen. Now my thought is, I'm thinking of this 17 years, my thought was, you know, it was 2,000 years ago. Jesus said he's coming back again. 2,000 years a long time, at least in my thinking. There's very few people I know that have lived that long. But as far as God's concerned, if he says it's so, it's so, regardless of how long it takes. And God declared judgment on this household 17 years go by. It's still going to take place. It may seem impossible, but God's word is sure. And what he says is so. So, we have Joram here. I really don't like Ahab. I would can't imagine what it'd be like to be married to his wife. Oh, I just thought of a good political joke. See me afterward, I'll tell you in the back. But Jehoram, his leadership has been characterized by utter failure. Like I said, the decisions he the few decisions he did make were disastrous. He never knew what to do. His whole administration was marred by war. Famines. He was a failure as a leader. He was very unpopular, and he gets hurt and he goes running to his mother This is the setting. Now Jeadu shows up. All this is going on. Elisha gets one of the young, a child of one of the Young man in the school of the prophets gets his child, probably a teenage boy, probably about the age of one of these boys here, perhaps. And um he says, I want you to go to Ramoth Gilead Find the captain of the host. Take this little box of oil. Find the captain of a host, Jehu by name, pull him aside. Privately, pour the oil on him and say this, thus saith the Lord, God has anointed you king of Israel. So that's the whole setting. Now, what do we know about Jehu? He's not a king. He is a warrior, we are told, from his childhood. All he's known is military life. He is at this point in time a very seasoned soldier. In fact, one commentary I read about him suggested he was most likely the bravest and most experienced Captain that Joram had in his military. He held the highest position under the king. So this is not just some small cry This guy, this guy is a man's man. Reminds me a little me. A little bit like me, but not a whole lot. But uh, I mean there's nothing there's nothing weak about this man. So this is Seti The stage is set for God's judgment to fall. Now let me bring this all together. How many people will humor me and say, that was fascinating, Pastor Leatherman? Thank you very much. It really is I want us to notice the commission that God gives to Jehu, this soldier. We read verses 1 through 10, so I'm not going to read them again. But as I said, God tells Elisha to send this young man, son of one of the son of the prophets, a Bible college student, so to speak, his child. Sends him to go on this errand. I put this down. In this story here, we have an unlikely messenger. Verse 1, chapter 9. A prophet called one of the children of the prophets. Why in the world would he send a child? To do an errand that's going to culminate in the judgment of God, people's lives being taken. I think there's several reasons. One, I think, is if Elisha showed up, that would cause a stir. Right? If Elijah shows up there and wants to meet with Jehu, everybody in the city would know something's up. And so it wasn't expedient. That wouldn't be a wise thing to do. So God has him send this young person, this young man. But that tells me something, and that encourages my heart. Often God will use unlikely instruments. This young boy could show up under the radar, so to speak. He can pull him aside. Nobody's Suspicious anything's going on. And God could use someone who, in the eyes of the world, was insignificant, but in the plan of God had great significance. Now let me try and encourage you a little bit. You may be a young person. You may be, as far as this world's concerned, an insignificant person. But if you will do what God tells you to do, God can accomplish great things through your ministry. Doesn't have to be an Elisha for God's will to be accomplished. You don't have to be an Elijah or an Isaiah or a Moses or a Joshua to be used of God. You may just be the kid of a preacher. And yet God can use you in a great way. Huh? Isn't that encouraging? I like, I make reference often to Corinthians where he says, God hath not chosen the wise things of this world and the great things of the world, he's chosen the weak and the base things. Hey, that's every one of us can be used to God. I found out years ago. Now I thank God for this church. I think we have a big church. Big in my eyes, big in God's eyes, amen? We may not stand up to some of the big mega churches number wise and all of that, but I'm telling you, you know what I found out? We can be just as obedient to God as the big megachurches are. I can do God's will for my life just as much as Dr. Sheldon Smith does God's will for his life I can be as obedient to God in my ministry as Roger Green is obedient to God in his ministry. Byron Fox, you name it. And so thank God for a young boy that is willing to do uh how many people agree with me? That would be a little scary. Send Robbie up the Pentagon. Go find um not Schwarzenegger, what's the guy's the big shots? Um who's our big who's one of our captains Bill Gates. Let's just make up a name. I don't know. You send Robbie up there and say, alright, you go tell him he's gonna be the next president, pour this oil in his head. How many think Robbie'd be a little nervous? Robbie thinks he'd be nervous. But God used him. He just did this little deed, did what he was supposed to do, and we'll find out later. God changes everything So, I put this down. We have an unlikely messenger. God uses unlikely people. I wish we had time to talk about uh D. L. Moody's. His Sunday school teacher. Not one of us here, I doubt, could name his name, but he led D. L. Moody, Lord. He was faithful to share the gospel with D. L. Moody, and God used them. How about that? Uh Charles Spurgeon, a snowy wintry night in London, couldn't make it to the church he was going to, an unsaved teenage boy. He stops off, he hears singing in a Methodist church of all places And he sets in the back, there's just a handful of peacher people. The preacher didn't even show up, just one of the people in the church stood up and said, Well, we don't got a preacher. I'll try and bring a message. He kind of stumbled through a few verses, didn't even know what he was saying And the conviction of God settled on Charles Spurgeon, Charles Spurgeon got saved. Because a church member stood up and said, All right, here's a job to do, I'll do it. God can use you Let me take that back. I don't want to say God can use you. God will use you. If you just trust him, obey him, do what he says. You don't have to have your name in lights. Second thing I put down real quickly, here is an undercover maneuver They go up there and kind of sneaks in. This little boy pours oil in, God's anointed you king. Zing! He's out of there. I can see that little kid running. Most of what God does is unseen by the world. Dehoram sitting there in his mama's lap, oh, I got hurt. Oh, poor little baby. He had no idea that God's about to bring the the judgment of God's about to fall on him. I'm telling you, what God's working behind the scenes. The world doesn't even see it. You know what I found out never makes the headlines in the newspaper or CNN or Fox News? You know what I found out never makes the headlines? Some kid got saved in children's church. I tell you what, that's as big as a miracle as you're going to find anywhere. God saves a little child. Somebody trusting Christ. That never makes the news. I'm telling you, the work God is doing in this world, the world doesn't even know it. Huh? Unseen maneuvers. Torum had no idea God was working to bring judgment. God's doing things that the unspiritual eye cannot see Now this is what God's been doing in my heart for a couple years now, is seeing God's hand in my life. Seeing God working. There's so many things we view as a coincidence that I'm convinced is God working in our life. But we don't see it. God works behind the scenes most of the time. Time. I wonder if there's someone here. Maybe there's someone here tonight. If you died now, you don't know for sure you'd go to heaven. I wonder if something hasn't been happening in your life recently to make you think about God. Think about heaven and hell. God's been working. God's been working. Haven't really paid attention to it, but you say, yeah, you know what? There have been things that made me think about that. It's God working behind the scenes Let me end with this. This boy's given it. This Jehu is given an unpleasant assignment. Unpleasant assignment. Not everything in the Christian life is pleasant. One of my biggest beefs with contemporary Christianity is everything's a celebration. Everything's a party. Everything's a rock concert. Hey, everything in a Christian life is not a party. Reality of the Christian life, there's repentance. The reality of Christian life is sometimes we have to deal with sin. Not everything's okay. You know what? If there's someone teaching wrong false doctrine, we have a very unpleasant responsibility of confronting that. And saying that's wrong. That's not the truth. I told you at the fair, or at the fair, at the parade, I hand the lady a gospel tract. I don't like you I wanted to say I don't like you either. I don't like you. I laughed. I said, uh you don't even know me. She goes, I know you, Pastor Leatherman, I don't like you. I mean I I think it's kind of cool a little bit, but it's not the most pleasant thing in the world to have people tell you you don't like you. Tom and who was your part Tom and Charlie were out busy night. Leatherman, yeah. What'd they say? We know him. They don't like I don't like him. I think they had me mixed up with another guy, actually, but You know what, sometimes you live for God, not everybody's going to like you. Young people in school, you take a stand for what's right, you say, I'm not laughing at that joke Guess what? You may take some heat. I'm not going to that dance. Let me say that again. I'm not going to that dance. Come on, I'm lonely up here. I'm not going to go to that rock concert. I'm not going to do those things. What are you? Some holier now? What are you? Some Bible thumper Call me what you want. What I'm trying to say is this: not everything in the Christian life is pleasant. It's not all a party. I found, you know, the Bible says we have to suffer with Christ. We share his sorrow. We bear his reproach. Not everything's pleasant in a Christian life. It's a warfare. And if we're going to please God, sometimes we displease man. Not on purpose, not being rude or unkind, but just by pleasing God. And so you have a very difficult assignment given to Jehu. He's not a God-fearing man, but he's a tool that God's going to use. And he's given an unpleasant task. I wish I had more time. I'd like to talk about Jehu. We'll have to look at him a little bit later. Judgment is coming, trouble's coming. This thing is about to crash down on Jehu and he doesn't even know it. He's in his mama's lap. And I mean it's coming to an end. It is a tsunami about to roll him over. Here's the thing, and I want to tie this in with our Lord's Supper. Jehu could have avoided the judgment of God if he'd have simply judged himself. First Corinthians chapter 11 says, if we would judge ourselves, we would not be judged. Now that's true for unsaved. If an unsaved person will say, you know, I'm a sinner, I'm lost, I deserve to die and go to hell, and judge ourselves, we look to Christ, trust Christ, and we can escape the judgment of God. Does that make sense? But wait a minute. You and I as Christians, we also face judgment. Not judgment as to heaven or hell, but judgment as to how we lived our Christian life. It's called the judgment seat of what? Christ. Paul said that is a terrible thing, knowing the terror of the Lord, referencing the judgment of Christ. Can you imagine right now, tonight, if you had to stand or I had to stand before Jesus Christ, give an account of myself right now before Jesus Christ How would I fare? What would be the what would be the report of the judgment But if we judge ourselves, if we say, you know, I'm not what I ought to be, I'm not living for God, I'm not the witness. I have these areas in my life that I really need to get right, and we confess our sin, we acknowledge it to God, then that judgment escapes. God forgives us, enables us. To do right. Am I making any sense? And that's what the Lord's Supper's about. We remember Christ's death, the price that was paid, so we can be made right with God. And then we come, and Proverbs, or Corinthians, as I said, says we should judge ourselves. We should come to the Lord's Supper, not come unworthily, but judge ourselves, confess our sins, come with a clean heart, a clean slate. Through the blood of Christ, my attitude, my actions, my disobedience to God, my neglect of the things of the Lord, I confess it and forsake all of it God forgives me. And I escape the judgment of the judgment seat of Christ. Let's pray. Father, I hope this made sense, Lord. I pray you could use this. So many times we face consequences that we really wouldn't have to if we'd just come clean with you. I pray you'd help me and all of us as a church body in these next few moments. To open our hearts to your word and your spirit, that you would search us, God. Show us the things that when we stand before you, we'd be ashamed. Show us the things, the neglect, or whatever it may be in our lives, that when we stand before you, Lord, we'd wish it wasn't there. And help us to judge it correctly and forsake it Take it and get in tune with you. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed