Chasing David all over the wilderness. We started this a few weeks ago. Actually, what David is going through in chapter 26 of 1 Samuel He actually went through something very, very similar not long before this. If you remember, uh Saul was out chasing David, trying to kill him out of envy. And uh David was knew Saul was coming, they withdrew and hid inside a cave, and uh Saul enters that cave by himself, no plan of David's, it was just Part of God's providence that Saul comes into the cave. David's right there hiding in the shadows, and um uh he is advised by his men around him that here's his opportunity to kill Saul. And uh of course David did not. He cut off the corner of his skirt, uh corner of his garment there. And uh when Saul gets out away, a safe difference, then David comes out, approaches him And if you remember, Saul said, David, uh uh, you're going to be king. Uh I'm not going to chase anymore. You're going to be okay. Don't worry about it Of course, that was on the lips of King Saul, but it wasn't in his heart. It was empty talk. David leaves there, and then he ran into this fellow Nabal. How many people remember Nabal? Boy, how could you forget somebody like that? And uh David runs into that, almost blows his testimony, and uh God uses Abigail to intervene. keeps David from doing something he would have regretted, no doubt, the rest of his life. And David learns a powerful lesson. So he's back out in the wilderness, and lo and behold the Zipites, remember them They rated on David before, and uh lo and behold they find out where David is, they run to Saul and say, Hey, we know where David is, and uh Saul's right back out after him And so David finds himself in a very similar situation. This time David is up in the mount. Saul comes looking for him, doesn't know where he is. They spend the night And uh Saul is uh uh makes camp and he is the Bible word there is he he is in a trench If you remember what we were pointed out about that was it was very strategic. Saul slept in the middle and they encamped all around him. There was an entrenchment of soldiers around him to keep them secure This time, it's not just coincidental that, you know, Saul walking into a cage. There's a little difference here. This time, David's being proactive. And uh he says, you know, I'm gonna go down into the camp to where Saul is. And he does. And uh he takes uh uh uh his advisor there with him, and they get down in there, and um Abishai says, hey listen, here's your chance. You can kill him. You don't have to worry about it anymore. Just put he says, give me a spear. I'll hit him once and he's done. You don't have to worry about it. We'll be out of here. And David says, no, no, no, we're not doing that. We're not doing that. He's the Lord's anointed. I believe David learned a powerful lesson in dealing with Nabal that God can and will deal with our adversaries. The Lord says, vengeance is mine. I don't need to deal with it. I don't need to go after him and try and seek vengeance. God will take care of that. Now that's where we pick it up. David actually takes his spear Take Saul's spear, and then they back out. Now we're at verse number 13. That's the background. That's the situation we find David in. Verse 13, I'm going to read down through verse 20. Then David went over to the other side and stood on the top of a hill afar off, a great space being between them. And David cried to the people and to Abner, the son of Nur, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou that criest to the king? David said to Abner, Art not thou, Art not thou a valiant man? And who is like to thee in Israel? Wherefore then hast thou not kept thy Lord the King? For there came one of the people in to destroy the king thy Lord. This thing is not good that thou hast done. As the Lord liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the Lord's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruise of water that was by his bolster. And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king. And he said, Wherefore doth my Lord thus pursue after his servant? And what have I done? Or what evil is in my hand Now, therefore, I pray thee, let my Lord the King hear the words of his servant. If the Lord have stirred thee up against me, let him accept an offering. But if they be the children of men, cursed be they before the Lord. For they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the Lord, saying, Go serve other gods. Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of the Lord, for the king of Israel has come out to seek a flea, as one one doth hunt a partridge in the mountain. I'm entitled to Here We Go Again, and we're continuing that thought. Let's pray together. Father, I ask your blessing now on our study of this portion tonight. I pray we can learn from David's life, from his reactions. I pray we can learn from his response to people who treat him unjustly. I pray that you would apply this Holy Spirit to our lives. I yield my will to you and I present my body anew. And I pray, Lord, with all my heart. That you fill me with your Holy Spirit and you speak through me and teach us and help us, Lord, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen First thing we did, we noticed, as we started this chapter, our first point was Saul's return. Saul's back at it. He's after David again And then we noted David's response, and we pointed out, as I just said, I think he learned from Nabal. He says, I don't need to deal with Saul, I don't need to seek vengeance And uh he takes the spear uh instead of killing him. Now, we uh what I call this portion here, I've entitled it David's Rebuke. And verse um 13 through 20. Now I want to look at this. If you paid attention while we're reading through here, David is rebuking Saul. Did anybody kind of catch that? He's giving a rebuke here to Saul But David is doing a biblical rebuke. You know, there's a right way to rebuke people, and there's a wrong way. How many people are aware of that? It's a right way to rebuke people, and there's a wrong way. David is following a scriptural principle here. When he's rebuking King Saul, he's not just pointing out his faults and failures. Sometimes we think that rebuking someone, well, I've got to rebuke them, sometimes we think that the whole point of that is simply to show them how wrong they are To point out all their faults and all the ways they failed and list all this to them and uh and uh leave it at that. That is not biblical rebuke. Biblical rebuke always has a purpose, an end goal. Anyone want to take a guess? Anybody want to offer some suggestions? As a Christian, biblical rebuke, what would be the purpose? What would be what we're trying to accomplish through that rebuke? Restoration, exactly. We are trying to restore them. And I think you're going to see that with David here with King Saul. I believe this is a sincere attempt on David's part to restore King Saul back into fellowship, not just with David, but back into fellowship with the Lord. He is trying to get Saul back right with God. He's not just trying to uh rebuke him and and uh uh you know point out all his faults sometimes and you know probably more of us are guilty of this than we'd like to admit but sometimes we take it upon ourselves to confront somebody And really what we want to do is just vent on them and tell them how mad we are at them and how awful they are and and uh how uh how much we don't like them You ever have somebody you just really want to go up and say, I don't like you. Anybody ever feel that way? That is not biblical rebuke Uh sometimes we take it upon ourselves to uh uh we know I'm gonna I'm gonna tell them how it is, and I don't need to confront them about this, and what we really want to do is humiliate them for hurting us And we want to somehow hurt them back in our rebuke, and somehow we want to make them pay for what they did for me. I'm saying that is not biblical rebuke Biblical rebuke, biblical confrontation always has the end goal of restoring that person back into fellowship with the Lord. And hopefully with myself. Take your Bible, keep your place here. Turn with me to Galatians chapter number six, if you would. Galatians chapter six. And I think David follows this principle given us here in Galatians chapter 6, verse 1. I think David follows this pretty closely. Galatians chapter 6 and verse number 1. Give you a chance to find there. Galatians 6, look with me at verse 1. It says, brethren, now look at this: if a man be overtaken in a fault. Now, in a context of David's situation, who would that be talking about? Saul. That would be King Saul. He's overtaken a fault. He's eaten up with envy. He's trying to murder David. How many people agree with me? Trying to murder someone would be a fault. Yeah. And so he says here, if somebody, if a man be overtaken in a fault, in this case that'd be Saul. Ye which are what? Spiritual. So one thing I need to do before I'm going to confront someone, before I'm going to rebuke a brother or somebody that's overtaken a fault they're doing wrong. One thing I need to make sure about myself is what? What's he say here? What did we just read? Come on, you're allowed to talk to me now Look, look who it says. Ye which are spiritual. So I need to make sure I'm spiritual. I need to make sure I'm right with God. Here's the problem. Sometimes when somebody does us wrong, somebody hurts us, somebody sins against us We tend to get in the what? Flesh. We let that affect us in a physical, carnal way, and we react carnally. And what we end up doing is trying to fight fire with fire. And God says, No, no, no, no, no, that's not the way you restore somebody back to fellowship with the Lord. That's not the way you get some more. First of all, you need to make sure you're spiritual, you need to make sure you're spiritual uh right with God. Make sure you are being controlled by the Holy Spirit. Spiritual. Filled and controlled with the Spirit. And so, uh, if if any man is overtaken a fault, ye which are spiritual, what's the next word? Restore such a one. That's the goal. Get them back in fellowship with God. Get them back in God's blessings. Get them back, and hopefully as a result of that, in fellowship with me, one another But look how it says how we should do that. Restore such a one in a spirit of what? Meekness. Did you see that with David in verse number 20 when I read there the last verse? He says, you're coming out after a what? A flea. David was humbling himself again. David was coming with a spirit of meekness. Could David have killed him? Sure, absolutely. He had the opportunity. He said, I'm not going to do it. I'm going to restrain. And he says, and he humbles himself. David is following Galatians 6. 1 to the T here. I restore such a one. Look at this. Considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Brother, I can get sucked into that thing, and I can end up being in the flesh and doing just as much damage. So when I read this here of David and what he says to King Saul and Abner also here, he's rebuking them, but he's doing it In a biblical way, in a biblical fashion. I tell you what, there's a lot of relationships could still be intact today if we would just respond biblically rather than responding in the flesh. Can I get an amen there? There's a lot of ministries would still be operating today if people would have dealt with differences and hurts and uh sins even in a biblical way rather than be dealing with it in the flesh in a carnal way. And so David is is uh operating here uh very wisely very biblically as I see it We have to develop the ability to see beyond people's faults and seek to meet that need. And help them be restored to the Lord. Help them be in a place of God's blessing again. We have to develop the maturity Be able to deal with people in a spiritual matter, not in the flesh, and not carnal. And by the way, that is not always easy. I tell you, the easiest thing in the world is to get in the flesh when somebody's hurt me One of the most challenging things in the world is be filled with the Spirit and operate in the Spirit when somebody's hurt me, somebody's done me wrong And so I see spiritual growth on David's part here tremendously. Now, let's look at this. David's rebuke. First of all, he rebukes Abner as the commander-in-chief. Look there at verse number. Uh thirteen. Then David went over to the other side and uh stood on the top of a hill afar off a great space being between them. So he's rebuking Abner here, but the first thing he does, he's very prudent in this rebuke. In other words, he doesn't just fly off on Abner. He makes sure there's some distances. I put in my notes here, David is social distancing. Did you catch it? Look at the last part. There is a great space between them. I thought, wow, I wonder if they were at wearing masks. But uh David's no dummy. He's about to rebuke the commander in chief. Abner is a valiant, skilled, hardened warrior. And David does not want to get in a skirmish with Abner for various reasons. He does not want to get in a fist fight with Abner. He does not want to get in a sword fight with Abner. And David very prudently says, wait a minute, before I say anything, I'm social distancing myself from Abner. Not because of a virus, but because of violence David doesn't want to get in a skirmish with Abner. That is not his purpose. That is not his goal. But he does feel obligated that Abner failed terribly in his responsibility to guard the king. Now maybe David had a special um uh sensitivity there because there was a day when David held that position not too long ago And David understood the responsibility, and David understood the consequences of failing to keep the king safe was you would lose your life. They were brutal back then And so Abner had failed to the point where legally his life that was a capital offense. And so David, uh so David very prudently, he's no dummy, he very prudently He distances himself from Abner before he says a word. Then it's a public rebuke. I noticed that in the first part of verse 14. And David cried to the people, everybody hears them, but he's addressing Abner. Now he's uh he's uh I don't know exactly his motives here with Abner, but he wants everybody to hear and know that Abner failed and failed colossally So it's a prudent rebuke. It's a public rebuke. But this is the other thing I noticed. It's a personal rebuke. Look again at verse 14. And to Abner, the son of Nur, saying Answerest thou not, Abner? And Abner answered and said, Who art thou that cries to the king? I have a sneaking suspicion Abner knew who it was. But they weren't sure. And so who is this? David said to Abner, he doesn't answer his question, he said, Art not thou a valiant man who is like to thee in Israel? Wherefore thou uh then hast thou not kept the Lord the King. For there come one into the uh one of the people in to destroy the king, uh thy Lord. This thing is not good that thou hast done. He's getting personal about it here The Lord liveth, ye are worthy to die, because you have not kept your master, the Lord's anointed. And see where the king's spear is in the cruise of water that was by his bolster. I think there's a hint of ridicule here a little bit on David's part. I think David's a little put off that Abner failed so drastically. And I got thinking here, why is David why does David zero in on Abner to begin with? And why does he say this in a kind of sarcastic way, a a belittling way to Abner? He says, Man, you failed. You're a great man. You failed completely. Why does he do that? I think, and I can't prove this, but I think David, he's a quite a warrior, he's quite a strategist, and one thing in warfare is to mess with the enemy's mind It's called psychological warfare. And I think David is engaged a little bit in that. And I'm wondering if he's putting, isn't he trying to put some doubts in the mind of Abner as to how good he really is And I'm wondering if he isn't trying to shake Abner's confidence a little bit and to get him beginning questioning, you know, man, I did mess up here And uh, I don't know if David is anticipating having to deal, uh, confront Abner physically in combat somewhere down the road And he's just trying to rattle him a little bit here. But I think there's a little bit of mind gapes going on here. Now, to be honest and to be fair, David had a little bit of help How was David able to get down to King Saul, past Abner, past this entrenchment that Saul was had encircling him? How was David able to so successfully and so uh sneakily, uh is that a word? Sneakily? It is now. Sneakily get down into King Saul. Anybody know how he had a little help. Anybody know what the help was Yeah, God helped them. God put these guys into a sleep. Over there, verse 12. Look at the last part of verse 12. It says, Because a deep sleep from the Lord was falling upon them. So David's giving Abner a hard time, but really, I mean God put him to sleep. And I tell you, God puts you to sleep. You don't wake up till God Uh let you wake up. Amen. I think the other morning God put me to sleep. I could not get up. So it's a prudent rebuke. He socially distances himself from Abner. It's a public rebuke. He wants everybody to know Abner failed, but it's a personal rebuke. I mean, he's taken some jobs. So he rebukes Abner as commander in chief. Then the second rebuke here is he rebukes Saul as king. Look at verse number 17. And Saul knew David's voice. Now David hasn't told them who he is, but I'm sure everybody knew. Saul hears that. I know who that is. That's David. And he said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my Lord, O King. Now look, he begins his rebuke. Um uh David refused to kill King Saul He refused to condemn King Saul. We're going to see he doesn't condemn King Saul here at all. Now, Abner he did. He took it to him. You failed. But he doesn't do anything like that to King Saul, but he does confront him. He does confront him. He doesn't kill him. He doesn't want to destroy him And he doesn't want to condemn him, but he does need to confront him. This has to end. First of all, I notice this: David questions his motives. Look at verse number 18. And he said, this is David from a social distance, yelling down to King Saul, Wherefore doth my Lord thus pursue after his servant What's he asking them there? If you were going to put that in your own words, what's that? What is that? Why in the world are you doing this? He questions Saul's motives. Why are you doing this? What have I done? Look at the last part. For what have I done? What evil is in my hand? I think he's forcing, he's trying to force Saul to stop and think about what he's doing. Saul, what in the world? Stop and think about this. Think what you're doing. What is your purpose? Why? Questions are powerful, powerful tools. Jesus Christ used questions a lot, particularly now he did with his disciples a good bit, but you'll study the gospels carefully when the Pharisees are out to trick Jesus, when the Pharisees are out to catch him in his words. When the Pharisees are out to tempt him, to say or do something, that they can condemn him, Jesus many, many times responds back with a what? A question. And they're powerful. I was studying last night in Mark, I think it was uh chapter 12 or 13, but where they came to Jesus and they said, Should we pay taxes to Caesar or not? And it says at the beginning of the chapter, it says they came to catch him in his words, I think is how it's worded, or tempt him, something like that. And Jesus' answer immediately was a question. Does anybody remember what that question was when they said, should we pay taxes to Caesar or not? What's he say? Yeah, he says, show me a penny. Whose inscription is on there And he asks them a question, yeah, and he says, surrender to Caesar that which is Caesar, surrender to God that which is God. But he uses that question to get them to stop And to uh just stops them in their tracks. And I think that's what David's doing. He's saying, Saul, think about this. What are you trying to accomplish? Why are you doing this? What is your motive behind all of this? I think it's a very effective tool David uses. So the first thing David does, he questions Saul's motives. Then in verse number 19, he concedes to Saul the benefit of the doubt. I thought this was interesting. Look at verse 19. Now, therefore, I pray thee, let my Lord the King hear the words of his servant. his servant being David. He's saying, listen, listen to what I'm about to say, King Saul. And he mentions two He doesn't assume evil on King Saul's part, but he mentions two options as to why King Saul is doing this. Look at verse 19 there. Do you see the two options he gives? One is, and I'm putting this in my own words now, one is the Lord's prompting you to do this. You see that? How's he say it here? He's saying, uh, if the Lord have stirred thee up against me, then let him accept an offering. So he says, uh King Saul, hey, listen, if God is stirring you and prompting you to pursue me like this, he goes Let's deal with it. Let's offer a sacrifice. Let's get it right with God. Let's get things right with God and go on. So he's not blaming Saul. He's not Calling Saul evil or assigning evil motives to Saul. He is Saul, listen, if God's prompting you to do this, let's make things right with God. Then the other option is what? Then he says, or Except an offering, cursed be um But if they be the children of men, he uses that term, I think, deliberately. And listen, if it's a bunch of evil, wicked guys, just a bunch of worldlings, Wicked people are prompting you, advising you to do this, then God will deal with them. And I thought it was interesting, not one time does he say, Saul, you're evil in doing this You're failing. He says, well listen, if God's doing it or if evil men are doing it. In other words, I think he's given Saul the benefit of the doubt. And he did that previously. Remember long time ago when Jonathan came and said, My father's out to kill you, he's going to do that, and David wouldn't believe it. He won't believe it. I tell you, it will help us a lot if we would stop jumping to conclusions and assuming that everything somebody does is some personal attack on us. Amen? And just give people the benefit of the doubt. And uh, you know, say, listen. Uh I just I put in the margin of my Bible, David still gave Saul the benefit of the doubt. I think that's a good practice. Give people the benefit of the doubt. And David says, listen, if the Lord's doing it, let's offer a sacrifice. If the Lord's prompting you, let's offer a sacrifice. Let's get things right with God. If it's evil men doing it, then God will curse them. God will deal with them. In other words, let's get this thing behind us and let's go forward. Let's go on. Let's get this thing settled And so he concedes the benefit of the doubt to King Saul. He said, I'm not going to accuse you. I'm going to assume your intentions are are being influenced by somebody else, and we'll deal with it that way. Then the last thing I notice real quickly, David conveys his concern. Look at verse 20. Now therefore let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of the Lord. He's saying, what? Don't what? Don't kill me Let not my blood fall to the face of the earth, for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea as when one doth hunt a partridge in the mountains. What's he saying? I think he's saying this King Saul, my life is not worth you committing murder for. I am not worth what it will cost you if you Carry this out and carry through this and shed my blood, let my blood fall to the earth. I am not worth that. In other words, he's saying this the price of your sin is far greater than any benefit you think you'll get out of it. Killing me is just killing a flea. You'll get nothing more out of it. But the price of that will be so awful, so awful. The whole lesson here, the lesson is, when uh the whole lesson here is I need to stop and consider How I am responding to people who are antagonists to me. You follow what I'm saying? I need to stop and evaluate. When somebody says something that's unkind or rude or wrong, somebody does something that is a sin against me and it hurts me. I need to stop and consider what is my attitude, what is my action, how do I respond? My response, biblically, following David's example in New Testament teaching, is All right, this person needs to be restored. This person is obviously not right with God. I need to say and do something, somehow, help them To get right with God. And I need to make sure I do this not in the flesh. I'm never going to accomplish that goal in the flesh. I must be filled with the Spirit. I must be under the control of the of the fruit of the Spirit And seek to restore them. I heard a preacher say years ago, and I thought it was a great bit of wisdom, and I think David's following it here, and he said this. He said, When people attack me When people say things and lie and make accusations or whatever, when people try to hurt me, he says, I always try to view them not as an evil person, but as a broken person. And I want to try and help fix them. And I want to try and get them back where they can have God's blessings and God's leadership in my life, rather than trying to eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. And so maybe maybe I'm talking to somebody tonight, here or online or somewhere, and there's somebody comes to mind while I'm preaching this, and there's somebody God's bringing to your your heart and mind. That name is there, that face is there. And maybe what we need to do is stop and say, Lord, help me to critique my attitude and my actions in this. And follow the biblical pattern, the biblical instructions of seeking that person's restoration. Amen? You follow what I'm trying to say? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, you would help us. The hardest thing in the world is not to retaliate. The hardest thing in the world is not to fire back and bite back like a snake But rather, Lord, we need to humble ourselves and we need you to help us and fill us that we can see others be restored and helped And uh so help us with that. I wonder with our heads bowed eyes closed. I wonder if there's somebody, say, preacher, somebody came to mind And it's between you and God, but you say, Preacher, I need God to help me with an attitude and with actions and all of that. And uh I need to change my approach on this whole thing. Is there anything like that? By the uplifted hand preacher, yup, someone's come to mind. Yeah, there's hands around. Sure, it's life. Can't go hardly go through this world without having opposition. But we need to be biblical. Let's stand together, heads above, eyes are closed. James going to play a few verses of imitation. Maybe on a Wednesday night, just an old altar being