Get your Bibles now and uh gather around and uh let's look at God's Word here for a little bit. We're starting a new chapter I tell you, this singing here is uh is a challenge for me. I'm uh in the shower, I sound great. I sound like I'm in the Madison Square Garden opera singing. It's just tremendous singing out But when I get here it's a little different, doesn't sound quite the same. So uh but I'm sure it's a blessing to all and um The Bible says uh uh what how how's it say it lift up your voice? Uh make a joyful noise unto the Lord. So it's a little noisy, and it's joyful. So God bless you. First Samuel chapter twenty-six, and uh we're going to begin reading verse one. We're going to read down through verse four. Uh you might not believe this, but my intention was to cover this whole chapter in one lesson. Ha! So that ain't gonna happen. Well we're just gonna look at the first few verses here and uh get started on uh this new chapter. Ready? Uh verse one, first Samuel twenty-six, and the Ziphites came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Hickalah, which is before Jeshimon? Then Saul arose and went down to the wilderness of Zeth, having 3,000 chosen men of Israel with them. I mean, this is an elite group, a good size, 3,000 of them. an elite group, chosen men of Israel, with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Zip. And Saul pitched in the hill of Hak Ahakila, which is before Jesheman, by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness. David therefore sent out spies and understood that Saul was come in very deed. Now I've entitled the message tonight, and this is is going to cover basically the whole chapter, this title. We'll just keep adding to it as we work through. But I've entitled it this, Here We Go Again. Here we go again. Let's pray and ask the Lord to uh speak our hearts tonight. Father in heaven, I come to you again, very, very grateful for your love for us. I'm glad that you're an unchanging God, saying yesterday, today, and forever. And Lord, you're still working. I believe that. You're still speaking to hearts. And your word still bears fruit as it goes out. And so we pray. That you would bless our efforts here this evening in the preaching of the Word of God. That uh it would stir us and folks would be challenged God, I pray that if someone listens in that is unsaved, that does not have assurance of sins forgiven, a home in heaven, O Lord, I plead with you that they would turn to you and trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. Find forgiveness of sins, a new life, eternal life, and eventually a home in heaven. So please fill me with your spirit, Lord. I yield my will to you, present my body anew, and pray that you would speak through me to each and every heart and life. So have your way, Lord, I pray. In Jesus' name we ask this. Amen. God is continuing as we're working our way through the life of David. He's not king yet. David is not on the throne of Israel yet. He's been anointed. This great prophet Samuel anointed David to be king. But there is this period of time between David's anointing to be king and when David actually takes the throne. There's this pretty extended period of time And what is taking place during this time frame is God is preparing David to sit in the seat of the throne of Israel. Now that in and of itself is pretty significant, is a tremendous responsibility. This is the people of Israel, God's people, and to sit over them, uh be delegated that authority by God to be their king is uh is a tremendous responsibility, a tremendous privilege. Uh King Saul, as we noticed, he abused that responsibility, that privilege. He um abused uh what God had given to him as king, and God has set him aside. And now David is going through this preparation period To hold this position as king of Israel. Now, that in and of itself, as I said, is a tremendous responsibility, tremendous privilege to be king of Israel. But there's more to it, particularly with this man, David David's reign as King of Israel is going to establish the future reign of the Lord Jesus Christ. And as we get through the rest of Scripture, we notice that Jesus Christ is going to, and this is the words of Scripture, Jesus Christ is going to sit on the throne of David. And so the significance that David will have in establishing the authority of this throne and laying the groundwork for the Son of God to eventually hold that position Is uh is a tremendous responsibility. And so God is preparing David for this. God is preparing Israel for David's rule. God is preparing David To rule over Israel and lay this groundwork and establish this position that eventually Jesus Christ will hold during the millennial reign. And so what's happening is God is continuing this preparation. to prepare David for this position. Now, as I would got reading and studying uh chapter 26 here Um, I got wondering, is David aware of what God is is doing by allowing King Saul to hound him? and uh track him all across the wilderness uh by allowing him to experience this conflict with Nabal in the previous chapter And all these events, all these trials and these tests and these difficulties and these uh adversities that King David is facing during this period of time They kind of came out of nowhere, really, and they're unrelenting just one after another. Is David aware of what God's doing? Is he aware that God is preparing him and strengthening his faith. I I tend to I have a sneaking suspicion at this point in David's mind he's not completely aware of what God is doing. He's simply dealing with these issues as they're thrown at him one after another. I'm not sure that uh uh he's fully aware that God that his faith is being strengthened through this No doubt later on he'll look back and see, man, going through all that, that really helped me. That was good for me spiritually. But at the moment, he probably, in my mind anyway, was not aware of what God was doing. God was developing his character, his integrity, and teaching him to live and behave and operate by principles of Scripture and to act on principle and not just to react to things. We noticed that with Nabal when he reacted to Nabal and God intervened and and corrected that. So I found I found that a lot of times when we're going through trials, we're facing adversity, somebody's given us a hard time. There's setbacks, there's storms in our life, difficulties come into our lives. A lot of times We're unaware personally that God is using that to develop us and strengthen us and strengthen our faith and develop our walk with Him. We're just kind of trying to deal with it at the moment. But then we look back years later and we say, hey, you know what? That was good for me. I wouldn't want to go through that again, but uh that was good for me. That helped me spiritually. I grew in my faith, and God used that in my life And so I have a tendency to think that's the case with David. He's probably not aware at this moment what God is doing in preparing, but nevertheless God is at work. And let me remind you, whether we're aware of it or not, God is at work in our lives. God is moving, God is working. When I witness the folks, sometimes uh depending on the situation, I'll have a little spiel we go through and witnessing and sharing the gospel And sometimes I'll ask folks something like this, have things been happening in your life that cause you to think about God or the Bible or heaven or hell? And you'd be amazed how many times people say, you know, we did. This happened, and this happened, and somebody passed away, or this happened, and uh really made me think, you know what, that's God working. That's God working. So these aren't just people being hateful. This isn't just Saul being very, very hateful to David. There's more to it than that. It's God working, God working, God working. Now our situation, of course, everybody I get tired of talking about it sometimes, but uh you know we got this big lockdown and everything And you say, oh whatever this is terrible. I think we maybe ought to look beyond and say, hey, maybe God is doing something. God is working. God is active. There's no way in the world you'll ever convince me that God allows something that affects the whole world and he doesn't have a plan and purpose behind that That is that that God God doesn't work that way. And so God is working, God's developing, God's acting, and that's what's taking place here in David. Now, our first point we're going to look at tonight, we're not going to get all through this But is in the first four verses here, uh we have what I'm calling David's reoccurring issue. David's reoccurring issue. I titled the message, Here We Go Again. Saul is back at it. The Ziphites are back out spilling the beans on David and telling going to Saul, oh, David's here. And uh he's right back at it. Now, I got thinking about that and uh studying the scriptures and I've One of God's methods in developing our characters, what he's doing for David, in uh strengthening our faith One of God's tools he uses, or one of his methods, is to give us the same test over and over and over and over again. Now you see this throughout Scripture. God sometimes will send a trial to somebody in Scripture, or even in our own lives, will face this trial And we'll work through it. Sometimes we do better than others, and we'll work through it, come at it and say, Woo! I'm glad that's over. And before we know it, we're going through almost identical trial again And they think, what in the world? And God sends that again. Sometimes, we hate to admit it, but sometimes we struggle with the same sins. Over and over and over. Boy, I'll struggle with this temptation, struggle with this sin, and I'll trust God, I'll work through it, uh do better than others sometimes and get up and get out and say, Oh, I'm glad that's behind me. I got conquered that, I got victory over that And brother, before you know it, we're back right where we were again, facing that same temptation and that same sin. Now I want to show you some scriptures that illustrate this truth, this uh this method that God uses in sending the same test The same trials over and over and over to help us. If you would. Now keep your place here. But go with me to the New Testament, to the book of Matthew, and uh chapter number four. Matthew, chapter number four. You got your Bibles there, Matthew chapter number four. And I want to read the first part of this chapter. Matthew chapter 4, verse number 1. Give you a chance to find it there. This is an unusual experience. Um it's an account Of Jesus being confronted by Satan and Satan tempting the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I don't know about you, but I find this fascinating That the devil himself would somehow have himself convinced that he could tempt the Son of God to sin against God. And so he goes through this process, but there's some things here. There's so much to learn in this passage, so many practical lessons we can take from it. But there's one I want us to notice. Look at verse 1 When Jesus was led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil. All right, here we go. And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights He was afterward a hungered. Uh that makes sense. Jesus, of course, he was God, but he was a hundred percent man also, so he's fasting for forty days, forty nights, of course he'd be hungry. That's uh That makes sense. If I fast for 40 minutes, I'm hungry. And so the Lord Jesus here is a hungered. And look at verse 3. And when the tempter came to him and said, If thou be the Son of God Command that these stones be made bread. Now, this is not the message, but it's interesting. Satan attacked Jesus where he was the weakest. Humanly speaking, he was hungry, and he came to him with bread. Listen, we better keep our guard up. We gotta watch our weak spots, our weak areas. Satan knows what they are, and they'll come after them. And that's exactly what he did with Jesus. But, verse number 4, he answered and said, This is Jesus, it is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God. Ah, there we go. He's tempted of the devil. His weak spot. Jesus responded with the shield of faith and with the sword of the spirit. He quoted scripture back to him. Oh, the devil's defeated. Temptation is over. No, look at this. Devil comes right back again. Look at verse number five. Then the devil taketh them up into a holy city, into the holy city, and setteth them on a pinnacle of the temple, and saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, Cast thyself down, for it is written. Do you notice Satan's quote in the Bible there? Uh he Satan says, It is written He shall give his angels charge concerning thee, and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against the stone. Satan's quoting the Bible, but he's using it out of context. He's misapplying it here Trying to get Jesus to sin. Now look what it says. Jesus said unto him, It is written, all right, Jesus quotes scripture right back, but this time in context with right application Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God. Okay? It's tempted twice. First time bread. Next time throw himself down. And uh Jesus conquers that temptation. Oh, good, it's over. No more temptation. Woo! Devil's defeated. Nope. Look again. Look at verse 8. Again the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain. and showeth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them, and saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me Then Jesus then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. Three times, three times Jesus was tempted of the devil. One right after another, right after another. You know, I've found that God, one of God's methods to help us is to allow us to face trials, face adversity, even face temptation over and over and over and over again so we learn what he's trying to teach us. Our faith is developed And we're stronger in our character, and God is able to use us. In Hebrews chapter number 12 and verse 1, we won't take time to turn there. But Hebrews 12. 1 references what we call besetting sins. the sins which so easily beset us. Besetting sins. And you say, what in the world is a besetting sin? It's simply a sin that is continually comes back. continually faced with. I continually struggle with it. Maybe it's a particular sin or temptation that I'm vulnerable to. And Satan knows it. And God lets us uh uh deal with these besetting sins. He allows us to face them so we can uh set them aside, lay them aside uh and uh deal with them and get victory over them and over and over and over and over again. Brother Matt is a world famous weightlifter. And uh the sh uh we promote him as uh uh the world's strongest assistant pastor. Now we're trying to get all the assistant pastors in the whole world together and have a contest, see if that's true, but that's the title we're using And uh, but anyway, uh he doesn't go home and uh, oh, he said he was lifting weights today. He doesn't go home and get that big barbell and uh and uh Hurt, lift it up once, drop it. Alright, there we go. That's good. Now I'm strong. No, no, no. Just do it over and over and over. Am I right or wrong? Yeah, thank you. And uh just he does it again, then he'll come back a few days later and do it again, then he'll come back a few days later And do it again and uh it's ongoing. You know that's how God tests us. That's how God strengthens our faith. That's how God helps us develop In our walk with the Lord, we face that adversity. We deal we have to pick that weight up again. We've got to deal with that storm again. We've got to deal with that struggle again. We could go through the gospels And the disciples, over and over and over, they would have to go through the same situation over and over. Several times they got in a boat with the Lord Jesus, storm hits. Oh, oh, carest thou not we perish. Jesus, peace be still. Another time they're out, storm hits. Oh, we're a ghost. And they see Jesus walking on the water. It's a ghost! Oh my word! And Jesus says, Now be of good cheer. It is I And uh over and over they face storms. Over and over they see Jesus perform very similar miracles, make the blind to see, and then again, and then again, and then again And he'd make the lame to walk and again and again and again and he'd heal demons uh devils out of uh out of people. He cast them out And uh then here and then there. What was he doing? The same stuff over and over and over. He was teaching the disciples, he was displaying to them, he was developing their faith Uh in fact in one of the storms he rebuked them. He says, What? Don't you know? Don't you remember? Uh he he fed the five thousand and he fed the seven thousand Later on, he mentions about the leaven of the Pharisees, and they said, What? Oh no, we forgot bread. Jesus says, What? Haven't you learned anything? I've fed 5,000. I've fed seven thousand The whole reason he allows us to go through storms over and over and over again is to develop us. Take this test again. Take this test again. Pharisees Over and over, the Pharisees would come back to Jesus, come back to him. He'd rebuke them. What was he doing? He was teaching the disciples. The same trial, the same adversity, over and over and over again. You say, preacher, when does this end? When do I get some rest from trials and tests? I'll tell you when? When we enter heaven's gates. And then our faith is perfect. And then we'll know even as we are known. And then we'll uh our faith will turn to sight. And we'll no longer need that developed and strengthened. But that's how God works. That's how God works. He tests us. He tries us over again, sometimes the exact same thing, over and over and over. Isaiah chapter 28 verse 10. And then again in verse 13, the Lord says this, precept upon precept, line upon line. Precept upon precept, line upon line. Here a little, there a little, here a little, there a little. What's he doing? Lord says, I'm gonna put you through it again and again And again and again, I'm going to teach you this lesson over and over and over and over so that we grow, so that we grasp it. And we're stronger in our faith. And so, come back with me if you would to 1 Samuel. Here we go again. Saul's back out after David again. Those old Ziphites are ratting David out again Just a few chapters before. We've been through this already. Yep. But God still wants to teach David something. David still has some developing to do. Now look with me if you would, and we're going to have to pick this up uh next time, but look with me if it would at verse number one. And the Ziphites came unto Saul to Gibeah saying, doth not David hide himself in the hill? And I have a hard time with this word, Hakila, which is before Jesh Shimon And here you have, I've broken these four verses down into three points, and we'll end. We'll not get into these. Let me just give them to you. First is the return of the Ziphites' treachery Now we'll talk about the Zippites. They did this before. They treated David wrong before. And then we have the relapse of Saul's cruelty. Saul had promised that he wouldn't be chasing David around no more. Well, that fell through. And then last of all, we have the realization of David's circumstances. And he gets down there in verse 3 and verse 4, and he looks, he says, I'm back in the same situation I was just a little while ago. Here we go again. I'm telling you, maybe you say, preacher, it just seems like God's testing me in the same place over and over and over again. Yeah, that's what he does. He does that. And he tries us. You say, Preacher, I struggle with that same area, that same temptation over and over. And yeah, that's the way it is. God allows that. So we grow and learn and go from victory unto victory. and uh uh take step by step dealing with these. And so I want to encourage you this evening. Say, preacher, it's getting long. It's uh just uh It's just a constant struggle one after another. The Lord's teaching. God's preparing us. God wants to use us. And someday, I believe someday we'll look back and say, you know, that storm was good for me. That helped me The Lord taught me some lessons during that. But we need to stay faithful, just stay focused on the Lord. Get up every day, read your Bible, pray, walk close to the Lord We're not assembling together like we uh need to. We really need to. So it's uh it's urgent for us to stay close to God. Be careful. What you let on that television. Be careful what you get on that computer, what you do with your time. Be careful. And God's challenging us, God's helping us, and God sure will. Let's pray together. Father in heaven I thank you, Lord, for the trials you send. We don't like them at all. I don't. And uh, but Lord, I know that you are sovereign God. And you allow these things. And you said, you promised us that all things work together for good to them that love you or called according to your purpose. So help us to trust you, Lord. Help us to see that. And Lord, when we get through one storm, help us just to stay focused. And then another one comes. Just allow you to teach us there. I ask these things now. In Jesus' name. Amen.