1 Samuel chapter 26 and uh verse number 5 is where we're going to begin reading. We're going to read down through verse number 12. 1 Samuel chapter 26. Verse 5 down through verse 12. You follow along as I read. Ready? And David arose and came to the place where Saul had pr had pitched. And David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner, the son of Nur, the captain of his host, and Saul lay in the trench, and the people pitched round about him. Then answered David and said to Ahimelech the Hittite and to Abishiah the son of Zariah, brother of Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee. And David said, so David and Abishai came to the people by night. And behold, Saul lay sleeping within the trench, and his spear stuck in the ground at his bolster, that means up by his head. But Abner and the people lay round about him. Then Abishiah said uh then said Abishai to David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thine hand this day. Now therefore let me smite him. I pray thee with the spear even to the earth at once. I will not smite him the second time. And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not, for who can stretch forth his hand against the Lord's anointed and be guiltless And David said, Furthermore, as the Lord liveth, the Lord shall smite him, or his day shall come to die, or he shall descend into battle and perish. The Lord forbid that I should stretch forth my hand against the Lord's anointed. But I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his bolster, and the cruise of water, and let us go. So David took the spear and the cruise of water from Saul's bolster, and they got them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it. Neither awakened, for they were they were all asleep because a deep sleep from the Lord was fallen upon them. We've entitled this, actually, this whole pretty much the whole chapter, I've entitled it, Here We Go Again And uh we're going to look so look at these verses here. Let's have a word of prayer. Father in heaven, I thank you for the life of David and uh Lord, the lessons that are learned, so many practical lessons that apply to our lives here and now And I pray you'd speak to us again tonight, dear Lord. Teach us principles from your word and how to live the Christian life, how to live by faith. Lord, if anybody's tuned in that's unsaved, that does not have assurance that their sins are forgiven on their way to heaven, Lord, with all my heart, I pray your Holy Spirit would bring great conviction. And Lord, you draw them to yourself. They would believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved today. I pray that those of us that have been saved, that you would help us to grow in our faith and be more like Christ. Fill me with your Spirit, I pray. I yield my will, present my body anew. Pray that you would be the preacher, you'd speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. What we've learned so far in the first four verses in uh beginning this second round of Saul and and uh King David uh uh encountering each other here Uh we noticed a couple weeks ago that sometimes God will use the same tests, the same trials The same storms, he'll send them to us over and over and over again. God will issue that taste test to us again. You say, Lord, I already took this test. I already went through this. God sends it again David's going through it over and over and over again. First, uh, this test of injustice. Uh first, of course, it's Saul. That's been ongoing. Saul's unfair pursuit of David. It's trying to murder him David's an innocent man. Saul's out after him. It's not right. It's unjust. And then we had the Ziphites. And uh David provided protection for that. He risked his own life and the life of his men to keep them safe, and they turned on him and betray him to King Saul. And so David had to deal with the injustice again and how to respond to them. Then of course we had Nabal not too long ago, the fool, and his actions towards David and his rudeness and attacking David's integrity And how David responded to that, now David's facing Saul again. And so the point I'm trying to make is this, sometimes Uh maybe often God issues the same test over and over and over again to teach us, to develop us, help us get a hold of some truth or some principle. So we already looked at that. The other thing we respond at uh is uh bitterness and hatred in the heart It's a very dangerous thing. We saw that with uh last week with King Saul. He had promised David in very kind words, I'm not going to pursue you. You're going to be king. You're good. We're good. And now he goes back. Why? Because the bitterness may have melted off his tongue, but it never melted out melted out of his heart And bitterness in the heart, two things about that, as I was kind of reviewing from last week in my mind, two things about that. One is bitterness in the heart is very difficult to remove Boy, once it takes root, it is very, very difficult to get it out. In fact, in many cases, we need the help of the Holy Spirit to help us forgive. and uh and uh uh get that root of hatred, root of hatred and bitterness out of our heart. And so it's very difficult to remove once it's there, so we've got to guard our hearts against it The other thing is, once that root of bitterness and hatred gets down in our hearts, it's very dangerous. It's dangerous to the one that possesses it. Uh that heart that is harboring bitterness, that heart that is harboring hatred, that bitterness and hatred does more damage to the one holding it than it does to the one it's focused upon. In fact, in this situation here, Saul's hatred towards David is uh destroying Saul. It's destroying him. We see it as we go each chapter. Saul is getting farther and farther from the Lord. He's deteriorating. Because of that envy and that hatred, that bitterness down inside his heart. On the other side of it, Saul's hatred and bitterness towards David is developing David. David's becomes stronger in his faith. David is, God is using it to develop David's character, his leadership abilities And so those are the two lessons we've we've gotten so far. God gives the same test many times over and over, and bitterness and hatred in the heart. is uh day is difficult to remove and dangerous uh to hold on to. Now, I want us to look here. We get verse 5. We see David's response To Saul's renewed pursuit of David. Saul's back at it again. And I want us to notice how David responds to this. Look, if you would with me at verse number five. He says, and David arose and came to the place where Saul had pitched. And David, what's that next word there? Say it with me. Beheld. Now you at home, I hope you said that. David did what? He beheld the place where Saul lay. He beheld. That word beheld means this. to get a to give clear attention to. So David's not just out sightseeing. David's doing what we might call recon. He's going and finding out. He's got word. He sent some spies out. Yup, Saul's down there. Yep, Saul's out here in the wilderness where we are. So David says, I'm going to go and see myself I want eyes on. I want my own eyes on. I want to see what the situation is. So the first thing I notice here is David's assessment. of the whole situation. David wants to be absolutely clear as to what Saul's intentions are. Now remember, it wasn't too long ago that Saul had promised David that, uh, hey, uh, I'm not coming after you. I'm not going to pursue you anymore. We're at peace. And so now he gets word, and the spies come out and say, hey, Saul's back out here. He's got six thousand select men with him, uh six thousand chosen men That's not a peace party. He doesn't have a peace pipe with him. And David he says, I've got to see this for myself. He gave me his word that he won't be pursuing me. So David's being very, very careful. And he wants to go out and make sure he wants a clear assessment As to what Saul's intentions are, I believe it's important, I hope you'll get this, I believe it's important to make sure I know what I'm getting into before I jump into a situation. I believe it's important that you and I make sure we know what we're talking about before we engage somebody and get involved in something. That's the principle David is doing here. He's following here. Listen, before we Run before we encounter Saul, before we do anything here. Let's find out exactly what we're dealing with. If you would take your Bible and turn with me to Proverbs chapter 18 And verse number thirteen and I'm telling you, and I I'm I'm saying I'm guilty of this uh myself. I hate to admit it But I've been guilty of this. Proverbs eighteen, and look with me if you would at verse number thirteen. Good verse here. Proverbs is so practical. And uh David is being very, very careful. Look at verse 13, Proverbs 18. He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is what? Folly and shame unto him. You know what David's doing? He says, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna react. I'm not going to come to a conclusion as to what Saul is doing until I see for sure and I have a clear assessment. I'm telling you that uh I wish I'd go back some things. I wish I'd go back and just say, you know, uh and uh just find out a little bit more about something, kind of get a better clear assessment of what the situation is uh before I jump on it. And uh David's learning important lesson here. And so number uh number one, David's assessment under that He wants to be clear as to what Saul's intentions were. Then a second thought under that, he wants to be careful how he responds. He wants to be very, very careful. He says, listen, if we're going to engage Saul in this, I need to know where he is. I need to know what his uh uh his strengths are, see if there's any weaknesses there He j he's a military man. He wants to know his enemy. He wants to know what the situation is. And so he wants to be very, very careful how he responds. Now notice I thought there's something interesting here. Verse five. It says David, the middle of the verse, David beheld. He uh paid very careful attention to, he looked at it very clear carefully The place where Saul lay, and Abner, the son of Nur, the captain of his host, now look what it says. And Saul lay in the trench. Now what do you think of? You find you you hear somebody, oh, uh Pastor Mouse out there laying in the trench. What do you think he's doing? What what would that be? I wish I could hear you all talking. I don't know about you, but when I first read that I thought, what in the world uh uh uh this this is what I pictured, he's laying in some ditch, you know, like some soldier digs a trench And Saul's laying down in this hole, this muddy hole or some ditch somewhere. And I thought, that's awfully strange. I said, I'm going to look up that word trench and see how it's used at the time. I found out it's not a ditch at all The word trench there means to be encircled by. In other words, King Saul and Abner, his chief of staff there, is uh is um uh his uh captain of his host. Admiral They're being very wise. They're being very uh strategic and when they make camp, right smack dab in the middle of the camp is where King Saul is And then he's entrenched, so to speak, by the rest of his 6,000 chosen men. They're all encamped around him. And so the whole idea is obvious that if an enemy's going to come in, if David's going to make some sort of counterattack, he's got to get past All these 6,000 chosen men, he's got to get past this entrenchment, this encircled uh this circle around King Saul before he can ever get to King Saul. It's very similar, no doubt, to what the Secret Service does with the President. If you ever see the President in a crowd, if you pay attention, around him at very strategic locations are these guys, they generally have dark glasses. They usually have a hand in their pocket somewhere, under their jacket somehow, and uh they got a little thing in their ear And they're just wa they're watching the crowd, watching the crowd. You know what? The president is entrenched. He's in a trench. He's circled around by these security guys. Anybody gets the president, they gotta get past them first And so David's coming down and he says, I want to see what the layout here is. I want to see what the camp is. I want to see what the situation is. Uh before I get into this. and uh get in over my head. Um and so very very good principle there for you and I before we're gonna engage something, before I'm gonna get involved Before I'm going to confront something, I need to make sure I got my facts and know exactly what's going on. So the first thing I notice here in verse 5, David's assessment of the situation. Second thing, if you would, if you're taking notes, start this down. David's adventure. I tell you, David, David has guts. I'll tell you that. He runs out and takes on a giant, just a young man with a sling. He slays tens of thousands of Philistines. I mean, this guy is valiant, no doubt about it. And look what happens here in verse 6. Then answered David and said to Ahimelech, once he's gotten a clear assessment of what the situation is, yep, Saul's out after us, no doubt about it. He's very strategically in camp And David says, hey, tell you what, hey Ohimelech, hey Abishai, son of Zariah, brother to Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul in the camp? And look, Abishai says, I'll go down there with you. Now we're going to look at Abishai here in a little bit. He's an interesting guy. And David and Abishai came to the people by night. Um smart, and behold, Saul lay sleeping within the trench, and his spear stuck Now a couple of commentators I read about that. They said that was pretty typical where the king was, they would put a spirit That way all the military, the soldiers, something come up, they knew where the spear was, they knew exactly where the king was, kind of identified his location. And so uh uh the spear uh struck in the ground by his bolster, but Adner and the people lay round about him. So here we have David is going to encounter Saul. He says, let's go. He's got an adventurous spirit. Now, the first time David and Saul encountered each other Uh David was pinned down in a cave, if you remember. David really didn't have much choice. He was hiding there, and uh King Saul comes up into the cave right where David's up against the wall, no doubt, in the dark shadows and there's King Saul and so he cuts off the uh corner of his skirt there his garment and uh and goes on. This time it's a whole different uh arrangement Uh David, Saul isn't un unknowingly walking into David's presence. David is proactively Going down to where Saul was. He's being very proactive about it. David is taking the initiative. And And so we have David's adventure. Then second, thirdly, I want us to notice this. Notice David's advisors. Now this is where this guy, Abishiah, comes in. Look at verse number 8 with me. Then said Abishiah to David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thy hand this day, now therefore let me smite him I pray thee with a spear even to the earth at once, and I'll not smite him the second time. Abishai saying, listen, let me add him Let me I'll hit him one time and he's done. We won't have to we can be out of here and uh he won't even know what hit him. He'll be dead before he knows it. And uh Abishai is an interesting guy. Now I call uh here we have David's advisors. David's assessed the situation. Uh he's taken this adventurous Down into there, they see where St. Saul is, they flip past all those other soldiers, they get right up to him, and Abishai's chomping at the bits In fact, remember back there in verse 6, he says, Abisai said, David said, Will you want you guys go down with me? Abasai, I'll go with you. I mean, he's just ready to roll. He gets down there, let me kill him, let me add him This Abishai guy is an interesting fellow. It would be a good study sometime just on Abishai. He's David's nephew. He's the son of David's sister. And so he's close family. He's very loyal to David. We go work through the life of David, Abishai will show up several times, and he's tremendously loyal. And as you can see here a bit, he's very valiant. He's a very courageous man. He's not afraid to get after it. He's not afraid to jump right into the middle of something and get going with it But there's there's one flaw in Abishai's character, if you want to call it that, and that is this. He is very impulsive. He's very impulsive. Later on, we're going to see. That's going to cause David some trouble later on down the road a little ways. Abishai, he uh sometimes Abishai acts before he thinks Do you ever know anybody like that? I don't think there's anybody in our church ever does that. But uh some people sometimes they'll they'll act they'll jump into something before they really think it through. Abbotise a little bit that way And what I want to take away from this is even good loyal friends sometimes give bad advice. Even somebody we trust, somebody very close to us, a close friend, we need to be very, very careful. This is what I'm trying to say. We need to be very, very careful Who we allow to influence us, whose advice we take. We must be very careful about that. If I've got a good friend here, somebody close to me, maybe a loyal family member. And they advise me to do something that is contrary to the will of God. I must remain faithful to the will of God. You say, oh, but preacher, I'll lose the friendship. I'll lose the relationship with somebody. Listen, uh they may be a wonderful person, they may be uh, in many ways, a wise person But if their advice is contrary to the will of God, I must stick to the will of God. David knew what God's will was concerning his actions towards Saul. David's actions towards God's will for David's actions towards Saul was very, very clear. You don't touch him. You don't touch him. And now you have Abishai advising David to do just the opposite of that. And David says, no, we can't do that. We need to be very, very careful. Here's what David's learning. He is learning to put the will of God over the word of man. Tell you there's there's some things out there. People have some vice sometimes on the surface. Boy, that sounds awfully good. This would solve all my problems This would things settle down, I could get on the throne, no more running out in this wilderness. But God says, don't touch my anointed And so I'm telling you the best thing to do every time is to follow the Word of God, even if everyone in your life is against it The best thing to do is stick to the will of God, the word of God. David's learning that. Last of all, real quickly, I want to notice David's advancement. And this gets encouraging here to me. Verse number nine And David said to Abishai, destroy him not. Look at this. For who can stretch forth his hand against the Lord's anointed and be guiltless? And David said furthermore, look at this, as the Lord liveth, the Lord shall smite him, or his day shall come to die, or he shall descend into battle and perish. Now, where do you think David learned that God will carry out his vengeance on David's enemies? Where do you think he learned that from? Anybody take a guess? Nabal. David saw firsthand how God can and will take care of David's adversaries. Boy David got mad. Nabal insulted him. Nabal attacked him. called him m made uh uh called him names, said terrible things about David. David got hot under the coward, man, he got married. I'm gonna go down there. I'm gonna kill Nabal. I'm gonna kill his wife. I'm gonna kill his whole household. And God intervened through Abigail. Remember? And David learned a powerful lesson. He learned that God can deal with my enemies better than I can. And David is saying to Abishai right here, wait a minute. I'll put in my words. David's saying, wait a minute, I learned my lesson on this. I saw firsthand that I need to let God take care of this. I need to let God deal with this. David is advancing in his development. He's becoming a man of God. He's becoming a godly leader. And learning to trust God and put things in God's hands and let God deal with these things and just follow his words. Let me give you three statements And then we'll end. One, principles must govern my actions, not opportunities. David had an opportunity to take out his enemy. But there's a principle here that applies. Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. I will repay. David says, hold it It's a great opportunity to deal with King Saul, but I'm going to operate on principle. I'm going to get like God deal with them. One way or another, God's going to take care of this. So he left his kept his hands off of it Operated by principle, not by opportunity. And the second thing I notice here that I want to leave with you: God can deal with my adversaries far better than I can. Far better than I can. David learned from his experience with Nabal. God can take care of this. God can do it in his way, in his timing. And it'll all work out just fine. Listen, I don't know what's going on in your life. Maybe you have an opportunity to do something that on the surface looks like it would solve a lot of problems. But if it's contrary to the will of God, if it's contrary to the word of God, I want to urge you to trust God. Trust God. Be patient. Wait on the Lord. Let the Lord deal with it. I've said this hundreds and hundreds of times over the years. I have never regretted waiting on God. I have never regretted putting something in God's hands and letting Him deal with it in His way in His time. I tell you, it's a wonderful thing to live by faith. And David is learning that. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we ask now you'd bless us. I thank you for again the life of David. And please teach us, Holy Spirit, help us. To incorporate into our lives these biblical principles of living by faith, trusting you, and allowing you to lead us and direct us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.