We started looking at this passage last week, last Wednesday night, and just kind of gave some introductory thoughts. Verse number one, 1 Samuel 26, notice what the Bible says. And the Ziphites came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Hechitlah, Hechelah, which is before Jesh Shemon? Then Saul rose and went down in the wilderness of Zeph, having 3,000 chosen men of Israel with them to seek David in the wilderness of Zeph And Saul pitched in the hill of Hatchetla, which is before Jashimon, by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness. David therefore sent out spies and understood that Saul was come in very deep. Entitled the message, Here We Go Again. Now we looked at this last week and I pointed out, uh we we considered uh thought that God will often, we see this through Scripture, and many of us can testify this in our own lives, God will often use the same test or the same trial, the same storm over and over and over again to help us develop our faith, to help us learn and grow in our spiritual life. We notice that in the Gospels. The disciples found themselves on at least a couple times in the midst of a storm with the Lord Jesus Christ. And uh they saw at least twice that Jesus was able to calm the storms and calm, he could speak to the waves and the winds and uh had authority over them. And so why would he do put them through that twice? Well he wanted to teach them, he wanted to ingrain that in their hearts and minds They saw the Lord on numerous occasions make the blind to walk and forgive sin. And several times they saw him raise the dead. And uh. So God will sometimes be repetitious in the methods he uses to develop our faith and develop our growth Uh we looked at Jesus' temptation of the devil. It wasn't just one time, it was uh one, two, three times, uh over and over, and uh teaching us, you know, that uh one victory uh does it mean that there's no more battles. And so uh here we go again. So here is David. He's already been chased by Saul for many, many months. He's Already been through a very similar situation what we read in this chapter, and he's going through it again. Now I want to look here at uh some verses particularly and start working our way down through this chapter But first let's have a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless our study tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you for the Word of God and what amazing man David uh must have been as uh so much of the scripture is um is dedicated to recording his experiences as a young man and uh then later as king of Israel. And then Lord to be uh uh have the the throne that Jesus Set will sit on in the millennial. Named after him. What an amazing, amazing thing. So teach us from the life of David, Father How you developed him, how you're preparing him for the kingdom, for the to be king. Lord, show us, help us to learn and see your hand And what you're doing in our lives and how you're testing and trying us so that our faith will develop, so our witness will become a more powerful witness Our walk with you would be closer. Fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord. Speak through me. I yield my will. My body is always. I just pray. that you would uh be the preacher tonight. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. First thing I want us to notice here in verse number one is the return of the Ziphite's treachery The return of the Ziphites' treachery. Now this is the second time they betrayed David a couple chapters earlier. Uh David had actually protected them from uh the Philistines were invading the land. He had provided uh uh safety and security for them, and in return They went to Saul and said, hey, David's right here, you can come and get him. And they betrayed David after his kindness to him. And uh they were uh uh treacherous in their treat uh in their um treatment of David. And we and if you remember, we we we pointed out That important part of being a successful Christian, important part of uh living the Christian life is being able to deal with the unkindness and the unfairness of other people. It happens And so David is learning that. David is learning. Now here they are again. And these Zephites are back betraying David. They're going to Saul. If you notice there, the Zephites came unto Saul and Gibeah. Say it does not. Does not David hide himself in the uh hill of Hechillah uh there? And and uh they go find Saul and they say, Hey, we know where David is. They're ratting them out. Now I got thinking about that. Why in the world would what in the world would motivate the Ziphites to treat David this way? I mean, he had been nothing but kind to them And so I mean we're not told the Bible doesn't tell us what their motivation was, so I can only speculate, but I wonder if maybe their thinking is this. They be they thought David had no chance against King Saul. They they maybe in their minds they thought, you know, one of these days Saul's going to get David. He's going to kill him. I mean here he's got Uh 3,000 chosen men, Saul is bringing down with him, chosen men. This is an elite force. 3,000. That's a lot. David has, you know, 600 men, and these are guys that were in debt, and these were guys that were disgruntled, you know, and so uh the odds here, humanly speaking, are definitely in Saul's favor. That's five to one. So maybe the Ziphites are thinking, you know, David is David is dead meat. David is cooked. He's no way in the world he's coming out of this alive. And we want to be in favor with the one that comes out on the top side. And so they're throwing their lot in with Saul. And they're thinking Saul's gonna uh be the one to uh that's gonna come out on top of this. However, if that's the case, if that was their motive, and I don't know, it's pure speculation, but if that was their motive, um I would uh uh if that's their motive, here's the problem they have. They failed to factor in God's anointing of David. In other words, their failure was, their mistake was, they left God out of the picture. They left God out of the picture. The world has been predicting the demise of the church for centuries, hundreds, thousands of years. Um the world has been uh saying, you know, the church has gone down, there'll be a day uh, you know, uh there'll be no more Bible, we don't believe that and all that. They've the world has been predicting the the demise of the church for many, many years. However, the church still stands. Matthew chapter 16, verse 18 the gates of hell shall not prevail against the church. The gates of hell shall not prevail against the church. The Ziphites can betray David all they want to. David is still going to be king. Because God had anointed him. God had ordained David will one day be king. He promised David that. And so the Zippites can use all the treachery they want. They can betray him as often as they want. They're on the wrong side. And uh David is going to be king. Um and uh Saul can pursue David all he wants. He can chase him to the ends of the earth. Saul is not going to prevail. David is going to be king. God had so ordained it. No devil, he can fight the church and he can try and do everything he can. to destroy the church and bring it down, but I'm telling you, the church will prevail. So the rapture and God calls us out of here. The old world uh can uh uh do what they want, they can say what they want, they can persecute the church, they can uh they can martyr Christians, they can imprison the people of God all they want But the church is going to stand. The church is going to stand. The world is on the uh on the losing side in this. And uh Uh this old flesh this old flesh fights the our spirit so much and uh uh but in the end uh the Lord comes out on the top side. So uh And so we have the return of the Ziphites testimony. Again, I'm speculating on their motives, uh, but that could possibly be it. And whatever the case is, David's going to be king. There's no doubt about that. Then the next thing I noticed in verse 2 and the first part of verse 3 is the relapse of Saul's hatred. Now first of all, we had the return of the uh uh Ziphite's treachery, the second time they did this. Now we have Saul relapsing back into this uh this attitude of hatred towards David. If you remember just a chapter or so earlier, Dav Saul is promising David, Oh, David I was wrong and and uh I'm not gonna pursue you anymore. You're gonna be king. I and uh he gave all these wonderful uh promises to David. Uh however Here we see that Saul's, not only is Saul's word unreliable, David could not trust what Saul told him, but his heart is unrepentant. You know, it's one thing to say I'm sorry, it's one thing to say I was wrong, to simply lip it. It's another thing to have a change of heart about it, it's another thing to have a repentant heart And Saul, in the moment of David's kindness that he showed him previously, Saul made all these promises and lift all these promises. But as we suspected at the time, and we see now to be true, that hatred and that bitterness was rooted in Saul's heart. His uh envy beat started as envy. Uh so I David. He was envious of David's popularity And that envy because it was tolerated, that envy because it was not dealt with and and forsaken, confessed and forsaken, it morphed, it grew into hatred and bitterness And now that hatred for David, that bitterness for David, is taking root down in Saul's heart, and he can say whatever he wants to until that heart condition is addressed. Nothing's going to change, and we see that's the case If you would, take your Bibles with me and turn to Hebrews chapter number 12. Back in Hebrews, we're going to look at a few verses here in the New Testament. And my idea is this, is uh I see here uh on the surface, Saul is uh is uh repentant on the surface. Oh, I'm sorry, David, I was wrong, I won't do this anymore. Uh you're going to be king. But down in the heart, uh, that's a whole nother story. Look at Hebrews chapter twelve. And notice with me, if you would, verse number 14 and 15. Hebrews 12, verse 14 and 15. Verse 14 says this. Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord. Now look at verse 15. Looking diligently. Now, what does he mean by looking diligently? He means you've got to watch out for this very, very carefully. This is something you've got to take very, very seriously. Looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God Now he's not talking about losing your salvation. He's talking about uh uh coming short of of showing the grace uh that God gives us to being gracious Many men fail with the grace of God, lest any look at it, read it with me, ready? Root of bitterness springing up trouble you thereby many be defiled. Paul here in writing to the Hebrew believers, he's bringing up the subject of having a root of bitterness. Now he says, look diligently. He says, Listen, my brethren, listen. You claim to be a child of God. You claim to be under the grace of God. You claim to know Jesus as your personal Savior. You've got to be very, very careful that you do not let hatred and bitterness take root in your heart. And he says, why? Lest any root of bitterness springing up. Trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. That word defiled there means this: to be contaminated, to be polluted, to be stained. And the idea is this: listen, if I allow bitterness down in my heart, if I allow hatred in my heart to somebody, whether they hurt me, real or imagined injustice unto me And maybe it's out of envy for someone, and it becomes hatred and bitterness. If I do that, the Bible says many, many people have been defiled by having that condition, having that in their heart. And what does he mean by defiled? I think he simply means this, made useless, of no good, uh actually become harmful to other people. Notice here how it's worded here, and and uh after I got studying this, uh one word stood out in my mind. He says, looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up Trouble you? That's Saul, no doubt about it. But notice who it troubles. What's that say? Trouble who? You. Notice the the idea here is this. If I allow bitterness and hatred in my heart towards somebody Whether they did me wrong in reality or I just imagine they did me wrong, if I allow that in my heart, I'm the one that gets troubled by it. I'm the one that's messed up by it Uh somebody uh Ann Landers, uh columnist for newspapers years ago, some of the older folks might remember, uh, but she made a pretty Significant statement. She said this hatred is like acid. It can damage the vessel in which it is stored as well as destroy the object on which it is poured. What is she saying? She's saying what this verse says right here. If I allow bitterness in my heart like Saul did, If I tolerate this root of hatred and bitterness in my heart, it's going to trouble me. It harms me. Your heart and my heart are not equipped. To carry bitterness. Our hearts, our spiritual hearts, our spiritual soul is not designed to harbor bitterness and hatred. And when we allow that in there, when we allow it to spring up, it harms us. It messes us up. Let me show you a couple other verses real quick. If you would, go to 1 John. We're in Hebrews, James, 1 Peter, 2 Peter, then 1 John And a couple verses here throughout the book of 1 John, he touches on this matter of hatred towards other people. And just as Saul had this hatred towards David And it troubled Saul deeply. It hurt David, sure. And there's people who actually died because innocent people died. But notice what 1 John chapter 2 And look with me, if you would, at verse number 8. I'm going to read down through verse 11. 1 John 2, verse 8. Again, this is John writing to the believers. Again, a new commandment I write unto you. Which thing is true in him and in you. Because the darkness is past and the true light now shineth. Now look at this. He that saith he is in the light, and what? Hateth his brother is in what? In darkness. He's full in himself. He goes on, he that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes. Doesn't that describe King Saul His hatred for David has blinded him, and he doesn't even see what he's doing to himself. He doesn't see what he's doing to his nation Blinded. If you would come over to chapter 3 of 1 John and notice verse number 14. 1 John 3, 14. Know we uh we know that we have passed from death unto life. Because we what? Love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death Verse 15: Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer, and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him. Some strong language here. Some strong statements coming from the Word of God. If we have hatred in our heart, we are in darkness. And look over, if you would, in chapter 4. And verse number 19, 1 John, chapter 4, and verse 19. We love him because he first loved us. If a man say, I circled the word say in my Bible, if a man say, I love God. And he hateth his brother, he's a what? Liar, say it with me there at home. He's a what? A liar If a man says, I love God, and he hateth his brother, he's a liar. For he that loveth not his brother, whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him, that he that he who loveth God love his brother also. I couldn't help but think That song Brother Chester Science sings. Sometimes we have fingerprints and I think he sang it here as specials. If you don't love your brother, uh now he can sing it better than I can, but uh if you don't love your brother, you don't love God. And uh that's exactly what the Apostle John is telling us under the inspiration of God. And we come back to 1 Samuel and we find that King Saul uh uh absolutely has a root of bitterness, this root of hatred. down inside his heart and soul. And he's back at it. Doesn't matter what promises he made, doesn't matter what statements he made to David, doesn't matter what he may have acknowledged David's anointing, that David's going to be king That bitterness is an acid burning in his soul, destroying his life, and uh ruining, ruining uh everything he touches. So the first thing we noticed in verse one, the return of the Ziphites' treachery. Then we notice the relapse of Saul's hatred, which is there all the time just boiled up again. And then last of all, real quickly, I want us to notice a realization of David's danger. Look with me at the last part of verse 3 And the last part. But David abode in the wilderness. Now he's been doing that. He's no dummy. He's learned. He knows he can't trust he can't trust King Saul. So he's staying back. He's staying out in the wilderness there. And he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness. He no doubt had his uh uh well we see here, he had his spies out. And uh he says, What's Saul doing back out here? Why is he leaving Gibeah, coming out towards Wear? Verse 4 And David therefore sent out spies. And aha! Saul was back uh back at it again. Uh and uh and he understood that Saul was come in very deed. I can hear David saying, All right, here we go again Here we go again. He's back at it again. And uh David realizes that this danger has not passed. David learns something here. He learned probably pretty early on. He learned this. He needed to keep his eye on Saul. He learned that he needed to be aware of his enemies. He needed to know where they were, he needed to know what they were doing, and he needed to know uh what they were up to as best as he could determine. So he sent these Sauls out, he sent these spies out, says we gotta keep our eye on Saul. We need to make sure what's he up to, what's he doing? Now I want you to I want to go to a verse, and I'll end with this. Come with me back to 2 Corinthians chapter number 2. Just like David was wise enough to keep an eye on his enemy and know what his enemy was up to, you and I need to be wise also. 2 Corinthians and chapter number. 2 and notice with me verse 11. I have this verse underlined in my Bible. Now the context here, Saul is writing to he had written to the church at Corinth. There was a fellow there that was living in wicked, wicked sin, and he told them they needed to confront this guy. They couldn't just tolerate this. It needed to be dealt with And uh lo and behold, the church at Corinth did exactly what Paul instructed them to do. And uh they dealt with it. The guy repented of his sin. He made things right, and uh now Paul's writing to him, and he's saying, Listen, you need to forgive this guy. And notice what he says in verse 11, lest Satan should get an advantage of us. Now look at this last statement: for we are not ignorant of his devices. Now the context here, Saul is writing to the church, says, listen, you need to forgive this guy. Don't hold this against him. He's repented, he's confessed, he's forsaken it, he's made it right. Alright, we need to forgive him. Because if you don't Satan gets the advantage because we know how Satan works. We understand his devices. The word devices there means methods and plans. How he goes about accomplishing what he does. And Paul is writing and he's saying, don't can I put it this way? Don't be stupid when you're dealing with the devil. You need to understand how he works. You need to understand what he's up to. Just like David, he needed to keep his eye on King Saul because Saul was a danger to him. He needed to watch and find out where he is, what he's up to, how he's about it. You and I need to watch our enemies. We need to understand Satan's devices. Now, I give a word of caution Do not obsess over the devil. Some people see the devil behind every bush and every little, oh, the devil this, the devil that, the devil made me do it. Now listen, the devil's real. We don't want to obsess over them, but we don't want to be stupid about them either We need to know how he works. We need to know God's word. What does the Bible teach us about this devil? What does the Bible teach us about Satan? We don't want to be ignorant of his wiles, of his devices. Same thing with the world. We don't want to obsess over the world, but we don't want to fall in love with the world. We need to keep an eye on this old world, society. And uh, you know, we live in s we were just talking before uh a couple folks earlier, uh saying how, you know, this old world says it's all right You can go to the liquor store and buy liquor. That's safe. That's uh safe. You can do that. Oh, you can go get abortions. Oh yeah, that's all safe. But you can't go to church. Now, wait a minute. You know, we just have to be aware of this whole world's attitude. A lot of Christians falling in love with the world, a lot of Christians dancing with the world. And uh David wasn't dancing with Saul. David didn't fall in love with Saul. He was gracious and kind to him, but boy, he kept his eye on him. He was watching, he was aware of what it his movements were. And that's the way to we need to be with this world. We don't want it to creep into our church. We don't want the world in our hearts and homes. We'll see how that works. And then same thing with the flesh, our own sinful flesh. We need to study ourselves a little bit, not uh be self-centered We don't want to obsess over ourselves in one extreme or the other, but we do need to know what our weaknesses are. I think it's important for Christians to know what our besetting sins are We need to know what this flesh is, uh, what its weaknesses are, and where uh where we're vulnerable uh in this, and we can't be dumb. And David wasn't dumb. He sent out spies, he checked out the situation, he knew exactly what he was dealing with and what needed to be done, and that is what you and I need to do in the spiritual warfare that we are in, in dealing with the devil, the world, and the flesh. So keep hatred out of our hearts. If there's some envy there, if there's some bitterness down your heart, if while I'm preaching this somebody's name or somebody's face comes to mind. You better deal with that because it'll trouble you. It will corrupt you. It will pollute your testimony. And it'll hurt you, just like it did King Saul. And we need to be aware of this whole world and the devil and our own sinful flesh. And don't be ignorant there and keep our head up. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to help us on this. Father in heaven I pray we'd learn from Saul's horrific bitterness and hatred. I pray we'd learn from David's wisdom and help us to grow. Help us to be so careful. And stay close to you and not allow these things to be true in our hearts and lives. And Lord, if somebody's tuned in and they're not saved, oh God, have mercy. I pray that you could bring great conviction of sin and they would turn to the Lord Jesus Christ and believe that you died for them and rose again and that if they'll just call on you, they'll find forgiveness and salvation from sin in hell. And so please, Lord, save souls, revive Christians, help us to make things right, get our hearts in tune with you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Well