Two verses of this chapter. And as far as I can tell, this is the last interaction between David and King Saul After this conversation that we're going to look at, as far as we can tell, they did not interact again on earth. Verse 21 says this, begins this way. It says, Then said Saul, I have sinned. Return, my son, David, for I will no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thy sight, in thine eyes, this day. Behold, I have played the fool and have erred exceedingly. David answered and said, Behold the king's spear. Let one of the young men come over and fetch it The Lord render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness. For the Lord delivered thee into my hand today. But I would not stretch forth mine hand against the Lord's anointed. And behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes So let my life be much set by in the eyes of the Lord, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation. Then Saul said to David, Blessed be thou, my son David, thou shalt both do great things, and also shalt still prevail. So David went his way, and Saul returned to his place. I've been titled this whole chapter. Here we go again because this is the second round of David and Saul, of David exercising restraint on Saul. and not taking his life when he could have. And so Saul comes back again, and uh we looked at that. So let's have a word of prayer and we'll look at this last few verses of this chapter. Father in heaven I thank you for the life of David and the the impact this study has had on my own heart, my own thinking. And I pray you would help us to grow through our study of David's life, particularly this portion of his life where so unjustly treated and unjustly pursued, and his response and the lessons he's learned. So help us, teach all of us. I yield my will again, Lord, as always, at this hour I present my body anew to you for your Holy Spirit to speak through me every one of our hearts and lives, every situation we find ourselves in, every interaction we have with others. I pray you'd help us to learn from this and to be like Christ and be spiritually mature in how we interact with others. So again, fill me, Lord, with your Spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. Saul has been pursuing David all over the wilderness, chasing him up and down the countryside. Saul's motive For pursuing David and trying to kill him. His motive was simply personal envy and bitterness. We have no record that David ever did King Saul ill or wrong in any way, shape, or form. So his motive was simply personal envy and bitterness, and we looked at that. I got looking for accusations that King Saul was able to make against David. And you know, I got looking through there, reviewing back what we've already looked at And not one place do I find that King Saul is making any sort of accusation of David of insurrection or of of uh of uh David being unjust or a threat to him in any way physically This is just cold-blooded murder that King Saul is pursuing. He wants to murder a man that everybody knows is innocent of any charges. And so uh his success rate so far, uh, King Saul's, not so high. Uh other than uh harassing David uh all over the countryside and he did kill a few innocent people earlier, uh uh the priest there, he killed a bunch of innocent people in his pursuit of David But as far as his ability to take David out and destroy David, he's failed on every hand. Now what about David? David has successfully eluded Saul. He's escaped every attack. He's escaped Saul's pursuit. In fact, while he is fleeing from Saul, David is actually helping other little villages and protecting them from threats. And in the midst of his own trials, in the midst of his own difficulties, David is still, and I had one little glitch there with Nabal But David is still being a help and a blessing to others, even in the midst of incredible difficulties for himself. You know, I got thinking about that That is an indication, that is an indicator of spiritual maturity, even when my heart is breaking, even when I'm going through storms, to be able to lend a hand to someone else and be a help and blessing to someone else Our tendency is to whine and cry and complain about terrible things are for us and fail to see what I'm able to do for others And yet David was able to do that in the midst of all of this. Now he did his bit of complaining to Saul, no doubt about it, but he helped others. He protected uh towns and and gave of himself to others. And what's happening here is we say this over and over, David is being developed by God for a future position of leadership. He is learning lessons, and we're seeing that as we go through. Now we come to this last time, Saul and uh David uh had opportunity to say take saul's life. He said, I will not do it. If you remember, he took the uh the spear from uh beside where Saul was sleeping. comes back, he confronts Saul about it, he rebukes Saul uh scripturally, rebuke King Saul, and now Saul is responding. And I want us to notice in verse twenty one Through to verse 25, Saul's remorse. Now let me give you the outline so far that we've been working our way through. The first point in this chapter was Saul's return Saul came back after David after he said he would not. Then we had David's response, that was verse five through twelve. And then David's rebuke, verse thirteen through twenty-one. And now we're here at the last part, Saul's remorse Verse 21 through 25. As I said, as far as I can tell, this is the last time David and Saul interact in any kind of personal way that I can find in Scripture. And so I use the word remorse. We're going to look at this here in a little bit. Saul's remorse. I did not use the word repentance. Saul was very remorseful, but I do not believe that Saul was repentant in his actions towards David. Now, there is a big difference between being remorseful, having remorse, and being repentant Somebody talk to me now tonight. What does it mean to be remorseful or have remorse over something? Somebody help me out. What would that mean? Alright, sorry. First thing we think of, we talk about remorse is, oh, I'm so sorry about that. Oh, I'm so sorry I did that. Oh, what what else? Anyone else? Uh remorse. How about would you feel guilty? Feel remorseful, I feel guilty about that. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm ashamed. Boy, that's embarrassing. There's some regret that would be involved in remorse. Oh, I wish I hadn't done that. However, what is repentance as opposed to remorse? Repentance would be what? Anybody want to take a shot? A change of mind, a turning, a change, a redirection. You know, it's possible to be very sorry I did something, or sorry I got caught doing something, or be embarrassed by what I did, and yet stopped doing it. Right? There's a world difference between that. I believe King Saul here was very remorseful. If you would, take your Bibles with me and turn to the New Testament, 2 Corinthians. And chapter number seven. Second Corinthians chapter seven. While you're turning there, I put this down. Remorse is the pain of a guilty conscience. You did something wrong, you know it was wrong, you got caught, and oh you you feel bad, you have the pain of a guilty conscience. There may be shame or embarrassment. Oh, I can't believe I did that. That's so embarrassing. Um it may be the conviction. Of a guilty conscience. And just get convicted about it. Remorse. I put this down. Remorse, I believe remorse would be an initial stage, initial step towards repentance. But it comes up short. Repentance is often preceded by remorse over what I did. But remorse does not always lead to repentance. Everybody follow what I'm saying? Everybody with me? Alright? How many people are glad it's not snowing out? Amen. Praise the Lord. Um so uh repo re remorse is perhaps an initial stage toward repentance. It's it's leading up to it, but It doesn't necessarily equal that. It may not always lead to that. Whereas repentance, as we said, is a change of mind. It's a change of heart. It's a change of attitude. And you know what I found out? I found usually if I change my mind about something, it changes my actions towards it. Right? Usually a change of mind results in a change of behavior. Years ago I had killed a snake down in Texas with an axe handle. Come on now, you guys are slow. It was a big rattlesnake. And I killed it with my bare hands with an axe handle. Boom! And that's a true story. If I ever tell a story that's true, I'll point it out. That is a true story. And I beat that thing. I'm trying to think why I'm telling the story And uh I killed that uh uh rattlesnake and the ranch we had we had to cut the head off. I wanted to leave the head on, but they had to cut the head off, brought it back, uh scun it out, and we brought the meat of the snake back with us Yeah. I mean it was five and a half foot long. It was a big snake. And we brought it back and um we saved it for the wild game dinner. Yes. And the whole time and and my son, my youngest son, was said, Hey, I'll cook that. I'll come up there. I'll cook that thing for you. So Dan came up and he cooked the wrestling. And the whole time I'm thinking In my head, I'm thinking, man, that thing is going to taste great. Eat a rattlesnake. You know, be a man. Eat a rattlesnake. And uh I thought, this is going to be great. This is going to be so good. I took one bite of that. It was terrible. It was yuck. And uh my attitude, my thinking about the snake changed, and I've never eaten a rattlesnake since then. And my silly illustration I'm trying to point out is when we change our mind, our attitude about something, generally it changes our behavior. Everybody follow that? You agree with that? So repentance is a change of attitude, a change of mind. I'm looking at it differently. I'm thinking of that sin differently than I did before, and it produces a change in my actions. Let me illustrate what I'm trying to say. You're driving down route 68. You're not paying attention and you are screaming. Next thing you know, you're hitting 90-95 miles an hour Now Ed was telling me about this, and so uh no not really. But uh you're flying down there, you come around a corner, lo and behold, there's the state trooper sitting in the median, right in the middle, and he lights them up as soon as you come around the corner. Oh my word, you pull over, I'm a Christian, I've got Mountain Lake sticker on the back of my car, and um pull over, the guy comes up and uh he tells chews you out a little bit and uh he says, All right, and uh how many people would think you're a little embarrassed by that? How many people would Yeah. I people s wish oh I wish I wasn't driving ninety five miles an hour. Yeah, especially when you get a five hundred dollar fine And uh, oh, and you're remorseful about it. I wished I hadn't done that. Oh, it was terrible. And it's you pull out and the policeman goes back around. As soon as you're over the hill, back up 90 miles an hour again Is that repentance? No, you're remorseful. You felt bad about it at the moment. But as soon as the threat was over, as soon as there was consequences of that behavior appear to be gone. Right back at it, right doing the exact same thing again. And so that's what I'm saying. Remorse falls way short of repentance. You know how repentance responds? Got pulled over, the police and says, What are you nuts? Are you going to fire? What's going on? Oh, I'm sorry, man, it's embarrassing. I'm a Christian and oh, you know, you're right. I was wrong. I sinned. I was speeding, you're right All right, listen, here's ticket, $575 court fees. There you go. Oh man. And you he goes back, pulls in, and you pull out, and you say, I'm not speeding like that again I'm gonna follow the law. I'm gonna follow the speed limit and go right on. That is repentance. You see the difference? One, as soon as there's a threat up here uh it looks like oh there's no Consequences, right back at it, right back at it. I'd venture to say most of us are guilty of that in some ways, in one way, shape or another Oh, we do something, we said something, oh, we feel bad, and then it really doesn't change our behavior too much. That's what King Saul is. David could could have killed him twice now. Twice. David could have defended and claimed self-defense and been humanly justified in killing King Saul and defending himself. Because Saul's got to kill him. But twice David restrains himself, does not do it, spares Saul's life. Twice Saul says, oh, I was wrong, I was wrong, oh boy. And uh and goes right back. Saul was very remorseful every time he got caught, every time uh the consequences caught up to him, but as soon as that changed, he's right back chasing David again And so I use the term Saul's remorse because I see little or no repentance. Look with me at 1 Corinthians chapter 7. Look with me at verse number 9. Paul, in writing to the church at Corinth, addressed this very subject. He says, Now I rejoice. Now you remember there was a lot of sin in the church there. He wrote to them, rebuked them. They were very remorseful and they were repentant. And the church made things right and they dealt with the sinful issues going on in the church. And Saul's writing to them, Paul I should say, is writing to them, and he says, verse 9, now I rejoice not that you were made sorry. That's the remorse. But that ye sorrowed to what? Repentance. Oh, they were not only guilty, they not only felt bad about it, they're not only ashamed of it But they changed their behavior, they changed their whole attitude, they turned. But that ye sorrow to repentance, for ye were made sorry after a godly manner. That you might receive damage by us in nothing. Look at this next statement. This is a classic. For godly sorrow worketh what? Repentance. Repentance to salvation, not to be repented of, not to go back, but the sorrow of the world worketh what? Death. For behold, this selfsame thing that ye sorrowed after a godly sort, what carefulness it brought in you. Yea, what clearing of your sails, yea. What indignation, yea, what fear, yea, what vehement desire, yea, what zeal, what revenge. In all things ye have approved your you have approved yourselves to be clear in this matter I mean they were convicted, they were sorry, they were remorseful, and they repented. I didn't go back to that. I'm not going back to that. We're not going to act that way anymore. We're not going to behave that way anymore. And Saul commends them for that. Paul, I should say, commends them for that. We come back to King Saul, and oh, he has remorse. Oh, he's sorry, he's sorry. But there's little indicator that there's any repentance taking place here. Um it's interesting And this is speculation on my part. But had King Saul genuinely repented Genuinely repentant. Now, obviously David doesn't believe he's repentant. He sees the remorse. He doesn't believe he's repentance. Read David's response there. Uh he he's he's not seeing much repentance. He's hearing the right words, but he's not seeing a change of attitude. Now I got thinking, suppose King Saul had repented Sincerely, genuinely, and changed and said, David, listen, and brings David back, reinstates him to his right-hand man, his chief of staff, whatever title he had. How differently things might have turned out in chapter 28. Does anybody know what happens in 1 Samuel chapter 28? Look ahead there, little note little titles at the top of the page, they'll tell you. Something happened to King Saul. Something happened to Jonathan. They were killed by the Philistines. And I got thinking, what if King Saul had genuinely repented of his sin of envy and bitterness and hatred, attempted murder? What if he had genuinely repented? reinstated David back to his position, I wonder if there hadn't been a different outcome. If David, the best warrior he has, the best military strategist in Israel had been by King Saul's side and helped him in this battle against the Philistines. I wonder how differently things had turned out. But you know what the problem was? Saul had too little, too late He he realized his fault. I think he generally realized his faults. We're going to see that. He doesn't fully repent And godly sorrow worketh repentance, but sorrow of the world, Paul told us in 2 Corinthians, worketh death. And Saul's King Saul's thony repentance is shallow remorse I think was a factor in the his death at the hand of the Philistines. That perhaps could have been a different outcome Um plus another factor, and we'll look at this when we get there, but another factor may have been he's been running his military ragged all over the wilderness chasing David. Now they face a legitimate enemy, and I wonder if he just didn't wear them out. and they're not prepared to fight the enemy and they're defeated. I don't know. But we have saw we have King Saul's remorse here Now, under that, his remorse, I notice first of all, in verse 21, real quickly, his confession. He makes a confession. In fact, it's a threefold confession Then said Saul, look at this, I have what? Sin. So his first confession, this threefold confession of his, and by the way, all three of these are correct. He's true in what he's saying. His first confession is this: I have sinned. I got studying the word sin there, looked it up, the word it comes from, and it has this idea to miss the mark. It's kind of like uh you're shooting bow. I like the bow hunt. You're shooting bow and you're aiming at that bullseye and you miss the mark. Or in some cases you're shooting at a turkey and you miss the turkey completely. Like some people I know. And um but uh uh it has the idea of missing the mark. You guys don't have much of a sense of humor tonight. You're all just staring at me. I'm having fun, I don't know about you guys To miss the mark, to come short of what is expected of me. So I think when King Saul said, I have sinned I think he's saying this, man. I did not live up to what I know I should have been. I've sinned. I put it this way: I should have been better than this. I should have been better than this. Anybody here, can anybody here relate to that? You ever have a situation, circumstance, got in when it's all said and done, you think, oh, I should have been better than that. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? I think that's what King Saul's saying. I've sinned. I missed the mark. I'm a king of Israel. I'm one of God's people. And man, I should have been better at this. I know better than this. How many of you agree? That's a pretty good confession. Yeah. I think he meant business. I think he was genuinely remorseful. Over what he had done. Then he says, look here, first he says, I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I will know nor do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thy sight. Look here, here's his second confession. Threefold confession, this is the second. Behold, I have what? What's he say there? Look at your Bible. What's it say? I have Play the fool. You know what he's saying? I was stupid. First he says, I've sinned. Then he says, I was stupid. The word played the fool there has this idea to act foolishly, of course. I've played the fool, I was stupid. We could easily go back and look at different events in Saul's reign as king and Saul's administration where he played the fool. I won't take time to look at all of them, but I do want to point a few out. Help us understand maybe what he means when he says I played the fool. King Saul played the fool numerous times. Once is back in chapter thirteen. We don't have time to go there, but there is where Samuel, the prophet, had told King Saul, I'm going to meet you at a certain place, and we're going to offer up a sacrifice. Samuel, of course, being the prophet, functioning as the priest. Samuel was the only one authorized to offer this sacrifice up to God. They were going to meet at a certain time. So King Saul shows up, and the days go by, and finally the day for the uh sacrifice comes and goes, and Samuel never shows up. He was delayed. He was unable to get there on time. And Saul impatiently responds. And Saul says, well, if Samuel's not here, I'm going to offer it up myself. Bad thing to do. And he presumes upon himself, he takes upon himself the right to approach God as a priest, and King Saul is not a priest. You know what he acted the full? Impatience. And I suggest this. I think the Bible teaches it pretty clearly. Impatience is foolish. Be impatient. Anybody here ever do something and say, boy, I wish I'd have waited that out a little longer. I wish I'd have thought that through a little better. Wish I wouldn't have been so quick on that. King Saul played the fool when he was impatient. In chapter 15, we have another example of King Saul playing the fool is when uh God told him to wipe out uh uh the um uh who uh t to kill the king, uh Ach Anakin and um uh let's go back there get these names right Back from chapter 15, real quick. God had told them to kill them all, just wipe them out, the enemies. And um I'm I have eye surgery coming up uh for a cataract on my right eye and then later on and so yesterday I was at the eye doctor and she was asking me, Listen, do you have diabetes? You know, have you had a stroke And and one of the questions, she says, um, uh, do you have a do you do you have trouble with your memory? I said, I I don't recall. Uh So she got a chuckle out of that. I thought it had these names out. 1 Samuel chapter 15, and um they're told to um uh verse one uh help me out here now. Amalek, uh uh uh uh Amalek. Go kill Amalek the king, destroy all the sheep, everything. Don't keep anything. What'd King Saul do? He spared the king, he spared the best of the flocks. What was that? That was partial obedience. He did partly what God said, but not completely. You know, it's foolish when we only partly obey God. It's foolish when we only partly obey God. And so he was foolish in his impatience, he was foolish in his impartial obedience, and he was foolish when he became envious and bitter of David. So day uh Saul says, I played the fool, I was stupid, I sinned, I was stupid. Then he says a third third full third part of this confession. He says, I've played the fool and have erred exceedingly. What does he say? I've strayed away. That word aired means to wander off track. To wander off. And then he says exceedingly. In other words, I'm just putting this in my words. He's saying this. Man, I messed up bad. I got way out of whack. Man, I was out of whack on that thing. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And Saul is confessing And uh I think he he's he's right on everything he says here. And he's very, very remorseful about it. Now repentance, uh it's questionable But he feels bad. I've sin. It's interesting this round when David spares life. Saul's a little bit more more accurate in his assessment. I have sinned. The previous time or when uh in the cave, uh all Saul said then was, hey, I'm you've been more righteous than I He never mentioned any sin. So this time he says, I've sinned. I've played the fool. I've erred exceedingly. And then number two, we have David's commitment. I like this. Look at verse 22. And David answered instead. It's kind of interesting. He doesn't address Paul Saul's confession. He just kind of doesn't even respond to that. I think he's very, very skeptical. And David answered and said, Behold the king's spear. Remember, he took his spear. He says, Let one of the young men come over and fetch it. So David's saying, Listen, I'm not holding anything against you. The Lord rendered to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness. So he appeals to God to deal with this whole situation. For the Lord delivered thee into my hand today, but I would not stretch forth mine hand against the Lord's anointed. He repeats this statement over and over and over. And behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of the Lord, and let him the Lord Deliver me out of all tribulation. I think when he's saying all tribulation, he's talking about Saul. Saying, I'm trusting God to deal with this I'm not going to touch you. I am not going to stretch my hand forth against you. You are the Lord's anointed. I'm going to let God deal with this. He learned his lesson with Nabal. So David has this commitment that I am not going to touch the Lord's anointed. And he displays this consistently. One of the major characteristics, I believe, of an effective leader is consistency. We want a leader to be consistent, yay or nay. It's hard to follow somebody. You don't know if they're coming or going. You don't know what direction. They're going this way one day, and the next day they're going that way. David is consistent. One thing we know David is not going to do is he's not going to touch the Lord's anointing. It doesn't matter what the circumstances are. He's consistent. That is a characteristic of good leadership. Whether it's in the home or in a class or a church or a government, military, whatever, a business, consistency. I believe consistency is a characteristic of successful Christianity. An inconsistent Christian is going to have a hard time growing and being successful in the Christian life. It is required of stewards that a man be found what? Faithful, in his place, doing his thing, doing his job, consistent. That's what God looks for us. That's what God expects from us. Faithfulness, consistency. I like, it happens occasionally, but somebody will be in the uh this happened some time ago, somebody Who grows up on our bus ministry or they're here as a kid, up through their teen years, and you know, over the years we had a lot of people come through the buses and different things. And every now and then we'll have somebody that came as a child And then they'll come back and maybe they'll have their own children and they'll say something to this effect. They'll say something like, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is the same now as it was when I was a kid And they mean that in a complimentary way. We haven't changed. Consistently using the same King James Bible. Consistently preaching the same gospel, consistently holding to the same standards, consistently reaching people with uh reaching the loss with the gospel, consistently reaching uh sending out missionaries around the world. Consistency is incredibly important in leadership and in the Christian life and in Christian service. The kids that came here when they were five years old Down in children's church or whatever, and they heard the gospel, when they come back when they're 25 years old, they ought to hear the same gospel. Ought to be the same message. Sticking to the old book. So David is is developing tremendous leadership characteristics here. He's developing tremendous spiritually mature characteristics, and one of those is consistency. And then last of all, we have Saul's confession Look at verse 25. Then Saul said to David, Blessed be thou, my son David. His concession is what I mean. His concession. Blessed be thou, my son David. Thou shalt do great things, and also shalt still prevail. I don't know. There's a there's a there's a hint of defeat on King Saul's part in my I hear that. David, uh, you're gonna do great things. You're going to prevail. No matter what I do, you're going to come out on top, David. Saul concedes. He concedes. The problem is it's too little, too late. Oh, if only Saul would have adopted this mentality way back when Jonathan confronted him about his treatment and attitude towards David. If only Saul would have adopted it when Jonathan first confronted him, how differently things could have turned out. I'm glad he conceded. Maybe he got things right with God before he died. I don't know. But it's too little, too late. Saul made his bed and he's gonna have to what? Sleep in it. He made his bed, he's gonna have to sleep in it. This is the last time they interact. Saul only has a short time left. He doesn't know it at this point. He doesn't have long here on this earth. Too many times people press on in their sin till there's no escaping the consequences Does God forgive our sin if we confess it? Yes or no? Yes, God's faithful and just to forgive us our sins. But we better be careful. We press on and press on and press on in it Comes a point when those consequences for our actions, though God may forgive us, those consequences become overwhelming. And though forgiven, have to deal with consequences. Saul's story is a tragic story. Now we're studying the life of David, but Saul is such a factor In David's development, that we need to look at Saul and learn what we can from him. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would help us. Lord, to be consistent in our Christian lives. Lord, when we sin, help us to go beyond just being sorry, but be repentant and turn and change and make things right. I pray that you would help us to nip that sin, that attitude, that action, that habit. Help us to nip it in the bud, not let it go on like King Saul did, and then end up having to deal with the horrific consequences. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many this evening would say, preacher, I want to be consistent. And it's a challenge for all of us. But how many tonight say, preacher, I need that. I need to work on that. Being consistent in my walk with God. Any like that? Consistent in my witness. Consistent in my service. Consistent in my Bible reading. God bless you. Hands all around. And that's a lifelong endeavor. That's just a constant thing we have to work at. Now I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand on this, but I want to throw this challenge out. I wonder how many of us have something in our life we know it's wrong, we know it displeases the Lord, and oh we're sorry, we're embarrassed, but we never really repent. We never really just take it seriously and say, I'm going to turn this thing around. I'm going to get it right. I'm going to stay after it and repent. God knows our hearts. We know And we need the Lord to help us. God, grant unto us repentance. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed. James.