Someone that heard that song just now and you might be thinking nobody in the world loves you, nobody in the world cares about you. I'm here to tell you the God that created you and I, the God that created this whole everything that exists that knows us better than anybody in the world. He loves us more than we can even understand. And what amazing truth. He loves us more than anyone in this world will ever love us. So here's the point. I was thinking while she was singing Nobody can ever claim to be unloved. Nobody can say, nobody loves me. That is not true. There is a God. Thank you, Jennifer. That was a tremendous song. If you would, take your Bibles, turn back to uh Luke chapter number fourteen while you're turning there. Uh brother somewhere asking Brother Mark, he got called out emergency at work or something. He had to slip out and so you're blessed by my song leading. And uh what a joy it is. And uh it's nice to have somebody that knows what they're doing for a change. Um no I'm kidding. Mark does a great job. Luke chapter fourteen. Uh we were able Thursday, we had our fingerprints um uh ministry here. We're able to assemble over six thousand five hundred Roman booklets. Isn't that fantastic? And uh they'll get uh cut and boxed up and they're gonna get shipped down to Central America along with uh many others we're gonna do throughout the year And they'll get distributed in little villages and cities and towns all down through Central America, different countries, different areas, people you and I will never meet in this lifetime will receive the booklet that we assemble with our fingerprints on and they're going to read the plan of salvation. I have no doubt many, many of them will uh uh believe on the Lord Jesus and be saved and someday we'll meet them in heaven. Won't that be an amazing thing? And so we praise the Lord for that. It's been quite a productive week. We did the 6,500 plus on Thursday. Yesterday we went down to um uh Piedmont area and Western Port Kaiser. We gave about 2,000 gospel tracts yesterday distributed down there. We had a great time. Everyone that was involved in that, we have some real nice pictures We took a little group picture there, and so we have those for everybody that was able to go yesterday, see me, and I'll get you one of those pictures there. So uh 6,000 Romans booklets, 2,000 gospel tracts plus whatever was given out We praise the Lord for the privilege of uh being involved in um evangelism and the word of God. Luke 14, if you would look at verse number 23. I'd like for us to read this together here, verse 23 And read this together in unison. Luke 14, verse 23. Everybody ready? Here we go. All together. And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in that my house may be filled. I want to speak this morning on highways and hedges Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, thank you for good service. Lord, I'm grateful for folks that uh uh ventured out on a little um uh little messy day out there weather-wise. We uh We're glad to be in your a nice warm building and uh comfortable here. Now I pray that you would use your word to speak to our hearts. Lord, if we're too comfortable in our spiritual life, I pray you'd provoke us a little bit and press us forward, stretch us Get us out of that comfort zone, our faith can grow. I pray, Lord, if there's someone with us this morning that does not know for certain down in their heart That their sins are forgiven, that they have a home in heaven when they die. I pray that today you'd provoke that one to believe on you and get that matter settled and not risk another day without Christ. Lord, to do all this, I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And God, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask you to speak through me. And help us leave here today a little clearer in our mind who you are and what your will is for our lives, a little stronger in our faith, and Lord, a little closer to you in our relationship. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. It's not a secret. I very much enjoy hunting and fishing. I think I enjoy fishing a little more than hunting, but um I'm not a uh an expert at either. Uh but I have found out That in those two areas, one of the keys to being a successful hunter or a successful fisherman is being aware of the circumstances around, being aware of the situation. My father um was the one that taught me to hunt, he used to say for years, and he was never a real avid hunter, but he enjoyed it as a hobby He used to always say, oh, uh it's just a matter of being in the right place at the right time. Anybody ever hear that statement? You just it's just And almost it was just a total chance, just fate. You just have to happen to be in the right place like time. I got thinking about that. I thought if I could figure out where the right place is And when the right time is, I might have a better chance of actually succeeding and bringing some some meat and put it in the freezer. And that that is true. Uh being aware of my circumstances, being aware of the opportunities around me. For instance, is this a good location where deer might be, or is it a poor location Is this a good time of day, the middle of the day or the evening, the morning? And finding out what those things are and then responding to that And reacting to that will help me be more successful. I believe that thought is true also in business life, in our financial life Some people have the attitude financially, well, you just have to be in the right place at the right time. Uh, you know, I'd never be very successful financially. It's just if it happens, it happens. If it doesn't, it's not, and there's nothing you can do about it. I don't believe that's necessarily true I think if we can figure things out, if we can work hard, use our money wisely, find out what to invest in and what not to invest in and what to buy and what not to buy and when to buy and what to invest Uh what I should a good be a what would be a good investment, what wouldn't? I don't think investing in eight-track cassette cakes would be a good investment in this day and age Um and you know it's just not smart. You gotta look at the opportunities. You gotta be aware of the situation. Um I was talking to my son and We were doing something about I said mentioned something about CDs, you know, and and uh uh recordings and and recording CDs. He said dad Uh some of you will figure out which son said this. He said, Dad, nobody uses CDs anymore. I said, they don't. I'm still got cassette tapes I'm listening to and uh he goes and no it's uh and they don't use CDs anymore. Anyway, it has nothing to do with the message. I just thought of that. But it's true in business if you pay attention You do a little research and find out what is good, what is bad, what to get involved in, what to stay away from, maybe where uh the opportunities are, um uh you'll be more successful. It is true also in life So many people go through life, especially in the spiritual aspect of their lives, they just kind of like, whatever. Just whatever happens, happens. They really don't pay much attention. They really don't give much thought to their spiritual well-being. They really don't think very much about whether I have a relationship with God or not. And I hate to say it, a lot of people don't even think much. about what's going to happen after death, whether I'm going to heaven or hell. It's just whatever happens, happens. I mean it all the time. Knocking on doors to talk to people about the Lord Jesus. Do you know for sure if you're going to heaven when you die? Ah, who knows And that type of mentality produces losers every single time. If I don't get involved, if I'm not aware of my circumstance, if I'm not aware of uh of my situation. There's a lot of people investing their lives in losing causes. Just like there's hunters sit out there in locations where there aren't any deer And there's fishermen fishing in in locations. There aren't any fish. And there's people investing their money in losing causes. And here's the point I'm trying to make. There are people who are investing their lives in losing uh causes. They're not given any thought. Is this what I'm spending my time and my life on? Is there any value to this? Is there any spiritual benefit? Is there any lasting value to this The fact is, we live in very violent days. You agree with that or not? If you watch the news, you have to be aware of the fact we are living in perilous times. I'm hearing more and more, as past the church, I'm hearing more and more the importance of churches establishing a security team or whatnot in the church simply because of threats being made towards Christians here in the United States of America. We live in violent days. We live in days of corruption Not just political, but in the business world and even in the religious world, religious corruption, you need to be very, very careful who you're going to tie into as far as a spiritual leader These guys on TV and a lot of the best-selling books, you need to be very, very careful about that. There is corruption in the religious world. There's corruption in the political world. There's corruption in the business world. We live in a very violent, corrupt, dishonest, uncivil day. How many people like me are sensing that society is becoming more rude all the time? Unkind, hateful, angry. I mean everywhere you go. And that is the world that we live in. And if we're not careful, we get in this mindset of what I was talking about, we just think, well, that's just the way it is And there's really not much you can do about it, and there's really not a whole lot. It's just you have to if something good's gonna come out, you just have to be in the right place at the right time. Listen I'm here to tell you, in spite of all the corruption, in spite of all the uncivility, in spite of all the violence going on and the wickedness in our world, God is still saving souls. God is still working in people's lives. God is still changing lives. He is still giving people peace in their hearts and purpose in their life. And we need to understand that when we live as we're living our lives, I've got to stop and think, what am I really living for? Am I living a life that's in line with the will of God? Do I know that my sins are forgiven? Am I a recipient of God's grace? Am I where God wants me to be? When I was by the time I had reached the age of 19, and I'd say this so often, but I made such a mess of my life. And I'd shared this on a number of occasions over the years, but uh was my father and I living together um and uh he would go off to church on Sunday mornings. He would come in. I'm I'm like fifteen years old in that range. And uh he'd go off the church. Before he'd go to church, he'd come in and say, Son, let's go to church. I ain't going to church. And it's just ugly. And uh so he'd go off the church, I'd stay home And he'd be off. I made such a mess. I was probably 16, maybe 17 at this point. But when he was off at church, I'd wake up and I'd have the house to myself. I tell you, I was uh my life was so empty and my heart was so empty and I remember so uh vividly I was talking to my my wife last night about this again. I would go down and we had a dresser and we had all a a cabinet in the in the dining area and uh we had we had all these pictures from when I was a child And his dad was off at church and I was there by myself. I'd been up all night long, just out carrying on. I get all these little pictures out of me as a small child, and I'd had them all, I can remember many occasions, have them spread out on the floor there in the dining area. And I would just cry and cry and cry. And I would pray and say, God, if I could just somehow go back and be a child again. And I wish so badly I could just go back and start over and try again and live a life that was just not so messed up. I would pray something like this, God, if I could just be born again. If I could just go back and start over and live a new life. And that was my view of life, that it was just so empty. And I'd messed it up so bad. But I began reading my Bible, and my daddy'd been praying for me. And I began reading my Bible. You know what I found out? I found out I could be born again. Now I wouldn't go back and be a little child again. But God could forgive me of all my sin, and God could give me a new life, eternal life. By simply accepting Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. I could be freely forgiven. I began praying, God help me, God help me, God Please help me. Then of course, May 7, 1979, 1039, I bowed beside my bed and I called out on the Lord for salvation. Jesus Christ came in my life. And I'm here to tell you this morning, Jesus Christ saves souls. And those that come to Him in repentance and faith and trust Him as their personal Savior, God forgives their sins and He gives them a new life, He gives them eternal life. I can testify to that firsthand, He's done it for me. And all across this auditorium, people who could stand and testify the same thing. God gave me new life. God gave me eternal light by trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. And that is the key to life is understanding the opportunities that are there. Let me go back to my opening illustration. You're out hunting and you're looking and there's nothing there. There's nothing in that area. Don't just sit there and say, well, it's just be in the right place way to no no no go and find where the right spot is go and find when the right time is listen your life is empty your life is purposeless your Your heart is filled with sin. You're lost and you know it. Don't just sit and stay that way. There's an opportunity to be saved. Find Christ. Go to uh the Word of God and trust Christ as your Savior I believe that's what this parable here, the story, I believe, the Lord is telling us here about this great supper. There's an opportunity for people to come and partake of this supper, and people respond in different ways. And so let's look at this here, and I see three illustrations, three Three areas about salvation the Lord illustrates in this story that Brother Grant read a little bit ago about this great supper. First thing I want us to notice, number one, is the availability of salvation The availability of salvation. This certain man makes a great supper. He invites all these people to come to this supper. The supper, obviously, is an illustration, a metaphor for salvation. God inviting people to come, to trust Jesus their Savior, and have their sins forgiven, have a new life in Christ, have a home in heaven. And so I notice the availability of salvation. Notice with me verse number 16, if you would. He says, Then said he unto him, this is Jesus speaking to this fellow that responded in verse 15. A certain man made a what? Great supper. I underlined that phrase in my Bible. A great supper. That phrase great supper has this idea. I did a little study on that. Has this idea, a powerfully abundant supper. A supper that was more than enough for anybody that would be there How many people love to go to all you can eat buffets? Oh, mercy. I love them. In fact, it's scriptural. Paul said, I buffet my body in Corinthians. Now if you're not familiar with the Bible, it doesn't really say that, but it looks like it says that. This this Great Supper is kind of like what you and I might call a buffet. I mean there is more food there To me, when I go in a buffet, it's kind of like a challenge. You know, it's a competition. Oh you can eat. Oh yeah. And uh uh and that's the idea behind here. This is a supper that is super abundant More than enough you could possibly meet everybody's needs. Come down to verse 22. Now a series of events takes place. People have been coming and going. A lot of people have been invited. It's some time later. And in verse 22, he says this. And the servant said, Lord, It is done as thou hast commanded. And look at this last statement. And yet there is room. Now, a lot of people made excuses, never showed up. But a bunch of people did come, a lot of blind and halt and lame, and there's been a bunch of people at this supper come and going, and yet there is room. And I think the whole point the Lord is trying to make in these statements here is when it comes to this matter of salvation, there is plenty of salvation to go around for everybody. No re I think this is interesting. I was studying this. Excuse me. As I was studying this, it dawned on me Remember when Jesus was born? Now some of y'all weren't there, but when Jesus was born in Bethlehem When Joseph and Mary showed up, the Bible says that they look went to an inn to find a place to stay, and there was what at the end? There was no room at the end. Now they had room for some people. The place was filled. No doubt there was room for businessmen. No doubt there was room for a bunch of religious people. No doubt there was room for a lot of different types of people, but they had no room for Jesus. And that is a perfect testimony of the world's attitude all these years. The world has room for everything else in the world except Jesus Christ. The world will tolerate all kinds of things. The world will tolerate adulterers. The world will tolerate drunkards. The world we're in a world that tolerates terrorists for crying out loud They won't tolerate Christians. They won't tolerate the Lord Jesus Christ. And the world is very limited in its room available for Jesus. But turn that around and I'm here to tell you, Jesus' salvation has plenty of room for everybody in the world. The world turns Christ away, the world turns the Christians away, but Christ never turns lost sinners away There is room enough for many. Ah, maybe I'm talking to someone here this morning. You have no room in your life for Jesus Christ You have no room in your schedule for the Lord or the things of God. You have no room in your love for God. You love everything else in the world, but there's no love for the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no room for the Lord Jesus Christ. But I'm here to tell you Jesus Christ has room for you. Salvation is pl abundantly available. Nobody is turned away. So there's room in salvation. Millions of people. I like this phrase here. It says verse 22. He says, yet there is room. Talking about salvation. For 2,000 years, millions of people have come to the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation as Savior. We were down in New Zealand just a month ago and we've been talking about this. I'm still getting reports. Just yesterday I got reports. I guess it was Friday because Friday is for us is Saturday for them. Friday I was getting reports uh churches that we were preached in down there got stirred up. They were out uh on their Saturday giving out tracks, seeing people saved. For 2,000 years, people have been getting saved by the millions and millions and millions and millions. And you know what I found out? God still hadn't run out of salvation. There's still room for more. In spite of the millions that have been saved, uh millions have found forgiveness and new life and deliverance from sin. There's a teaching that goes around in some circles and it kind of makes uh gets popular and then it'll fade out and gets popular, but the teaching goes around. Uh many people refer to it as Calvinism Calvinism teaches one of the primary aspects of Calvinism is God elects some people to be saved and some people to be lost. And God chooses certain people who are going to be saved, and whether they want to or not, or whether they're aware of it or not, God's going to save them. Some point or another they're going to come and God's going to provoke them and move them to trust Christ. And they really don't have a whole lot of free will of our own. God elects and predestines who's going to be saved, and others God elects and predestines they're going to be lost. And and uh they're going to end up dying and going to hell. And I'm oversimplifying it here a little bit, but that's the concept behind it that God has certain people who are going to be saved. God has certain people who are going to be lost, and we really don't have a big choice in the matter. Listen, I'm here to tell you the Bible salvation, there is room for everybody to be saved Nobody's left out. Take your Bible if you well let me just quote John chapter 6 and verse 37. Jesus made this statement, He that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. There's not one person on planet earth that comes to the Lord Jesus Christ to trust Him as Savior, God won't say, oh no, you're not elect. Oh no, there's no room for you. When Jesus Christ died on the cross, he died for the sins of the whole world. Every single person can be saved. Now, here's where I'd like for you to turn to with me, if you would turn to First John. Keep your place here in Luke, but if you would turn to First John and chapter number two. First John chapter 2. Of course, John is writing to uh Christians for the most part, but he makes a statement here in 1 John chapter 2. Verse number one, he says this, My little children. Everybody there? Everybody find it? 1 John? If you haven't found it by now, just look intelligently at your Bible, and nobody will know you haven't found it Verse number one, first John chapter two. My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye what? So you can mark this down, this is a little aside. You can mark this down. It's God's will that we do not sin. Right? My little children, these things write unto you that you sin not. So one of the reasons he gave us the Bible is to help us not sin. And if any man sin, now my will is that you don't sin, but if you do. We have an advocate with the Father. We have somebody that stands on our behalf before the Father to plead on for our plead our case for us. We have an advocate with the Father. Who's that? Jesus Christ the righteous. And he is the propitiation for our sins. Now he's writing to folks who have been saved. Folks who have trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior, that matter is settled. And he says, listen, I don't want you to sin. It's not my will for you to sin. If you do sin, we've got an advocate that stands before God, Jesus Christ the righteous And he is the propitiation for our sins. Now that's a big word. But it simply means this: He has done what is necessary to satisfy God's holiness for your sins, to cover your sins. It's already been paid for. It's already been dealt with. He is the propitiation. He is the payment for our sin. He is the one that satisfies God's concern about our sins. I am glad that once I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, even if I do sin, I do not lose my salvation. Now God does not want me to sin. If I continue in sin, if I don't deal with it and confess it, he'll chasten me, he'll correct me and get that work, he'll work on that But I do not lose my salvation because I have an advocate with the Father. He's the propitiation. He makes sure that my sin is dealt with as far as God's judgment is concerned. Now, the next statement is what I'm wanting to get to. And he is the propitiation for our sins and not for ours only. But also for the sins of the what? Whole world. Now, he is not teaching here that the whole world is saved But he is teaching this, that every sin that the whole world, every person the whole world commits, has already been paid for. Jesus Christ has already died for every sin that ever has been or ever will be committed It is available for everybody, the availability of salvation. Nobody is left out. Nobody is undied for. No sin is unpaid for. Say, well, then why doesn't everybody go to heaven? Why isn't everybody saved? Because God leaves the option up to us whether to accept that payment, to accept what Christ has done for us, or to reject it. And that's what salvation is, simply believing on the Lord Jesus, putting my confidence, my hope, my trust, receiving what He has done for me, receiving it to be true about myself. And so what I'm trying to say is, and what I believe this passage in Luke is teaching, is that salvation is available to anyone and everyone. There's not one person you and I are going to meet, whether we're giving out gospel tracts. Yesterday we spoke to thousands, we went to thousands to doors and and people and gave out gospel tracts. Not one of those people would be turned away. They would come and trust Christ as Savior. All their sins are paid for. All paid for. All is freely available. All they need to do is come and accept what Christ has done for them. The availability of salvation. So there's room in salvation for other people. Now I've tacked a few others on here. I want to put this down. There's room in the baptistry. You say, wait a minute, preacher, God wants everybody to be baptized. Yeah, he wants them to get saved and get baptized. In other words, every single person that trusts Christ as Savior ought to get baptized. Nobody's excluded. There's not one saved person. The Lord says, no, you shouldn't get baptized. Every saved person ought to get baptized. I like what Charles Spurgeon called the Baptist tree. He called it the liquid tomb. The liquid tomb, you say, what in the world's a liquid tube? Bury with him in baptism When we get baptized, we're simply identifying the fact that I've trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, and now I want to be identified with the fact that He was, I was crucified with Him, I was buried with Him, and I'm risen again as far as God's concerned. You see that? And so, God, if you've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, God wants you to declare your faith in him. Let it be known, I've trusted Christ. and follow the Lord in baptism. In the New Testament, people got saved, they got baptized. They came out and out for Christ. I'm not ashamed of the fact that Jesus Christ has died for me, was buried, and rose again. I've accepted that and identify myself as a follower of Jesus Christ. If you're here this morning and you've been saved, you've not been baptized, there's room in the baptistry for you. Still, there's yet room. Baptism is a first step of obedience The new Christian. You say, preacher, why do you emphasize baptism so much? Because this, the very first instruction that God gives to a new believer is that we are to be baptized, identify as a believer in the death, burial, resurrection of Christ And that establishes a pattern of trusting that what God says is so and obeying him. And that is what spiritual growth is. That's what Christian growth is. Trusting God and following his instructions. God teaches me and shows me something I should or shouldn't be doing. I trust him in that matter and I follow his instructions and I grow in my faith. And baptism is that very first step for a believer. I believe I've accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. What does that mean? Alright, he wants me to identify with him in death, burial, and resurrection I trust him, I'll take that step of obedience. And it establishes a way of thinking, establishes a pattern of Christian life of trusting God and obeying Him. Does that make sense? So I'm saying there's room in the baptistry. Every person that's saved ought to get baptized. I put this down, there's room in the local church Every person ought to get saved, baptized, be a part of a local church. In Acts chapter 2, verse 41, the Bible says this, and they that gladly receive His word were baptized, and the same day there was added unto them about 3,000 souls. They got saved, baptized into the membership of the the church. They got baptized and they became a member of the church, added into, joined into. So God wants every person to be saved. Be baptized into the local church, a member of that church, part of that church. It's one thing to attend a church, it's another thing to be a part of that church. In Acts chapter 2 and verse 41, it says they received his word, they declared to receive his word, were baptized, and added to. The word added to there has the idea of joining in, becoming a part of. And so there's room in salvation for whosoever will. There's room in the baptistry for those who trust Christ. There's room in the local church for those who have trusted Christ and been baptized. And number four, I put this down, there's room in Christian service. There's room in Christian service. You never have too many soul winners in a church. I've never been to a church. The preacher says we got a problem, Brother Letterman. What's the problem? We got too many people witnessing What are you talking about? God wants every single church member to be a witness. God wants every single church member to be involved in a ministry. There's never too many soul winners. There's no m never too many people involved in reaching others for Christ. When I was down in Chattanooga, it's part of a big church there, when I was in Bible college, and we gave out tracts uh profusely. And they had a large church, they had a office of evangelism, and you had to go there to get your tracks. They didn't have a track rack. You'd go up to the office of evangelism and you'd dance for tracts and they'd give you a little stack And so we're going up there, we're all fired up, we're giving out tracks and and uh every uh like every other day we're going up, can we have some more tracks? And she goes finally one day the lady said and she was all serious, she was a little irked, she says, You guys are giving out too many tracks We said, how can you do that? So there's room in Christian service. You read the book of Acts, you find every single person in that New Testament church went everywhere preaching the gospel to everyone. You know what you had in the book of Acts? You had every member going out, young people, teenagers, adults, senior citizens, little kids going out telling people about the Lord Jesus Christ. We studied the church at Thessalonica. You know what Paul said He says, I can't even go in that area. Everybody there knows about Christ because y'all have been telling everybody all the time. And so what I'm trying to say is, church members, there's room in track month for you to get involved. There's still room for every church member to have a ministry and serve God. Would to God we had 50 bus routes going out. Every car, a bus ministry. Bringing in people into church. Would God we had Sunday school classes in the barn and in the mission house and in the lawnmower shed and on the playground And so there's room in Christian service. How many people recognize the name Titanic? Titanic is a tragic, tragic event in history. And one of the tragedies of the Titanic was this. When that thing started going down, they got the lifeboats out. And there was not enough room in the lifeboats for everybody to escape that sinking ship. There was not enough room. Enough room. What a tragedy to have people say there's no more room for you to get in this lifeboat. You're going to drown and die. I'm here to tell you this morning, God never says that to anybody. Nobody comes to Christ for salvation and God says, sorry, there's no more room for someone to be saved. You're here this morning and you're not saved. I'm here to tell you, if you'll come to Christ, God will save you. You're here this morning, you're saved, and you want to come out for Christ, you want to be the Christian God intention being to say, I want to be baptized, I'm here to tell you there's room for you to get baptized. Say, I want to be active, faithful in the church, living for God. I'm telling you, there's room for that. God never turns people away. God never turns people away. He that cometh me I will now wise cast out. So the first thing I notice here in Luke chapter 14, the availability of salvation. The second thing I notice here is the urgency of salvation. Look with me, are you back there? Look with me in Luke 14. Look at verse 21. Verse 21 he says, So that sermon came. And showed his Lord these things. Then the master of the house, being angry, said unto the servant. Now what happened here was, you'll recall, the guy went out, tried to find people to come to this great supper, this huge buffet And they made excuses, oh I just got married, oh I just bought some octane, oh I just bought some land, I can't make it, I got this, that and the other So he comes back and he says, hey, I invited everybody, but uh they all made excuses. And the the uh the uh um uh the lord of the house says he gets ticked. Then he goes, all right. Then look what he says. He said to his servant, go out quickly into the streets. That phrase, go out quickly, has this idea. It's used to describe when you draw back a bow and you have that arrow and you release that arrow When that thing goes off of that string, that's the phrase used here to go out quickly. It would have the idea of a bullet leaving a barrel of a gun. It has the idea, it's also used to describe somebody fleeing a very dangerous situation. For instance, there's an explosion in the house, the house is burning, and they're getting out of the house as fast as they can That phrase, go out quickly, implies a sense of serious urgency. He is saying to his servants, you get out there and you get out there fast. Like a bullet out of the barrel of a gun. You get out there and find more people. You get out there and tell more people about this great supper available. In fact, if you would, look at verse 23. He says that he puts it this way. And the Lord said unto the servant, Go out, there it is again, go out into the highways and hedges, and what? Compel them to come in That word compel has this idea. It has the idea of almost like taking somebody against their will and restraining them and bringing them in. It's almost like the idea, it's not this strong a word, but it's almost like the idea of kidnapping somebody. Go out and find them, tie them up, and bring them in But there's a sense of urgency here. It has this idea. You don't offer him any other choice. You go and you invite him in here You're not going to take no for an answer. You are going to compel them, do everything in your power to get them in here to this supper. I'm telling you, the Lord is very urgent on this matter of souls getting saved. God is very serious in this matter of getting the gospel to lost people and doing everything we can to get them to trust Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. The most important issue in life is a soul salvation. Matthew chapter chapter 8 and verse 36, the Lord Jesus put it this way: what shall it profit a man if he gains the whole world? But loses his own soul. I was reading this morning in Ecclesiastes a little bit in my personal devotions. In Ecclesiastes, over and over it makes this statement. Under the sun, without God, just living for this world, not giving God any thought, not even thinking about my standing with God or my spiritual well-being. Just live in this life here. He says if that's all you're living, if all you're living is just for this world and the next day and whatever you can get out of it, if that's your whole life, then everything is vain. It's meaningless. It's valueless. You die and you go out into eternity with nothing. And Jesus says, what shall prophet a man? He gains his whole world but loses his own soul. You know what he's saying? He's saying the most important issue in life is this matter of a soul salvation. Yesterday we gave those gospel tracts out and we had a lot of fun. It really is a lot of fun doing these tricks. But as we were giving them out, I got thinking, how much we really realize how serious what we're doing is to the Lord. How earnest God is that lost people hear this message and believe that message and their souls be saved from eternity in hell. He died for them, he gave his life for them. And we had a lot of fun, and that's fine. I'm not criticizing what we're doing with this faith, but God takes this very, very seriously. It is very urgent in God's mind. This matter of getting the gospel out, getting out to others. Why is the sal why is salvation so urgent? Our own personal salvation and getting it to others. Why is it so urgent? I put a few reasons down real quickly. One, I put it, uh, I put put it uh uh salvation is urgent because Salvation is waiting. This meal here, everything was done. It was all prepared. There's nothing more to be done. Listen, when it comes to the matter of salvation, nobody's waiting on God to do something God's already done his part. God is waiting on man to accept what he's done. We had a missionary here, a good guy. He's a good friend of mine. We still support him. He's serving the Lord faithfully, a tremendous soul winner. But years ago when he first came in here he presented his work and he made a statement. He's in the military and he said different places where people had given him gospel tract, different places. people that uh witness to him, but he didn't get saved, and he didn't get saved until later on. He made this statement. He says, You know why I didn't get saved when that lady gave me a gospel track? And you know why I didn't get saved when that person witnessed to me, and you know why I didn't get saved? When I was in that church service and the invitation was given, he says, the reason I'd get saved is God wasn't ready for me to be saved yet. God wasn't calling me yet. And after it was over, I pulled him aside and I said, I believe you're mistaken. He goes, What do you mean? I said, God was ready for you to get saved first time you heard the gospel That was God calling you when that lady gave you a gospel tract. That was God calling you when that guy witnessed to me to you. That was God calling you when you had the invitation in church. It wasn't God wasn't ready. It was you were unwilling. To respond to God's call. He said, Pastor Leatherman, you're right. You're right. Listen to me. Nobody's waiting on God to do something for us to get saved. It is God waiting on us. To respond to what he has done. And God has given you and I, as believers, a responsibility to get that message out. Listen, salvation is settled. Salvation is done. It's all paid for. It's all in place. All you got to do is come and receive it. And so it's urgent because salvation is waiting. I put this down, it's urgent because time is wasting. I made a statement, we had our men's stakeout, and uh I was reading an article about um habitat for deer and different things. They made this statement. They said the best time to plant an apple tree or any fruit tree, the best time to plant a fruit tree is twenty years ago. Right? They said the second time to plant a fruit tree, second best time to plant a fruit tree is today. is today. And I've read that and I thought, you know, that's true about salvation. Best thing to get best time to get saved is when you're a kid. Twenty years ago. How many people here you got saved later in life? How many people here wished you got saved younger? Good heavens. I'd give my right arm to get saved as a kid and avoid all that heartache I'm telling you, every day that goes by without settling your salvation is a day you regret not trusting Jesus Savior. The best day to get saved was 20 years ago, but the second best day to get saved is today. Time is wasting. Time is wasting. D. Al Moody gave a report. He said, we had a meeting last night. We had two and a half people saved. They said, two and a half people? You must mean two adults and a kid. He goes, no, two kids and an adult. He said the kids got their whole lives ahead of them to live for Christ. The adult only has half left. Isn't that a great approach? And so what I'm saying is salvation is urgent for you here this morning, or under the sound of my voice, and you're not saved. Every day that you go by is a day you're wasting as far as your salvation is concerned. And you need to be saved today. Salvation is waiting. Time is wasting. Another reason salvation is so urgent is tomorrow is wavering. Say, what do you mean by that? I mean by that this there's no promise of tomorrow. You can't count on tomorrow. It may or may not be there. We were talking this week, I think it was yesterday, some of us were talking about Brother Chuck Coddington. How many folks remember Brother Chuck Coddington? What a great man. I love that brother. Loved the Lord, growing in his faith. He was coming out witnessing, got involved in soul when he's in Bible Institute. Tremendous testimony. One day he finds out from the doctors the brain tumor. And I mean, what was it, Brother Brian? Just a brief time. A few weeks, months went by, and he's out in eternity. What I thought about that is this, listen, you and I are not guaranteed of tomorrow. I'll get saved someday. You're a fool. Someday may never come. I'll get saved tomorrow. Boast not thyself of tomorrow. Thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. The day to get saved is today. Tomorrow is wavering. Tomorrow is wavering. We have no idea what tomorrow holds. And so salvation is waiting. Time is wasting. Tomorrow is wavering. Hearts are waxing worse. The Bible says evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse. You know what I found out? Every day that goes by that a sinner won't get saved, that heart gets a little bit harder. And that heart gets a little bit harder, and that heart gets a little bit harder. And every day you put off, you may be listening to me now And you may down inside your heart say, I know I need to be saved. I know I need to be saved. One of these days I will. Every day that goes by, that heart gets a little bit harder. It would be a little tougher for you to get saved. That's why very few people in the senior years of life trust Christ. That's why most people get saved when they're a child Because the hearts are tender. The hearts are open to the Spirit of God. Hearts are willing to respond. But every day goes by, that heart gets harder and harder and harder. I got an old guy I've been witnessing to a couple times. I I I don't enjoy witnessing to him at all. He's old he's in his eighties, maybe nineties by now. I don't see him often. But every time I try and witness that guy, he's just a little bit harder against God And his bitterness and hatred towards the Bible just gets a little bit more, and it's a little bit more one of the most difficult people I've ever had to even talk to about God. And just years and years of years of saying no, no, no. And that old heart is so hard, so hard, I'm fearful for his destiny. So salvation is urgent. Salvation is urgent. He says, go out quickly. Get out there. Get to the people before they die. Get out to the people before their hearts get any harder. Get out. Tell them of Christ before they waste any more of their life. There's an urgency. Availability and urgency, and we don't have time. I wanted to look at the constituency of salvation. He gives three categories of people here. First group is uninterested. They're uninterested. Oh, I got married. I got oxen. I've got a field. I don't have time for church. I don't have time for salvation. I don't have time for God They're just not interested. And by the way, if you look carefully, it says these people were already bidden. They knew they needed to be saved. They had been invited many times. Maybe they grew up in church. Maybe they had Christian folks. Parents that loved them and loved God. They just got disinterested. They were uninterested. Then there's another category of folks that were unable to come. They were blind, halt, lame. They needed somebody to come and get them. They needed somebody to run out there and bring them and show them how to be saved. And uh they maybe knew about it, but they didn't know uh how to be saved. They needed someone to explain. I meet people like that all the time. I know I need to be saved It was funny yesterday Brother Derek uh we were giving out tracts, this old lady came up. I love this story. Um but uh this old lady, ninety years old, I had given her the track and I moved on. Derek's come behind me, this old lady goes, What's this tract about? Uh she couldn't read. She goes, What is this? What's it say? And he goes, Well ma'am, that tells you how you can accept Jesus as your Savior and have your sins for you and go to your heaven. And she hit him in the chest. She said, Get out of here He staggered back, he says, no, really. And she goes, Well, thank you very much, and walked off. She just needed somebody to show her what it is. Sometimes our soul winners go out and will knock on the door and say, Do you know for sure if you die now you go to heaven? No, I don't. Can I show you? Yes, please. We've been hoping somebody come by Isn't that an amazing thing? These are folks that just need someone to come and show 'em. Just need someone to come and help them. Explain the plan of salvation. Explain what it is. Listen, I'm grateful for any church that preaches the gospel, but churches make a mistake when they just talk about you need to be saved, but they never show and tell people how to be saved. They never take the time to invest and show them, all right, this is what you need to do, this is how you trust Christ, this is what it means to call on the Lord, and show them from the Bible. And that's what he's talking about here. People that need somebody to come by and show them how to get saved. And then the last category is the unaware. He says, go out in the highways and hedges. This is fascinating. I wish I had more time But though highways, you know what a highway is? That's a road you get on to go to a distant place. I don't take a highway to go to sheets. Right? I take a highway if I'm going to go to Indianapolis. And so when he says go out on the highways He's saying, listen, go out and find the poor, the lame, the weak people in the area there, and the locally that need help, that need someone's saving. But I also want you to go out to the far distant areas, get on the highways, and travel The hedges, a hedge was what they used to divide sections. It was barriers, it was divid dividers. Go out in the highways and hedge. He says, go to the far lands, the pla the places that are separate from you, places that maybe speak a different language, the places that maybe have an ocean between you and them. I think he's talking about going out in the mission field. And telling people about salvation, telling people about salvation. Kazakhstan. Countries like that. That there are people there, I'm telling you, there are people in that country and thousands others like it, that if somebody would show up with an open Bible in their language and tell them the gospel of Jesus Christ, there are people that would get saved today. If somebody was there to tell them that And the Lord says, listen, you gotta go, you gotta go, you gotta get out. This is urgent. It's available. It's urgent. And we gotta go. I I don't know if this message made sense, but I tell you, God stirred my heart. And God, two things, I'll end. One, if you're here in the sound of my voice and you've never trusted Christ as Savior, I cannot stress how important it is you settle that matter today. Get that salvation settled. You're not guaranteed of tomorrow. Your heart will get harder, I'm telling you. And number two, those of us that know Christ as Savior, let's get our personal walk with God in place, baptism, church, all of that. But then let's get involved in taking the message of salvation into our local area and out in the highways and off in the far distant lands. And let God use us to bring others to Christ. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless and challenge us today. Thank you for your word and for the privilege and joy of serving you and being a part. Of Christian ministry. With our heads bow nice, those I wonder how many this morning say, Preacher, I'm saved. I know I'm saved But I need to grow in my walk with God, and I want to develop as a Christian and be that person God wants to be. And maybe uh uh maybe uh the Lord spoke to your heart this morning about baptism. You say, I've been saved, but I've not been baptized. And today you say, God, I want to follow Lord in baptism. I want to get that settled. I want to take that first step of obedience as a believer. Is there any like that this morning? Preacher, I've been saved. But I've not been baptized and I need to follow the Lord in that matter. Any at all? God bless you. How about it? Any others? I don't know. Maybe there's some this morning say, Preacher, I've been saved, baptized. But I'm not a member of a good gospel preaching, Bible preaching church, and maybe God's been stirring your heart. We want the Lord's will to be done. And you say, preacher, I'm praying about it. Maybe God have us join in here, not just attend, but be a member. Join Be added to the church, as the Bible says. Is there any like that by the uplift of the hand? You, preacher, you pray for me. I want the Lord's will to be done. Any at all along those lines? Any at all. God bless you. God bless you Now there's some this morning say, preacher, my Christian life isn't everything it ought to be. And I have areas in my life I need to grow, my prayer life, my witness, all that. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that God will help me grow as a Christian and be that witness and be involved in taking the gospel to others and some other area, maybe God spoke to your heart. Anything like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Many hands all around. One last question. Is there some this morning say, Preacher, I'm not saved? I don't know for sure that when I die I go to heaven, I don't go to hell. I'm concerned about that. I need to get that settled in my heart. And you'd like for me to pray for you also. That God would help you settle that. Any at all like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure that when I die I go to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I want God to help me settle that. Any at all, young or old, how about it? Any at all today? I need to be saved. I need to be saved. Father in heaven, you know our hearts. I saw a bunch of hands, Lord, for various things. You know our hearts. I pray you'd have your way. And help us, Lord, to trust you and obey you. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together our heads