We're working our way through the Sermon on the Mount. Anybody here go canoeing? Anybody here ever go canoeing? Ever go out in a river? You're canoeing in a river? And uh you're kinda going um, you know, you're floating down there, maybe you're paddling, whatever, uh you're going down the river, and then you hit a shallow spot And the canoe gets hung up on a rock, you know, and you're kinda wobbling around trying anybody know what I'm talking about? You just get bottom out on that thing. I kinda feel like that we're going through those Sermon on the Mount. We've hit this passage here, verse 7 through 11, and uh just kind of got stuck on this and I But doing it on purpose. And uh Lord will, we're gonna look at this for a number of uh uh weeks. I want to bring several messages from this section here, and I don't know why it is. Maybe it's um It just kinda struck a nerve with me this matter of prayer just um issue and always a challenge to me. I wanted to Share something with you first here. We got our I don't think I shared this our report from January off the website. Did I give this one yet? I don't think so. I think we just got it Uh but um uh January two thousand seventeen we had seven hundred and ninety-four sermons off of the website, so we're down a little bit. We've been up around a thousand a month, so we're down, but uh still pretty good. To date, this is what stirs my heart Since we've had them uploaded these, since we've been doing it, 70,290 sermons downloaded off the website. Isn't that incredible? Up here in the mountains, our little church. And uh getting out like that. Uh this is interesting. 507 on to cell phones, mobile phones downloaded on. So I would guess people driving down the road and stuff are listening. Number one sermon was Sam Davison preached in 2016, last September. What a family. That was number one. Uh the top ten and uh forty-nine of those and let's see, uh forty-two states and twenty-five countries. Let me see if I got the state here. I don't think I have the uh I left the states off and I left most of the countries off, but so anyway That's what it that's what we got. So isn't that exciting? Just that little thing just out there. I tell you that and the radio station. are two things that are just silently out there just doing their thing, doing their thing. And I got a call, this is kind of interesting, a couple of the fellas over at the rock and roll station Love 88. 7. They listen to it all the time. And uh they uh they've been helping me out a little bit with some of the adjustments out there. It still needs a little more, but I'm telling you, you never know. You have no idea where that thing's getting. Then you have people driving through, you know, two nineteen, flipping around, pick it up. And so anyway, that's uh what's there. Matthew chapter 7 and verse numbers 7 down through 11, great passage of scripture. This, I would highly recommend to underscore this and try and commit these verses to memory. Notice what it says in verse 7. Now remember. The Lord's preaching to disciples, folks that claim to be followers of him. . . This isn't lost people. And really, I would, you know, this, you can't say this This is kind of a general statement, but I would guess since he calls them disciples, these for the most part would not be even carnal Christians. You know, just half-hearted Christians, these are sold out. He calls them disciples, and you look at the qualification for discipleship, pretty intense. And so these are his people. And now he makes this statement. He says, ask, and it shall be given unto you. And it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find not, and it shall be opened unto you. Pretty emphatic. Would you agree with me? I mean he says, it shall, it shall, it shall. Then he elaborates, verse number eight, for everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. All right, pretty pretty clear. Now he goes on and he illustrates what he's saying. Or what man is there of you whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that what? Ask him. Ask him. So the obvious subject here is what? Prayer. Prayer. Asking things from God. Coming to God. With my needs and my desires and those things. And so I kind of give it a little different title tonight than what I had in the bulletin. I'm just using that generic, but I want to talk tonight about hindrances to prayers Hindrances to prayers. Let's pray. Father, I pray you challenges us, challenge us tonight, Lord. I know even preparing this, my own heart has been convicted. And I pray that the scriptures that are presented tonight and the truths and the principles that are given. Lord, I'm asking you in my own life and in us as a church that you would challenge us, that you would help us. And that we could get in a position spiritually, Lord. This is my request, that myself and all of us could get in a position, Lord, a condition where we experience these promises here as they're given. And Lord, that nothing in our hearts and lives would grieve or quench your spirit or hinder These promises from being carried out. So we really need you to help us on that. I know I do. And so please bless tonight, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen The Lord, of course, created us. Connie in the song she sang kind of referenced that a little bit. The Lord is creator. And he created us in it In an amazing way, physically, but also spiritually. And God has designed into our soul, our our innermost soul. He is kind of like programmed into us in computer speak maybe. He's programmed into us, he's designed into us. An instinctive reflex to pray. He's put that in us Even, and we've referenced this a number of times over the years, but even the most hardened atheist, if you put him in the right situation And put him in the right conditions, he is going to instinctively cry out in prayer. All around the world, people pray. Now they might not know about Whether they might not accept the true and living God, but that but we are programmed to pray We see it on the news, we often reference this, some terrible thing happens. These are people that mock God, have nothing to do with God, they don't want God anywhere, and then some terrible thing happens, and one of the first things they'll say is, our prayers are with you It's an instinctive reaction. We talk about foxhole atheists, foxhole Christians. They don't believe God bullets are coming around. I look at it this way. We all have little reflexes. You ever go get your physical and the doctor takes that little hammer, funk hits your knee at a certain spot and you kick him in the shin, you know And uh uh my wife, it's bizarre, but she doesn't have the he'll tap all around there. And next he gets a bigger hammer out and he's like, Oh, this thing And she doesn't have hardly any reflexes. But if he keeps working at it, he'll find a spot there on her n just below her kneecap, and he'll find that right spot. And that old knee will that old foot will kick out It's true in all of us. And I think that's the way we are spiritually. We can try and deny it. We can deny God. We can hate God. We can do all this, try and handle ourselves. But you hit the right nerve Spiritually speaking, and um that prayer is going to come out. It's going to come out. So God designed us this way. I put it this way: God has given us an instinct to pray. Prayer is instinctive, it's a reflex almost, spiritual reflex, we pray. How many people here ever driving down the road or something, somebody pulls out in front of you before you can even think, oh Lord Anybody know what I'm talking about? Help me. You don't even think. It's just a reflex. God has given us an instinct to pray, and I put this down. God has given us great incentives to pray So it's instinctive, it's there natural, but it's also he's given us tremendous incentives. Now, if we understand what prayer is and these phenomenal promises, it seems strange that God would have to give us an incentive. to do that. If the bank called you up and said, hey, somebody's put a uh a million dollars in your account, but you have to come down and sign by four o'clock this afternoon uh how many people would find some way to get down to the bank and sign that by four o'clock? Sure, we'd figure out it'd be an incentive to do that. And then I say, oh, okay, well I don't know if I have time. I got a lot going on, you know, and I got this uh there's a show, Bonanza's on at four, I gotta watch that, and I don't know if I can get down there and see that And uh, you know, and they say, well listen, we'll give you a toaster if you come down and sign this. You don't have to have incentives to go down and sign the money for a million dollars. But yet the Lord gives us incentives to come to him and praise all these promises here. Jeremiah 33, 3. Call unto me and I will answer thee. He doesn't stop there and what? Show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Man, what an incentive to pray. Our passage here, ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open to you. Everyone that asketh receive it. And he that seeketh findeth. And him that knocketh it shall be opened unto him. These incredible incentives. So that brings up two questions in my mind. One is, if these are true, then why don't we pray? Why do we pray so little? If that's true, and I believe it's true. But why do we do why why aren't we praying constantly? Why aren't we Why don't we claim these promises like they're given to us? So that's one question. And the other question is, when we do pray, now this gets a little, this is where the rubber meets the road, when we do pray, why do we not see the results? That God has promised us. And we don't like to ask that. Right? Don't like to say, oh no, I don't see the answers to prayer like God promises. But how many people here, let's be honest, how many people here have ever thought that in your mind? Yeah, why is that? Why why why is why aren't we seeing great and mighty things? Why don't we experience in our lives these promises to prayer that God has given? I believe this is the answer to that question. The promises of prayer are not experienced in my life because the conditions of prayer are not being met in my life. The problem is never on God's side. The problem is always on our end. And so I believe the answer to the question is why am why am I not seeing these answers of prayer? Why um if God loves me, why isn't God made all these promises, why aren't my prayers being answered? Well If I'm going to experience the promises of prayer, then I've got to be sure I meet the conditions of prayer. And so We're studying here. This passage here is some tremendous promises of answered prayer. Ask, and it shall be given unto you. My goal is to quote this enough times till we have it memorized. Ask and it shall be open to you. Seek, and ye shall find knock, and it shall be open unto you. These are tremendous promises of prayer. However, there are some things that hinder our prayers. There are some things that disqualify our prayers from having these promises fulfilled And so let's look at a few of these. On the back of your prayer list, there's a place to jot down some things. I really recommend jot these down. These would be good even just to putting a fly leaf of a Bible to come back and reference. Uh if we're going to take prayer seriously, if we're going to get serious about this, we really Want to see God do something. We really want to see God save a soul, somebody dear to us. We really want to see God meet a need. We really want to see God change a situation. Then we've got to give attention to these things that hinder our prayers and keep them from being answered. So I tried to simplify them here a little bit just so we can grasp them and keep them before our mind. But uh number one, the number one thing I believe that hinders our prayer, number one, sin. That's the most obvious. You ask any Christian that has any knowledge of all scripture, been around any length of time, you ask him, what's something that hinders prayer? And the answer is sin, and it's correct. It's the obvious one. Now I hope you got your Bibles, because I've got references all over we're going to go to. Psalm 66, 18. Would you turn back there with me? Psalm 66 and verse number 18. The most obvious answer to unanswered prayer, the cause of unanswered prayer, the cause of something that hinders our prayers is sin. It's in Psalm 66, verse number 18. I want us to look at this, and we've referenced this for anybody that's been around any length of time. This is not a this is a very familiar passage. This isn't new Notice he says in verse 18, if I regard iniquity in my heart, look what he says: the Lord will not hear me. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. Now let's look at this a little bit. Let's uh examine this a little bit. The word regard. If you regard something, what does that mean? Let's let's let's You look at it. In fact, one of the definitions, and this got me, one of the definitions I found for the word regard there, had this idea to view something with pleasure. So if I'm regarding iniquity, I am viewing, looking at, viewing something that is sinful, wrong, with pleasure. The Lord will not hear me if I'm regarding that. What's the little song we used to say to teach the kids? Oh, be careful, little eyes, what you see. Oh, be careful, little eyes, what you see, for the father up above is looking down in love. Oh, be careful, little eyes, what you see. We need to be very, very careful what we look at. We live in a visual world. Satan is a visual tempter. And he is perfected. He has advanced the ability to take the most ungodly things and make them immediately visible to us. My wife pointed out a couple months ago we were talking about something. She pulled her cell phone out of her purse and she said, we have got the world in our hands. And that is true. And in the world, in the biblical sense, the world, the values, the pleasures of the world are right there. If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. If I view iniquity with pleasure, the Lord won't hear me. That might answer why we don't see Prayers answered the way God promises, right there. That word regard has the idea to view with pleasure. It has also this idea to cherish or value very highly But I really regard him. I have tremendous respect. I hold him up high. I cherish it. I value that. If I have sin, iniquity. That I value, I like that, I want it, I'm cherishing it. The Lord says he will not hear me. To hold on tightly was another definition I found. To regard, to hold on tightly. I will not let go of that. I want that. God says it's wrong God says that ought not to be a part of your life. That you ought to have nothing to do with that, but I want it and I hold on tightly to it. God says if that's the case My promises are of null and void. I will not hear you. I will not they don't they're not they don't apply How about that? That may be one of the reasons we don't see these answers to prayer as God promised them here. Now here's the other part of this verse that gets interesting. He says, if I regard iniquity What's the next phrase? In my heart. It doesn't say in my head or in my hands, what is in my heart is often unseen. To others around me. What did he say? What did he tell Sam uh Samuel when he's choosing? Man looketh on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the The implication there is man can't see necessarily what's in the heart. And this is a situation where I may be regarding iniquity in my heart. It's not, Bland, I'm not out there living this ungodly lifestyle and all of this, but it's something I'm hiding, cherishing, something sinful that I own in my heart. I can be sitting in a pew. And be regarding iniquity in my heart. I can be driving a Sunday school bus and regarding iniquity in my heart. I can be singing in the choir and regarding iniquity in my heart. I can stand behind a pulpit And have iniquity in my heart. And the Lord says, I won't hear you. You're cherishing it and you're holding on to it. You know it's wrong. It's clearly wrong. You're holding on to that. God says, I will not hear you. If there is no answer to my prayer, it may not necessarily be because God doesn't want to answer my prayer We say, well, I guess it's not God's will. That might not necessarily be the case. God may be desiring to answer that prayer. He may want to do what we're asking, but because we regard iniquity in my heart He won't hear us. He's a holy God. And so sin hinders our prayers. And God may, as I just said, may very much desire to give us what we're asking for to meet that need and change that situation and give that wisdom. and uh uh help in that situation, but because we regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear us. We pray and pray and pray and pray God says, I I will not hear him. I will not hear him. Turn over to Isaiah chapter 59. As I said, we got a bunch of verses. We're probably not going to get through all of these tonight. We might. Isaiah 59 And verse number one. Did you got it there? Did you find it? Isaiah 59. Look at verse 1. Now notice carefully what he says here. The Lord's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save. Neither his ear heavy that it cannot hear. So God can hear our prayers. It's not that God's unable to, it's not that God's got wax in his ears he can't hear, so he's getting old and he's losing his hearing. That's not it. He can hear. Look at verse 2. But your what? Iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you, that he what Will not hear. He will not hear. I believe, and this is what the Lord challenged me in this: if I'm praying, And I'm claiming God's promises. It's a legitimate prayer. It's in line with the Word of God. And God is not answering. Now there's several factors involved, but it's I think one of the first things I need to do is stop and search my heart. And see if there's sin in my life. And you know what I've found out? See if you all have experienced this. I've found out if something's not right in my heart, it doesn't take long for the Holy Spirit to point it out to me. I don't have to go on and fast and beg, oh God, what's wrong? Where's that sin? It's usually boom. If your child comes to you and says, Dad, have I done something wrong? You're pretty quick. Yes, actually you did I think it's that way with God. So we come and we search our hearts. I pray the prayer, I think it's Psalm 139. David says, Oh Lord, search me and try me. See if there be any wicked way in me. So if my prayers aren't being answered, their legitimate prayers are not being answered, one thing I believe I ought to do is search my heart. And see if there's some uh issue there. That should be my first response to unanswered prayer is address the sin in my heart and life. Here's the question How badly do I want God to answer my prayer, or how badly do I want to keep the hold of this thing? It's my desire to have God answer this prayer and my desire to hold on to this sin, which is greater. When I get to the point where it's more important and my prayers are answered than it is that I get my way. I can indulge this sin and and uh enjoy this sin or whatever, regard this sin. When getting my prayers answered is more important than that, then I'm going to have victory. I believe then I'll start seeing prayers answered But as long as we love our sin, we're regarding our sin, we're cherishing our sin, we're enjoying that sin, we're not going to see our prayers answered Here's the question, what do you do with sin? You say there's sin in my life. What do I do with it? Proverbs twenty-eight, thirteen. Turn over there. Proverbs chapter 28 and verse 13. What do I do with sin in my life? I want my prayers answered. And I've got something in my heart, it's wrong, and my flesh likes it, I'm cherishing it, whatever it may be. I need to deal with it, I need to address that. Proverbs 28, look at verse 13. Good verse to highlight in your Bible, by the way. He that covereth his sins shall not prosper. Now we think of prospering, we think of having lots of money, big houses, oh, he's really prospering. And it has a sense meaning like that. Has anybody ever seen ungodly people prosper? Sure. Some of those wicked people in the world are very prosperous. Some of the most prosperous people in the world are very wicked. And so he can't be talking about materialistic prospering. So I think he's talking, yeah, I know he is. He's speaking spiritual prospering. Would you agree with me? Having prayers answered the way God promises to answer them would be spiritual prosperity? Goodness! You can't get much more prosperous than calling on the Lord and uh answering He's answering me and doing great and mighty things that I didn't even imagine. That's about as prosperous as you can get spiritually. So he says, if I cover my sins, he that covereth his sins shall not prosper. So we could we could say we shall not have their prayers answered. That's what we're pointing out here. But look what he says. But whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy. Shall have mercy. So what are the two things? What do you do with sin? Two things. One, you confess it, and two, you what? Forsake it. I like to put it this way: confess it and forsake it. Acknowledge it to God. God, you're right. This is wrong. This has no place in my life. It is ungodly. It's hurting me. It's hurting my family. It's hurting my ministry. God, this is wrong. I agree with you. And then I forsake it. I put it out. I don't want that to be part of my life. The word for stake there has the idea of you. Walk away from it. So, sin is a very real factor in the Christian life. Really is. And it has to be dealt with. And if we're going to have our prayers answered, we're going to see these promises fulfilled We've got to address that. So one thing that hinders our prayers, and the first one, the most obvious one we come up with, is sin. Number two, I've got a second one here. Drop this one down. Selfishness. Selfishness. Now we've got to go all the way back to James, the back of the New Testament here. We preached on this just a year ago as we were working our way through James James chapter 4. Verse number 1, while you're f I'll start reading in verse 1 while you're finding James 4. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not thence, hence, even of your lust, that war in your members? Ye lust and have not, ye kill, and desire to have and cannot obtain, ye fight and war? Yet ye have not because you ask not. So there's one thing. If we don't ask, we're not going to get it. But look what he says in verse 3. Ye ask. Now remember what he said in Matthew. He said, Ask and it shall be given unto you. Look what he says here. Ye ask and receive not. That's the exact opposite of what the Lord promised. Why? Because ye ask amiss that ye may consume it upon your own lusts. You could write in the margin of your Bible, selfish praying. Does not get answered. The motives behind my prayers are very important to God. Why am I asking for this? The desires behind my requests are very important to God. Why am I requesting this? Why do I want this? What is my goal? What am I trying to accomplish? I put this down. A good prayer with a bad motive will not be answered. He doesn't say that you're asking for wrong things. He doesn't say that. He says you're asking, but you're receiving not. Because your motives are wrong. That you may consume it upon your own lust. Multives in our prayer. Now here's the question What would be some right motives in re in pray? All right, praying for the salvation of the lost. That would be a good motive. How about this? Is it possible to ask somebody Well, that's the request. Let me back up here a little bit. That's the request. What would be the right motive for asking God to save that person? So they don't go to hell, so that they would have a better life, so that they uh God would be glorified and be another witness in the another witness out there in the in the whole body of Christ. What would be a wrong motive in praying for someone to be saved? Is there a wrong motive? Ah, then so they're not they're a pain in my neck. And if they get saved, then they won't be a pain in my neck anymore. Maybe uh And something like that we will kind of Right. I want that person to be saved so I can enjoy them. So it's for my benefit. I want them to be saved for my benefit. Or uh the other situation I was thinking of, if you have a uh maybe uh a wife whose husband's rough on her and he's beating her up and she wants him to get saved so he stops beating her up. Now understand that But we have to be careful when we're praying that somebody gets saved, that our motives are correct. You know, in certain circles in the ministry, you know, the more notches I have in my Bible, the better I look. So I want more people to get saved so I can go on Facebook and said I had 14 people saved today. You know what I'm saying? That would be a wrong motive. How about some other things? What's something else we could ask for that would be a right thing, a good thing, but would be a wrong motive Yeah, Yeah. Let me put it in my context. Maybe I'm praying that God would fill me with his spirit and have a great message on Sunday morning, but my motive isn't so much that people would be helped. But that I would look like a great preacher, kind of along those lines, is what you're saying, I think. Right? Or maybe singing a song. Lord, fill me with your spirit. Help me to sing this really good. And my desire isn't so much that Christ would be glorified and people's minds would be drawn to Christ, but that everybody will say, man, you did a great job. That's wonderful. You follow what I'm saying? And so our motives are very, very important in what we're asking. I put down some ultimate motives, the right motives, whatever we're asking. I think number one ought to be the glory of God Everything I ask for ought to ultimately, the desire is, Lord, so that you're lifted up, so people think highly of you, so people see you for who and what you are. God, if you could answer this, meet this need in such a way that people give glory to God. I prayed this for years, and I'm not trying to blow my own horn. I've failed in it so much. But when I was early in the ministry, I prayed, Lord, I want you to use me in such a way that only you get the glory for what is accomplished And that ought to be our motive behind everything we do, that it points to Christ, points to Christ, points to Christ. This selfie Christianity today is killing us It's all self, it's all me, it's all about me, how big I am, how good I am, how great I look, how this, how that. And it's killing our prayer life. And so ultimately the glory of God. I put this down, ultimately the advancement of the gospel. If whatever I'm going through, Lord, I just pray you do this in such a way that more people could hear the gospel somehow, some way. The advancement of the gospel is a good motive. I put this down. Being a blessing to others. My motive is, Lord, if you could do this, if you would answer this prayer, if you do this, and my motive is so that it would help other people and be a blessing to other people. And another one I put down was my own spiritual development Lord, I'd like for you to have this bill paid. Lord, I'd like to have these taxes paid. Lord, I'd like to do that. I'd like for you to do it so that my faith in you will grow and I'm stronger, not so that it's just burden off my back. You know what I'm saying? And so motives are very, very important. Very motives are extremely important. Remember Paul in 2 Corinthians 12, he asked for that thorn in this flesh to be taken away, and the Lord said, no. And his motives in the whole thing became very, very clear when he said, Therefore, I will most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmity. Because when I'm weak, then he's strong. And Paul's whole motive Well, so that he would be a better Christian, he'd be a better servant, Christ would be glorified, and he could God could use him in a better way, even in an answer to no. So pray s uh uh we should pray for souls to be saved so that God gets the glory and their benefit and their life. Pray for re- Here's something, we pray for revival Well how many of you agree we need a revival in America? Why do we want revival in America? So that God doesn't judge us and we can keep having our vacations and we can keep on going camping when we want and we can uh our economy stays good so I can buy new dresses and bigger four-wheelers and I don't buy dresses myself personally, but um You know the Yeah, I'm afraid a lot of our motive for wanting revival in America isn't that Christ is glorified and souls are saved and and God is honored. I'm afraid a lot of it is, oh, I don't want to give up my nice house. If God's judgment comes on, I'll lose my job and we won't be able to go camping. Or whatever. And so we have to really examine our motives. So number one, I put down sin. That's the most obvious one. Number two, selfishness. Why am I wanting this? I like this fits in right with John the Baptist said. He must increase, but I must decrease. Answered prayer is not about us, it's about Christ. It's about his agenda, not our agenda. When I I think, and I You know, somebody might take issue with me on this. That's okay. But I think when he said, ask and it shall be given to you, seeking you shall find, knock, and it shall be given to you. When he says, ask me, I'll give you show you great and many things which thou knowest not I don't think God so much had in mind that we have in bigger houses and fancier cars and all that. I think he had in mind ask me these things so that you can get the gospel out better and and you can be a better Christian and so that uh the God is glorified in greater ways. But we take it and we say, oh, you know, I need a bigger vacation, I need a better, bigger swimming pool or whatever. And so we've got to watch out for that. Number three, I got a couple minutes, and then I've got to quit. Let me give you these last ones real quick. Number three, sacrilege. And for sake of time, we won't go to all these references. I'll give them to you. Number one was sin. Number two was selfishness. Number three, sacrilege. I think that's a word. I get it from Ezekiel 14, verse 1 through 5. We won't take time to turn there. But Ezekiel approaches some of the leaders in Israel And God says, I'm not going to answer their prayers, I'm not going to hear their requests, because they have idols in their heart. Now I'm not quoting it verbatim, but that's what he's saying. And he says, because they have these idols, they have a setup in their hearts, God will not hear them. What is an idol? We think, well, I don't have little statues of Buddha and praying to them, lighting candles, I'm not burning incense to a little statue. That's not necessarily an idol. Anything that has a higher priority in my life than the Lord God does, that becomes an idol. I don't necessarily bow down and worship it, but it is more important to me than God. What are some things that could possibly be idols in the heart of a disciple, in the heart of a Christian? Facebook, yeah, it's more important to get on there than read my Bible. Uh a house. I might a boat, uh a job could be. Is more important than I sacrifice my relationship with the Lord, I replace that job becomes more important to me than the Lord is. That house or that boat or that thing. becomes more important to me than my relationship with the Lord. Can you think of anything else? A person, that's what I was thinking of. I can get where that person, it could be a spouse, it could be a child, it could be a friend. How many young people have we seen destroy their life because they walked away from God to get some person, have a relationship with some person? And not just young people, all ages. How about a reputation? You know, I want to be a great ball player. And I'll sacrifice anything to be known as a great ball player or whatever sports. I liked what uh John Leatherman said, basebale, basket bail. I'm telling you, true or not, America is sports has become a god in America. Absolutely. And so, sacrilege, if I'm going to claim these great promises of God, God must be the only thing on the throne of my heart I've got to push all these other things aside. I put down object, a person, a goal, a reputation, a sports, a hobby, a thing. Number four, let me give you another one. I got a couple minutes. Let me give you another one. I have two words here on this one: insensitivity or stinginess. Insensitivity or stinginess. If I'm stingy or insensitive to the needs of others, God says he won't hear me. Let me find this here. Proverbs 21. I want to read this because I can't quote it to you exactly. Proverbs 21 and verse number 13. Listen to what the Lord says here. He says, listen to this. Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor He also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard. Wow! God says, if somebody comes and asks you for something, you say, no, I'm not doing that, don't you come to God then and think that God is going to do for you when you're not willing to do for others Proverbs twenty one, verse thirteen. Um God gives to those who give What's uh Luke uh Luke 638? We know that one. Give and it shall be given unto you, good measure, pressed down, shaken together, shall uh the Father give unto you uh don't have that end right. But he says, Give and it shall be given unto you. God gives to those who give. How many people have found that to be true in your life? Yeah. That's a biblical principle. And if I refuse to give, if I get stingy, I'm not sensitive to the needs of others, and say, no, let them figure it out themselves. Then come to God. Don't be surprised when God says to you, Oh, yeah, figure it out yourself. And here's the point. Here we have to be careful. I don't know if you don't anybody would admit this, but I wonder if sometimes we don't say, all right, I'm going to throw an extra 50 bucks in the offering. I really need a lot. I need about $500. I'm going to throw an F Extra 50 bucks in the offering, so God will give that to me. Nobody's gonna admit we think that way, but I wonder if we don't. We're missing the point. I think we give so that God will give to us so that we can give. Follow what I'm saying? There was a preacher years ago, Jack Hiles, I saw him do this. He had a what he called a silent sermon. It was tremendous. I'll do it. This is not original meeting Dr. Kyle said this. The silent sermon. Here it is. Alright, so what's he doing? He's praying, asking, God's giving it to him, and what's he doing? He's given it. Is that right or not? The whole point of asking from God isn't so that I can just put more stuff in my garage. So that I can help others and give others. And when God sees us giving, how many people here, you have more of a tendency to give to somebody who's very generous themselves Right? Somebody's very grateful and they they're very generous. I think that's what he's saying here. And he says, listen, if you're not going to be sensitive to needs to others, you're not going to care and be uh uh and not be uh and you're gonna be stingy. And don't expect God to answer your prayers. I got two more and I'm out of time, but let me give them to you because we're too far into this to make it another lesson. Number five, squabbling. Squabbling. I get this from 1 Peter chapter 3, verse 1 and verse 7. Now, Brother Leatherman touched on this Sunday night. Verse one of first of uh 1 Peter chapter 3 says this. It says, Why and I'm I'm I'm just I'm just putting in some own words here. I'm not quoting verbatim, but it says, Wives, submit yourselves to your husbands. And he goes on and talks about I think it's where uh Sarah was called Abraham Lord, and uh point that out to the ladies. Sarah called her husband Lord. And uh anyway, he goes there and talks about the woman's submission. Then you get down to verse 7 and it says husbands Uh dwell with your wives according to knowledge, as honor them as the weaker vessel, and be not bitter against them. Brother Leatherman preached on that one night, Saturday night or Sunday, I forget when Be not bitter against them. That your prayers be not hindered. Now, for years I always took that as that prayers be not hindered was talking about the husband. I thought that's not fair. Why is we're the only ones that hinder our prayers? And I got studying that for this, and uh I got looking that phrase, that your prayers be not hindered, is kind of a summary result of both of those. If the woman isn't carrying out her role and the husband isn't doing his responsibility, it hinders the prayers. In other words, if they're squabbling in the home. They're fighting and mad and not doing their part and demanding other and all that going on. God says, your prayers are hindered. They're not getting through. And for the sake of our children, for the sake of our children, we ought to get along with our spouse so that at least our prayers can be answered. Is it more important that I get my way as a husband? Is that more important than having God hear my prayer? Seriously? Can I humble myself and just die to self? So that my prayers aren't hindered. Squabbling. And then one other one, James chapter 1, verse 5 through 7, I put skepticism. If any lack wisdom, let him ask for God who giveth of all men liberally, obrayeth not, and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering, for he that wavereth like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and toss, let not that man think that he shall receive Anything of the Lord. I come with doubts. Oh, I know God promised this. I know He did, but I just don't see it happening. If that's my mentality, God says that's not. If I'm skeptical of God's promise, if I doubt God's promises, what does that imply about God? If I see he's not all powerful, I would suggest something even worse: that he is a liar. I would never want to call God a liar. And if God promises something and I don't believe it, and I doubt it, and I'm skeptical of it, I am implying that God cannot be trusted, that God is not honest. Um if I promise I did this to somebody just recently, if I promised them I'd give them $100 after next Sunday night, that person could say, I doubt that he don't have no hundred bucks. They would be very just in maybe thinking that. That's fine, because I'm a human being. I've I've I don't, you know, I I could fail easily. But when I take that and apply it to God That's serious. That's serious. How many people are offended if you promised someone something and they didn't believe you? How many people would take a little offense at that? Sure. Well you think God is And so there are some things very clearly. Why don't we see, why don't we see these answers to prayer the way God promised them to be? I'll tell you, I think of Major factor is we've got we're not meeting the conditions. We've got things in our lives that are hindering those prayers. I'm convinced if we could deal with all of these here and get them right I have not seen what God could and would do. We see people in the Bible, God did amazing things. We read in history George Mueller and others, incredible things God did. So we know it's true. We know it's possible I think our problem is, and I'm including myself, our problem is we just don't want that, we're not willing to pay the price, make things right to get in a condition where we can receive those promises. I'm afraid that's the case. Does that make sense? I don't know about you, but this worked me over preparing this. God convicted me and challenged me. And I've spent some time in prayer today. Lord, help me to get my heart and mind in a position Where I can claim these promises and see you do these things. Maybe you'd want to join me in that prayer and asking God to help us do that. We don't want a piano But there at our seats, we could make that an altar and just say, Lord, search me, try me. These areas, God, give me the desire, the will. To do what needs to be done to make these right, so that we can see these prayers answered. Father in heaven, Lord, you know us better than we know ourselves. We stand before you tonight. I stand before you tonight, Lord. Knowing that there's so much work needs to be done in my own heart and life. And uh I'm convinced there's more than one other person in this room, many That desire with all our hearts that we could get to the place where we see you do these great things for your glory, Lord. We see and experience these promises that you've given so clearly and so emphatically. So Lord, revive us, stir us, don't leave us alone, provoke us to get where we need to be In Jesus' name I pray, Amen, Amen. Alright, ushers, if we can come on down, we got