His letter he wrote to these persecuted Christians. We've been looking at this for quite some time now. In chapter 5, verse number 10, he's coming to the end of Of his letter to these persecuted Christians. They're all scattered. He's addressed a number of issues. There's a number of subjects he's dealt with to help them. And now he's these last couple verses here, actually verse 10 and 11 are somewhat of a prayer. He's ending this letter with this prayer of sorts. And that's what we started looking at last week. And I want to come back to verse 10. He says this. Now he talked about the devil previously, the couple verses before that, and resisting him and what he's like, characteristics of him, and what they need to do, watch out for. Then he says, verse 10, he says, But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, settle you. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Now last week we looked at the God of all grace. Now there's a little phrase in here I want us to look at just briefly, and I just have a couple thoughts here, but it says the God of all grace has called hath called us unto his eternal glory. I want to talk about his eternal glory. Let's pray and look at this here real quick. Father, thank you for a good day. Lord, what a blessing to start the week off in your house, with your people, with your word. And uh rejoice in your goodness to us and that that we could be used by you to impact our world for Christ and with the gospel. And we're so grateful Now, Lord, as we finish out the day, we'd ask that you'd speak to us just again and prepare our hearts for the coming week That we can be a good witness. I pray you that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit again, Lord. I yield my will, present my body, and pray with all my heart That your Holy Spirit would speak through me. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Peter, as I said, is ending his letter here, this epistle, this letter to these believers, and he's ending it very much like he started it. He's ending it on a very positive note. If you would come back to chapter 1 just quickly with me. And I notice a similarity to some of his opening statements as they're uh with his uh Closing statements. Chapter 1. And look with me if you would at verse number 3. He makes the introductory statements there in 1 and 2. And then verse 3 he says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. So he's referencing their salvation And he says and he and he says that it's through Jesus Christ who rose from the dead. Our salvation is through Christ. And then verse 4 he says, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away Reserved in heaven for you. And then he says, verse 5, you're kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation. And so he's saying, he's starting out here, he's saying, listen, uh, we have salvation, we have eternal life It's through the Lord Jesus Christ, and it's secure. It's assured. Verse number four there, he says, an incorruptible inheritance, undefiled. Fated not away, reserved in heaven. Then I come back to chapter 5 and look at our text for tonight, and he's saying something right along those same lines. The God of all grace hath called us unto his eternal glory. It's by Jesus Christ. And so he begins with a positive note. He deals with some ugly issues, suffering, submission, dealing with the devil. You know, he dealt with some things that aren't real positive But had to be dealt with, but he ends with a positive note. And this is what I take away from this. Peter obviously loved his brothers and sisters in Christ. He loved these people, and he wanted to be a blessing to them, and he wanted to be an encouragement to them, and he wanted to help them He wanted to encourage them to stay faithful and stay at it. They suffered so deeply for their faith in Christ, and they paid such a heavy price To be a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. And Peter loves them. And he's encouraging them to say, listen, we have salvation, we have a home in heaven. It's through the Lord Jesus Christ. God is the God of all grace. He wants to strengthen them to live the Christian life here in a world that is so opposed to everything we hold dear. And so I believe I see here the love of Peter for his brothers and sisters in Christ, and we could use that. We need that in our churches A love for one another. Now I think we have it here at Mountain Lake to maybe some to an exceptional degree, some churches I've been in. But um uh we need to love each other, we need to encourage each other, we need to strengthen each other. I touched on it a little bit this morning, but I tell you, this world has perfected the ability to tear people down This world is an expert at discouraging, especially Christians. And what we need our churches to be, and I think this is what Peter was trying to be, our churches need to be a little haven of rest. As we're out there or the week, uh work week, and we're out in the world and we're dealing with this, and we hear God's name blasphemed, and uh people give us a hard time, maybe for our faith and trying to be a witness, and it's just uh refreshing. To come to church and to be loved on, be encouraged, and be strengthened. Amen or not? I remember my daddy would drive a truck and he told me after I'd gotten saved, he would say, I'd be out on the road and my heart just ached To get to church on Sunday, just to get back where people loved me and people encouraged me. And so that's what Peter's trying to do. He loved his brothers and sisters in Christ. I believe he's trying to assure them, re he's reassuring them that God is still in control, that uh God uh God had a plan and God had a purpose for their lives. A lot of the stuff that was happening to them uh no doubt made no sense. You know, no doubt they uh uh are thinking, you know, I've given my life to Christ. I'm I'm trying to be a disciple of Christ and I'm And we're dealing with all this adversity and all these trials we're going through. And he's writing to him and saying, Listen, I want you to remember God still has a plan for your life. God has a purpose, and Lord will, and we'll see that when we look at the rest of the verse in a future message, but he's trying to reassure them He's encouraging them and that one day they could look back. Someday they're going to be able to look back. On all that they went through through for through life, and they're going to realize God knew what he was doing. Anybody here ever get in yourself a situation or find yourself in circumstances And in the back of your mind, maybe you ask yourself, does God really know what he's doing? And you come on now, be honest. What in the world? This doesn't make sense. And I'm telling you, one day, I'm telling you, one day, we'll be able to look back and say, oh yeah, God knew exactly what he was doing God had a plan, God had a purpose for everything he allowed. And Peter's trying to assure them that uh one day they may they would understand why they had so many trials and why they had to do that. He's trying to reassure them that God had all the grace they needed to stay faithful He is the God of all grace. I'm telling you, everything we need to live the Christian life is found in our God's grace. God gives us grace to live the Christian life. He's assuring them that God uh all the strength they needed to be what God wanted them to be uh was available to them uh in uh in our Lord. And so he's reassuring them that God had all the strength they needed. He's reminding them of their ultimate destiny. If you would look there again at verse 10 He says, but the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his, and this is the phrase that caught my attention as I was looking at this, has called us unto his eternal glory. He's saying, he's reminding them we have an ultimate destiny where we will end up, and that is God's eternal glory Now my question is, I want to try and answer in the next couple moments, is what is God's eternal glory? What does he mean when he says the God of all grace who hath called us Unto his eternal glory. The simple answer is this: he's referencing the very presence of God. And God has called us to one day we will be in the very presence of God. Now that if you think about that, that is an amazing thought. The God that spoke this world into existence, you and I as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, one day we will be in his very presence. I mean his immediate glory. Remember in the Old Testament, Moses told the Lord, Moses spoke with the Lord as a man speaks with his friend, the Bible says. And he said, Lord, show me your glory. And the Lord said, No man can look on me and see me. And so he put him in a cleft of the rock, and the Bible says he covered him as the Lord's immediate presence went by. And he saw just a glimpse of the glory of Almighty God. I tell you, the more uh I'm I'm just fascinated by the night sky. And with these telescopes we have now, we're learning more and more the immensity of this universe. It's an infinite universe. And I'm thinking the God that spoke that into presence, you and I, will be able to one day be in his very immediate presence, in his glory. What an amazing thing that will be. It boggles the mind. Boggles my mind. God's eternal glory is where Jesus Christ is right now. Would you keep your place here? Come with me to 1 Timothy chapter number 3, just a few pages over. How many people brought your Bibles with you tonight? Anybody bring your Bible? We might as well use it, right? You brought it. We might as well use it. Come over to 1 Timothy chapter 3. And notice with me verse number 16. 1 Timothy 3. 16. God's eternal glory is where Jesus Christ is right now. He's in the very presence, the eternal glory of Almighty God. Verse number 16. And without controversy, great is the mystery of godliness. Now look at this. God was manifest in the flesh. God was manifest in the flesh. That's the deity of Jesus Christ God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world. Now look at this, and received up into where? Glory. Jesus Christ is at the right hand of God in the immediate glory of Almighty God. That's where Jesus is right now. Right now, in his physical body, his glorified body, his resurrected body, he's there right now. As you and I are sitting here, he's right there. The glory of God. Come over, if you would, to Acts chapter 7. Now we're going to get back here to Peter in just a moment, but in Acts chapter 7, we have Stephen is being stoned for his faith. He's the first martyr. And he preached a scorching message against the hypocrisy of the Pharisees. And um They uh verse number chapter 7 and verse number 54, when they heard him preaching and he just let them have it Verse 54, it says, And when when they heard, they, these Pharisees and these self-righteous Jews, when they heard these things, they were cut to the heart. What does it mean they were cut to the heart? Somebody talk to me. Yeah, they're mad. They're convicted. I put in the margin of my Bible, conviction. Anybody know what we mean by conviction? Anybody here ever been under conviction? Man, you talk about cutting to the heart, man, boom And man, they're cut to the heart. They're under conviction. It's one of two things to do when you're under conviction: either submit to the Lord, trust him, and obey them, or harden your neck and stiffen up and say no. They hardened their neck, they stiffened up and said no. And look how they responded. When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart and they gnashed on him with their teeth. Good heavens. Now look what happened. But he, Stephen, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up steadfastly into heaven. Look at this. And saw the what? You know what that is? That's the eternal glory of God. Eternal glory of God. He saw the very presence, the immediate presence and glory of God. Now look at what else here. And Jesus standing on the right hand of God. Now, let me just throw a little, let me take just a very it'sy, bitsy, teeny-weeny little rabbit trail It's the little one. It says Jesus Christ is standing on the right hand of God. You go to Hebrews, and it tells us Jesus is seated at the right hand of God. Is there a contradiction or is there something going on here? Can I tell you what I think? I can't speak definitive what the answer is. But I tell you what I think Stephen is the very first man to give his life for the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. Very first martyr in church history. And I think, this is my opinion, and others have suggested this also, but I think Jesus Christ, out of respect and honor for a man that gave his life for the Lord Jesus Christ, I believe he stood up. For the arrival of Stephen into the very presence of God's glory. You know, the Bible teaches that God honors those who honor Him. And I believe this standing of the Lord Jesus at the right hand of God is simply Jesus honoring the very first martyr. Listen, what we do for the Lord here on earth is not unseen in heaven. God knew what was going on. So he saw, uh looked steadfast into heaven and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God and said, Behold, I see the heavens open, and the Son of Man Standing on the right hand of God. Boy, that ticked them off. And uh they got mad there. They cried out and stomped stopped their ears and ran on him and they killed him. They killed him. So the eternal glory of God is where Jesus Christ is right now. Right now. The eternal glory of God is where believers will be when Christ returns If you would, come over to Colossians chapter 3 and verse number 4. He references eternal glory of God, this glory of God, Colossians Ephesians, Philippians, Colossians chapter 3, and verse number 4. It's where believers will be when Christ returns. In Colossians chapter 3, look at verse 4. When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in where? In glory. Very presence of God. What a day that will be. We stand in the immediate presence of an infinitely holy God, an all-powerful God, an all-wise God will stand in the very presence of love deified. We'll be in the very presence of God. Peter's writing to these People. They've lost loved ones. They've been beaten. They've lost their jobs. They've suffered intensely for as disciples of Christ says, hey One day we'll be in the very presence of God, the eternal glory of God. Jesus said in John chapter 14, he says, I go to prepare a place for you. And he said, that where I am, there ye may be also. Jesus wants us to be with him. Jesus wants his people to be with him. And so come back here and uh Notice, number one, the call to this eternal glory. He said, The God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory. The word call there means to bid, to come, to summons, to invite. It's kind of like it's like this. Hey Evan, hey, come on up here. Come up here. Come on. Come on. Thank you. Good illustration. Thank you. Sit back down. What was I doing? I was calling him. I was bidding him come. I was inviting him. I was summonsing him to me And Peter is writing to these believers, and he says, the God of all grace has called you, has summoned you, has been you, invited you to come so that you can be in his immediate Now, one of the aspects that I was looking up this word and meaning and where it comes from and how it's used and all of that, and one thing that kept coming up with is it has the idea of doing this very loudly Very earnestly, very diligently. Evan, come on, Evan, come up here. Come on, hey. Good job. Way to go. Did you notice the difference in intensity? One was, hey Evan, come on over here. Stay there. Evan, get over here. Come on. No, stay there. This called us unto glory is this idea. God is very intensely and very earnestly calling people to Christ. calling people to Christ. Um who hath called you unto his eternal glory. We are called, I like this statement. And um this is- I came up with this one myself. And so I like this statement. We are called to God's eternal glory, not coerced. There's a difference, right? I called Evan, Evan, hey Evan, come on up here. Come on, come on, Evan. And uh so he had a decision to make He could answer that call and respond to it, or he could sit there and ignore it and refuse it. Evan, come on up. Evan, come on up. Hey, get up here. We didn't even rehearse this. He had no idea. We were doing this very good. There are some that teach that when God calls, it's irresistible call. A person doesn't have a choice. They're going to respond and believe whether they want to or not. It's Calvinism. And they teach that some people God did not call. He didn't call them. I'm here to tell you the call of God to salvation is an invitation, and you and I have a role in that, whether we respond in faith or we refuse it. It's not a coercion. It's not me, hey Evan, get up. It's not poor heaven, bless his heart. Give him an extra pizza tonight. It's an invitation, it's a call, it's a bidding, a very diligent, very earnest. But we have that option, every person has that option to say no to the call of God. You can say nope, uh-uh, I'm good. I've been out soul willing many, many times. I invited people to trust Christ, share the gospel, say once trust Christ. I have many times people say, nope, I'm good, no, I'm not going to do it So Peter's writing them and said, God has called us. Now, these are folks that have responded to the call. They said, yes. They said, We'll trust you, Christ. We'll turn to you. We'll turn. Trust you. But it's a call, it's not a coercion. And so the call to eternal glory. And by the way, this call of God extends to all mankind. There's no one left out. There's no one exempt. There's no uncalled person. We go this week. Every single person, you mark it down. I hope you get this. Every single person that you see with your eyeballs this week, that you lay eyes on, every single one of them is being called of God to salvation. God wants them to come to heaven. He's calling them. He's calling them. There's no one exempt. 2 Peter, over there in 2 Peter, he says God is not slack concerning his promise. As some men count slackness, but is long-suffering to us word. Listen to this. Not willing that any should perish. God wants everybody to go to heaven. Mark that down. God wants everybody to go to heaven, to his eternal glory. He's calling them all. How we respond to that call is determines whether we go to his whether we end up in his eternal glory or not. We had a missionary here many years ago and a good man. And uh I mean he's a friend of mine, a good man, but he's giving his testimony And he said that he was in an uh uh overseas and he had arrived at this city and there was a lady there where they were coming into this one area, there was a lady there uh giving out gospel tracts. He was unsaved at the time. And this lady was giving out gospel tracts to everybody that came by. And he said he walked by and he took one and he read it And he made this statement. He said it here from the pulpit. He said, but I didn't get saved right then. He says, do you know why I didn't get saved? Now he's a good man. Don't misunderstand what I'm about to say. He says, you know why I didn't get saved? Because God wasn't calling me yet. And then later on we went out to dinner afterward and we were talking a little bit. I said, You made a statement there. I said, I just have a question. He says, What's that? I said, You got you said God wasn't calling you. That's why you didn't get saved when that lady gave you that track. I said The lady giving you that track was God calling you. God is calling. Nobody can say God's not calling me to salvation. God is calling. Every time that sun comes up is a call of God. To turn to Christ, every good thing God does for us. The heavens proclaim the glory of God. And I believe this whole creation is a witness, is a testimony, is a call to come to God, come to God, come to God. God is calling. Every person you meet, God is calling them, God's working. Hey Kevin, Evan, come on up here. Hey, come, uh he responded and said yes. All right, go on back there. Uh Did you notice I caught his attention when I made that call? You know what God? God brings things into our life. Part of his call is bringing things into our life to catch our attention. And make us think about our eternal soul. Make us think about our destiny. Make us think about our standing with God. Sometimes it might be the death of a loved one. I did a funeral here a week or two ago for um uh uh a fellow downtown that I'd been visiting. I gave the invitation Ten people raised their hand. They trusted Christ that they would trust that they trusted Christ as Savior. You know what? God used that death of a loved one as a call to get their attention to hear the call of God to salvation. You follow what I'm saying? God will use a tragedy. God will use an accident. God uses all kinds of things to get our attention. To hear that call to hear it, and then we respond in faith. So the call to eternal glory. No one is exempt, no one is uncalled. And then I end with this. I notice the conduit To eternal glory. The call is God is calling, the God of all grace, is calling all of mankind to come to Christ, come to salvation, come to salvation. And the conduit, look at the verse there. The conduit is, he hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus. The idea is the way to God's eternal glory, the conduit that we go through to get to God's eternal glory, is not the church Not the baptistry, not the offering plate, it's not the it's not the uh charity work It's the Lord Jesus Christ. What is a conduit? I learned what a conduit is when we built the building. I actually knew what it was before, but it became obvious A conduit is a pipe or a or some sort of mechanism through which something travels from one place to another. Brother Mark and others put down conduits from the radio tower, run the electric lines through that conduit into the new building, the electrical system of new building, and that made it access, gave them access into that They get the power. Jesus Christ is our conduit to heaven. There's no other way Anybody gets to heaven, anybody enters God's eternal glory for all eternity, they only get there through the Lord Jesus Christ. There's no other way. I thank God for Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. I love this church with all my heart. Our church can't get anybody to heaven, only Jesus Only Jesus did. And so God's call to eternal glory is God's call to Jesus Christ. And He's the conduit through which we enter the very presence of God. In fact The only way we can even approach God in prayer. We can come boldly very boldly to the throne of grace, but it's through the blood of Jesus Christ. Everything that has to do with man's relationship with Almighty God is through Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. He's the conduit to uh uh to the to God's eternal glory. We have to look beyond our present trials. Say, preacher, I'm going through it right now. Probably more of us are than most of us realize Well, I think it was George W. Truett, and I wanted to double check this. I believe it was the preacher, Texan preacher, George W. Truett. I think he said this. I think he's the one that said it. He said, be kind to everybody. Because everybody's having a hard time. Get on you get on the elevator there at the hospital, go make a visit, which I do about every day. Somebody's standing there and they look grouchy and they're standing there like this, just staring. You say hey and they just go There's real possibility possible. There's real possibility and I think that's Very real possibility. They're hardest. That's it to Walmart and that person's rude and unkind and funny and just hate folks. Very real possibility. They may be the lowest point of their life. They be hurting in ways you and I would never know. We've got to look beyond the trials and situations here and see beyond and say there's an eternal glory somewhere. The very presence of God Let's love people. Let's encourage people and let's bring them to God so that they can enter God's eternal glory. Amen Father bless us now. Thank you for making it possible to enter your very glorious presence. I ask, dear Lord, you'd help us be faithful, living this life through the trials and difficulties, to see beyond, and that there's a eternal glory that we can share. Help us to be kind. Just be patient. Help us, Lord, be encouraging to draw people to Christ and share the love of the gospel with everybody we possibly can. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if something night say, pray, sure, I'm so glad God saved me. So glad I responded to his call and just by faith. You say, preacher, there's some things got me down. There's some things really distracting me. I need to look beyond the temporal. I need to look ahead of the Eternal glory of God. Is there anything like that? Preacher, I just need to remember to look beyond. I'm dealing with now and see that there's a great day coming. I'll be in God's very presence. God bless me. It's all around. Maybe some of us think say, Preacher, I need to be, I want to be a good witness for the love of God. I want God to use me as part of His call. Other folks coming to Christ. You say, Preacher, pray that God will fill me with His Spirit, and that the fruit of the Spirit would be evident in my life. Journey like that, Preacher, I want to be a good witness. Sure we do. Who would not want to be Father bless her imitation, I ask you, please we're saying, Amen. Let's stand against