Chapter 2, if you would notice with me, I actually want to read uh verse 15 and 16. I don't know if you're in the habit of underscoring passages in your Bible or Taken notes in your Bible, but I'd encourage you, in verse number 15, notice it says, that you may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation. Now look at this last phrase. Among whom ye shine as lights in the world. I have that phrase underscored in my Bible. Among whom ye shine as lights in the world. Then in verse 16, the first phrase of verse 16 holding forth the word of life. I underscored that in my Bible, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain Our theme for our missions conference this year is holding forth the word of life And we take that theme from this passage here this morning, from verse number sixteen there. And that's what I want to try and preach on. So let's pray, ask the Lord to speak to our hearts as we look at these two verses. Father in heaven We come to you this morning, very grateful hearts for your goodness to us. We're grateful just for a beautiful day, Lord. And that uh we're uh uh we're we're we thank you for that. And now as we look into your word, I ask, Father, that you would speak to our hearts. I pray you'd challenge us. Lord, I pray you know, Lord, what our needs are. You know the condition of our heart You know our spiritual condition. And so I ask that you would use your word in these next few moments to challenge us, encourage, give direction. I pray we make good decisions concerning our own spiritual well-being and your will for our lives. And Lord, I ask with all my heart this morning again that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit Lord, I yield my will to you. I do not want to impose my understanding or my will upon what your word says here. I pray that you would control my thinking as I preach. Lord, I present my body anew, and I'd like for you to just use me as an instrument to speak your word to our hearts and lives. And I ask all of this in the name of the Lord Jesus. Amen. The book of Philippians It's one of my favorite books in the Bible. The church at Philippi that this letter is being sent to was a genuine missions church in every sense. It was started on Paul's second missionary journey. Paul and Barnabas, Silas, I should say, showed up And uh in the town of Philippi, and they did what they uh did everywhere they went. They started getting out in the community and started telling people about the Lord Jesus Christ They started preaching the gospel, telling people how to be saved, that the only way a person can escape hell and find forgiveness of sins is through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And as they preached that message and gave out the gospel, people responded. And folks were saved and lives were changed. And as people would get saved and the numbers increased, they organized a church. And they trained leadership there and let put that leadership in place and then they moved on to another city. So the church at Philippi was a genuine missions church from its very conception. In fact, if you would, keep your place here, but come with me back to the book of Acts. Book of Acts, chapter number 16, and we have the account of how Paul and Silas ended up, and of course they're Operating as missionaries at this point, going from uh city to city, country to country, region to region, preaching the gospel, establishing churches And in Acts chapter 16, in verse number 8, we find out how they actually ended up at Philippi. Acts 16, verse number 8. Notice the Bible says this. Well, let's back up to verse 7 It says, after they were come to Mycia, there's a region there, this is Paul and Silas, they essayed, or they planned, to go on into Bithynia. But the Spirit suffered them not. Paul and Silas had a plan where they were going to go. They were going to preach there and try and start a church there. But the Spirit, the Holy Spirit, wouldn't allow them. And verse 8, and they passing by Messiah came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. And there stood a man of Macedonia. Now, Macedonia is the region where this little town Philippi is And in this vision, Paul sees this man of Macedonia. And the man of Macedonia prayed him, or is asking him, pleading with him, come over to Macedonia and help us. And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them. Therefore, loosing from Troaz, we came with a straight course to Samothracia. How many people are impressed with how I said that? Yeah. And the next day to Neopolis. And from thence to what? Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia and a colony of Rome And we were in that city, and we were in that city abiding certain days. God had called Paul and Silas to the city of Macedonia, to the city of Philippi in the region of Macedonia. It was a missionary call They showed up as missionaries. This week we are bringing in three missionary families. One is going to Holland, the other is going to Iceland, the other is going to Puerto Rico They have received a call, not a vision in the sense that Paul did here, but God has called these three couples to go to these very specific parts of the world. And they're going to go and they're going to go there and they're going to do exactly what Paul and Silas did in Philippi. They're going to preach the gospel. They're going to tell people how to be saved from sin in hell. And so this church at Philippi that we're reading from here, our text is from, was a missionary church in every sense, in that it was started as a missions work. But not only is it a missions church because of how they started, but they strongly supported missionaries once they were established. If you would come back to Philippi or to the book of Philippians. Maybe God just called somebody to Philippi. But it's a strong missionary supporting church. Back in the book of Philippians, notice in chapter number four. And down to verse number 10, Paul is writing to them. This is years later, he's writing back to this church that he had started. And in verse 10 of chapter 4 he says, But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at the last your care of me Hath flourished again, wherein you were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity. He says, you're cared me, you've supported me, you met my needs You sent resources to me as I'm out on the mi on the missionary trail, as I'm out starting churches, preaching the gospel in regions where they've never heard the gospel. You took care of me. You made sure my needs were met. You sent resources. If you would come down to verse number 15. He says, Now ye Philippians know also that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, he had started the church there, and then he's moving on. No church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye also He said, none of the other churches were supporting us. We got no financial material support from any other church but by you, Philippi. You were faithful and you made sure our needs were met so that we could take the gospel to other regions. He goes on, he says, verse sixteen, for even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity Not because I desire a gift. He says, I'm not just wanting stuff, get stuff, we're using it to reach others for Christ. And he says, I desire fruit that may abound to your account. I want to remind our church just quickly here that when we support missionaries, when we send resources and finances to help missionaries get and remain on the field, the people they win to Christ and the effect they have, we have a part in that. God says any soul saved or any results from the missionaries we support, Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church shares in that effort and shares in that reward from the Lord. And it's put to our account on our Wednesday night prayer list we started this a couple years ago and we'll kick it off again after our missions conference We just put down there the number of professions of faith that we get back from our missionaries around the world, not ones we led to Christ directly. But missionaries we support that and people that came to Christ. I like to keep a little tally on there just to remind us that we have a part in every soul saved on the mission field. And that's what he's telling the church at Philippi here. The people were winning to Christ because of your support, financial prayer support for us. You have a part. That goes to your account also. He says in verse 18, but I have all and abound. I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you. And then he gets a little descriptive here. He says, an odor of sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, well pleasing to God. And then he makes this great statement there in verse 19, but my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus. He said, you've been faithful to meet my needs. You've been faithful to support me with resources and finances and the things needed. to accomplish uh taking the gospel to other areas. And because you are faithful, God will take care of you. God will meet your needs. Listen, God will never fail the Christian that trusts him. God will never fail the Christian that trusts That believes what God says and does what God says and trusts him and obeys him, God will never fail that Christian. And that's what he's assuring this church of. This church at Philippi was a missions church in their origins. And then in their function as they supported missions and other churches being established, Paul's writing to the church expressing his gratitude for that support. He's praising them. It's a good church. As I studied this book over and over and over, I don't see any major problems going on in the church here Now, some of the other churches, Paul writes to, they had issues. They had problems he had to address. But the church at Philippi was a good church. They had the joy of the Lord. They were praising God. They were involved in getting the gospel out around others. They were making a difference in the world that they lived. They're making a difference for Christ, making a difference for the gospel. And Paul's writing back to them and he's praising them and he's thanking them for their faithfulness. So I don't see any major problems. I do see two little ripples in this church here, though. Somebody has said, if you ever come across a perfect church, don't join it because you'll ruin it. The fact of the matter is, there is no perfect church. No matter how great a church may be, no matter how good and strong they may be in their faith, there's going to be ripples. And the church at Philippi had a couple ripples. If you would notice in verse chapter number three and verse number two, he says, beware of dogs. Now he's not talking about dogs. I like dogs, but a lot of times they don't like me. Do you know in the 30, almost 31 years I've been here as your pastor, I've been bit six times by dogs? Amen You but uh out visiting, knocking on doors, visiting folks six times The worst bites didn't come from the big German shepherd down the road here. The worst bites come from those little yappy rat dogs I mean got me right in the back of my KF out in Baird, West Virginia. And drew blood. I mean to tell ya, if I'd have had a gun, I'm joking. He says, beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision. He's saying There are folks, if you're not careful, you've got to be careful, and we've been preaching this Sunday nights and in Sunday school. If we're not careful, there will be people creep into the church and they will mess things up They'll bring false doctrine. They'll bring in wicked living. And he says, you've got to be careful. Beware. And he uses these terms, dogs and whatnot. If you would, come down to verse number 18 He says, For many walk, of whom I have told you often, now tell you, even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ. They don't love God. They don't believe the Bible. They blaspheme God. They're the enemies of the cross. They're opposed to what Christ came and has done for us. And so it wasn't a major problem in the church, and it wasn't a huge issue in the church, but Paul did feel, under the inspiration of God, the importance of warning then And by the way, it is important we be very, very careful who and what we expose ourselves to. And so he warns them a little bit there. So there's a little ripple. He's saying, listen, be careful, be careful. And then there was another little bit that was some spiritual danger, but there was also some division. Look at chapter 4. And we're just kind of giving a summary of the book here. But chapter 4 and verse number 2, he says, I beseech Eodius. That's a lady in the church, one of the ladies, apparently one of the leading ladies in the church. Had a little bit of influence and beseech synectity. I have no idea whether I'm saying that name right or not, and you have no idea whether I'm saying that name right or not. So we'll just say it however we want. So he beseech and Senectothe. Look at this. That they be of the same mind of the Lord. What is implying here? These two ladies were what? They weren't of the same mind. They were fussing. These two ladies weren't getting along. And uh they were uh uh they they just uh they didn't have the same mind. And they weren't getting along. And he says, listen, beseech you, I beseech you ladies, listen, you make that right. You die to self. You put your own agenda aside. You put your own self-will aside. And you try and be a blessing rather than trying to receive a blessing. I tell you, I think the 99 uh the solution to 99% of our interpersonal problems is simply just dying to self. And saying, Lord, not my will, thy will be done. And just not thinking of ourselves, but thinking of others, and trying to encourage others and trying to help others And rather than walking in the back of the church and saying, somebody better bless me today, walking in the back of the church and say, you know, God use me to be a blessing to somebody today. Use me to help somebody, use me to encourage somebody. So the church didn't have any real serious issues. There was a couple little ripples there in every church in the history of church history Had some ripples. I think if you were going to give a one-word theme to the book of Philippians, it would be this, joy. In fact, I wrote under in the uh in the beginning of the book under the title Philippians, I wrote the word joy. Joy is a result of sincere humility. Chapter 2 of Philippians is one of the greatest chapters on humility. As Jesus Christ humbled himself and became a man and set a pattern, an example for you and I to humble ourselves. I'm telling you, joy is a result of humility. Joy is never the result of pride When we get on our high horse and it comes all about us, and we get proud about who we are and what we are and what we've done and what we have, I tell you, joy slips away pretty quick. We humble ourselves as Christ humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross And he says, have that same mind in you that was in Christ. I think the Philippian church had the joy of the Lord because they were a humble church. They understood that it was God who was good, not them. And we've said this a thousand times in the last 30 plus years. God has been good to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, not because we're wonderful, but because he is wonderful. And we must never forget that, that it is God's goodness, and it is God's grace, and it's God's blessings that make us what we are. Joy is a result of sincere humility. Joy is a result of strong faith. Look at chapter 1 and verse number 25. He says to them, and having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all and for the furtherance and joy of faith I tell you, trusting God is a joyous experience. It's not always easy, but I've been a whole lot happier when I trusted God than when I trusted myself. There's joy in humility, not in pride. There's joy in faith in God, not in doubt and disbelief. And the church was a joyful church because they had a selfless ministry. Again, chapter number two, look at verse 17. He says, yea, and if I be offered upon, look at the two terms he uses here, if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy and rejoice with you. In the world, you don't hear the term joy associated with sacrifice very often. You don't hear the term joy associated with service very often. But I'll tell you, in the Christian life we live by a different standard. In the Christian life, we live by different values. And in the Christian life, the service of the Lord and making sacrifices for our God and for one another. Joy comes with that. Selflessness. There's no joy in selfishness. The most miserable person we know this is true. I've said it again a thousand times. Most selfish person, most miserable person in the world is the person who's living for self, who's all focused on self. It's all me about me. The church at Philippi had the joy of the Lord. Why? Because they were serving and sacrificing for others and for the Lord. They got it all for themselves. No, they weren't a perfect church, but they were a good church. No, they weren't a perfect church, but they were a happy church. They had the joy of the Lord. Paul, incidentally, is writing to the church at Philippi from a prison, a Roman prison of all things His theme is joy and rejoicing. He's expressing gratitude and praise to the church, how good they've been to him, and how God had used him to help him advance the gospel. And he's writing it from a Roman prison. Actually, he wrote four books from prisons. He wrote the book of Ephesians, the book of Colossians, this book Philippi, and Philippians, and also the book Philemon, from a Roman prison. Now I came across a description of what happens when a person is taken prisoner and placed in a Roman prison. I've never heard it in this detail before. What happens? According to this history. And he said, Roman imprisonment, listen to this, was preceded by being stripped naked. And then flogged. A humiliating, painful, bloody ordeal. He said the bleeding wounds went untreated as prisoners sat in painful leg or wrist chains. Mutilated, blood-stained clothing was not replaced even in the cold of winter. We could go to Acts 16, we won't, but in the Philippian jail where Paul and Silas were. They were beaten and flogged. They were placed in stocks. No doubt the Roman uh authorities and Philippi followed this formula here, Paul and Silas had been stripped naked, had been beaten with these fogs till nearly dead And then without any medical attention whatsoever, without any clean clothing, they put it back on, put their garments back on them, bloody stained, and then placed in stocks In a dark prison cell. He goes on and describes this. Most cells were dark, especially the inner cells of a prison, like the one that Paul and Silas inhabited in Philippi. Unbearable cold, lack of water, cramped quarters, sickening stench from few toilets made sleeping difficult and waking hours miserable Because of the miserable conditions, many prisoners begged for a speedy death. Others simply would find a way to commit suicide. To be in a Roman prison was not a pleasant thing. It was a horrific experience. And Paul was writing these letters from a Roman prison. Now the the the the the context of him writing these here at that point His uh imprisonment was probably a little better at this point than what we just described, although in Philippi it was pretty bad. He was given a little leeway, and they were a little gracious to him. But it's amazing to me that from that environment This man, Paul, of phenomenal faith in God, unshakable commitment to the will of God for his life Yet he was able to write a letter of such joy, such praise, and such a positive letter as the book of Philippi. The book of Philippi, as I said, is one of my favorite books of the Bible. Now, back to our text in chapter 2 and verse numbers 15 and 16. Paul is writing and he's urging the church and reminding them that they have a purpose for their existence. They're not there just to enjoy one another's company. There's a purpose. They have a job to do. They have a mission that they've been given. And he's reminding them of that in verse number 15. Notice he says that ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation. And he says, among whom ye shine as lights in the world. He's reminding them that they are to be a witness to this world, that the church is to have a positive effect on its community. That the church is to shine, and the individual members of the church are to shine in a dark, dark world. I think when he references, and we'll look at this here in a minute, when he references shining, he's talking about how we live our lives. He's talking about how our behavior and our actions in a world that is so dark. Keep your place here if you would, and we'll come back here in just a moment, but if you would turn to Matthew chapter number five with me. Matthew chapter 5 is the early part of one of the most famous sermons ever preached. It was preached by the Lord Jesus Christ. We call it the Sermon on the Mount. The Lord really didn't give it a title. He just preached it and he's preaching to his disciples. He's not telling people how to get saved in the Sermon on the Mount. He's telling people who are saved how to live like a disciple. And in verse number 16 of Matthew chapter 5, he says this, let your light, here it is, let your light so shine before men. That they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven He's saying, you ought to live your life as a believer. You and I, the Church of Philippi, you and I ought to live our lives in such a way that people see Christ in us and they give glory to God He is not saying, and I think he makes it very clear, that doing good works and living a certain lifestyle is going to save your soul. How you live your life does not save your soul Is faith in Jesus Christ. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. We are saved by grace, plus nothing, minus nothing. We put our faith in Jesus Christ that saves us. But then once we are saved, He's telling the church at Philippi, you let your light shine. So he says in verse 15 there that their effect on the world, their witness to the world, first of all, uh has to do with how they live their life, letting their light shine. But then back in Philip Philippians In verse 16, then he says, holding forth the word of life. So, first of all, we influence our world by how we live our lives, let our light shine. Second of all, we influence the world by holding out the word of life. By the message we deliver. It's not just how I live my life, but there's a message that has to be delivered And it's not just delivering the message, it has to be backed up by how I'm living my life. Everybody with me? You follow what he's saying here? And he says these two ingredients are necessary if you and I are going to make a difference in the world, if we're going to see people saved, if we're going to have any kind of impact for the gospel in the world. We've got to let our light shine and we've got to hold forth the Word of God, the Word of Life. Number one, said all that to say this. We are to shine as lights in the world. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, you and I individually. We are to shine as lights in the world. Fact of the matter is, how many folks, how many folks here this morning, you're saved, you know it. Would you say amen? Saved and you know it. If that's true, then that means that every one of us are fundamentally different than this world. We are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, a saved person, a child of God, is not the same as the people of the world. Now let me be hastened to say this, we are not better than anybody else. But we're not the same God has saved us. He's changed us. We're fundamentally different than the rest of the world. We are the sons of God. He uses that term there in verse 5. Sons of God, our values are different than the world's values. You grow as a Christian, you grow in your faith and your understanding of the Word of God and the will of God. You're going to find out that your values and the world's values are very, very different. Our values are not the same as the world. Our principles are not the same as the world. The principles we live by are fundamentally different as a child of God, living by the Word of God, is fundamentally different than what the principles this world lives by. Our priorities are different. As a child of God, as a son of God, our priorities are not the same as the world. Our values, our principles, our purpose. is not the same as the world. We have a higher call than what this world has. And he says, you are to be shine. You're different than the world. You're not the same as this dark world. You shine, you have something the world does not have. You have a light, you have a life. That the unsaved world does not have, does not know of. And that light, that life needs to be visible to this world. It has to shine This world has to see that in you there's something different than what is in the world. There's a light there, there's a life there that the world does not have. You know why a room is dark? Because there's no light shining. A community is spiritually dark because there's no spiritual lights shining in that community. A nation is dark Spiritually, morally, because there are no lights shining in that nation. You and I are distressed. I think I speak for all of us. We are distressed by the moral and spiritual condition of our nation. And you know why our nation is so dark morally and spiritually? Because the lights are going out. The lights from the church house and the people of God that once shone brightly from coast to coast across this land, those lights are going out, going out, going out And God is calling those of us that know Christ to let our light shine. To let it shine in a dark world. Let the life of Christ be seen. Our world desperately needs to see Christ. Need to see Christ in us. Lord said, Ye are the light of the world. Little boy got saved in Sunday school. And he came home and he had a neighborhood buddy that didn't go to church or anything, and the little boy got home. He got saved. He went and told his neighbor. He was out in the afternoon, Sunday afternoon, the other boy was out there there riding bike or whatever. He said to the little boy, he says, uh, I got saved. And the boy said, What do you mean you got saved? He said, I got a new heart. And the little neighbor boy said, Let me see it. He says, I want to see that new heart. You know what this world says? Let me see that new heart that you got when you got saved. Let me see that new life. Let me see what the difference is of Christ in a person's life than a person that has, does not have Christ in their life. Let me see that difference We're fundamentally different. Uh uh Mahatmas Gandhi, the leader of the Indian independence of India years ago He studied the doctrines of Christianity. The man was a brilliant man. And he studied the doctrines, the teachings of Christ. And he made this statement publicly. He said, I would be a Christian. He says, I've studied the teachings of Christ in Christianity, and I would be a Christian were it not for Christians. In other words, the truth of Scripture, he was convinced it was good. But the behavior of Christians turned him off so much he rejected Christianity. I'm telling you, that is an indictment against the church. That is an indictment against you and I as believers when we do not let our light shine. And people look at you and I professing to believe be believers in the Lord Jesus Christ and they see no difference Between us and them. They see no light, they see no life. They see no higher values. No different. The light's gone out. And Paul's writing, the church at Philippi says, you need to shine as a light in this old dark world. Um Benjamin Franklin had invented all kinds of stuff. I was reading this week a list of things that Benjamin Franklin invented. It's incredible. Glasses and all kinds of stuff He came up with the idea of having at night in the streets putting lamps out on the street and having a light A street lamp out there on the light. Now you and I are so used to it, we don't even think about it. But that was a novel idea. And he was trying to sell this idea of people putting lamps out on the streets at night so people could see. And nobody was buying it. They just weren't interested. And so finally, Benjamin Franklin got him a lamp. He cleaned it up real good, made it shiny and nice, and he installed it out in front of his house in Philadelphia. And when there started getting dark in the evening, as it was getting dust, he would go out there and he'd light that little lamp And as darkness fell on the streets of Philadelphia, that light would shine, that lantern would shine in those streets, and people that would be out, they'd see it down the road. And they would gravitate to that light. And they come and they'd stand under it. And he noticed something. After a while, there was another light on that street, and another one over there, and another one over here. Oh, he told them all about the benefits of having a street lamp, but it wasn't until they saw its light That they became convinced that that's something they should do. I'm here to tell you, we can tell people about Jesus all day long, but until our light's shining, we're going to be very, very limited in our effectiveness. And he says, let your light so shine before men. Is our light shining? Does our community see the love of Christ in our lives? Do our neighbors, our co-workers, see the holiness of Christ in our lives. We don't need to shout, we don't need to scream, we don't need to make a scene, we just need to shine. Just need to shine. Die to self. Let Christ live his life through me. Pure and clean, compassionate and holy, patient and kind. Let your light shine. If we're going to make a difference in the world, number one, we are to shine as lights in the world. Number two, we're to hold forth the word of life. Look with me back there in verse 16. I encourage you to underscore these verses, these phrases in your Bible. He says, holding forth the word of life. I'm telling you, this world desperately needs the Word of God. This world desperately needs the gospel. I believe young people need to hear the words of life. I thank God for our faithful teenagers and our children downstairs. A whole pastel of them down there. I thank God For the little children and teenagers and young people that make their way into church, and we're able to hold forth the word of life to them And I'm telling you there are children in our community and in our nation and around the world in Europe and South Africa and In uh South America, in the South Pacific, in Russia, there are children in China that need the word of life desperately. This world needs the Bible. This world needs our young people need it. Elderly people need the word of life. Hurting people need the word of life. I think the greatest need of mankind is salvation from sin and hell. You can live in the nicest house, you can drive the fanciest car, you can wear the most expensive clothes. You can eat elegant and luxurious food. But if you don't have Christ, you don't have nothing. If a person dies in their sins unforgiven, the Bible is very, very clear they spend eternity in a horrific place called hell with no escape. No parties, no friends, no light, no hope. Lost for all eternity And this world needs the gospel of Jesus Christ to find forgiveness and salvation from sin in hell. Holding forth the word of life. It's what this world needs. It's what our community needs. The greatest need of mankind is salvation from sin and hell. I like the way he phrases this here as he's writing to these believers at Philippi. holding forth the word of light. That's what he did. This was what Paul and Silas did when they showed up. They went out into their neighborhoods. They went out into the streets and the marketplaces and the synagogues that were there and they held forth the word of life. They told them of Christ. They told them of the gospel. They told them how to be saved. And he's saying, Now you need to do that same thing that we did for you. You need to now go out and hold forth the word of life to those. That word hold forth, that little phrase It's interesting. I got looking it up and how it's used and where it comes from. It has this idea to stretch forth to hand somebody something. For instance, these girls down here, it says this idea. I'm holding forth, I'm stretching it out and handing it to her. Holding forth the word of life. You can have it. Don't say I never gave you anything, Aubrey. To stretch out, to hand something to someone. It has the idea, the picture I got in my mind as I studied this phrase and the meaning of it. The picture I got in my mind is you're in a restaurant. And the waitress comes and you make your order and she goes in the back and depending on the restaurant, an hour and a half later they come back out with your meal. The waitress comes out, or the waiter, and they come out, and they have those plates in their hand, and they're sitting there, and they reach out and they stretch it out to you so it's available. So you can take it and take it to be yours. And that's what he's saying, the church and believers at Philippi. They were to take the word of life And they were to hold it forth, put it out, give it out, to where people can get it and have it and make that truth their truth. And accept the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. You see, he says, first of all, you need to shine They need to see Christ in your life, has to back up what you do. And then you take that and you share it with others. You hand it forth, hold it forth. The purpose of the church is this to display to this world what Christ does in the heart of a believer The purpose of the church and for each of us is to declare to this world what it means to believe on Jesus Christ. Show what Christ can do and will do in the heart of a believer, then tell others, hold forth to others how They can have Christ. What it means to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Mark 16, 15, Jesus put it this way. Go ye into all the world. And preach the gospel. Hold forth the word of life. Preach the gospel to every creature, holding forth the word of life. This past month, we finish up today, track month. As I said earlier, we set a goal to give out 20,000 tracks this month. We've worked hard, a lot of our folks worked hard, giving out tracks and sharing them with others. We've taken three road trips now We've been in Kaiser and Westernport down in that area down there and gave out, I forget, 2,000 some tracks down there. We were in Morgantown a week ago Gave out over three thousand tracks there, a lot of it on the campus and dormitories apartments of the college. And then yesterday we were in Cumberland, dodged the rain a little bit, but we're able to get uh just about 2,000, just under 2,000 tracks, out 1,800 some yesterday in Cumberland. You know what I noticed? And I had several people, other people mention this also, and I noticed this the last couple years. There seems to be a hunger on the part of people for the Word of God. Something's different. Over the years, we've had a lot of pushback when we would do this and a lot of rejection, most of it polite, but some of it very ugly. But I've noticed the last couple years that has changed a little bit. I don't know the reason, I can't explain it. But I know this. People are much more eager as we hold forth the word of light, they seem much more eager to take it. I've had so many people thank you I was down in Kaiser and there was a bunch of people there and I didn't know how they'd respond. I walked up, I had a gospel my gospel tracts, and I just said this to them. I said, you know, this world's a mess, isn't it? I said, boy, it sure is. I said, I think we all need to hear a little bit of good news, don't you? I all said, we sure do. We sure do. I believe with all my heart That this world is hungry for what Christ has to offer. Whether they know it or not, there's a hunger in the heart and soul of every man woman and child for something real, something eternal. There's a God-shaped vacuum in the heart of every human being that only Jesus Christ can fill. This world's hungry, and he says, hold forth the word of life. Three weeks ago, as I said, we were down in Kaiser and in that area. All day long, God gave us great weather. People were so receptive, just so receptive. We were kind of finishing up there and we were gonna go get lunch and There was a little area that a few of us, myself, Tom and Cindy, I think there was somebody else with us And as we got out, we're working our way down the street and putting on doors and handing them to people that were out. There was a fellow sitting on the porch, uh, on his on his front porch there Probably four fifties, I would guess, in age. And I was working the other side of the street, and Tom and Cindy were coming down. I noticed they went over and they handed the man a gospel track and they engaged him in conversation a little bit. That man, his name's John. On his front porch, as Tom and Cindy held forth the word of life, he listened to the gospel of Jesus Christ. And he bowed his head and he trusted Jesus Christ as its personal Savior. I believe God saved his soul because somebody held forth the word of life. There's a new name written down in heaven. There's a soul that has escaped hell because somebody held forth the word of life. This Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, we're going to focus on getting the gospel around the world, holding forth the word of life around this whole world. I hope you'll get on board with us, Mountain Lake. Hope you'll pray that God will lead you and direct you on what role you and I have. Whether to go as a missionary and hold forth the word of life and shine as a light, what Christ does in our life. Or to maintain back here and be a witness here and support those that go, holding forth the word of life. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask dear Lord, you'd use this challenge this morning I pray you'd help us to shine as lights in a very, very dark world. I pray, dear Lord, you give us the boldness and the compassion and the tact and the wisdom to hold forth the word of life to those who need it. Their heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder how many would say, preacher, I'm saved. I know God saved me. I have biblical basis for that assurance. But you say, you know, I don't know that my life is a very clear shine for the Lord Jesus Christ. There's some areas in my life that really need attention, my spiritual life that really need attention, that I can be a clear witness, testimony of Christ in me And God's been dealing with your heart about that. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I know there's areas in my life that need to shine clearer. That need to be more distinctly Christian in my life. Any others? God bless you, hands all around. I wonder if there's some would say, preacher, I need to be more faithful in holding forth the word of life And sharing that message with others, whether it's in gospel form or verbally, maybe going to a foreign field, God calling you, just like he did Paul and Silas to Philippi. But I wonder how many would say, preacher, I need to be a little more diligent, a little more earnest in holding forth the word of life. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you, hands all around. We live in a dark, sinful world that's lost. The only hope of this whole world is the Lord Jesus Christ. We got elections coming up, and everybody's looking to their man and their party, their person. Save the nation. I'm telling you, there's only one that can save this nation. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to give forth the word of life. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. In Jesus' name, amen