All right, take your Bibles, go with me to Psalm nineteen, Psalm nineteen. What a wonderful it is, what a wonderful thing it is to see the spirit of a church like this I I I love it. I told your pastor over lunch today, I enjoy coming here so much for two reasons. Number one, I pray for you every day, as I do your pastor. But to the spirit of the church. I said, your people get. They get it. And the invitation and the response to the invitation this morning, when I see people pray And in the amount that I did during the invitation, you know what I see? I see God's willingness to have mercy upon our country. I see God's willingness to literally do something for our nation. And like I told you this morning, if you weren't here this morning, I I want to tell you, hey, your prayers are so very important. Each and every one of your prayers are powerful and they're poignant for God in this moment of history that we find ourselves. And there are definitive times in history. History that we see in our country truly has been shaped by prayer. Shaped by the very thing that we are praying about here today and how we need to increase our prayer life and do some things that simply are not normally done by God's people today. And when we look at our nation, defined by sacrifice and sustained by biblical principles and foundations, birthed by the miraculous intervention of God There have been certain points in our history that you might say have defined who we are today. We're living in one of those points right now. I mean we are living in a point of history that we can go one of two ways, and by God's grace and the challenge of the time in which we live and for his glory, we need to do what God wants us to do and th that is I believe in one aspect holding the line. You say what it what do you mean holding the line? I I think it's wonderful when we see The world in which we live, we can see God's hand in so many different things. I I saw God's hand in these young ladies as they sang that song, touched my heart. uh these godly young ladies. And uh and we can also go to this to the night sky and we can see the night sky some things again that mirror God. And a lot of times people say, well, you know, astrology, that's that's devilish. It is. But astronomy There were names and aspects of God written in the stars at one time that was completely different from how the devil has covered it up today with uh the astrology and the signs and the zodiac and this nonsense. And so uh Psalm nineteen I want to just take you to that song. And if you would please stand just for a moment. I'm going to read just a few verses and then you can sit back down. It says this In the heavens, the heavens that we look, that we see, the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night showeth knowledge. So the stars literally are speaking for God. It goes on to say, their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the Son, which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race. I truly believe this. I believe God's coming soon. I believe each and every one of us are running a race right now. And I want to speak on holding the line, the same line that God says the stars speak of and display to us Each and every night that we look up. Heavenly Father, as now we look up to you, we pray, dear God, that you would do something special for us tonight. Oh God, through and by your Holy Ghost, that you would enter into this service, Lord, through and by that holy unction that you give us in the name of your son and by the authority that's in the name of Jesus Christ, we pray that you would perform a miracle in the hearts of these your people. And Father, allow me, dear God, to be that messenger that you have sent tonight with the truth Thank you, Lord, that the truth has a name and his name is Jesus Christ. Father, we pray, dear God That you would create and maintain the hedge protection around this assembly, bind off the wicked and the evil one. And Lord, give us sweet liberty of the spirit within. And Father, help The cares of life just to dissipate, the aches and pains to go away, that we might focus on these eternal truths. And we'll be very careful to give you the praise and glory now, for we ask it in the precious name of your Son and our Savior, and by the power. And the merit and the authority. That's in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Thank you. May be seated. I I love the history of America. I I love the fact That there's always been those willing to stand up for a cause, to stand, period, against sometimes insurmountable odds I'm so thankful that you have still in your church one of the men that represent the greatest generation. That went through and had their metal tempered through and by the Great Depression, and then fought a horrendous war for four years. I mean some men didn't go without with they went without food for days, went without sleep for days, they went without taking a shower for sometimes weeks. You could smell the battlefield before you got there. See, we have no idea what has been done for us. And I know there's veterans here as well, perhaps from the Korean War and the Vietnam War and uh and the the war over in Afghanistan and and the other conflicts that we have with terrorism And when I think about what these men have done and how they've held the line for us, my mind also goes back into history as well. Uh I go to Texas when well at least once once a year, sometimes twice, depending on When the pastors invite me and that's how I set my schedule simply by pastors calling and saying, You can you come and and if I have the date open I I go but I remember And one particular time in San Antonio, uh, I was staying, they put me up at a uh at a hotel right across from the Alamo My mind went back to the Alamo and and how Colonel William Travis, the commander of the Alamos Defense Forces, upon receiving a letter from the Mexican general Antonio Lopez de Santa Ana demanding surrender because they were so outnumbered, he is said that he went to his troops, read the letter, and drew a line in the sand with his sword. And asked those who were going to stay to step over that line and join him. That most likely they were not going to get out of this conflict alive. And all but one stood with Travis and stayed in the now famous, of course, mission that Died and very f some very famous Jim Boe and and uh some of the egg the other great woodsmen, but the line was drawn. I I believe this, I I believe the draw the line is drawn for us as well. today. Uh I I believe the line has been drawn as to where we're going to stand. And I believe this I believe as God's people we're on the front lines. That's why God says that very familiar verse, but I think it's so very pertinent. If my people which are called by my name shall hover themselves and pray. You see, the future of our country does not belong to the heathen It belongs to us. Now, it will the heathen will have it if we give place to the devil. But we must not do that. For God's sake, and as we said this morning through Hezekiah, for his namesake and for the glory of God, but also for our families and for everything that we have seen Given to us here in this country. The Holy Scriptures many times talks about that line drawn. In Exodus 32 and verse 26 it says, And Moses, then Moses stood at the gate of the camp and said, Who is on the Lord's side? Let him come unto me. So it's interesting. All the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him. They crossed that imaginary line And came to Moses. In Joshua 24, 14 through 15, it says, now therefore fear the Lord and serve him In sincerity and in truth, and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood and in Egypt and serve the Lord. And if it seem evil unto you to serve the Lord, choose you this day, whom ye will serve. But as for me, he said, of course, at the end of that scripture, in my house, we will serve the Lord. He made a decision. He's trying to get other people to make the decision as well. In this time in which we live, hear me now, listen, this time in which we live where there's so many distractions. There's so many toys. There's so many things that will pull us off of the line. We need to decide that We are going to determine not to know certain things. I think I brought a message a few years ago about the the declaration of our life, which is God. That was the declaration of the United States We need to declare God wherever we go. I mean, we need to be ready writers of the hope that lies within us. If you want the demonstration of the Holy Spirit then you have to determine not to know certain things. Determine not to know certain things so that we might know him better It says this, it says in 1 Kings 18:21, and Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? I talked about that today, and if the Lord be God, follow him, but if Baal, then follow him. But it very interesting to me. It says that people answered him not a word. Now we talked about that this morning. And how about that silent majority? I think it's time that we start speaking up Because Edmund Burke said the only thing necessary for the trend of evil is for good men to do nothing. And we've done nothing for a long time. We've been sitting on our blessed assurances because we've had it so good In 1 Kings 19, 13 through 14, it says, And it was so when Elijah heard it that he wrapped his face in the mantle and went out and stood in the entering the cave. And he basically was complaining to God, I'm the only one. And God said, No. I reserved seven thousand. But those seven thousand people, they weren't saying anything. You understand? Out of three hundred and twenty million people in America There are between 80 and 100 million people that say they've had a life-changing experience with the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's not a fringe. That's a huge amount of people. Eighty to a hundred million people by the statistics and by the different polls that have been um taken and and I know that you can say you can make statistics say whatever they want to, but these are polls that I believe are very reliable. And so we need to understand something that as God's people we have no idea I think of something that we need to get a hold of, and that is we are the conduit of God We have the honor to extend his power where it's needed, and it's always easier to do nothing in a difficult time. God looks for people that are willing to speak the truth in hard places It says this: the wicked flee when no man pursueth, but the righteous are as bold as a lion. You know why the righteous are as bold as a lion? Because they're a conduit. And this is what we don't get We are the messenger of the glorious gospel of Jesus Christ. We are messengers of truth. And just like I said this morning, do you understand how important your prayer is? Hey, may I say this? Do you understand how important your presence is here? Do you realize just by your presence you honor God? And by your presence here tonight, and if you can tomorrow night, you say, well, uh If I can, what does that mean? That means if you're in jail or the hospital or you have to work. Other than that you need to be here. You know why? Because our country is at a point where we are looking over the precipice. I remember Years ago, I was a principal of a very large Christian school in Oklahoma. And you know one thing about principals, we never die, we just lose our faculties, and so we go crazy. We gotta do something else. But every year within that maniac type of you know position that I had w with two hundred and forty plus students from K four all the way to the twelfth grade. I I I enjoy young people. I can remember one little boy walked in and uh this this was in a different era. Where we still still paddled, you know, young young people. Well we didn't, but we had the parents to. And and this little boy walked in cute as a button. This little little guy walked in, knew he's in trouble. And this is what his thing was, James said, here Brother Harding, you can use my belt. He started pulling his belt off. I said, James I know what you're doing. Your belt's smaller than mine. He went, oh yeah. He was smart too, okay? But we had a candy sale every year And we were number one in the nation for this candy called World Fo World World's Finest. Okay, World's Finest Chocolate. We were number one in the nation. We sold more candy than anyone else. And we sold that candy in ten days And the campfire girls, they sold it for like several months and they still didn't beat us. The last time that we had a a a big sale before I resigned and and went into this ministry We sold $338,000 worth of candy in ten days. And we were able to keep 64% of it for the ministry. Oh yeah. I went totally insane during that ten days, okay? I mean I had to order chocolate. I mean chocolate was I mean everywhere, okay? But but what we did was we uh We would take 'em take these young people on on trips, you know, and and uh we'd take 'em to go see certain things and and because you had to you know you had to take young people, you know, from point A to to to point B and and uh and s and so every once in a while I would I would, you know, just basically get down on my hands and knees and say, oh God, I I need some I need some direction here. I I I I need I need you to to help me to understand what I c I can I can do and where I can take these young people. Well one time I took them up to Canada to go skiing. I mean, you say Brother Harding, oh yeah, I mean you gotta spend money to make money. So I took him up and and I really got bitter a little bit, okay, because the young people were given these little skis. And they were like limber, you know, all their bones were were limber, you know, and they come flying down on these l and but they gave me some real long seas. And I was muscling my way down, you know, and and I I had no idea what I was doing. I'd wipe out big time. And you know, I I wiped out so bad several times my teachers would come over at with with students. Brother Hardy, are you okay? I said, yeah, I don't think anything's broken, okay. But one particular time we we left there and and we crossed over and so we w went skiing and we went to Niagara Falls. And when we were at Niagara Falls, um we were just, you know, we we got there late because the bus broke down. And I told the young people, I said, God has a reason for everything. The bus broke down. We were about four hours late getting to Niagara Falls. And when we got there, uh we were looking at the falls from the Canadian side, okay, because we hadn't crossed over yet to the American side, and and one of the one of the people said, there's someone standing on the edge of the falls. I said, no, it's not. It's got to be a tree or something. I looked over, and sure enough, there was someone right at the edge of the falls. I mean at the very edge, with his hands in his pockets, standing up, and the water was rushing around him. I couldn't believe it. I said, what on earth? Well what had happened was this guy was going to commit suicide and he jumped in the water much further up the Niagara and came down and there was some some sticks, some logs, whatever, that crossed between two rocks. And and it's it's the providence of God. And when they crossed between two rocks, he came up, and the force of the water lifted him right out of the water and stood him up. He was looking over the precipice. With his hands in his pockets. And we were s I mean s dumbfounded. So I told the young people there's a restaurant right here, it was cold and they were hungry. I said, let's go in this restaurant because we can kind of see what happens and and the emergency vehicles were beginning to assemble and and all these things, so we went in and there were forty plus of us and we were all praying for that man. We're praying and asking God, getting a hold of God, and sending our prayers to that man, because his soul was on the precipice of eternity. And he wasn't saved. I mean most likely when you commit suicide, uh most likely you're not a saved person, could have been, but I don't think so. They brought the helicopter around and they tied they tried to come into him and that didn't work and so they brought the helicopter around and they were hovering around him and they had taken one of those lifeboys and the rope had been extended over to the side of the uh of the Niagara and then and then they tied it on and they threw it to him and and he went First time they threw Tommy, he just kinda looked at it. He didn't even try to get it. Second time they they threw it at him and and he kind of went to s to reach over, but it Flew around him. Third time, they threw it and he slipped. His hands went up involuntarily because those two Branches had broken and I see them I I saw them go down the the falls and I thought he was gone. But when he went like this as he slipped The life boy came down on his arm and he brought his arm in and they pulled him to safety. I mean you can look it up, it's one of the most amazing things that they've ever seen. And the people in the rescue said this. We've been doing this for years. We have never seen anything like this. This was a miracle. There was, this man had the angel of God on his shoulders. But you know what it was? It was forty young people that were conduits that had a hold of God. And we're praying for that man. And we were even four hours late, because God wanted us there at that time What I'm saying is, folks, and I mean this with every fiber of my being, there's enough people right here to get a hold of this truth that God has called us to hold a line, to be a conduit for him. A messenger. And by the way, the message is more important than the messenger. And our message is that God is a miracle working God and He has salvation for anyone that wants to reach out for it. And I don't know about you, but I want to see more people saved before God takes us out of here and I want to see more people saved Uh a and I don't want to see our country cave in because the civil liberty gives us the permission to accomplish the spiritual liberty that's in the Lord Jesus Christ and I and I want to continue to give tracks out Amen? I don't I don't want someone to basically say, oh, you can't give tracks out anymore. It's against the law. And I saw someone get in tracks today. Brother, someone that was ver vertically challenged, as someone said, and and brother Leatherman was reaching up and And say you want some of these tracks and hey I love that. You know why? Because people that have tracks are people that give tracks out. And I don't know about you, but I love the promise that every time you give a tract out to someone and they accept it That's a promise from God that his word will not return void. I don't care if they tear it up in front of you and throw it on the ground. It will never return void. I remember um uh hearing testimonies of drunks walking down the street in Chicago and seeing a portion of a torn-up track that someone had ripped up and said, God so loved That's all it said. He picked it up and stumbled into the Pacific Garden mission. Want to know, God so loved what? And when he walked into the true story, there the verse was, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that man got saved. From a portion of a tract. I don't want our country to cave in on us. Hey folks, we need to understand we're conduits. But if you're not holding on to the power You won't have anything to give anybody. We need to understand to hold the line. There are certain things that we need to do, and I want to share those things with you. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. We need to get prayed up, we need to stay up, we need to speak up and realize that the carnal mind, hey, turn off that TV Get out of social media. You say, Brother Hardy, what are you talking about? There are more people, God's people, that are more connected to social media than they are to the power. That's the power book right right there. Hey, hear me, hear me. I I I get this a lot because of the type of ministry that I have. There are more people that are that are wrapped up in conspiracy theories. You know, one of the rules for revolution is to get people so wrapped up in conspiracy theories That they don't know what is truth? Yeah. You say, but Hardy, uh well, isn't there conspiracies? Yes, there's conspiracies. Is the trilateral commission a real thing? Yep. Illuminati? Yeah. Club of Rome? Mm-hmm. Is there a group of super wealthy people that are working for the demise of our nation? Yeah. But what does that buy you at the end of the day? Do you want the power from God or do you want to be able to walk around and say, Oh, did you hear about this? Did you hear about that? There's a prison on the moon. I've heard intelligent people tell me that. I'm going, what? What? What did you say? Hey, look, listen to me. Look up here, I'm not dismissing yet. Some conviction coming in. It doesn't buy you anything at the end of the day. You know what it does? Being a conduit for God. Holding the line. Understanding Carnal mind is enmity with God. Hey, you know how many times I've seen these people say something's gonna happen by 11 o'clock at night? And it doesn't happen. You know, I tell conspiracy theorists if if you're counting on this from a biblical standpoint A prophet in the Bible that was wrong one time was stoned. Now I'm not saying stone these people, okay? Just in case, because I I know we're live streaming, okay? I'm not recommending that. But what I'm saying, one time If anyone was wrong in their predic prediction, that was it. These people have been wrong and wrong and wrong and wrong. Huh? You know what it's called? You know what I call it? Hope friend. It's like hope and heroin. Oh, it's so bad. Something else has to be going on. Well, something else is God If you want to do something that is miraculous, it's not going to be found in conspiracy theories. It's going to be found in God's Word It's going to be found in prayer. It's going to be found in you going out and witnessing to the Lord. It's going to be found in you getting prayed up and speaking up and asking God to do something miraculous. Holding the line If we are to hold a life, we need to hold on to God. Get a hold of Him. Get knowledgeable of Him. Hey, don't spend hours and hours and hours on these sites. Spend hours and hours and hours right here. Amen? And understand the family altar is so very important. 2 Samuel 23, 9-10. He arose and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword, and the Lord wrought a great victory that day. There was a man by the name of Eliezer, the son of Dodo. No wonder that guy was tough. Man, he was he was teased his whole life. So you're the son of Dodo? That guy got tough and hey, you know what he did? He defended a patch of lentils. You know what that is? That's a that's a hell of beans. Are you kidding me? He's saying, uh I don't it doesn't amount to a hill of beans. We'll do it for him. And he smote the Philistines. I mean a miraculous amount of the enemies of God 2 Kings 18, 5 through 8. He trusted in the Lord God of Israel, so that after him was none like him. We talked about Hezekiah today. And why was Hezekiah blessed? Because he held on to God. We need to hold a line by holding on to God. How do we do that? Bible reading. Amen? Now let me ask you, and this is rhetorical. But how many here are satisfied with their Bible reading? I don't think anyone can say they're satisfied. Oh, I read the Bible and read 25 chapters a day? Ah. How about your memorization? How many verses have you memorized lately? How many memor how many verses have you memorized so far this year? Yeah. Someone just dropped their Bible on that one, okay. But uh hey look Bible reading, Second Thessalonians two fifteen. Therefore, brethren, stand fast and hold the traditions which ye have been taught. Whether by word or our epistle. Now the Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God, even our Father, hath loved us and hath given us an everlasting consolation of hope, good hope. Through grace. So we need to comfort our hearts. Hey, you want to be comforted? Get into that book right there. Amen. We hold the line by praying and fasting. And the Lord said, well, look, um, when his disciples said, why couldn't we cast him out, Lord? Because of your unbelief. Hey I I I want you to understand something. The reason I love coming here is because I truly, as I've already said, I think you people get it. But we need to understand we are the conduit of God You ever how many of you ever touched a live wire? Huh? It's like Amen. And if you touch it and touch someone else, it's like Huh? You ever done that? I mean there's low voltage, you know, uh little toys you you can get and you you touch the wire and and more you got the electricity going through you and then you touch someone else. How many Have ever walked up to someone like like this on the carpet and then said, hi, and you got My wife uh too many times, you know, I'm I'm walking through the living room, I I I come over and I and I just I just have to touch my wife on the forehead or something and and I don't mean to, but it's like She said, you're shocking. You're just shocking. I said, well, you know, I'm glad that we still have a little spark between us things. She said, stop it, stop it But that's who we are. Hey, if we're to be conduits of the power, the magnificent, omnipotent power of God, we need to tap into the source. And then we can touch someone else with that by giving them a tract. And they can see it in you. I I I love the fact that God's allowed us to live in a time of this and we can hold the line by praying and fasting and realizing that prayer And fasting has eternal results. God blesses fasting. See, this is where this flesh rises up. I can just feel it when I talk about fasting. Oh, Brother Harding, you're actually actually Saying we should go without food, maybe a meal at first. One meal instead of eating Pray. Or fast from twelve o'clock noon, eat a big lunch until twelve o'clock Noon the next day. That's praying twenty-four hours. You want it you want to get some prayers answered? You wanna hold the line Try praying and fasting every once in a while. Our founding fathers, when they were fighting, you realize they didn't have enough sustenance to eat anything. They had they had flour and water They were starving to death. But you know what they did have? They had the bread of life. They had their pastors Who were many times their commanders coming in and saying, Men, I know you're hungry and I and I know you're sick, but hey, let me just give you some sustenance from God's word. I truly believe this. I believe God allowed that to happen so that when they went to God, they were already in a prayer and fasting state. Praying before the battle. David Jones would preach to the men, and he was in the same state that they were. He would preach to them repentance toward God, and then he'd pick up his musket and run into battle for the independence of man. Phew. I love that. God wants us, he's chosen us to hold the line in our country. Don't shoot until you see the whites of their eyes. Ever heard of that? That means they're they're they get real close because the closer they are, the better you can shoot at them. Amen. And we need to understand this. When holding the line, we need to pray against the enemies of God. And and our weapons of our warfare is truth. And we need to make sure we have good aim with the truth that God's given us. Are you with me tonight? Say amen. And I set my face unto the Lord God to seek by prayer and supplications with fasting and sackcloth and ashes, and I prayed unto the Lord my God and made confession and said, O Lord The great and dreadful God, keeping covenant and mercy to them that love him and to them that keep his commandments. Daniel said, We sinned And we need you. We sinned, committed iniquity, done wickedly, have rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments I invite you to come sometime and come into the Library of Congress. I have something here that uh I've received, and it's a it's a researcher's card. We can go in and we can actually look at the old documents Go in and see the the actual journals that George Washington wrote in his own hand. When I was there With the Louisiana pastors, I walked in and normally you fill out paperwork and but this was an impromptu thing and I thought, hey We have some time. Let's go over to the Library of Congress. And I asked the guy, hey, you got something of interest that uh you could show to these pastors? And and they told me no like three or four times. I just kept on coming back, yeah, you know these guys have come a long way, you know. I wasn't gonna take no for an answer. But nicely And I just kept on, hey, you know these guys that come all the way from Louisiana and they're pastors, they'd love to see something about our country. And finally says, Okay, I think I got something And he went in and he got a book, and it was the Federalist Papers. Now the Federalist Papers were the papers that were written by James Madison. Alexander Hamilton and John Jay under one pseudonym to explain the Constitution to the people of America. He said this particular book Was Thomas Jefferson's own copy because he was over in France as an ambassador. And I opened it up, you know what it said? The Provenance right on the front said this book was and and it had Mrs. Alexander Hamilton's Handwriting. I gave this book to Mrs. Church over in France. And Mrs. Church gave it to Thomas Jefferson. And I leaped through and there was the notes from Thomas Jefferson that he'd written in the book. That was really cool, you know what I mean? It's amazing the power that you can witness the men that wrote these books The power of God that they had upon them, the conduit that they were, because they were holding on to God and going forward in what God had told them. Hey, we need to hold the line. By preaching the whole counsel of God, hold fast the form of sound words. We need to hold fast by holy living. What happened to holy living? You know what happened to living holy? The standards that we have, the expression of the outward expression of an inward Holiness. Hey, if you are living a holy life within, people are going to see it without. I don't know about you. I want people to see that in my life. What about you? So I want to live a holy life. You know, it was wonderful. I was sitting next to the director, the youth director, and these young ladies came up. You know what God says in the Bible? What I evidenced, and you probably did too, the beauty of holiness. These young ladies were dressed modestly, they didn't have a bunch of makeup caked on Amen. When I look into congregations in the United States, I I love it when I can see the beauty of holiness reflected in people. And the youth especially. Thank you for what you're doing here. Thank you for your leadership here, Brother Leatherman. Because God can see the beauty of holiness. And it says in 2 Corinthians 3, 2 and 3, ye are our epistle, written in our hearts, known and read of all men. So people read us. You know there's people that are watching you when you don't even know it. There's people watching how you respond, how you react. See, because you you can practice reac you can practice actions. You can go to church. And then you get in your car. Hey, what do you do, my huh? Be careful Because you're read of all men. Make sure that you have that holiness within. How do we get hold of it? By making sure that this book is preeminent in our life That we spend more time here than we do on social media. More time here than we do watching the boobtube. I like to call it that. Because we were talking about this the other day. Uh too many of God's people are wrapped up in um amusement. You know you know what amusing is, it means to think. You know what amusement is? Not thinking. Huh? Right? And too many of God's people are wrapped up in amusement. Have you ever seen anyone watch television? Oh, it's a very intelligent look. Every once in a while they blink. You know? And then commercial happens, okay and then the and then the commercial is over. Amusement. I don't know about you. I think God wants us to be thanking people. If we're to hold the line We need to be holding on to God. The conduit. Oh, there's nothing. There's nothing in the world like giving someone a tract. There's nothing in the world like say like introducing someone to the truth of Jesus Christ. And I've seen people that have said, no, I don't, no, I don't, and I just keep on talking In fact, I was soul winning the other day, and I said, Lord, I want to see someone saved. If we pray, would you bring someone through and past my path that I could give them a tract? I flipped my lid. And and it was the last door. Before we had to go back to church. It was in a different state. And I knocked on the door and this young lady opened the door and she had kids inside that were going crazy. And I told her who we were and gave the track from the church that I was at and and uh and she said, Well, the kids are kinda going bonkers right right now and you know and and so I said well let me just give you my testimony and when I started to give my testimony I was praying Lord take care of those rug rats Sweet little things, amen. And you know what happened? Those little ones settled right down. They got quiet. They started sitting still And I gave her my testimony. And she got saved. Before oh I mean I was shouting when I walked away Because a lot of times we we say, oh well, oh okay. Instead of just praying and say, but before I go, let me give you my testimony Because people can argue with anything, but they can't argue with your testimony because you're the expert of your testimony. If nothing else works, your testimony will. Amen. Wha what is that holding on to the power of God and directing it? We're conduits. You are God's conduit. But you're not going to have any power Unless you're holding on to Him. Unless you're holding the line by holding on to God and living holy. That's what God wants us to be. We gain God's providence, his protection His power, his purpose by living holy lives, the beauty of holiness Hold fast that's with w that which thou hast. Well what do you have tonight. You have the Bible. What do we have tonight? We have freedom, liberty in America to to take this and to give it to other people. What do you have tonight? You have a you have a a wonderful life. You have food to eat Huh? I don't see anyone here that hasn't gone without food in a while. Bunch of well-rounded individuals, amen. And I am too We hold fast by soul winning, personal soul winning. Nothing like it, nothing like it. It takes commitment. It takes courage. It takes concentration to hold a line. See the enemy approaching? Hey, don't get concerned. We have a commander That has already won the war. He's allowing us just to fight some skirmishes down here. But we've already won. These young people This young lady right here? This young lady right here that's not looking at at me? Hello. This young lady here. This one These are conduits for God. But you've got to hold on to Him. Get into your Bible. Evan. Uh I appreciate how old are you, Evan? Sixteen? And and and you're driving? Would you let me get out of the parking lot before you Oh I I just heard Evan pray downstairs. I thought, this isn't the first time for Evan. He got a hold of God. Sixteen years old. You understand John Quincy Adams? When he was thirteen, knew six different languages. Had trained with the Minutemen, was appointed as the ambassador, the uh secretary to the ambassador Dana to all of the Russians by the time he was thirteen. Became the sixth president of the United States, was a powerful man of prayer, and he held the line, didn't he? He held the line trying to abolish slavery. And he affected someone so critically, so deeply. When he was in Congress as an old man, trying to pass one bill after another after another to abolish slavery because he knew if they didn't get it done legislatively We'd come to death grips over it. And we did. But the young man that he influenced when he was a very old man in Congress, a lot of times people don't even know. He died in the Capitol from a stroke. He influenced a young man that came back into politics years later. His name was Abraham Lincoln. So John Quincy, the sixth president of the United States. Son of the second president of the United States influenced the sixteenth president of the United States. You know why? Because he was holding the line. Because he had a conduit between God and the people that he touched in his life. I just buried Woody and I'm done. I just buried Woody Williams like like I told you. You know what everyone said? Everyone said, anyone that knew Woody? Felt like he was their he was their best friend. That they were his best friend. And I've seen him at in his nineties after Two weeks in Hawaii, one event after another after another, preaching, preaching, preaching. I was preaching with them. And people lined up Giving him their babies and taking photographs. And I thought, man, I'm tired. I can just imagine what this guy's going through. He's 90. And every single person. He was as gracious and kind, didn't try to hurry anyone up with a huge line at 10 o'clock at night on the last day. I thought, I know, I can see it. Hold on to God, and He's touching people. With the power. He's just the conduit. Let's let's hold the line. What do you think? Let's get a hold of the power of God and these little things in life, these lesser things, and they may not even be wrong. But these lesser things in life, let's let go of them so that we can have the best. You want good or you want the best? You want things that well yeah it you know it makes me feel good and but I I don't know about you. I want the best. I I am I am um much different than I was when I was a teenager. When I was a teenager I was a tall drink of water. I could never break two hundred. I w I ate like a horse I worked out with weights. I was 197, 198, 197, 198. I turned 29. I flew past 200 so fast it made my head spin. I've never looked back since But when I was younger, I was always looking in the refrigerator. Mom said, What are you doing? Uh I'm just kind of looking around. She said, You just ate. Yeah, I was always hungry Now if it came up to the point we were about to eat and I was about to get a Twinkie or a fudge brownie or something, my mom would say, ah, don't eat that because you're going to spoil your Dinner, your appetite, yeah. There was nothing wrong with that fudge brownie that my mom had made, but she had some good food, some real sustenance that was going to help me to grow in the way that I should. Too many people are nibbling around the things of the world. And that's why they don't have an appetite for God, His Word, prayer. Soul winning. Being a conduit for him. Do you want to be a conduit? What's your relationship with this? Huh? How many verses have you memorized? How many times have you read that through this year? Did you read it through last year? What I'm saying is, hey, let's get out of our comfort zones and let's start being conduits for God. What's your prayer life? We dealt with that this morning. But what's your Bible reading? What's this look like to you? Now if you are exactly where you should be in your Bible reading, then just please stay in your seat. You don't need to come to the altar. But if you're like me and I say, you know what, I want to increase in my Bible reading I want to increase in the power that flows through me to others because I'm red of all men. And this point in our history, where we're holding the line for our country Why don't we do something tonight that's a little out of the ordinary? Say Bill Harden, we just had an invitation this morning. Yeah, do you think we should Do something similar tonight when it comes to the Word of God? Do you want to be a conduit? You want to be a powerful conduit for God? Let's get plugged in. What do you think? You want to get plugged in tonight to the power of God So that when people look at you, they say, something different about you. What is it? What's different about you? Hold the line. Great song says, hold the fort for I'm coming. We need to get plugged in if we want to hold the line. Hey, it's not a burden to me, it's a blessing. I'm not gonna ask the piano to play. I don't know about you. I want to increase my bottle rating. I want more power from God so I can touch the lives of more people. What about you? If you can, if you're physically able. I want you to stand right now and join me at this old-fashioned altar. This is revival. This is revival time. This is it. This is revival time. That I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Oh, yeah. Lord, I want more power. I want to get plugged in tonight. I want to get plugged in through my Bible reading, through prayer, because I want to be a conduit. My, oh my. We are conduits for the everlasting power and salvation of Jesus Christ. How amazing. And our nation needs it all. We're like that guy in the Niagara Falls, looking over the precipice, looking at destruction of our country. Let's ask God to move us back to safety. He's throwing out that lifeline For Christians. Let's get plugged in. Power from on high. And as these are praying and you're praying in your seats, I would be remiss if I asked, didn't ask this question. Is there anyone here tonight that would say, Brother Hardy, I don't even know for sure when I die that I'm going to heaven? Brother Hardy, my visitor here tonight, I don't know for sure that I have a home in heaven, that I my eternity my eternity is settled and and Brother Harding I I I I want to know for sure when I die I'm going to heaven. I I'm positive I don't want to go to hell. Brother Harding, pray for me. Here's my hand. Anyone like that tonight that would raise your hand and say, Pray for me, Brother Harding, I'm looking, I'm looking, I'm looking Yes, thank you. Anyone doesn't know for sure. When you die you go into heaven. Doesn't know. Doesn't know that. All right. Heavenly Father, thank you for this time together. Oh God, help us, Lord. To bring others tomorrow night to hear your word and, oh God, what we can do for our country. We're moving on to the next step now. That we have dealt with the inner man. Now, Lord, the next step tomorrow night will be how we can reach out and be a voice. to those in our country, to do something for our nation, to hold on to the liberty that the blood of patriots have paid for The sacrifice of so many, reflecting the greatest sacrifice of your precious Son on the cross, that gave us spiritual liberty and the sacrifice of our veterans That have given us civil liberty. God help us, Lord, to commit tonight to get plugged in. as conduits. And to be here tomorrow night and not let anything detract us from coming here, not the comforts of life, not not the The flesh that, yes, is tired sometimes. Help us, Lord, to ask you to renew us, to revive us And Father, to do the miraculous through us by holding the line, by the incondence with the power. Of the gospel, through and by thy Holy Spirit, and because of thy Son, O Jehovah. Our dear God, we love you, we pray this by the authority that's in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen.