And uh I want us to zero in. I I would really love, I wish we could and had the time to read the whole chapter, but uh we don't. There's forty-seven verses. So uh what I want to zero in right now is verse number thirty-seven. And I'm going to use that for my text this morning, verse 37 of Acts chapter 2. Notice what the Bible says. Now, when they heard this, what Peter had just preached, when they heard this. They were pricked in their heart and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? You see that little phrase they were pricked in their heart. What that's talking about is Holy Spirit conviction. And that's what I want to address this morning. So let's pray just for a moment. Ask the Lord to bless. this message and and let's ask the Lord to open our hearts that we would be open to the Holy Spirit convicting us. And so let's pray together. Father, I'm grateful for the Word of God Lord, we're very grateful for the church, this church, and how you blessed us. Thank you for the good fellowship this morning, good spirit. The music was a blessing and um Sunny School hour. Now, Lord, as we look into your word, this is an important passage, and I pray that you would open our hearts and minds, that we would take down our defenses. Lord, our excuses, our justification for our sin and our and our condition, and help us to be, let us help us to be open to your word and your spirit. And that we would be responsive and respond like these folks did. Lord, what shall we do? Fill me with all my heart, I ask, Lord, fill me with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me, be our preacher. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Acts chapter 2 is without a doubt probably the most significant event. And I'm going to take back the word probably. It is The most significant event in all of church history. What you have here is the church in its very early stages. You look through Acts chapter 2 and actually in through the book of Acts. And at this point particularly, there's no, the church, as I said, is in very early stages. There's no clear pastor Nobody at this point can stand up and say, oh yeah, I'm the pastor of the church here. It's not been developed yet. Peter, of course, has taken a leadership. They have no buildings they're meeting in. We often drive down the road and see a building, we'll say, there's that church. That's actually not the church. You understand that. That's just the building where the church meets in. And so they have no building. Uh they have no property that the church owns. There's no at this point particularly there's no structure to the church. There's no real organization. That will come and God will give instructions how the church should be organized and how it should be structured and how it should function. But at this point It's very embryotic, you could say. It's very early on in its stages. There's no deacons at this point. I think Acts chapter 6, we have the introduction of the office of deacon, but at this point there's no deacons. There's no real ministry, so to speak, in the church. There's no Sunday school hour. There's no organized soul-winning plan. There's no faith promise uh ministry. There's no organized bus ministry and outreach. It's basically at this point it's just about 120 followers of Jesus Christ, disciples, folks who have been saved, folks who have committed themselves to be a follower of Christ. And they're all together here. And if you come to the early part of the chapter, come back to verse one of chapter two, it says, When the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place. Now you look up at Chapter uh one and verse number fourteen, you find out what were they doing all together in this one place in this upper room? Well they were praying And so, though there was little or no structure, little or no organization, a lot of things that we associate with an established church, they didn't have that. But one thing they did have, they had prayer. And they knew they needed God. And they knew that they needed one another. And so they came together in one accord. And the corniest joke in the world is that's not the first reference to a V car in the Bible and a cord on the forget it. That was the dumbest thing. Um but they knew they knew they needed prayer. They knew they needed God. I tell you what, Christians get in bad shape when we think we can get along without God. And churches are in bad shape when they think they can get along without God. This early band of believers. Like I said, a lot of stuff we associate with church they don't have. But one thing they did had was an acute was an acute awareness of how desperately they needed God in their lives. And so they pray. And not only did they understand how badly they needed God in their lives, they understood how badly they needed one another in their lives. Listen, God has designed us to need other believers. And we try to live our lives and we get to the point where we say, you know, I really don't need the church. You know, I really don't need other believers in my life. I can just go it alone. I can just do my thing. I'm telling you, we're sh we're treading on dangerous ground. The early believers understood. I need the fellowship. I need the influence. I need the friendship of other believers who love the Lord and are trying to live for God. And so they did have a lot of things, but what they did have was they had prayer. We come down a little farther into the chapter two, and you notice it says they were all filled with the Holy Spirit. This is a unique event. in the history of the church. It had never happened before, and by the way, never happened again. When the Spirit of God came down upon those believers and indwelt them and filled them Now, I just want to take a moment, without going into a long dissertation on this, I just want to take a moment in the dispensation of the church that we are now in When a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, the moment I accept Jesus as my Savior, the Holy Spirit of God takes up residence in my body. If I am a saved person, I have the Holy Spirit. If I am not if I do not have the Holy Spirit, then I'm not a saved person. There is no reason in the world for a Christian, a saved person to to ask God to indwell them with the Holy Spirit. You already have them. So at this point the Holy Spirit comes down upon them and he indwells them, but he does something more, he fills them. And the feeling of the Holy Spirit is nothing mystical or or spooky out there, or anything uh uh uh sensational even away, affiliing of the Holy Spirit is simply a matter where the Holy Spirit of God is in control of my life I'm yielding control to the Holy Spirit of God. I think one thing I pray as much as anything in my prayer life is that God would Fill me with the Holy Spirit, that it would not be me running my life, but I would be yielded to God, and the Spirit of God would be leading me and directing me according to His Word. And so this early church, no buildings, no deacons, no structure, not a lot of things that we associate with church, but they did have prayer. And they didn't realize how badly they needed one another, and they did uh have the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit of God in their lives and in their church Then something unusual takes place. As I said, this is a one-time event. Didn't happen before, never happened again. They began to speak in tongues Now that's a hot button item in a lot of circles, and people wonder what that is. It's really not that complicated, to be very honest with you. In verses 5 through 13, they began to speak. Well, look what it says. Verse 5. Verse 4, it says, They were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues as the Spirit gave them utterance. Now, if you read down through, and we're not going to take the time to expound all this, but down through verse 13, you find out what that speaking of tongues consisted of was simply this. In the crowd, in that area, there was a lot of people from a lot of different countries, different regions of that area, and they spoke various languages. And the Spirit of God came upon those early believers and they began to speak with other tongues. All that took place was God had given them the supernatural ability to speak in another language that they did not naturally know. Look down with me at verse number 6. Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together and were confounded. All these people out in the community heard this well probably they heard the rushing mighty wind there and all this going on and there's something going on there in that house and they gather around trying to find out what's going on. And it says and they were confounded because that every man heard them speak in his what? His own language. That's all the tongues was. Was these believers had the supernatural ability, were given by God The supernatural ability to speak in the language of the people that were gathered around there. Notice verse number eight. These people. Oh well, let me back up here. Look at verse 7. And they were all amazed. Each man's hearing them speak in his own language. And they're all amazed. And they marvel, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which speak Galileans? Now, I found out something about Galileans in studying. Galileans, with few exceptions, were what you would call a uni-language people. In other words, they only spoke one language. They weren't bilingual. I know several languages. I know English a little bit. I know Pig Latin. And uh that's about it. So I basically am a uni language person. Uh and that's what the Galileans were. They weren't known for their ability to speak another language. They weren't really highly educated in a lot of ways, and like that And so they said, Ha what? We're hearing these guys, Peter and all these folks, speak in our language. The Galileans don't know other languages. How are they doing this? How are they speaking in and they list all the different uh areas there? How are how are we hearing? Look at what he says in verse 8, how hear we every man in our own language wherein we were born How are these Galileans who are not really that educated? The Galileans only know one language. How in the world are we hearing them in our native tongue? And just to I think God to prove the point goes down verse 9, 10, and 11 lists all the different groups that are there, the different languages that are being spoken. And verse 11 he says Cretes and Arabians. We do hear them speak in our tongues, our languages, our native tongues, the wonderful works of God. Now, we're not told exactly what they were saying, but we are told the content for the most part of what they're saying, they were telling everybody the wonderful works of God And the people hearing them understood exactly what they were saying. They're talking about the wonderful works of God. There was nothing, and I don't mean to be unkind or disrespectful, but there was nothing gibberish about this. There was nothing here where people said, oh, this is some heavenly language, nobody knows what they're saying except God. They knew exactly what they were saying. The people speaking knew what they were saying, and the people hearing knew what they were saying, except it was being supernaturally communicated in these various languages. It is crystal clear here And so I'm saying all that to say this: listen, you and I that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we do not need to seek to go out and seek this gift of tongues. And without trying to uh spend too much time on this, uh 1 Corinthians 13, other passages, I really make it pretty clear that this was a one-time event. It faded out as the Bible was given, and the Bible was complete, it was no longer necessary, it was assigned to the Jews. That this was really the work of God. And once the Word of God was here, once the Gentiles were incorporated in the church, it was no longer a necessary aspect of the church's ministry. But it never was anything more than the supernatural ability to speak in a foreign language. And so you have a significant event taking place very early in the church history. No buildings, no organization, no uh uh no uh uh deacons, a real s leadership structure established at this point. Later on that will come. God will uh very carefully uh lay out in the t in Timothy and whatnot how these things are to be. I think there's another interesting statement here made in verse number 13 The locals here get kind of worked up. Acts chapter 2. Look at verse number 13. And so some of these, verse 12, some are amazed, they're in doubt, saying, what meaneth this? But others mocking. I mean, they're making fun of them. And they're saying, these men are full of new wine. What are they accusing them of? Being drunk. In fact, Peter counters them down and he says, We're not drunk. It's only nine, it's only the third hour of the day. It's only nine o'clock in the morning. We're not drunk. Listen, when somebody gets drunk Generally, they will say things they won't normally say when they're sober. Am I right or wrong? When somebody gets drunk, in fact, the Bible brings this out in Proverbs. They will do things they wouldn't normally do. They will act in b ways they wouldn't normally act. They will say things they wouldn't normally say. And 100% of the time their behavior while drunk is destructive. Nobody has ever been better off in their life because they've consumed alcohol. It has never helped a marriage, it has never helped child rearing, it has never helped relationships, it has never helped a ministry, it has never helped a community, it has never held the job, it has never been positive in any aspect the consumption of alcohol. And the television is lying when they present beer and liquor and wild turkey and Jack Daniels and they present all that. They are lying when they present it as a good time. It is not a good time. It is horrendous. It is destructive. It kills, it destroys, it ruins, it it inflates Proverbs says, this guy, uh the those that consume it, they destroy themselves, and when they get up, they turn around and go and do it again. So when they are accusing Peter and the disciples of drinking new wine of being drunk, that is just total foolishness. I started out to say this. When a person gets drunk, they will say things they don't normally say, but they never speak in languages they don't know. So that's a ridiculous accusation. Oh, they're speaking a language they don't normally know. How are they speaking in my language? They must be drone. Nobody would say that. And so this, you're gonna find people that mock and ridicule those that are trying to live for God are never rational. They're never reasonable. I told my wife, and I'm I'm off the radar now, okay, so you pray. I'll get back to my notes here in a minute. But um my wife and I were talking yesterday, I think it was. We try to talk about every Saturday. And um no, we talk all the time. But we were talking yesterday And I said, you know, we're this difference is catching out. And I said, you know the two groups of people that have a and I'm not trying to get you to feel sorry for anything, but the two groups of people that have spoken the most harshly To me and about me the most hatefully, about me as a preacher, have been two groups of people, one sodomite. I have never been treated so vilely as I have been by sodomites. And number two, this is a killer, professing Christians. I could show you letters I've gotten from professing Christians that are just as vile and hateful and condemning as the letters I've gotten from sodomites. In fact, if you change the wording around, you could almost not tell the difference which one's from which. Isn't that amazing thing? And so when people criticize, when people f mock as these people were, it's never rational, it's never based in reality. They say, oh, these people are drunk. That's ridiculous. That's a baseless accusation. So the church is early. It's very embryotic. It's the early stages. They don't have a lot of stuff that you and I would assume a church would have that we're so accustomed to. But they did have an understanding of how badly they needed God, and they did have an understanding of how badly they needed one another. And they did have the presence and the power of God in their lives, and it was confused a lot of people, and a lot of people made a fun of that But the fact is, this was a church that was growing and was developing. And by the time we get to verse 37, and the following verses, you find 3,000 people. Are turning from their sin and accepting Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. They're being baptized into the membership of the church And that church is taking form and beginning to grow. Verses 14 through 36 is actually Peter's message. This is the first recorded sermon, public sermon, after the ascension of Jesus Christ. We're going to look at that just briefly in a moment. But it's an amazing thing that this very first sermon preached after Jesus ascends to heaven, the power of God comes down upon that place 3,000 people repent of their sin, accept Jesus Christ as Savior, follow the Lord in baptism, and become an integral part of that little early local church. Verse number 42 is interesting. Verse 41, they that gladly received his word were baptized. Let me just throw this out. After a person gets saved, the very first thing they ought to do is they ought to get baptized. That's the Bible pattern. Get saved, get baptized. Get saved, get baptized. Did these people understand everything about the Christian life? No. But they knew God wanted to come out for him. They knew they wanted God wanted them to be identified as a believer. So they that grandmother received his word were baptized. And the same day they were added unto them about 3,000 souls. Now look at verse 42 And they continued steadfastly. Now, what is that? There's two key words there. Continued steadfastly. Now, if you're continuing on in something, what does that mean you're doing? You're staying at it. You're just continuing on. You say, hey, I want to get to this house. Well you get on this street and uh just continue on that street. Don't turn off, don't stop, just keep on going. And so they're continuing on. They're getting involved in something and they're not quitting. They're getting involved in something and they're not quitting. They're not getting distracted. They're continuing on. Then he puts the word steadfast and they are they are diligent about it Yeah, we're going to do this, we're going to keep on doing this, and we're going to do it with all our heart. Steadfast. Now, what is it that they're continuing steadfast in? Well, we list it here. They continued steadfast, verse 42, steadfastly in, first of all, the apostles' doctrine. Doctrine simply means teaching. One thing that early church had that once the people were saved, they're being baptized into the church here. And uh the very first thing it says is they continued in the apostles doctrine, in the Bible teaching that was taking place in that church. Listen, if there is no Bible doctrine being taught in the church, you do not have a church. You might have a fellowship, you might have a social organization, you might have a lot of friends getting together, but if there's no Bible preaching, it ain't no church. In fact, everything that takes place on the church hangs on the doctrine that taught from the Word of God. Listen, God helped Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to hold to Bible doctrine. Every Sunday school lesson Every sermon, every ministry, every devotional, every event, every piece of literature that goes out of here must be grounded with Bible doctrine. So they continued steadfastly, first of all, in the apostles' doctrine, then at least in fellowship. And in fellowship. That is a vital part of a local church. So fellowship simply means somebody defined it this way. This really isn't that greatest definition, but it's kind of cute. Two fellows in a ship. Fellowship. I don't know what that means, but um basically what trying to say is this when I'm in fellowship with a brother or sister in Christ, it means we are together in our faith. We have faith together. We have faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It means we are together. We are side by side, working together, arm in arm, so to speak In serving the Lord, advancing the cause of Christ, spreading the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ, upholding the doctrines of Scripture. We're side by side, we're together. Listen, if a church does not have fellowship, it ain't a church. It might be a school. You can teach doctrine, but if you have doctrine but no fellowship, you don't have a biblical church. If all that mattered in the church was simply the teaching of doctrine, all y'all could we could all just stay home and put it on the internet. I get up here and talk, and y'all stay home and drink coffee and And sit there on your couch and listen in. But that ain't no church. They've got to come together. Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. The church is God's believers assembled together. Fellowshipping together, working together, praying together, functioning together, rejoicing together, praising God together, serving together. So they had doctrine, they had fellowship, and look what else it says. They continued steadfastly in apostles' doctrine and in fellowship and in breaking of bread. What in the world is that? Breaking a bread is simply another term that's described in other portions of Scripture, what we call the Lord's Supper. We have Lord's Supper this evening And then earlier in the chapter we referenced, they were baptized. I want to suggest to you there was two things, in this category, there were two areas that they were continued steadfast in. That was in carrying out the Lord's ordinances. The church has two ordinances, we call them. One is baptism, and two is Lord's Supper. And however often we choose to do it, the Bible gives us leeway there. As oft you do it, it might be once a month, once a week, once a couple times a year, whatever. I believe once a month is a good balance But um hey if a church if a if a group claims to be a church and they're not baptized and don't have Lord's Supper, it ain't a church. Amen. That's the pattern here. They had Bible doctrine, the apostles' doctrine, they had fellowship, they had continue the breaking of bread, which I believe would include the ordinances. And uh the last one here is uh and in prayers. Now that that stirs my heart One of the chief characteristics of the New Testament church was prayer. Brother, they prayed, they prayed, they prayed, they prayed. You go through the book of Acts, that church is always praying. They've got all-night prayer meetings. They've got all-day prayer meetings. They're praying in the morning. They're praying in The evening they're praying at noon, they're praying at midnight They're praying for the unsaved, they're praying for God's men, they're praying for one another. They had prayer. Listen, if any one of these ingredients is missing, I'm telling you it ain't a church. If the church doesn't pray, it ain't much of a church. We ought to pray. Jesus said, My house shall be called the house of Prayer. Prayer. Prayer. We need the Lord. So, if any of these is missing, you don't have a church. Four necessary ingredients for a healthy church. Now, verse 37. catches my attention. That was chapter two in a nutshell. Now when they heard this They were pricked in their heart and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, men and brethren, what shall we do? How shall we behave? What should our conduct be that would be pleasing to God? What does God want me to do? Three thoughts here. Very, very quickly, I want to give you each one. Number one, I want us to consider the content of Peter's message. Look at verse 37 again. Now when they heard this, Whatever Peter said had a profound impact on its hearers. These are unsaved people. This is just a crowd outside the house that gathered because of all the commotion going on. And Peter gets up and from chapter, from verse number 14 down through verse 36, he preaches this simple little message. And when they heard this, it profoundly affected them. In fact, it had a life-changing impact on their lives. Now I got looking at that when they heard this. The word herd's an interesting word. It had the idea, not just hearing a noise and just the sound. Did you hear that? Yeah, I heard that sound. It wasn't like that. The word here heard here has this idea, to understand, to comprehend, to perceive what was being taught. And what the Bible is telling us here when these folks out in the street, just going about their everyday life, shopping, visiting, whatever they're doing, between jobs, going up and down the street, they heard this racket Coming out of this house, the sound of a rushing muddy wind, they gather around. What in the world's going on? What time? Peter comes out and he preaches this message to them, and they understand what he's saying. And it affects them profoundly. In fact, you read down through as we did, their lives are changed. They receive Jesus Christ as their personal Savior. They follow the Lord in baptism, and everything about their life is altered. Man, now they're They're uh continuing steadfastly in what these apostles are teaching, they're fellowshipping together, they're uh taking Lord's Supper with the book, their lives are changed It means to comprehend the truth. Now I got looking at Peter's sermon. I'm a preacher. Sermons are important to me And if somebody preaches a sermon and 3,000 people get saved and their lives are dramatically changed, they start living for God. I want to know something about that sermon. Follow what I'm saying? And so I got looking at this sermon. And you might think, well, it was probably a tremendous outline. I like, when I preach, I like to outline my sermons. You probably noticed that. I like to have point one, point two, point three, and come down through it. I like to alliterate my s my sermons. And it's not because necessarily because I'm illiterate. But I like to have if I can have each word start with the same letter or sound the same or anybody ever notice my sermons? I like to do that. Anybody ever happen to hear one of my sermons? I like to outline, I like to uh uh alliterate and all that. I th you think well s Peter preaches this message, good heavens, it must have been a tremendous outline. 3,000 people understand it. They comprehend what he's saying. And uh man, they get saved and baptized and go on and live for God. I looked at the sermon, there ain't no outline. Nothing. There's no point one, point two, point three. There's no three points in a poem and a tear-jerking illustration. None of it's there. Uh I got looking at it. It's not very eloquent, really. My impression is he didn't spend a whole lot of time preparing. I don't think he had 40 hours of study in that week to put that sermon together. In fact, 15 minutes before he preached it, I don't think he even knew he was going to preach this sermon Um, I preached it yesterday out loud. I took it, I got a little stopwatch. I got a stopwatch on my phone. Isn't that amazing? Whoever thought of the day you'd have a stopwatch on your phone. So I put it there, I have my Bible. Go! I mashed that and I just preached word for word. I just read down like if I was preaching, it read that. You know how long that sermon took me to preach? Under three minutes. About two minutes and 45 seconds. You might think, man, that was probably an hour-long sermon. Get all that truth? It was three m two minutes and forty-five seconds. Now, don't get your hopes up. I know what you're thinking. I ain't no Peter. So it was a very brief message No outline, not very elegant. I can't find any tear-jerking illustrations in there. No poems, no jokes He just gets up and gives a very simple Bible message. One thing I can say about his sermon, it was taught full of scripture. He quotes scripture, he gives truth all through there. Nothing elegant, no outline, he just gets up and he says, here is what, in so many words, he says, here is what the Bible says. This is what God's word says. If you look at that sermon closely, you find it's focused on Jesus Christ. His whole three two-minute and 45-second message is pointing people to Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, crucified and risen again. Jesus Christ died for your sins and rose again. In fact, you go through the book of Acts, and that's what you find their message over and over and over and over. Jesus died for your sins who is buried, he rose again. It is a passionate sermon. As I read this out loud, trying to preach it, so to speak. I was impressed with the passion that I sensed in Peter's sermon. In other words, he believed what he was saying with all his heart. He was convinced that Jesus Christ really is the Son of God. He was convinced that Jesus Christ really did raise from the dead. He was convinced that Jesus Christ really would and could save a soul from hell. Jesus could change a life. Jesus could take that which is sinful and make it pure and good. Jesus could take that which was evil. And make it right. He was passionate about that. Believed it with all his heart. And the people standing there hearing it, they said, Man, this is true. I understand what he's saying. We hear you, man. He was passionate about it. It was simple, Bible message. And I noticed he appealed to the heart. He appealed to their hearts. He wasn't just trying to get facts in their heads. He was wanting their hearts to be changed. I like to say this sometimes, but I'll stand aback and shake hands and folks will come by and I appreciate the kind words and all that. Sometimes somebody will say this, boy preacher, you stepped on my toes today. Anybody ever hear that? Well you and I know what they're saying, boy, you you know you dealt with something in my heart But you know, my thinking is I don't I don't want to step on your toes. I want to shoot you through the heart. And that's what Peter, he's preaching for their heart. He wants God to change their life I look at this message and I get the idea in Peter's mind, he does not want these people walking away from here without their lives being changed. There are people here who are sinners on their way to hell. They die in the condition they're in. They're going to a devil's hell for all eternity. And in his heart, he does not want that to happen. And he's pleading and he's passionately preaching for them to turn to Christ. It's not a very eloquent sermon, no outline, there's no real Structure to it. It's just kind of a Bible message, talk full of scriptures, pointing to Christ, pleading. But here's the key. He was filled with the Holy Spirit. He was filled with the Holy Spirit. And that means it was not just Peter standing up there giving this plea. But it was actually the Holy Spirit of God speaking through him to the hearts of the people listening to him. The Spirit of God. Listen, it is not my or how many folks here would say, preacher, I have someone I'm trying to witness to. I want to be a witness as a Christian. I want to share the gospel How many folks here feel that way? That'd be true for you. Sure, me too, when I preach. I want to say a word to you. It is not our great wisdom that is going to change people's lives. It is not my great illustrations, and it's not how smart I am and how eloquent I may present a truth. It is always the Holy Spirit of God that changes lives. And whenever I preach the word of God, or maybe I'm out in the streets or somewhere in my office or in my home, and I have someone and I'm trying to show them how to be saved, I want to be sure to point them to Scripture And explain scripture and be passionate in my heart. But I'm not trusting in how smart I am or how eloquent I am to save their soul. I'm trusting in the Holy Spirit of God to work through me and touch their heart and draw them to Christ. And that's what's happening. When they heard this, heard what? Peter's great wisdom? Peter's great oratorical skills? No. When their heart was open to the truth of the Word of God, they understood what was being said, and they responded in faith, and they trusted Christ and were saved. Weeks before I got saved. I got saved May 7, 1979, if you've never heard that. It was May. It was a Monday night. But God had been working. I'd started reading my Bible back in January of 1979. And my life was a mess I've said often when I got saved, uh, I just I wanted God to change me. I I did not want to be the man I was becoming. I did not want to be that kind of person messed up. I did not want to be a person that lived that way, the way I was living. And my cry, my desire was for God to change my life. I wasn't thinking about heaven and hell. I certainly didn't want to go to hell. But that the issue at the point was, God, you've got to change things. I can't go on like this. God, I can't live this way. And I began praying and began reading my Bible, and God began speaking to my heart. And I started hearing what God's Word was saying. I started understanding and comprehending what God's saying to me. And I lived with my dad at the time, it's just my dad and I, and he'd get up Sunday mornings without fail. Daddy was in Sunday school in church Sunday morning, Sunday night when he wasn't out in the road, he was in church Sunday night without fail. I was 19, 18 at the time I was I could care less. But I didn't want to live the way I was living. One morning dad was off at church and I'd slept in. I got up, it was probably 10, 11 o'clock in the morning I turned the radio on and the rock station had this little Christian, five, ten-minute little Christian blurp some church had bought and stuck it in there. I'll never forget. The fellow, I had no idea who he was, I don't even know, I don't know anything about it, but I do remember this 30-some years later. The guy quoted 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 17. He said, if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. That caught my ear. I wanted to be a new person. I didn't want to be what I was. I didn't want to live this way, the sin and wickedness, ungodliness. I didn't want that. And he made this statement. He said, God can change your life. That's all I heard. I'm sure he did a lot of other stuff, but that is all I heard. Any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are new. God can change your life. God can change your life. And I'm telling you, I heard it. I heard that. And I understood what he was saying. And I realized God is my only hope. Of course, several months later I accepted the Lord Jesus Christ as my Savior, and my life was radically, drastically changed. When we hear what God's trying to say to us from his word, when we hear what God's trying to say to us from his word, and we respond in faith, changes begin to take place. Changes begin to take place. So when they heard this, when they heard Peter's message, the truth of the Word of God, they heard it, they understood what he was saying. Then they responded. Now, my second thought, real quick, I just got a few minutes. Look at verse 37 again. Now, when they heard this, the content of Peter's message, then it says they were pricked in their heart That's kind of an odd wording there. I put this down. First, we have the content of Peter's message. Then we have the conviction of the Holy Spirit in their hearts. That word pricked in their hearts, that's the only time that's used in the Bible. It means to pierce their heart. It means to inflict pain. The whole idea, that word pricked, has the idea of like if you're going through the woods and there's a thorn bush. You're going through a field, maybe there's a thorn bush, and those thorns pierce your skin. What happened? I think pricked my arm. Pierced it, caused pain there, got my attention, affected me It says, when they heard this, they understood the truth of God's word, what God was saying to them. It affected them. It brought pain, so to speak, to their heart. We call this the conviction of the Holy Spirit. The conviction of the Holy Spirit. The word of God is presented. I understand what God is saying, and my heart is prepped. It affects me. I put it this way: conviction of the Holy Spirit is not just me being awake made aware of my sinfulness, but being disturbed by it. A lot of people have no problem admitting that they're sinners. Right? I mean you're pretty dumb if you don't realize you're a sinner. Right? I mean I don't mean to be so blunt, but It's true, right? Come on help me, I'm getting self conscious up here now. I mean people admit they're a sinner. Yeah, I I'm not perfect, I sin. There's a difference between saying, yeah, I'm not right with God, and being bothered by it Follow what I'm saying? I like to when I'm sharing the gospel with people ask, you know, go through sin, the wage of sin is death, die and go to hell. Sometimes I ask them this, if you died right now, where would you go? Well I'd go to hell. I ask them this, does that bother you Yeah, it bothers me. I asked him, do you know your sinner? Yeah, I know I'm a sinner. Does that bother you? Does that concern you at all? The fact you've sinned against God And you'd be surprised how many times people say, well, you know, I don't know, not that much. You know, that tells me there's no conviction in the Spirit of God. Because when the Spirit of God is convicting me about my sin, my sin bothers me. I'm not happy with it. I'm not saying, oh, yeah, it's fine. I'm living in disobedience to God. I'm breaking God's law. Yeah, I don't have a problem with that. That is not the conviction of the Holy Spirit. That is foolishness. But when the Holy Spirit of God convicts me of my sin, it's like, man, I ain't good. That ain't right. I don't want this. It pierces me. It disturbs me. And when Peter preached his sermon, and those folks out there who were lost on their way to hell, sinners, living in sin, they heard the message he was preaching and they realized their sinfulness It bothered them. It pricked their hearts. It's conviction of the Holy Spirit of God. I believe one of the greatest needs in our churches today is conviction of sin. God convicting his people of their sinfulness. We've gotten to the point we can live in sin, profess to be Christians, and live in sin, and it doesn't bother us, it doesn't prick us, it doesn't disturb us We're completely content to live in disobedience to God. I'll tell you what we need. We need conviction of the Holy Spirit of God. I need it We need to get to the point in our lives when we realize that we've sinned against God. We were bothered by that. We understand the sinfulness of our sin. We understand the holiness of our God. We understand the destructiveness of our sin. The dire situation we are in. Every aspect of Christianity begins with God working in our hearts. I believe the average person has no comprehension of how sinful they are. We go out here to Walmart, go down the streets, get gas today, whatever, go home, stop by a restaurant. People sitting around us, the average person has no comprehension. of how sinful they really are and the desperate situation they are in under the judgment of God. I do not believe your average person. We need, we need to seek God. We need God to send Holy Spirit conviction on our community, on our nation. Can I say this? I'm afraid. I've been in this ministry for a long time now. I'm afraid your average Christian Has no comprehension of how sin how awful their sin really is. I'm talking about all of us. I'm afraid we've we've so we the conviction of the Holy Spirit has been so quenched That we can claim to be a child of God and disobey God and live in blanton rebellion against him? We can, as Christians, say things that are absolutely horrendous. We can go places that are absolutely ungodly. We can listen to music that is absolutely blasphemous and watch things that are absolutely horrendous. And it doesn't even bother us. It doesn't prick our hearts. Doesn't disturb us in any way. We're completely content. In fact, in some cases, we brag about it. What in the world? We need conviction. We need Holy Spirit conviction. I believe the average Christian, I'm talking about me all of us, I'm afraid we don't even comprehend how badly our sin hurts our Savior. I tell you, I go back to the book of Hosea over and over and over. And Hosea is instructed by God to marry Gomer, who is a. who's a prostitute, so to speak. She is as unfaithful to him. She is cheating on him left and right. She's having kids by other men. And and and Hosea is a man of God. He loves God. He wants to be right. He in dreams of Being serving the Lord and his wife is just destroying him. And God said that hurt, that heartache that Gomer brought to Hosea is exactly What your sin does to me. That's what the Holy Spirit conviction does. Makes me see, makes me understand, pricks my heart, grieves me. About how sinful my sin is. R. A. Turi, great evangelist 100 years ago, made this statement The greatest lack in our churches today is the lack of a deep sense of sin. And I agree with them. When a professing Christian can sin and there's no conviction, there is something seriously, seriously wrong. I can respond to conviction in one of three ways. I can resist the conviction The Bible talks about resisting the Spirit of God. That simply means say no to that conviction? No. God touches my heart, God speaks to my heart through the Word of God. One way or another, He touches my heart, and I say no I'm going to resist the Holy Spirit's conviction in my heart. I'm not going to allow that. Mark chapter 10 talks about a rich man who approached Jesus. Jesus confronted him about his sin. And it says he walked away being grieved. He resisted the Spirit. Rather than responding to it and saying as these people did, what must I do? He walked away from it. I don't have time for what God has to say. I'm not going to listen to it. I'm not going to allow it to affect me. So I can resist the Holy Spirit's conviction, or there's another way I can respond is by quenching the Holy Spirit. 1 Thessalonians 5. 19 says, quench not the Spirit. To quench means to suppress, to stifle, to extinguish, put it down. The idea of when the Holy Spirit of God, the Word of God is preached or I read it somehow, and the Holy Spirit of God touches my heart that I'm not right with God that I'm not saved I'm not living for the Lord I'm in sin I don't necessarily resist it and walk away but what I do is kind of go like this. Hmm I just kind of push it down. In other words, I turn the music up a little louder so it doesn't bother me. I work a little longer at work. So I don't have to come home to the quiet of the home where the Spirit of God can work with me. I watch another movie. I play another video game. Maybe I go out and get drunk, or I'm going to skip church, or I'm going to skip my Bible reading, or I'm going to get angry at the preacher. You know what all that is? Quenching the Spirit. Saying I don't want I don't want to hear that. I'm gonna push it down. I'm not gonna listen to it. I'm gonna put it aside I think another way of cleansing the spirit is I'm going to do more good works. God speaks to my heart, pricks my heart about some sin. Rather than responding and doing what God wants me to do about that sin, I'll go and try and do more work over here. I'll do a little more, I'll do a little bit more good, and that will m then he won't bother me about that sin. That's trying to quench the Holy Spirit So when the Spirit of God convicts me, whether as an unsaved person that I need to be saved, or as a Christian I need to get right with God, I can resist it, say, no, I'm not going to listen to it. Or I can quench it and just try and drown it out and squench it down. I'm not going to pay attention. Sometimes you'll see someone at the invitation time, God's dealing with the heart. Man, they're holding on to that pew They don't want the Holy Spirit to drag them down and make things right. They're quenching the Spirit. Now here's the danger. It's possible to quench and resist the Spirit to the point where the Spirit says, okay. I won't strive with you anymore. I'll let you go. You want to go and live in sin? Go ahead. You want to go ahead and die in your sin and go off into hell? Not get saved? I'm not going to strive with you anymore. Not going to strive with you. I had a fellow tell me one time, he says, Well, I would get sinned, but the Spirit of God is left and I can't get sinned, I can't get saved now because uh I've I've sinned so strongly, uh the Holy Spirit. I told him, I said, if you want to get saved, God will save you. When the Spirit of God quits quits reset when the Spirit of God quit quits uh convicting a person That person's at the point they don't ever even want to get saved. They won't even not want to. So what about a Christian? What if a Christian is saved and the Spirit of God convicts them and convicts him and convicts them? And it won't make it right. First of all, if a person claims to be saved and there's no conviction, I question their salvation. Be honest with you. But if a Christian is living in sin and the Spirit of God is convicting, convicting, convicting, and they keep resisting and keep quenching and keep resisting and keep quenching. I believe it comes to the point James says that there's a sin unto death. And God may come to the point where he just says, Alright, come on home then. Come on home. You're not going to live for me. Get in here. Our boys like to play in the front yard sometimes when they were small. And Broadford Road, the speed limit's twenty-five. That means the minimum speed is sixty. They pray they like to play in the front yard sometimes, but it's dangerous. You get out in the road, boy, that hill right here, they'd come over, this those boys would be killed before they even knew what hit 'em. And so we would say to them sometimes, boys, don't get out by the road there. Stay in close to the front porch here. Look out, lo and behold, they're out making their way out towards that road. Boys, get in closer here. We do it and do it. Finally we'd say, all right, boys, in the house. You're not going to listen to me. You're going to put yourself in danger. You need to come on in. And I wonder if sometimes God doesn't say to Christians, You gonna be that way? You don't have to listen to me? Convict, convict- All right, come on up, come on home then. Now listen, don't take what I'm saying to see. I'm not saying if you don't get right with God today, God's gonna kill you. I'm not saying that. But I am saying this. If we're saved, God's not going to leave us alone. If we're saved, God's going to do whatever it takes to get us back right with God. So, we have the content of Peter's message, just a simple, straight Bible message preached passionately under the power of the Holy Spirit Then we have the conviction of the Holy Spirit. Their hearts are pricked. Well, man, they're bothered. I don't want to be this way. I don't want to go on like this anymore. I want God. I want to be right with God. And then we have the their concern for their condition. Brethren and brethren, what shall we do? You know what that is? That is an expression of submission. They're saying, alright, I'm not running this thing anymore. Lord, what do I do? What do I got to do? Most important question a man can ask God, Lord, what do you want me to do? What do I need to do? If you're here this morning and you're unsaved, you don't know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven. Can I tell you what you need to do? You need to trust Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. Because if you don't and you die in your sins, you're going to hell forever. I'm sorry, that's a that's fact. Going to hell forever Preacher, I'm lost, I'm saved, I don't know. I'm going to heaven or what should I do? Accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Call on him, and he will save you. You say, preacher, I'm a Christian. I've been saved. I'm not living for God. I know there's areas in my life that are wrong. Preacher, what should I do? I'm backslid. What you need to do is repent and renew your dedication to Christ. Repent. Whatever God tricks, whatever God says, whatever's out of whack with God. I repent of that and I make it right. I make it right. The little boy I read about a little boy was had spastic paralysis. I looked it up on the internet videos of people that have spastic paralysis, very difficult to talk. Sometimes they can't walk, their body involuntarily will contort, go into spasms. This little boy was in junior highs, seventh grade, I guess. I'm telling you, junior high kids can be brutal on one another. Am I right or wrong? I mean they eat each other alive. They're a lot like adults. That was an attempt. This little boy was had spastic paralysis. Christian boy. In a Christian school, and those kids ate him alive, mocked him. Tease him he would sit by himself, alone, ridiculed publicly, for no reason of his own. Lo and behold, they had Christian camp. And the boy went to camp. The speaker at the camp conveyed this story. And he said, that whole week at camp, those kids just trashed that poor little boy. Left him in tears. One night, the end of the week, they were having testimonies in their cabins. And the boy was himself the whole week. And finally it came around for him to give testimony. He stood up. And through his spasms and whatnot, he said, I know that Jesus loves me. And I want everyone to know that I love Jesus. We sat down. And the camp counselor said the spirit of God pricked those other kids' hearts. The conviction of God came down upon them for the way they were treating that boy. And he said those kids began to break down sobbing. Kids were getting on their knees asking God to forgive them. He said a revival broke out in that last day of that camp that carried over into the school year and that school was different. The fellow that spoke testified that even years later, as he would be out preaching in churches, he came across people that said, I got saved at that camp. Where that boy gave his testimony and the conviction of God came down upon pick the kids. You know what we need in our church and churches like ours? We need the conviction of the Holy Spirit of God. We need to humble ourselves before God and say, God, I want you to convict me. I don't want to be content in my sin. I don't want to be satisfied living in disobedience. I want you to convict me. God, I want you the same conviction. I want my life to be changed. Show me what to do. That's what we need. Amen or not? That's what we need. Let's ask God for that. Let's ask God to fill us with His Spirit. Let's ask God to move in our midst, our homes, our hearts, our church. That we can be right with him. Father in heaven