Verse number twelve. Exodus chapter twenty and verse number twelve. You have it there? Let's read together if you would. Verse 12. Ready, here we go. Honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Now we're giving some clear instructions here. Honor thy father and thy mother. We tried a few weeks ago to honor our mothers. Actually, we ought not to just do that on one Sunday out of the year. We ought to honor our mothers every day. Our words, how we live our life. Our attitudes, our support and our encouragement, our love for our mothers. But today's Father's Day. I want to take the first part of this command, this fifth command of the ten God gave us here, honor thy father. Honor thy father. I want to speak about honoring our fathers this morning. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we are grateful for our fathers. Lord, I'm glad that uh we live in a society that at least And one day stops and recognizes the importance of fathers and their role in the home, in our community, and our church. And so I pray you'd challenge us, Holy Spirit of God. I pray you'd fill me. I yield as I always do every time we preach your word. I want to yield my will completely to you. I want to present my body totally anew. Pray that your spirit would speak through me. God, fatherhood is your idea, Lord. You've placed men in this position with this responsibility, and we want to honor that. And so help us, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. I believe good, godly, humble fathers are one of the most significant and necessary assets To the well-being of our church and our community. Good, godly, humble fathers make a difference in our community, in our church, in our homes, in our country. We have somehow bought into this idea that only politicians can solve our problems. And if we just get the right man in office, we just have the right party in office, boy then then then that'll solve our problems. Now listen, don't misunderstand. I believe we ought to get the right man in the office. I think there's a difference between parties and their positions, and they they have a place. So don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But what I am this is what I'm saying is the problems in our country The problems in our communities are far deeper than anything a politician could ever hope to solve. We've got this idea that government should meet our every need. And our first response is look to government. Our first response is government, government, government. I'm here to tell you our needs are far deeper than anything our government could ever meet. Our society is does have problems. Serious Can I say this? If demonic activity on a national level taking place in our country And no politician in the world can meet that need. No government in the world can solve these problems. I believe our problems and our society and our community and our country, I believe our problems stem from the heart of man. I believe they are begin in the breakdown of the homes, the breakdown of the biblical nuclear family as God designed it. Somebody said this, as goes the home, so goes the nation. I say, as goes the home, so goes the church. We want to cast the blame for our society's perversion and chaos on the government, on Washington And I, you know, maybe nobody agrees with me, and I am absolutely convinced of this. The problem isn't in Washington, the problem is in the hearts and churches of God's people. We're not right with God. We are the salt of the earth. We are the salt. We're the preservative. We're the element, the agent. That is to preserve morality. We are the agent that is to preserve the spiritual well-being of communities. We're the salt. And if our salt has lost its savor, then it's going to collapse. There's no preservation. We need to get back to being salt again. I hold myself and brother and sister believers, I hold us accountable for the moral condition. Because we've not been the salt we should be. And we've fallen so in love with ourselves, and we've exalted ourselves so highly, even under the name of Christianity. And we no longer are much different than the world, and we no longer have much influence on the world. We've convinced ourselves that it's all Washington's fault. We've convinced ourselves that only Washington can solve our problems. I'm here to tell you, as long as there are Christians not right with God. Then we're not being the salt we should be. I bring it back home, and I know that's not popular. I know I'm no doubt a lot of people don't agree with me, but I'm absolutely convinced of that. Ye are the salt of the earth. Our problems begin in the heart. Government cannot change the heart of a man. Government cannot change the nature of a sinful man. Only the gospel can do that. And you and I, as believers, have been commissioned by God. We are the keepers of the gospel. We've been commissioned by God to give the Word of God out to this world. That's where the change takes place. That's where the transformation is. That's where the correction takes place in the heart of the people as they respond to the Word of God. The solution must begin in our hearts. The solution must begin in our homes Of God's people. I say again, good, godly, humble fathers are one of the greatest assets we have to correct the problems in our society. In our community, as fathers. We might have the greatest politicians in the history of our country. And I want to say this, they're not all bad. We have some good politicians. We have some statesmen, I believe, in office. We don't hear about them, but they're there. But you can have the greatest politicians. We could have the greatest economy in the history of America. We may we could po we could have the most powerful military that America has ever seen. We can have the greatest education system. You can put in place the greatest education system that the world has ever seen But if the fathers are absent from the homes and the fathers are negligent of their responsibilities to their families, all of that is in vain. Because the home is the foundation of society, and fathers are given the responsibility to lead the homes into godliness and righteousness and holiness and humility. Fathers. If fathers are absent or ex- Oh by the way, if fathers are excluded and humiliated, you're not going to solve the problems of our society. Hollywood has been humiliating fatherhood for decades. Society has been humiliating and disrespecting Fatherhood. Fatherhood. To where it's a joke. Society has convinced many of us that you don't even need a daddy in the home. Get along just fine without dad. In fact, we're probably better off without Father. I tell you what, that flies in the face of the Word of God on every level. Fatherhood. What I'm trying to say this morning is let's get back to honoring fathers again Thank God for mothers. Don't misunderstand. We want to honor them. But I think we and I don't think I know we need to honor fathers also. Fatherhood, fatherhood. What we need in this hour of men of our what we need in this hour is men of God Godly men, godly fathers who know the Lord, who walk with God, who love and respect and obey this book. Love their families, love their wives. And those men need to be honored. They need to be honored. What can we do? How can we solve society's problems? Well, I think, as I've been saying now, I think part of the solution is we need to honor our fathers again. Let's make fatherhood great again. Huh? Can I suggest to you America's never going to be great again until fathers are great again? The home is great again. We're functioning on the very foundational level of society until that is great. Nothing else is going to be great. That's my opinion. That's the way I see it. So let's honor our fathers again. What is the he says here in verse 12 of the uh of uh Exodus Chapter 20 says, Honor thy father and thy mother. The word honor there means this. The word itself, the most basic literal definition of the word, it simply means heavy. Means to put weight upon. And what he's saying here is, and what God is instructing us, he's saying, give great value To the one that holds that position of father. Honor that father. That's a great weight is put on there as far as influence and as far as respect and and uh uh value is concerned honor thy father it means to highly esteem Now here's a phrase that may be foreign to our society today, but it means to highly respect. Respect. I'm just old-fashioned enough. Let me put it this way: I'm just biblical enough to believe that daddies ought to be respected. Fathers ought to be respected. One of the most practical things we can do to help repair our society is put fatherhood back in the place of importance again. Put it back in the place where God intends for it to be. Start honoring fathers again. Now, why should we honor fathers? Rachel, why in the world should we honor fathers? Let me give you a few reasons. Number one, because God tells us to. God instructs us to. It's not something that independent Baptists came up with It's not something some organization came up with, well, let's just honor fathers. No, no, no. From the beginning of man's history, God has told us to honor fathers. It's God's idea. Notice here, this is the Ten Commandments that Brother Matt read here, Pastor Matt read a few moments ago. And we're looking at the fifth command of the Ten Commandments. Now, Bible scholars, people a lot smarter than I am, they suggest, and this makes sense to me, they suggest that the first four commands When Moses came down off the Mount Zion, uh came off the mountain with uh two tablets of the commandments God had given, The Bible scholars suggest to us that on the first tablet were the first four commands. Notice what those commands are. Verse 3, it says, Thou shalt have no other gods before me. Nothing should come before our God. Not a car, not a house, not a job, not a hobby, not a game, not a sport, not not nothing. Not money. No other gods before me. Then look at verse 4. Thou shalt not make into thee any graven image. Get those little statutes out of your church buildings. Verse 7: Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. We need to be very, very careful about that. Notice what he says, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Be careful how you use God's name. Verse 8, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. They say, the Bible scholars, and I believe they're probably correct, they say That when Moses was given these tablets by God, that God wrote with his finger on these tablets, on the first tablet were these first four commands. And they say that the remaining commands, the last six commands, were on the second tablet. The first four commands refer to God's to man's responsibility to God. They have no other gods before him. We're to We're to not take his name in vain, we're not to make any graven images, we're not to forsake his Sabbath. That's my responsibility, my relationship, my responsibility to God On the second tablet with the six remaining commands, those, if you look at them closely, that's my responsibility to my fellow man. First four, my responsibility to God. The remaining six, my responsibility to my fellow man. Well, there's several things implied in that. One is this: that until my relationship with God is what it ought to be, I'm never going to have a proper relationship with man I've found that when folks are hateful to their fellow men, when folks are angry and bitter and and hateful to their family and to their uh wife or their husband, their kids, or their parents, when they're hateful like that, I found without exception, they're not right with God. Without exception. And so one indicator that I'm out of whack with God is if I'm out of whack with man. And so God gave these first four commands to get our dealing with our relationship with Him, and then the remaining six is our relationship With my fellow man. But God instructs us to honor our fathers and our mothers. But today we're talking about fathers. We're instructed to honor our fathers. If you would come over to chapter 21 of Exodus. And notice with me verse number 17. How many people brought your Bibles today? Everybody bring your Bibles? We might as well use them, right? We got them, we might as well use them. Look at chapter 21 and verse number 17 with me. Notice this. He that curseth his father or his mother shall surely be put to death. Whoa! I tell you, if that if that was in place today, we'd be ha I'd be doing a whole lot more funerals than I'm doing right now. Huh? Uh Dad. Hey your father is just You better be careful Under the Old Testament economy, under the jurisdiction, Jewish jurisdiction they were under, brother, you talk disrespectfully, you curse your father. That's capital punishment Now that's not in place today. I'm not suggesting it should be, but it does tell me a lot about what God thinks about fathers. What God thinks about mothers. If you would turn with me over to Leviticus chapter 20. Oh I'm doing this morning, I'm just standing up in defense of fatherhood again. The Bible teaches us. You say, well, that's just because you're a father. No, it's because I'm a Bible preacher. Leviticus chapter twenty and verse number nine. Now God doesn't mince any words here. Leviticus 20, verse 9. For everyone that curseth his father or his mother shall be surely put to death. He that curseth his father or his mother, his blood shall be upon him. God made it very clear to those Old Testament Jews what he thought about fathers and mothers. They're not to be disrespected. They're not to be cursed. If you would, turn over to Deuteronomy chapter number five. Just working our way through here. My point is we ought to honor our fathers because God instructs us to. If we're ever going to solve our problems, if we're ever going to see the change, we've got to begin at ground one. And get this matter of fatherhood and motherhood back in place, the home back where it should be. Deuteronomy chapter number 5, notice with me verse 16. Here it is again. Honor thy father and thy mother as the Lord thy God hath what? So listen, I commanded this, that thy days may be prolonged, that it may go well with thee in the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Turn with me to Proverbs, you would. So, preacher, why don't you just read these verses to us? Because I want us to see it with our very own eyes. Proverbs chapter 20. Get the Psalms. Just go to the middle of your Bible and keep going a little bit, and you'll get the Proverbs. And verse number twenty, Proverbs twenty twenty Here he repeats himself. He says, Whoso curseth his father or his mother, look at this, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness. Can I put it just in my words? They're going to be messed up. Do you agree with me? There's a good percentage of this generation that is messed up. That is an obscure darkness morally. I want to say this mentally I think, according to this verse, has to do attitude towards fatherhood. If you would, come over to Matthew, New Testament now. Say, well, that's Old Testament. This is all right, let's read Matthew. And chapter 15. Matthew fifteen And Jesus confronting these scribes and Pharisees who ironically had pushed fatherhood aside, trying to make it insignificant, parenthood really. And verse 1, then came the Jesus, then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees, which were of Jerusalem, saying, Why do thy disciples transgress the trans tradition of the elders? For they wash not their hands when they eat bread. And he answered unto them, why do you also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition? Now look, he points out something the Pharisees and the scribes were doing that that was wrong. For God commanded, saying, honor thy father and thy mother. And he that curseth father or mother, let him die the death. But ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father and mother, It is a gift by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me. And honoreth not his father or his mother, he shall be free. He says, that's what you're saying. Thus ye have made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition. Ye hypocrites. You know what the Pharisees and Scribes were teaching? That children, basically, I'm oversimplifying here and maybe stretching it a bit, but Basically what he's saying is, you're teaching the children, the children can run the home. We're a gift to you, Dad. And you exist for us. And you're supposed to make us happy, and you're supposed to do our bidding. We're a gift to you. I want to say to you: if you've got a daddy, God's given you a gift. Daddy is a gift. You've got a good, godly Christian daddy. You ought to thank God every day that you've got a Christian daddy. And Jesus corrected me says, no, no, no, you got it backwards. The father's to be honored. The mother is to be honored, not the other way around. Now, children are a gift. Fatherhood must be respected, must be honored. Come over with me if you would. One more, Ephesians. Everybody doing all right? Okay Ephesians chapter six verse one Sometimes little kids Young people, not little kids necessarily, but young people come and say, well, what's God's will for me as a child? It's very simple Ephesians 6. 1. Children, what? Obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. That means that children disobeying their parents is what? Wrong. Obeying them is right, and disobeying them is wrong Honor, verse 2, thy father and thy mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth. So, is it clear to everybody God's instructed us to honor our fathers? Right. Alright. I just want to get it clear. I want to make sure it's in there. Everybody? Got it? So no not no misunderstanding here, right? That daddy of your. By the way, let me throw this in there. Every one of those passages, and I've looked at them carefully this week, looked up words, I've studied the context. And I can't find one of them that puts conditions on that. Well, my daddy's a knucklehead. Well, you're a chip off the old block. I can't find one condition. Listen, your daddy may not be perfect, but you ought to honor him. Ladies, your husband may not be well, let me reword that, your husband is not perfect, as you remind them every day No, I'm sorry, I didn't mean that. But I can't find any condition where the dad ought not to be honored. By the way, that instruction is not just to the kids, it's to everybody. Honor fathers. Honor mothers. There's no condition. He may be sorry. Your daddy may not know the Lord. He may be living a very sinful life. But because he's your father, you ought to honor him. Find something. He gave you life. God used him to give you life. You ought to honor him. You bear his name. Now you don't if if they're not right, if they're not right with God, if they're not doing right, you don't have to emulate their actions. But you need to honor the position that they hold as a father. Needs to be honored. Don't trash them Don't go and tell everybody else all everything your dad does wrong. Ladies, don't go and tell everybody else everything your husband does wrong Anyone could do that. The fellows don't go and run your mouth at work about all the stuff your wife does wrong. If that's what we're going to do, if that's the road we're going to down, then all we're going to ever do is talk about how awful everybody else is. We're all sinners. We all we can find something wrong with anybody. What we got to do is look past that and say, this is a position that God has designed and created, and I must Honor the man that holds that position. Father. That's what he's telling us. Honor. I can't find, I cannot find one condition. Alright, in this case, don't honor him. God's instructed us. Why should we honor our fathers? Number one, God has instructed us to. Number two, because God, and this isn't the best word here, but God entices us. To honor them. That's not the best term, but what I mean by it is this: God gives us a tremendous motivation to honor our fathers. God gives us incentive, maybe, would be a better word, a great incentive to honor our fathers. Are you still at Ephesians there? Let's look at it. Verse 2. Honor thy father and mother, and this is the first commandment with promise. This is the first commandment that a promise is attached to it. And it's the first commandment that has to do with my relationship with my fellow man. Honor thy father, mother, which is the first commandment, with promise. What's the promise? That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth. This honoring our fathers comes with a promise. Back in Exodus chapter 20, verse 12: Honor thy father and my mother, that thy days may be long upon the lamb which the Lord thy God giveth thee. Deuteronomy 5. 16, that it may go well with thee, that it may go well with thee, Ephesians 6. 3. God says, listen, you honor your father. And there's a promise that comes along with that. There's a blessing that comes along with that. You read your Bible very carefully, particularly the Old Testament, you study sons. in the Old Testament that disrespected their fathers. I mean, look at it. We have an account, a historical record And the sons that were disrespected, their fathers, every single one of them were judged by God. Absalom. Yes or no? Eli's sons, the priest Eli's sons, judged of God The prodigal son, by all intents and purposes, manipulated his daddy and took the entire inheritance. If you study it, he got the whole inheritance for himself He goes and squanders it. How'd that turn out for him? Big sigh. You study it. Every son that disrespected his father was judged of God. I'm telling you, God gives a great enticement here to honor our fathers, if for no other reasons I want to honor my father if for if the most selfish reason is I want God to bless me. You know I've sought to honor my father The day I got before I got saved, I didn't. I gotta be honest, I was idiot. God saved me and completely changed my attitude. Sought to honor my mother I'm telling you. I'm telling you, much of the blessings upon the ministry. I'm just being purchased. Please forgive me. Being a little personal now. But much of the blessings of God's blessings upon the ministry of Dennis Leatherman, I believe, are the direct result of the influence of Clyde Leatherman. I thank God for that. There's a blessing that comes with it. There's an incentive to honor our fathers. God says it'll go well with you. You'll be a whole lot better off. And why should we honor our fathers? Put this down, because fathers are important. Fathers are important. A faithful father who is involved in his family's life and is honored by his family has a profound impact on church and society. Our church needs fathers. That know God. Our church needs fathers that are honored by their family. Running down daddy. Trashing father. Father in the family. None of that. I'm telling you, we're shooting ourselves. We do that. Our society needs it. I came across some statistics from the National Fatherhood Initiative. I don't know anything about these folks, but they have some interesting statistics they put out. They're talking about the father absence crisis in America. And I believe that, I sincerely believe that is a huge root of our societal confusion. There's eighteen point four million children in our country One out of four, twenty-five percent of them, live without a biological step or adoptive father in the home They say that kids that grow up now this is just across the board, there's exceptions on all this, so we understand that. The kids that are raised in a fatherless home. Have four times greater risk of ending up in poverty as an adult, are more likely to have behavioral problems Are twice, uh, have two times the greater risk of infant mortality. In other words, they're not going to live through their infancy years. Are far more likely to go to prison than the child that has a father actually active in the home Are more likely to commit crime. Listen to this. Children without a father in the home are seven times more likely to become pregnant as a teenager. Or to get somebody pregnant as a teenager. Seven times more likely. They're more likely to face abuse and neglect They're far more likely to abuse drugs than alcohol. And by the way, dads, if you don't want your kids to do something, then you don't do it. It's ridiculous smoking in the home and telling the kids, Don't you do that. You knucklehead. Drinking in the homes and saying, I don't want you, don't you kids ever touch this. More likely to abuse drugs and alcohol. Listen to this one. More two times more likely to suffer obesity In other words, they don't respect themselves. Don't take care of themselves. Two times more likely to drop out of school. And there's pages of statistics they have here. Well you say why are you telling us this? I'll tell you what I'm telling it, fatherhood's important Anybody, any undisciplined lack of integrity, man can get a woman pregnant. But they need daddies. These kids need fathers. So how do we solve our society's problems? I think we get back to honoring fatherhood again. Honor our fathers. Honor them. Say they're not perfect. No, they're not. And if you and if you expect if you're expecting a perfect daddy, then you're never going to be satisfied. Because they don't exist. Now let me give you a second thought. I only got a couple minutes. Let me give you a second thought. I'll throw this. Number one, we need to honor our fathers again. Number two, fathers need to be honorable again. Now we ought to honor them whether honorable or not, but daddy's you do a heap of you do a uh a lot of good for your your family and your kids if you live an honorable life. You're derelict, neglect your responsibilities, it's going to pay a price. Our emphasis this month is humility. Humility is not weakness. And we need to return to genuine manhood. Our fathers need to get back to being men again, is what I'm trying to say. And I don't mean pride. I mean being men. Like many of you, I've been thinking of my father this week, this morning, all day yesterday, it's been on my mind. I thought back, and again, forgive me for using him so much for an illustration, but I'm glad my daddy looked like a man. Nobody ever looked at my dad and wondered, is that a guy or a gal? It's clear, right? You knew it. He dressed like a man. Everybody said He talked like a man. He shot guns. He drove truck. The gutted squirrels in the sink, in the kitchen. All the ladies said, No way We need men to be honorable again, and we need fathers to be honorable again and get back to being a man. Act like a man. I never s I know you're gonna get mad at me. I might as well just do it. I never saw an earring in my daddy's ear. I'm sorry. I didn't Excuse me. I never saw my daddy kiss another woman other than his wife. That was way early on. I never saw him flirt, and now maybe he did. I never saw it I never saw I never saw a bit of liquor go to my daddy's mouth. Never saw a cigarette in his mouth I never saw my daddy watch a nasty show on TV. He didn't have a computer. He didn't I tried getting him one one time and we couldn't never even turn it on, so I just said forget it Never saw any of that. She saying, was your daddy perfect? No, he wasn't perfect, but I say this, he was honorable. How he lived his life. That's what we need. Fathers, he said, honor your fathers. I say, Amen. We're told to in the Bible to honor our fathers. But hey, fathers, how about we be a little honorable ourselves? Have some integrity about us, have some self-discipline. Do right An honorable father accepts his responsibility as a father. He provides godly, compassionate, biblical leadership in the home. He provides for his home. He protects his home. He prays for his home. He puts himself second and puts the family first. An honorable father. An honorable father loves his family in word and in deed. I think one of the best things a father can do for his children is to love their mother. Love their mother. And vice versa, by the way. An honorable father loves the Lord with all his heart. You say, are you kidding in this whole world? I don't even care what this world says anymore. I've seen what this world is up to. I don't even care what they say anymore. I want to please God. I want to love God with all my heart and with all my soul. It's one of the best things you can do for your family, Dad's. One of the most honorable things you can do for your family is to love God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind, with all your strength. Love God. An honorable father lives for the Lord. There's no room for hypocrisy and fatherhood. Not honorable fatherhood. Have proper values, make good decisions, be kind, be compassionate, be like Christ. Handle your finances wisely. Die to yourself. Have a positive attitude. Quit running negative everything. Turn the stinking television talk shows off. Read your Bible. Get a positive attitude. Win your children to Christ Be faithful. Be faithful to your wife. Be faithful to your family. Be faithful to your God. Be faithful to your church. We need spiritually strong and healthy fathers. A lot of men have all their finances in place. Boy, they got their ducks in a row, all their money, yep, got investment here, 401ks, they got all this. Yep. That's wonderful. Praise the Lord. They're taking care of themselves physically, man. They're working out. They're ripped. Is that the word? Ripped. Right? Is that six pack, milk? Uh mine's turned into a f eight liter. It's a keg. Brother, they got their act together emotionally, they got their hobbies, I can get out, relax, and get out and do oh, and they got all that, but they pay they don't pay one bit of mind for their spiritual well-being. They're dying spiritually and they're dried up and rotten spiritually. Daddies, we need to pay attention to the spiritual aspect of our being and our family. And we neglect that. There's eternal consequences. We neglect the spiritual well-being of our home. Should we honor fathers? Yes, absolutely. God told us to honor fathers. I think it would make a huge difference in our society if families would start honoring fathers again. But we need fathers to be honorable again also. Anybody recognize the name Chuck Coddington? Dear Fred, I think Brian and Sandy were good friends. I tell you, Chuck Codington had a tremendous testimony to me and to our church. He died a number of years ago. He developed brain cancer and it was just a quickly, boom, boom, boom, he was gone. Chuck was involved, he was in Bible Institute, he'd come out Thursday, soul-winning Call me up, come to prayer meetings. I mean he's just, you know, he wasn't perfect, but he was ideal church member. Couldn't ask for anything more. Got brain cancer, ended up back here in his last days, back in the nursing home to get the care he needed. His wife was there and son Preston came up. Finally passed away. I think if I remember correctly, Preston was with him. We're getting ready for the funeral, and I met with the family and just talked with them, just different things that they would like and we're just planning a funeral service. Preston's crying, of course. Preston made a profound statement to me. I've never forgotten it He said, my daddy taught me how a Christian lives. I could look at him and say, that's what a Christian is. That's how a Christian lives. And he said, this past two months, my daddy taught me how a Christian dies. How a Christian dies. He died in peace. He died praising God. Confident of his eternal life. Nothing to be ashamed, nothing to go, no regrets. He made it all right with God. Everything was right. We need honorable fathers, and we need to honor our fathers. Amen. Father, I pray you'd help us to heed your instructions. Help us, Lord, maybe your Holy Spirit could invade our homes again and anoint our homes with your presence, dear Lord. Where daddy's honored and mama's honored. The kids are treated kindly and Christ-like, and there's the love of God shed abroad in the hearts and homes of our families anew. Help us to quit blaming everyone else. Help us to quit looking outside and help us, Lord, examine ourselves. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many families, maybe kids, wives, children, adult children, and say, you know, I need to work harder at honoring my Father. And don't say yeah but no no no no no just honoring up front any like that by the uplifted hand preacher pray with me I need to work at honoring the fathers in my home, my father, any like that by the uplifted hand I'll bless you. Hands around. Some. I wonder how many dads would say, say, preacher, I need God to help me be a little more honorable And maybe men in general. I need God to help me live a more honorable Christian life. Any like that? I know there's things there that need to be addressed. God bless you, men. God bless you, man. World doesn't like this. A lot of people, a lot of you in the church don't even like it, but I'm telling you, I believe male leadership is absolutely necessary if we're going to have the blessings of God upon us again. We've got to get right. We've got to get right. So some here this morning, men or women, young people, say, I don't know for sure when I die, I'm going to heaven I don't know that God has forgiven all my sins, and I need that settled. I need to get that right. You'd say, preacher, pray for me that I can know that God has forgiven me and that He saved me. And I held a home in heaven. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I need to get that settled. Any at all? Any at all like that? Father, bless our invitation. I pray you'd use the words and challenge and help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed.