If you have your Bibles, turn to 1 Timothy 2. And then if you want to, find 2 Chronicles, chapter number 7, and verse number 14. We're going to reference that in a little bit. Tonight we're going to kick off at 9 o'clock. We're kicking off our 24-hour prayer vigil for, particularly for our country. and for the election coming up on um on Tuesday. And I hope that you're registered. I hope so and that if you haven't already, I hope you're You will determine to vote. Very important as an American citizen. We have a uh a great privilege, but also the responsibility to vote. But there's something else we can do for our country, and that is pray And so we've established this 24-hour prayer vigil. It's going to begin at 9 o'clock. And we've asked our folks, and really anybody who'd like to get in on it, to take a 15-minute slot in that twenty-four hours and commit to pray for that fifteen minutes uh for our nation, for the election, for God's protection And many, many people have signed up for this. It's just about, the 24 hours is just about completely filled. Pastor Matt and I will fill in if there's any blank slots there. It's not too late. You can still get in. We'll say more about that But what I wanted to do tonight is um is uh address this matter of prayer for our nation. And uh want to give you a few thoughts and then um want to give some suggestions, particularly for those that are going to pray in that 24 hours. And even if you're not, if you're not signed up, you're not committed to that, I hope you'll take these suggestions and find some time in the next day or so, just uh of your own to get before the throne of God and pray for our country, pray for our church and pray particularly for the nation. 1 Timothy chapter 2, verse number 1, the Bible says, I exhort therefore that first of all Now what Paul is about to tell us here, of course, under the inspiration of God, is a top priority. He said, first of all, and so this is a high priority in the mind of God and in his instructions to us. Exhort therefore that first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks. Be made for who? All men. Then he uh narrows it down, gets a little particular. Verse 2, for kings and for all that are in authority. Now in our modern terminology that would be government leaders. We use the term politicians. That n name has negative connotation For many, but um nevertheless that's who's being addressed here. That is who we are to pray. Not just pray, uh, but make supplication and intercession and giving of thanks for these folks For kings, for all their authority, why should we do that? Look what he says: that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty. Verse 3, for this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now, this really isn't my message, but verse number four seems to imply to us that when we obey God in this matter of praying for those who are in authority, praying for our nation, praying for its leadership, That facilitates people coming to know Jesus Christ as Savior, people being saved. He ties the two in together here And so, of course, prayer doesn't replace the preaching of the Word of God, but it certainly empowers the preaching of the Word of God. And so let's have a word of prayer I'll share some of these thoughts with you, and um I'm just asking God, pray with me that God will use this to stir us to pray, and we can see God do something great in our church and in our homes and in our nation. Let's pray together. I invite you to pray with me tonight. Father in heaven, we bow before you as we close out this Lord's day. God, this is not our day. This is your day. This is your church This is your word. And so now as we look into this and we seek to obey this instruction we've been given in the passage we read, I ask that your Holy Spirit would help us. Prompt us, motivate us, stir us up, Lord, to pray and to pray earnestly and diligently for our land and for our church, for our home for one another I yield my will to you, Lord. I present my body anew in this hour, and with all my heart, I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. And that what is presented tonight would be life-changing and God would show um would produce uh supernatural results. in our land, our church, and our homes. So again, Lord, I ask, fill me, I pray, with your Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I believe with all my heart prayer is the most powerful weapon that a Christian possesses. This matter of prayer is a potent resource. Now I hate to say it. Prayer is so powerful. Prayer is such a powerful weapon in spiritual warfare. But yet at the same time it's perhaps the most neglected weapon. It's the most neglected resource we have. I read this quote from a fellow, I have no idea who he is. It was an old book that my grandfather had when he passed away twenty Thirty years ago, over thirty years ago, I got some of his books, and he had an old book on prayer. I don't know who the author was. I didn't recognize the name. I know nothing about him. But in that book, I read this quote. He said, prayer makes a common, ordinary person an extraordinary person for God. I've adapted his quote a little bit and put it this way. Prayer makes a common ordinary Christian an extraordinary and supernatural force for God in the world. Prayer, this fellow went on to say by just a common everyday Christian, whether it's a young teenager that loves the Lord and gets a hold of God in prayer Whether it's a mother of children, a working father, a grandmother, a grandfather, just any common everyday Christian. That gets a hold of God in prayer can can move heaven and can shake the foundations of hell Prayer is a powerful, powerful thing. We must never underestimate the power of prayer. We must never underestimate the importance of prayer. When men, women, teenagers, and children pray, God Almighty responds. Prayer is a powerful thing. Jeremiah 33, three, God said this, Call unto me, and I will answer thee and show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not Spurgeon said that if a man can truly pray, he can do just about anything. The power of prayer The power of prayer. I was reading about a ship that uh somewhere, uh I couldn't tell you where, but a ship, a large ship, had somehow uh sunk, had sprung a leak and sunk, and they were trying to get this sunken ship up out of the of the mud that it had sunk into And they had these powerful cranes and they had powerful barges and they hooked all kinds of devices to the ship that was sunk down in the mud and they could not pull that ship out of that mud. It was stuck and it was doomed to destruction. However, one of the engineers um got an idea and he brought the they waited till low tide When the tide was very, very low, and they brought two barges in to that ship that was uh embedded in the mud. They brought the two barges up by either side of that ship And they somehow run chains, they work chains down underneath that ship, down through the mud underneath that ship, and they sat and they wait. And as they waited, that high tide came in. The chains were attached to the barges and went underneath the ship. And as the high tide came in, the tide lifted those barges up, and through the power of the ocean, It lifted that ship up out of the mire and out of the clay and lifted up where they could uh retrieve it and bring it back and repair it. The power of the ocean. The power of the ocean was able to lift that ship up out of the mess it had gotten itself into. I tell you, our country is in a mess We are stuck in the mud of liberalism and unbelief. We are stuck in the mud. We are getting stuck in the mud of socialism and unrighteousness and ungodliness. And I tell you, we have all kinds of devices to try and rescue our nation. We have all kinds of plans and programs, and they're wonderful as far as they go. But I believe we are at a point in our nation where only the power of Almighty God, through the prayers of God's people, can lift this nation up out of the mess we've gotten ourselves into. What we're going to engage in this evening from nine o'clock tonight till the nine o'clock tomorrow night, and I trust outside of those time frames. is uh perhaps the most powerful thing we can do for our nation as we pray for our country. We must harness the power of God. In our prayers as we bow before Him. Now let me give you a few thoughts, and I want to quickly get to some suggestions for when we do pray, some suggestions of to what to pray and and how to pray for our country. But first of all, my first point tonight is this. We must be serious in our prayers for our land and whatever we're praying for. We must be serious in our prayers Prayer is not just some childish ritual that we go to. Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to take. If I should die before I wake, I pray the Lord my soul to take. Listen, if that's all our prayer is, is quoting some little poem to God, we're not going to see much happen. We're not going to see many miracles. We're not going to see the power of God displayed and situations and nations changed. Uh if we're going to see a nation rescued, uh it's going to require some Christians who get serious about our praying for our nation. Get serious about this matter of prayer. Paul was perhaps the most powerful Christian in all church's history. perhaps the most influential Christian in all church history as he impacted the world uh through the power of God upon Paul. It wasn't Paul's speaking abilities. He said he wasn't a very good speaker. It wasn't his physical prowess. He was, uh, we understand probably a weakly man, difficult with eyesight. Um, and uh he comments over and over again that he was not a sufficient of himself. But I tell you, Paul shook the world. And Paul affected nations and cities with the gospel of Jesus Christ because he had the power of God upon his life. through the power of prayer. In Acts chapter 9, verse 11, the Bible tells us immediately after Paul's salvation, he was found in prayer. He began praying. And all through his life and all through his ministry, the record we have of the Apostle Paul, he was a man that he labored in prayer It wasn't just a little childish poem. It wasn't just a little uh ritual he went through. It was something he labored at. It was it was all of his effort He was serious about getting a hold of God and praying and seeing God do great and mighty things. Prayer is characteristic of an earnest and sincere Christian. You get a Christian who takes their walk with God seriously. You get a Christian who takes serious this matter of being a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ And you're going to see a Christian who is earnest and serious in their prayer life. Let me bring it home to our church. You get a church that's serious, that's serious about being a New Testament church. You get a church that is serious, not just playing games. It's all kinds of little churches out there, just groups out there, just playing church. We don't want to play church. There's too much at stake. There's a heaven and a hell. There's nations at stake. If we're going to be serious about being a church, a New Testament church. the church, the body of the Lord Jesus Christ, if we're going to be serious about that, we need to be serious about prayer. And I hope in these next 24 hours And in the coming weeks and months and years even, that we as a church will take very seriously this matter of getting a hold of God in prayer. Would you take your Bible with me and turn to Colossians chapter 4? The book of Colossians, we're in Timothy, so come back towards the to your left in your Bible. Colossians chapter 4. And I'd like for you to notice with me verse number 12, Colossians chapter 4, right before Thessalonians and right after Philippians. Colossians chapter 4, Paul is writing to the church at Colossae, and he referenced this fellow that's part of the church there, perhaps the pastor, and his name is Epaphoras. And in verse 12 of chapter 4, he referenced them and he makes this statement about Epapharis, and it's a challenge to me, and it's a challenge to our church Look what he says. Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, so he was serious about his Christianity, a servant of Christ salute you. Now look at this next statement. I underscored it in my Bible. Always, what's that next word? There, say it at home. Laboring, fervently, laboring fervently for you in what? Prayers. Prayers. Notice he's laboring. He's putting forth effort. He's working at this thing, and not just laboring, but laboring fervently. I tell you, Papharas took prayer seriously, and he applied himself, and he gave himself, and it was a labor, a fervent labor, to pray and get a hold of God. Oh, would to God, we had some epapharises in our churches today that got serious about prayer and labored in prayer fervently. Getting a hold of God and seeking the Lord. So number one, uh we need to be serious in our prayer. Now I I meant uh uh uh remind I went to say this a little earlier in the message before I started. I hope that you would get a little notepad if you have one there with you or somewhere that you can jot these down. Now we're going to go through them pretty quickly. So I don't know how if you'll be able to jot all of these down, but I want to give you, first of all, was the seriousness of prayer. This next point is this suggestions for prayer. And I've got quite a list. For those particularly that are going to be praying in this vigil, you can jot these down and then you can follow these as you pray. And uh you'll probably end up not fifteen minutes in prayer, but uh quite an extended time if you really get into this. But uh if you have them handy, I think we're going to have them on the screen, correct Jamie? And these here will be here suggestions for a 24-hour prayer vigil. And I'm just going to kind of go through them quickly without say a whole lot about it. Um is my intention. It doesn't always work out that way. But uh first of all. And this is not advancing, Brother Jamie. First of all, our first one is praying for the issues facing our nation And there we go. Praying for the issues. Now maybe the font will be a little small how it is on the screen there for you. And if it if if it's not, we're going to post these Maybe in the comments or something, we'll give these listed there if you can't get them here. But I hope you'll jot these down, particularly those that are going to be a part This vigil, you can jot these down. These would be very helpful, I believe, uh for you in our prayer time. But first thing we want to do, one of a number of areas, we want to pray for the issues that are facing our nation. Now you may have some in your mind that I don't mention here, and that's good. Pray for anything that the Lord lays on your heart here But one of them I want to suggest to you, and this is so important, our nation, is pray that God will give us wise and just judges One of the key uh branches of our government is the judicial branch and particularly the Supreme Court. Now there's a lot of s lower courts that are very, very important And we want folks on these positions that are wise and just judges, not coming in with their own agenda, not coming in with some liberal agenda, but holding to righteousness. and truth and law in order as uh it's been established. So pray for uh wise and just judges. Pray that we will have continued freedom Now, I don't know what your take is, but I'm telling you right now, many of our freedoms are gravely at stake in our country Some of the freedoms that mark America as unique in this world, freedoms that are unique to our country, are under uh grave danger. And uh and we need to pray that God will grant us continued freedom and God will protect. By the way, these are not freedoms that are given to us by the cut nation. These are freedoms that are given to us by God and are to be protected by the nation. And so pray that we can have continued freedoms. I put this one down. Pray for safety and security in our cities. Our cities are being overrun by violence. uh bloodshed, um uh uh dishonesty, uh stealing, robbery, uh, and it's and it's flooding out into our smaller towns And just pray that God will grant that we can live peaceable and quiet lives and that our cities will be safe and secure. Uh you may have some other issues there. And again, these are not, I want to mention, these are not all original with me. Some of these I got from other places and I wanted to share them with you because I thought they were helpful. I tweaked a little bit, added some of my own, and uh maybe you have some issues in our country that you would add And that ought to be prayed for and uh absolutely that is a good thing. Uh another area that I suggest that we pray for our country is pray for this election process that we are in the midst of, it'll come to a head here in just a couple days, Tuesday And do we need to be much in prayer for this election process? Now, this is a little small, so I hope you can see it on the screen there. But one thing we want to pray for is pray for those who are voting to be very wise in their selection of who they vote for. Every vote is important and must be uh must be voting must be exercised wisely, intelligently. I like what Brother Um Fox preached here about a month ago at our Sword Conference. He said, take your Bible to the ballot box. And I say, Amen to that. And I told him, I said, I would also add to that, take your brain to the box too. Know who you're voting for, know what they stand for, know where they're at And so pray that those who are voting would be wise in their selection. I know I don't know how it is now, but I know years ago folks would just vote Well, grandma and grandpa and great grandpa, they were all a certain political party, so I'm just voting whatever grandpa was. Don't be that person Be wise and pray that voters will be wise. Another suggestion for the election process, and um trying to get this to click, I get Ah, I was pushing the wrong button. Pray for Christians to vote and be the salt that we are instructed to be. Pastor Matt had a great Sunday school lesson this morning. We're the salt of the earth. Part of our saltiness, part of our savor, our influence, is by exercising a vote. And so pray that Christians will vote and be the salt that God has instructed us to be. Um my brother brother Fox again was we were talking and he mentioned this and I agree wholeheartedly if Christians would just get out and vote like they should, uh this country would be a totally different country than what it is. I believe that And so pray that Christians will vote and be the salt they're instructed to be. Jot this one down. Here's another one. Pray for the Lord to hinder those who would seek to corrupt the voting process and corrupt the outcome. They are enemies of our country, and and uh they would seek to correct this whole process. Uh America is one of the few countries in the world that has a peaceful transition of power And uh pray that God would hinder those that would seek to disrupt that and uh disrupt the whole process, whether they're enemies from without or enemies who have infiltrated our country. I pray that God will protect, that God would hinder those who would seek to corrupt the voting process and the outcome. Here's another one I suggest. Pray for the Lord to hinder foreign enemies from attacks or from interference. Of course we ought to pray this all the time For the safety of our nation, and regardless of what nation someone's in, if they're a citizen of another country, they ought to pray that for their country That God would protect the nation from foreign enemies and from attacks or interference. And then I put another one down under this head, a peaceful acceptance of the outcome of the election Now we're praying for a certain outcome. We have our position and what we would like and make our request to the Lord. And regardless of what the outcome is, just pray that there will be a peaceful acceptance of that. There are folks that if they don't get the way, then they're going to burn the city down. And praise that God would hinder that. God's bigger than a thug God's bigger than a mob. God's bigger than a riot. God can stop that. And so let's ask the Lord to do that, that God would intervene. Now I do want to stop here and make a statement. I know sometimes folks will say, and uh good folk and they mean well, but folks will say, well, whoever is elected, that's just God's will I don't believe that for one minute. Not everything that happens is the will of God. It's not God's will that people die and go to hell. We know that, but people do die and go to hell. It's not God's will that people get drunk and abuse their homes and injure other people. It's not God's will, but it happens. And so not everything that happens is the will of God, and not everybody that gets elected to an office is necessarily the man that's God's will for them to be in that office And so we pray and we seek the Lord. Now, whether God's will is accomplished or not, don't misunderstand. God's still in control. We don't doubt that. God is in control whether His will was accomplished in the situation or not. But I don't believe that's correct. So we pray. for the election process and that um and that these things would take place. Now maybe you have some to add to that and uh I highly recommend and suggest that. Let me give you another category here. Pray for the candidates And the leaders of our land, whether locally here in local elections or in the national elections, pray for the candidates and their leaders. Now let me give you some suggestions under this First and foremost, pray for the salvation of all in leadership and those who are seeking leadership. We ought to be praying for those who are seeking to be president, both parties, whatever party they are, we ought to be praying they'd get saved. God would have all men to be saved and come to repentance. We read that in Timothy. And so pray for their salvation, whether it's the local dog catcher. Whether it's the mayor of the city, the governor of the country of the state, or the president of the country, pray for their salvation. Pray that God will save them. Pray that God will send Christian witness, faithful Christian witness by and share the gospel with those who are running for office and those who are in leadership. Pray for the boldness of our leaders to stand for righteousness There is a spiritual warfare that goes on in government leadership, I believe, that you and I will be amazed someday to see the intensity of it. And we need to pray for our leaders to be bold in their stand for righteousness. Write this one down. Pray for the families of leaders. And the candidates. I tell you, some of these dear uh wives and children of people running for office get beat up in the media and horrible things said and hurtful things said And just pray that God will protect the families of the leaders and these candidates, that God would just please protect their families. And then we want to pray that they will have godly advisors for the leaders. Pray that God will send godly advisors to those who hold these positions. So pray for the candidates, pray for their leaders, uh the advisors that they have when we go down to DC with Capital Connection Many times we won't get to see the senator or the representative, but we do get to speak with their staff. And the staff is very, very influential on those who hold these positions. And if we can point them to Christ, if we can Share the gospel with them. Perhaps it would have an influence on those who hold office. Let me give you another category here, real quick. Pray for the churches of our land. You say, Brother Leatherman, I thought we're praying for the election. I thought we're praying for our country. We are. But the churches in the land are a powerful influence on the condition of a nation. I do not believe that America will ever be what God intends for it to be until the churches are what they ought to be. The spiritual welfare of a nation rises and falls on the spiritual condition of its churches. So let me give you some suggestions here for praying for our churches. First of all, pray for humility and repentance. That God can send revival to our nation. Revival will never begin in the White House. It will never begin in the State House. It will begin in the church house with you and me So pray that God will move on our hearts, my heart, your heart, that we'll humble ourselves before the Lord, that we'll repent of the sins that so easily beset us. We'll repent of that And God can send revival and empower us, and that in turn will influence our nation. So pray for the churches. Pray for boldness in preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ in our communities. I I'm still uh of the persuasion that uh the people that get elected are there because of the condition of the people who vote for them. If we want to change in our America is unique in that we can choose who our leaders are. And as long as the people doing the choosing are out of whack, then we're gonna have leaders who are out of whack. The only way to get the people back in whack is to get them right with God. Point them to Christ. Win them to the Lord Jesus Christ. So we need boldness. Our churches need boldness in preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ in our communities And I think begins there, and as uh as the populace is turned to Christ, then we'll see a change uh in the leadership. So pray for that. Uh pray for holiness in our personal lives And in our worship services, I tell you, I'm afraid we as Christians have gotten so worldly. Holiness is a strange concept. In a lot of Christians' minds, in a lot of Christians' lives. We need holy Christians. And I'm telling you, there is an unholiness that has crept into our churches A worldliness that has crept into our churches that has absolutely stifled the power and presence of the Holy Spirit of God. And we need a turning away from the worldliness, the music and the atmosphere and the style of worship. It's a mimicry of the world and a mockery of what is holy and right We need to pray for a turning away from that and a return to holiness in our personal lives and in our churches. And if you would, put this one down, another one under that head. Pray for sincere gratitude. For the freedoms we have in our nation. God has blessed us in a unique way where the freedoms we have. Just the First and Second Amendment are powerful, powerful freedoms that our nation for over two hundred years has protected uh for its citizens, and yet those very freedoms are threatened And help us to be grateful for what we have. I found that when we become ungrateful for something, we neglect to be grateful. Often it's not long till that freedom is gone, that blessing is gone. And so we need a return to gratefulness on the parts of God's people for how He has blessed us here in the United States of America. Pray for a stronger faith and a greater compassion. I still believe compassion is a missing ingredient. Just genuine compassion for one another and for other people and others And not a selfishness. Pray for a revival of missionary efforts here at home and around the world. Missions. Our great commission is to go into all the world and preach the gospel. You say, what does that have to do with our election? I'll tell you the way I look at it If we're not obeying our Great Commission, if we're not emphasizing getting the gospel in the whole world, missionary efforts around the world, then how in the world Are we going to have God's blessings on our church and on our land if we're neglecting the great commission we've been given, the purpose for which we exist? And I found that the light, here's a quote, and it's not original with me, I don't have the name on the tip of my tongue, but the light that shines farthest abroad shines brightest at home. And we get a missionary mindset and we give ourselves again the gospel into all the world, it'll have a profound impact here on our own communities And in our own country. I believe that with all my heart. Let me give you another one here very quickly. Pray for increased involvement of Christians in local, state, and national government. All through the Bible, Chuck Harding points this out often. All through the Bible, you find God's people involved in government. You find God's people involved in dealing with the leadership of a nation. Someone else said it's hard to conceive that God would ordain government and then expect his people not to be involved in it. That's hard to fathom. And so pray that God's people, not neglecting the ministry, listen, if God's called someone to preach, it is a step down to work in government. But I tell you, if God hasn't called us into that type of category, perhaps we could have a role in uh in a government there of some sort. So, praying for this, let me give you another category. Here's one you might not have thought of But we ought to pray for our nation's media. You talk about a mess. The media in our country and really around the world has a profound influence. On our nation and even our homes. And I think we can should, can, and should pray for our media. How about praying this? For a return to true and just standard of journalism. I mean just being honest. Pray that God will move and see in our media just an honesty and a sense of being just and right and true. And um and uh blocking the lies. Uh pray for uh fairness to replace the biases that is in our media. I think that was something we can pray and ask God to uh uh uh do that there. And then let me quickly give you a third one. Pray for fair and honest treatment of churches and Christians in our media. We they'll do everything they can. In fact Uh I know firsthand there are certain uh media organizations, their whole uh mission, their whole stated purpose is to find and bring down, find faults with churches, find faults with Christians and bring them down. And so we're going to pray that God We'll intervene on that and uh turn that thing around. And then one more, let's uh here's uh uh the last category that we can pray for. Pray for a genuine heaven-sent revival Now we touched on this in a little earlier on the list, but uh I take this from 2 Chronicles 7 fourteen, where it says, If my people, which are called by my name, shall what humble themselves. And so let's pray for a sincere humility on the part of believers. Pride is killing us Pride is killing us. And we've got to forsake and repent of our stinking pride And just humble ourselves before God. So pray for sincere humility. Pray for sincere and earnest prayer. Pray that we will pray. Pray that we will get take this seriously like we said at the beginning of the message. That God will help us and stir us To pray as we ought to. Pray for sincere and diligent seeking God's will in our lives as believers. My people to call by my name to humble themselves And pray, seek my face. Seek the will of the Lord. Lord, you lead me. God, you direct me My verse for 2020 has been, and I didn't choose it out. God God put it on my heart. And I'm telling you, every day I woke up this morning, first thought came to my mind. was uh Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, lean not into thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. That's seeking the face of God. That's saying, God, you lead me. God, you direct me. I trust you. With all my heart, you lead me. That's what we need in our churches and our homes. and in our individual lives. And then pray that we will have a uh genu uh genuine and thorough repentance from sins In the lives of believers. I tell you, it's not sin in the life of the politicians that's hurting us as much as it is a sin in the lives of believers that's hurting our nation. If my God's people will uh humble ourselves and pray, seek his face, and turn from our wicked ways Then he will heal from heaven. He will forgive our sin and heal our land. And then I put this one down. Pray for a sincere thankfulness to God for all he has done for us. And all he is doing for us. If you'll study Romans chapter 1, you'll find that the downfall of a society begins with ingratitude. And neither were they thankful, he says. And we need to get back to just a genuine spirit of gratitude. So here's some suggestions If you weren't able to jot them down as we went through, we'll get them posted for you. And uh if you like, you let us know, we'll email them to you or send them to you. But I think these are very, very helpful suggestions on praying for our country, particularly in these days that we're in right now. Now let me give you a third thought for our uh for the message tonight. Number one, we must be serious in prayer. Number two, we must be specific in prayer. Some suggestions I gave there. And then thirdly, I'll end with this. We must be submissive in our prayers. Isaiah chapter 6. Isaiah said he saw the Lord in the near that King Uzziah died. He saw the Lord high and lifted up. And he says, and uh holy, holy, holy is the Lord God. And he he describes this encounter he has with Almighty God. And then in verse number eight, he says this. Isaiah steps up and he says, this, here am I, Lord, send me. Hear my Lord, send me. And the Lord was saying, Who am I going to send to give the message? Who am I going to send to warn the people? He says, Hear am I, Lord, send me. I like in Acts chapter 9 and verse 6. Paul uh uh the Lord appears to Paul on the road to Damascus. And um uh he said, Who art thou, Lord? And he says, I'm Jesus whom thou persecutest. And Paul's first statement, after he realized who he's encountered, he makes this statement, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? What would you have me to do? I think when we come to God in prayer tonight, tomorrow, the coming weeks and months and years, I think we ought to come with a very submissive attitude in our prayers and say, Lord, I'm willing to be a part Of your answer to my prayers. Lord, I'm willing for you to use me in whatever area you see fit, in whatever way you see fit, I'm willing for you to use me To fulfill the answer to these prayers, to bring about the answers to these prayers. God answers prayer, but God uses people to accomplish those answers. And we must be submissive. There's many theories about prayer. A lot of people have all different thoughts and theories about prayer There's many books written on prayer. I have stacks of them in my library. A lot of sermons on prayer. I'm preaching one tonight. A lot of sermons on prayer. But you know what we need? We need people to pray. Singing about it is great. Preaching about it is great. Writing books about it is great. Sharing our thoughts about it is great Prayer's not going to do any good until we actually pray. We actually pray. And that's what we want to do. And maybe what we're attempting here in the next twenty-four, forty-eight hours in this prayer visual Maybe that's something that would stick. And maybe this will become a part of our daily personal lives and of our church's ministry, of being earnest and serious And laboring fervently in prayer to God, maybe we'll see God do some great, great things I read of great I have a number of uh tremendous biographies in my library. I've read about all of them, very few I haven't. Um And I found a common denominator among those men and women that God used in significant ways. And every one of them, men and women, every one of them, young and old, every one of them We're earnest in prayer, diligent in prayer, faithful, consistent in prayer, and getting a hold of God, and God used them. I want God to use me I want God to use you, and I want God to use our church, and I want God to have mercy on our nation. I believe that begins with prayer. There in the home, maybe you make your sofa or wherever you're at, the little chair you're sitting in, or whatever, make that a holy altar. Maybe we can kneel there, wherever we're at, and kneel before God And say, God, teach me to pray. God, hear our prayers, stir us, do a miracle, show your power. I believe God would do what great things for us. Let's pray together. Father in heaven We do bow before you tonight in our hearts, and I trust many, perhaps on our knees, we're asking you to teach us to pray. Stir us, not just to quote words or poems, Lord, to get a hold of you and share our heart and plead with you and labor in prayer in this spiritual warfare God help us. Revive us. Have mercy on our land. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.