Romans chapter 16. Now there's two things, let me say this and we get started. There's two things about this message I don't particularly appreciate about this morning's message. One is I started it last week and did not finish it. And I really dislike doing that. I like to have a message together as a unit, as one uh one um uh one thought there, one message together, but Time got away from us last week, so I've uh I'm preaching the rest of it this morning. Uh particularly Sunday mornings, I don't really uh enjoy doing that. And the other thing is I don't really like the subject, to be honest with you We're talking about Satan, and he is my least favorite being in existence in all the world And so notice with me if you would there in Romans chapter 16, verse number 20. Again, we started, we looked at this last Last week we started this thought. It says, and the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. Bruise Satan. Now Paul as the penman of the book of Romans, God of course being the author, but Paul is referencing back to the passage that Pastor Matt read a few moments ago where after man had fallen disobeyed God and the natural consequences of disobedience came upon man and mankind And there in verse number, now, just referencing back here in Genesis, in verse 15, he says, I will put enmity, speaking to the serpent. Of course, it's Satan impersonified in this serpent. And he says, I will put enmity between thee and the woman. And the wording here is very interesting. It says, and between thy seed, the serpent's seed, the offspring of the Satan, thy seed, and her seed. And it shall bruise her seed, the seed of woman, shall bruise thy head, serpent's head, Satan's head, and thou shalt bruise his heel. Satan's going to do some damage to the seed of woman. Now, there's a lot in that statement. That's a prophetic statement of profound significance. God is saying here very, very early on in the history of man, in the record of God's word, he's saying that the woman would have seed. Now, if we've had basic biology, we understand the fact that the woman does not have seed, right? Seed is in man. And I wish somebody would explain to our society some of these basic things. But yet he says the seed of woman. This is a reference to the virgin birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ was not born of the seed of man. God Almighty, in the person of the Holy Spirit, embedded impregnated the womb of Mary with the tiny embryotic body of Jesus Christ. And he was conceived without the seed of man. And God references this here right in the very early days of our ex of mankind's existence of what he's going to do. Now bruising uh Satan's he uh uh head is a reference to the cross And on the cross, the Lord Jesus Christ destroyed death, the enemy, and he bruised, fatally bruised the head of Satan. Now Satan is not dead. And uh he is still very well. And so I was reading in Romans, my devotion, some time ago, and I saw that phrase where he says, And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. And I got thinking about that and putting some thoughts together. And I want to talk, pick up, try and pick up where we left off last week on bruising Satan. Bruising Satan I don't know about you, but I'm all for bruising Satan. So let's pray. Ask the Lord to help us. Father, we bow before you this morning, and Lord, I just want to Say publicly before the congregation, before the whole world, Lord, that I love you. And I thank you for all you've done for me. Never had a friend like Jesus. No one never has ever cared for me like you. And I pray that now in this service, in this building this body of believers as we've assembled together in your name. God, I ask that your presence would be manifest here in a very real way I pray you'd help us make decisions and take actions that would bruise Satan, that you through us could bruise him and hinder his influence. God, I yield myself to you. I yield my will to you now, my thoughts, my mind, my brain. I ask that your Holy Spirit would guide my thinking as I'm speaking, guard me to not say anything I ought not to say. And guide me to say exactly what you know needs to be said in this time. I present my body, I pray you'd fill me with your spirit, speak through me your word. And get the victory today, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Bruising Satan. If you remember, last week we started off with if we're going to bruise Satan, we need to have assurance. We need to have assurance. We need to have some confidence. I don't know about you, but I I maybe I I hate almost hate to admit this, not really, but a little bit. I enjoy boxing My dad would say, he said, that's the stupidest thing in the world, two guys standing there and just beat each other. I said, I love it. And um I don't know that I would love to be one of the guys in there, but uh I enjoy boxing. And uh I'm not an expert on it. I certainly Uh don't a lot about it I don't know, but I know I very much enjoy it. I've watched it for a long time. I picked up a few things. And the amazing thing is in boxing there's tremendous parallels in the sport of boxing that uh that paralleled the Christian life. And you could I think I could preach a whole message just on principles of boxing and how it applies to the Christian life. But one thing I noticed is when a fella goes into the ring He has to have confidence that he can do what needs to be done. Um a couple weeks ago, very seldom do I watch the television, very, very rare, but we had an evening, it was rainy out and Uh there wasn't a lot going on. So uh we found uh a boxing match on TV about a week or so, week before Bible time. Might have been this past week. Might have been sixteen years ago, I'm not sure. But um it was the recording, it was Manny Pacquiao, who's one of my favorite boxers, a Filipino fella. He's a Christian man, by the way. And um but anyway they got in the ring and he was a boxing a guy uh from another country I forget And you could tell right at this right at the start of the match, right first round, ding, first round, this guy did not have confidence. And I thought myself, that guy's gonna get beat, you watch. And he kinda hesitated, he hesitated, and there's a lot of stuff he should have been doing, he didn't do And he lost. He lost badly. He didn't get knocked out, but he lost the match, for sure. If a person's going to get in the ring to box, they need to have some confidence that I know I can do this, I know what I'm supposed to do, I know what I need to do, and I'm able to do it. Well that's true when dealing with Satan. We must have confidence in our Christian life. We need to have some assurance. Now, again, I preached this last week, so I don't want to re-preach it, but I do want to point out That if we're going to defeat Satan in our lives, if we're going to keep Satan at bay and not let him wreak havoc in my home, in my marriage, in my personal life, in my children's lives If we're going to defeat Satan, we need to have assurance of our salvation. I need to know for sure that my sins are forgiven And that God accepts me, and when this life comes to an end, He accepts me into heaven, and I do not end up in hell If I'm not settled on that, if I do not have that assurance, I will never be able to defeat Satan, keep him at bay. He has an open door into my life to wreak havoc. The Bible says in 1 John chapter 5, it says, These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life. Not hope so, not think so, not maybe so. But I know my sins are forgiven. I know I'm accepted of God. Not because I'm wonderful, not because of how good I am or how righteous I am of myself, but because of what Jesus Christ has done for me on the cross and rising from the grave. I'm accepted in Christ. Christ makes me acceptable. And so if we're going to defeat Satan, we have to have this assurance of our personal salvation. That's where it begins. If you're here this morning, or maybe you're online listening in. And there's doubts there, there's uncertainty there about the forgiveness of your sins, about a home in heaven. I urge you with all my heart. You come to Jesus Christ. He'll forgive you. He'll save you from hell. He'll give you a new life. And you can have a peace and confidence in your heart that God accepts you in the person of Christ. So there must be assurance of salvation. And we can have that, and we can be secure in that And again, if you don't have that settled, we can't save you. Our church cannot take away your sins. Our church cannot make you acceptable to God. But we can introduce you to Jesus Christ, and He absolutely can and will do that. Number two, we said there we need to have assurance in the power of Scripture. This book is not just another man-made book. This book is pen by man, but it's authored by God. This book is the Word of God. And over and over, and again, I don't want to re-preach this, but over and over and over in Scripture, you find Satan is kept at bay. Through the Word of God. Through the Word of God. Psalm 119. 11. Thy word have I hid in my heart That I might not sin against thee, that Satan cannot get any leeway in my life, that I can have victory in my life. Every Christian Ought to be learning, studying, meditating, reading God's Word. Every Christian should be. It ought to be a daily habit. I'm convinced then coming up on 32 years now as your pastor and I the honor of my life, the joy of my life has been pastoring this church. And I am can more convinced today than ever if every single member of Independent of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church would spend some time every day meditating in the Word of God, pouring your heart out to God in prayer. Satan could be kept at bay in this church. And in your home and in your life. There's no doubt about it. You ought to establish that that habit, that discipline. And then we said there needs to be positive submission. James chapter 4, verse 6 Through 10, he says that we submit ourselves to God and we resist the devil, and he will flee from us. We can have victory over sin. We can keep our homes safe and protected from satanic influence. We can We submit to the will of God. We submit to the word of God. In other words, we do what God says. We trust Him. He says, do this. Okay, Lord, I trust you. I'll follow these instructions. He says, stay away from that. Okay, Lord. He warns me about some things. Okay, Lord, I trust you. I'll stay away from that. He promises some things that he will do if we just trust him. Okay, Lord, I trust you. I claim those promises. I'm going to rest in them Positive submission to the will of God, then the ability, just say no. Just say no. We said this last week, I want to repeat it. How many heartaches could be avoided? If Christians would just learn to say no to sin, say no to this world, say no to the devil, no. I am not going to go there. No, I am not going to do that. No, I am not going to indulge that. No. That one little word is so powerful in the Christian life. Say yes to God. Yes, Lord, I'll trust you. I'll follow what you say. I'll submit to your word and your will. No! I'm not going the way of the world. No! I'm not giving in to the lust of the flesh. Positive submission. And so we have to have assurance. I've got to know that my sins are forgiven. I'm accepted by God. I need to know that I'm saved. Number two, I need to have assurance and be confident in the power of the scriptures. And saturate my heart and mind and life with the Word of God. And then submit to it. And know that God, not my will, but thy will be done. I submit to you. So we need to have assurance. Now, here's where I want to pick up in the time we have left, where we left off last week. Number one, if we're going to bruise Satan, if we're going to defeat Satan, number one, we need to have assurance. Number two, we need to be informed. Informed. There's a book, it's over 2300 years old. It was written, I believe, in China, by a fellow by the name of Sun Tzu. I think I'm pronouncing it right, Tzu. It's a military book. In fact, it's still used in our military academies. It's still used in military training today. Over 2,300 years old. It's called The Art of War. I've not read it, but I understand it is a magnificent book on warfare and how to win in war. Again, as I said, they still use it to this day in our military training. In that book, he has an entire section. Where he addresses one of the keys to victory in warfare. And he says that one of the keys to victory in warfare is how well I know my enemy. If I am ignorant of my enemy's strengths, if I'm ignorant of my enemy's tactics and strategies, if I'm Ignorant of his weapons and his approach to warfare, I'm very, very vulnerable and likely I'm going to lose that war. We call it today intelligence Men and women risk their lives to get behind enemy lines and spy on our enemies so that we have information and we know we're informed as to Who they are, what they are, where they're at, what they're going to do. It's a key part of victory and warfare. And I want to suggest to you that as believers, we are in spiritual warfare Just as real as the wars going on in Ukraine, just as real as the war's going on in the Middle East and across Africa. You and I are in a spiritual warfare. It's not physical. Our weapons of our warfare are not material. It's a spiritual war. I'm here to tell you this morning, there is a spiritual reality that is just as real as the physical world we see around us. Now the world denies that. A lot of people try to live as if it's not true, but I'm telling you, we are spiritual beings, and there is a spiritual realm. We cannot see it, we cannot feel it, we cannot hear it, but it is just as real as what we see around us. And we need to understand that. And in that spiritual warfare that you and I are in, you say, well, I didn't sign up. We're in it And in that spiritual warfare, there are enemies. It's literally a warfare against heaven and against hell. God and the devil, God and Satan. And we need to understand who our enemy is. We need to be informed as to who Satan is and what he is. Knowing our enemy is key to victory. Now, I want to be very careful here, and I've tried to be careful throughout my Christian life, particularly once I got in the ministry. I tried to be very, very careful not to obsess over the devil. Some people obsess get obsessed with the devil. That's all there is. Just the devil, the devil. Behind every bush is a devil. Listen, a lot of our problems come from our own sinful heart, not the devil. Sometimes he's a handy scapegoat Remember Flip Wilson? Anybody remember Flip Wilson? What was his lie? The devil made me do it Well, that's a handy little scapegoat. That's a handy little blame someone else. Fact of the matter is, a lot of our problems are our own simple nature. Now, having said that We need to understand the devil's very real. The devil's very real. We could do a month-long series on studying the devil. I don't want to. I want to know enough about them that I need to to be able to have victory in my Christian life. A couple thoughts about being informed about the devil. One thing is, you need to understand Satan is real It's not a fairy tale. Listen, we are fooling. I hope you'll get this. We are fooling ourselves. If we think that Satan is not a real being, we are believing a lie. We are believing the lie of Satan himself. If we think that he does not exist, that it's just a fairy tale, it's not real. I'm here to tell you he is real. He's not a fairy tale. He exists. And he's exactly what the Bible presents him to be. In fact, that's exactly what he would want us to believe, right? Oh no, I don't exist. Don't worry about the devil. He doesn't exist. I like what uh Lester Roloff said. If you ever get a chance, listen. Listen to Lester Roloff on our radio station, 88. 7 at uh 10. 30 in the weekday mornings. Now he says some things that are interesting But he made a statement some time ago. I wrote it down. He said, if there is no devil, who's doing all the devilry in our country? Good thought. The devil's real. Satan is real. We believe the Bible, amen or not? I'm convinced this book is absolutely true. There's not a mistake, there's not an error in God's Word. Not one. And you cannot read this book. You cannot study God's Word and take it for what it says. And not come to the conclusion that there is a very real Satan. Jesus Believed there was a real Satan. In fact, he encountered him personally one-on-one The Bible presents Satan as real. Jesus dealt with a very real devil. And by the way, experience tells us. There's a devil. I've felt his presence. Now I don't know that I have ever dealt personally one-on-one with the devil himself. But I know that I've had to deal with his emissaries. I know that I've had to deal with his devils, fallen angels. I'm no doubt in my mind there have, and perhaps even now, who knows, are devils in our midst, perhaps even now. One of my prayers for our church and our church service is that God would hedge our church about when we assemble together and keep Satan at bay. That's why we will often will say, listen, please don't disturb the service. Try not to walk in and out and different things while the Word of God is being preached. Because that's something the devil can use to keep people from getting the message God wants them to have. Are you with me? And so we're fooling ourselves. We are setting ourselves up for defeat, to do for destruction. If we think that Satan is not real, he is real. Number two, I put this down: Satan is created being. He's created by God. He is not eternal. God made him. God is eternal from everlasting to everlasting. Thou art God. But not Satan. He was created. We don't have time to turn to all these references I have, but in Ezekiel chapter 28, verse 15 tells us that he was created by God. And someday he will answer to his Creator, just like all other created beings will. So Satan is created. He's created by God. He's not eternal. He is limited. I put this down. Number three, Satan was originally a holy angel. He held, he was one of the highest ranking angels in all the hosts of heaven. And there is a with the Bible seems to teach, or appears to be, A hierarchy among the angels created by God. Various angels have various responsibilities. There are three, I believe there are three highest ranking angels created by God. One is Gabriel, we read of him, and he is what we call the messenger angel. Every time we read of Gabriel, he's delivering a message. He's communicating something. Another probably equal in authority, I believe, is Michael, the archangel. Michael is, we refer to Michael the angel, as a warrior angel. Every time you find Michael, he is doing battle, usually with Satan. And then there was a third high-ranking angel. And if I understand scripture correctly, my understanding of scripture, he was co-equal With Michael and Gabriel, his name was Lucifer. That's Satan. That's Satan. He was created by God He's not eternal. He's limited. He was originally a high-ranking angel. I put this down. He fell by pride. Again, I wish we had time to look at all these references, but Isaiah chapter 14, verse 14 references Lucifer's fall. Jesus made reference. He said, I saw Satan the uh fall as an as lightning from heaven. In Isaiah chapter 14, we have the most detailed account of his fall, although we're not given a lot of information. But we see very clearly in Isaiah 14 that the fall of Satan was his pride. Five times he says, I will be like the Most High God. I will sit on the throne of the north. I will, I will, I will. God's one of his highest ranking angels In rebellion against God, he raised his fist in pride and fell. Jesus said, He that exalteth himself shall be abased. And the consequence of his rebellion against God was his fall from his position. His fall from his position. I will, I will. Now it's interesting. Again, I wish we had more time. It's interesting. He doesn't say I want to eliminate God. He doesn't say I want to do away with God. He said, I want to be like God. I want to have the authority that God has. I want to be able to make the decisions of what I do and what I don't do. God will not tell me what to do. I want to be like him. And by the way, you and I have inherited that same pride that Satan displayed. You know, our problem with God isn't God's existence Our problem is we just want to be like God. I want to have the authority in my life. I want my will to be done, whether it's God's will or not. I want to do what I want to do. I want to call the shots I want to call. Satan fell by pride. I will, I will, I will, I will. I think possibly his fall, again, this is speculation on my part. But I think possibly the cause of that pride and that rebellion was perhaps the creation of man. When he saw man had dominion over all things, when he saw man was in the image of God. And I suspect That on the part of Lucifer there was a jealousy and envy. In Psalms, there's a statement. Now it's not directly attributed to Satan, but I wonder Where he says, What is man? That thou art mindful of him. Someday man will be placed over angels, we're told in the New Testament, will have dominion over the angels. And I just wonder if Satan rebelled against that. Nobody will rule over me. Nobody will tell me what to do. And so he fell by pride. Listen, we need to be informed of who this enemy of our soul is. We need to be informed who this enemy that wants us damned and destroyed, that hates us, that hates our God, our Savior. He fell by pride. When he fell, there were many angels that rebelled with him. There now we refer to them as devils. Oh, by the way, this is a little Bible trivia. Find the word demon in the Bible. Others, demons, demons, it's not in there. They're always called devils. They're always called devils because They operate like the devil himself. And so there's many angels fell. A third of the angels, we understand, fell in rebellion against God when Satan did. Perhaps out of envy and hatred towards mankind. Satan is referred to by various names and titles all through the Bible We mentioned Lucifer. That I believe was his original name before he fell. It's interesting, the word Lucifer means light bearer. The one that bears light brings light. How ironic, how ironic That the angel Lucifer, the light bearer, the one that brings light in pride, fell, and now he's the Prince of Darkness. He lost it. He lost it all. He's referred to as Lucifer. He's referred to again as Satan, we saw in our text. The word Satan means adversary. The enemy of God, the enemy of man, the enemy of our souls. He's referred to, again, we've used this term as the devil. The word devil means slanderer, accuser, accusing God. That's exactly what he did in the Garden of Eden. When he approached Eve in the form of a serpent, he says, Yea, hath God said, Oh, God knows if you eat of that, you'll be just like him. That's exactly what Satan was wanting. You know what he's doing? He is accusing God of being unjust. He was accusing God of being unfair. He was accusing God of not treating them right. Oh, he's not treating you right. I'm here to tell you the devil's a liar. He's a liar. Sad thing is, a lot of people believe his lies. Believe them. So the word devil means adversary, enemy He's referred to in the New Testament particularly as the God of this world, the God of this society. Now, the world doesn't necessarily worship Satan in the form of Satanism, some do. But Satan, as the God of this world, is very effective at getting the world to worship anything but the true and living God. Houses and homes and pleasure and sports and money. He's the God of this world. He's referred to as that great serpent. There's one term he's used about the devil on occasion, it's Beelzebub. How many people have ever heard that term? Beelzebub. It means the Prince of Devils. The Prince of Devils. Satan's real. Very real. He's uh created by God. He's a fallen angel because of pride and rebellion against God. It's referred to about with a lot of ugly names. Ugly names. And I said made this statement a moment ago, but I'll repeat it. He's a liar. Jesus said, speaking to the Pharisees who were unsaved, he says, You're of their father the devil And he says he was a murderer from the beginning. He says he is a liar and the father of lies. He's a liar. He may speak the truth on occasion. You find him in Matthew 4, Jesus encounters Satan. And there's this temptation going on. There's this back of fo back and forth. And they're using the Word of God. Jesus says it is written. But if we had time, we could go there and look. If you notice carefully Satan responds in his second temptation. He says, it is written. Satan quotes Scripture to Jesus Christ, the Word of God. I want to suggest to you, Satan knows the Bible better than you and I do. Satan is a master at twisting scripture. And making evil look good, and good look evil, and God bad, and the devil good He's a liar. The father of it. He may speak the truth on occasion, but when he speaks the truth, the whole purpose of it is to deceive in the end. He's a liar. I put this down. He is alive and active in our world. He's not defeated. Not now, I mean ultimately he will be. He's not on the run. He's not low on ammunition. Listen to what Peter says in 1 Peter 5, verse 8. He says, Be sober, be vigilant. In other words, don't play. Take this seriously. Be sober, be vigilant, for your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, listen, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Satan is very very well and very active on planet Earth And he is actively seeking to destroy you and I, our testimony in this world. He's trying to destroy the blessings of God in our life. He's trying to Violate our relationship with our God. He is trying to devour you and I If you're listening to me or here or you're online, and you never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I tell you what Satan's number one priority in your life is, it's to keep you lost Keep you from coming to Christ. And He'll put every doubt, He'll put every thought, He'll put every obstacle in your way to keep you from trusting Jesus Christ as Savior. I told you last week how it played out for me the night I got saved. I'm telling you that is as that is as real He's alive and well on planet Earth. He is not in hell right now Well, the devil's down in hell. No, he isn't. He's gone to and fro on this planet. To and fro. Devouring, destroying, destroying homes, destroying marriages. Destroying little children, their innocency and their purity, hurting, killing He's not in hell. By the way, the devil doesn't take vacation. I like vacation. I think vacations are good. I think what we ought to do is everybody, the whole church take vacation the same time every year. That way we just get it over with and we can go on. How many people vote for that One. I'm not against vacation, I'm all for vacation, but I'm here to tell you Satan never takes a vacation. In fact My observation has been over many, many years, when we're on vacation is often when the Satan steps it up. Well we're on vacation, we don't go to church. Well we listen, I'm here to tell you, Satan doesn't take vacation. We ought to keep by the way, we ought to keep our walk with God the same on vacation as we are when we're not on vacation And I'm not picking you guys wrong pickies. I just realized I'm not picking on anybody pickies. That's the that's an occupational hazard right there. But he's uh he's very active, he's very real Satan is limited by God. Again, we don't have time. Job chapter 1 and 2 He could not do anything that God did not allow. Now, that doesn't mean God approves of everything Satan does, but God gives him leeway. But he cannot go beyond the will of God. He cannot go beyond the okay of God. He has access to God, but he's also accountable to God. He's limited. He's limited. I was in Indianapolis knocking on doors years ago when I was youth back in the late eighties. And we were in one big apartment, knocked on the door, a lady came, we got talking a little bit, I introduced myself and I asked her about her church and her a little bit about the Lord. Just started the conversation And she was very upset. She goes, Satan is wreaking havoc in my home. She said a few things that happened, and Satan and Satan and Satan, and Satan and Satan and Satan. And I said, ma'am, listen, I no doubt that's the case, but you need to understand that God is still Lord of all. And God can take whatever Satan does, and he can turn that around. And if you'll trust Him and you'll let God lead in your life, God can bring you out, and you can still have victory over that. What I'm trying to say is he doesn't get the last word. God is ultimately over Satan. And then I put this down. His destiny is a lake of fire. Revelation chapter 20, 21, that last chapters of Revelation, we find the ultimate destiny of Satan. I don't know about you, but they're singing about heaven a little bit, and I was listening on the radio this morning, 887. They were singing some songs of heaven. I tell you, isn't that going to be a wonderful day? Those of us that know Christ, we get to heaven, and no more sin. And no more sorrowing. No more suffering. One of the greatest things in my mind about being in heaven with the Lord is this old sinful nature is completely eradicated. And every thought and every motive and every desire is pure and holy and good and right. And Satan is completely removed from the equation. Now that's where I say amen. That's why I just about come unglued right there. His ultimate destiny is the lake of fire. So we need to know some things about our enemies, very real. I don't think we should obsess over him. This is the more I've preached about Satan in a long time. I don't like to give him attention. I don't like to focus on him. I don't like to obs I don't want to obsess over him. But We need to be informed about him, amen or not. We need to understand he is real and what he is and what he's capable of and what his tactics are. We can talk about that So number one, I need to have some assurance that I'm saved, that I'm okay with God. Number two, I need to have assurance in the power of that book that I can have victory over Satan. I need to have assurance that I'm yield it to the Lord and submit it to him. I'm resisting him. And then I need to be informed of exactly who this guy is and what he's capable of and where he came from and what his destiny is. And I can deal with them uh more effectively if I have some information about them. And then last of all I am with this, I need to be active. I need to be active. A lazy, negligent, unengaged Christian is a sitting duck for the devil's destruction. I need to be engaged. I need to be active. I need to be diligent. I put three areas real quickly where I need to be active. Number one, I need to Pray earnestly and persistently. As a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, someone born again into the family of God, God is my father now. And in prayer, I have direct access to God my Father because of what Jesus Christ did on that cross, the blood he shed to me. makes it possible for me to enter into the very throne room of God, the creator of all. I have direct access to God. And I need to be active and diligent and earnest in my prayers. Again, I wish we had time, but Mark chapter 14, verse 38, Jesus is in the Garden of Gethsemane, is about to be betrayed. beaten and crucified and he's praying and he calls his disciples over and he tells them to pray with me. And then he steps off away himself and he gets off by himself and he's praying And the other disciples are over there, Peter and John and James, I think, the three fellows, they're over there praying, Jesus praying, sweating as it were, great drops of blood. He says, Father, if it be possible Let this cup pass from me. Nevertheless, not my will, thy will be done. And he comes back, and these three guys, what are they doing? They fell asleep. And the Lord does again. He comes back. They're asleep. And he makes a statement. Again, I wish we had time in Mark. He says, He says, pray. He says, um That lest he said, pray, lest ye enter into temptation The clear implication there is if I don't pray, I'm vulnerable to temptation. I'm vulnerable to temptation. Pray lest ye enter into temptation. Peter didn't pray. Ends up denying the Lord. Huh? The others didn't pray. They fell asleep. They didn't pray. Now, here's the interesting thing. Those same fellows could stay up all night fishing. But they couldn't stay up and pray for one hour. You know what? They didn't see the earnestness. They didn't see how important prayer is in the life of a disciple of Jesus Christ. Uh they lost interest, fell asleep. Sometimes people fall asleep not because what they're involved in is boring, but because they're not interested They fell asleep. Pray, lest ye enter into temptation. I'm telling you, a prayerless Christian is a vulnerable Christian in the assaults and attacks and temptations of the devil. Absolutely. Pray. In uh Mark chapter 9, verse 29, that father brought his son who was possessed of a devil. And that devil would take that little boy and cast him in a fire and try and destroy him physically. And the father was heartbroken. He was so burdened for his child. And he came to the disciples and he sought them and said, Can you please do something? Get this devil out of my son. Help my son. And the disciples were powerless. They can do nothing against that devil that was destroying this little boy and breaking his father's heart. Finally, Jesus came down off the mountain. They brought him over. And he said, I came to the disciples, they couldn't help. Jesus spoke a word, and the devil was cast out, and the boy was made whole. And later on, the disciples came and they asked Jesus, said, Why couldn't we do that? Why could we not cast him out? Why could we not bruise That devil that was hurting that boy. And Jesus said, This time cometh forth not but by prayer and fasting. It is vitally important, please hear me. It is vitally important that you and I as Christians, whether we're young teens Or we're senior citizens or all points in between. That little children downstairs. It's vitally important that we learn to pray. And pray earnestly, persistently, stay at it, and stay at it, and stay at it. Direct line to God. James said this: the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. It's a great victory in the life of one who learns to pray. Let me urge you, as a pastor, let me urge you, and I'm preaching it myself, learn to pray personally yourself. Establish a consistent, earnest prayer time. Say, preacher, I just don't have time to pray. Well then you're a sitting duck. You need to make you need to make victory in your s you need to make your spiritual well-being And your relationship with God a higher priority in your life if you don't have time to pray So pray. As an individual, personal believer, I need to learn to pray. Sometimes I can I I just told my wife a couple weeks ago, I said, now I've got to be careful because I don't want to be judgmental. I really don't But sometimes I told her, I said, I can just kind of tell if somebody's not having their devotions or not. You can just kind of tell. Not always, but sometimes. I said, I'll bet you they're not having daily devotions. In my counseling, I'm not the world's greatest counselor, but people come and say, preacher, I need help, I got this situation, da-da-da One of my first questions is often one of my first questions is, are you having daily devotions? Anybody want to guess what almost 100% of the time the answer is? No, I'm not, preacher. I'm not. I'm not. You need to establish a prayer time. I'm talking to believers. You're not saved, you need to get saved. You are saved. You need established. By the way, you ought to have family prayer time. I don't know about you, but I don't want the devil getting my home. I don't want the devil in my family. There ought to be a time when every believing family gathers together and reads some scripture and prays together. They used to call it the family altar time. I'm telling you, the devil's wreaking havoc in our marriages, in our homes, in our children. I think one of the reasons is we've abandoned that family altar. Praying as a family, praying for the presence of God to anoint our homes and protect our hearts of our children, protect the integrity of our homes. And by the way, we need to pray as a church. I don't want the devil in Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. And that's why we have Wednesday prayer meetings. That's why we have prayer with our Sunday school teachers before they teach. We need victory. We need defense. That's why we have men's prayer meetings Sunday nights at 6. 30 before the evening service. Get together and pray. That's why we have ladies' prayer luncheon. That's why we have men's prayer breakfast. That's why we have Saturday night prayer. Last night, man at the altar, praying, seeking God, his power, his presence. We need to be active. We need to be earnest and fervent in our prayers. Number two, we need to live a pure life. We need to live a pure life. Proverbs 11, 6 says, the righteousness of the upright, deliver them, deliver them from Satan's influence. Proverbs 13:6. Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way. Doesn't let the devil derail him. Living right, living pure. Do right. The poem, Sir Galahad. He makes this statement. It's a poem, but he makes this statement: my strength is as the strength of ten. Because my heart is pure. Heart is pure. David prayed this prayer. Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit within me. You know what David was saying, saying, I gotta live right. I gotta do right. I gotta be pure, my heart and my mind, my actions, my words. I gotta do right. This world mocks Lou and right. They say, ah, you little sissy, do right. Oh, you're straight. I'll tell you what, there's power in purity. And there's defeat and debauchery and wickedness. We need to live pure. Churches are making grave mistakes. By mimicking the world and bringing the world's ideas and methods and pleasures and entertainment into the church, they're making a grave mistake. We've got to be pure. Live pure. Create in me a clean heart. Live by the Bible. And then, last of all, we need to preach the gospel. Matthew 16, 18 says, the gates of hell cannot stand against the church. And the implication is the church preaching the gospel of Jesus Christ. God bruises Satan through us. I can't defeat Satan. Listen, you can't. He's more powerful than any one of us. He's smarter. He's more uh What's the word I want? He's more devious. He's subtle. We'll fall for him every time. We need the Lord. You pray and trust God and do right and then get out and preach the gospel. Preach the gospel. I tell you, the testimonies of people who were delivered From the influence of Satan by the preaching of the name of Jesus Christ, you could write volumes The power of the gospel. Paul said, I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation, saved from hell, saved from Satan's influence. A home in heaven. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, this is not a subject I appreciate I enjoy. But God, we need you to help us to know what is true, what we're dealing with. And I pray you would help us as a church. I pray for the homes that make up our church. Pray for the marriages, the children in those homes. I pray for individual believers. You would help us to bruise Satan, that through us you would bruise Satan. That his influence would be held at bay. We can live lives that please you and glorify the Lord Jesus Christ. I wonder, with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder if someone says, preacher, God spoke to my heart this morning. There's some areas in my Christian life that really need attention. You say, I gotta take this seriously. I need I need to make some adjustments. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand. Now I don't know what that may be specifically. It may be that personal Prayer and devotions, maybe it's family altar, maybe it's doing right, maybe there's some sin in your life, in your home that's needs to be addressed. I don't know. Preaching the gospel, you need to get him up. But I do say this, why don't you just dedicate your life to Christ this morning? Why don't you just come dedicate your home to the Lord Jesus Christ? Let's serve him. There's some here this morning say, preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I don't want to go to hell. I do not want to go to hell. I want to know that God has forgiven me and that I have a home in heaven someday. And you'd say, Preacher, pray with me, that God will help me get that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. God will help me get that settled. Any at all? Father, I pray you bless now our invitation time, this altar call. I pray you'd move and help us to step out and make good decisions for you in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together.