Zechariah chapter number eleven. While you're turning there, we don't have a business meeting this month this month, but I do have Finance report for the month of June. And so if anybody's interested in that, we have these available afterward. Let me know. We'll be glad to get that to you. Do you know why the uh blonde went up on the roof? They said the drinks were on the house, and so she went up on the roof. Can you know how you can tell if a blonde has been on the computer? There's white out on the screen And uh she's doing that. Do you know why the blonde kept going out to the mailbox? Her computer kept saying, You've got mail. And uh so They were pretty good, weren't they? Those were good ones. Zechariah 11, I'm going to begin reading in verse number six. And uh read down through verse 14. We actually began this message, I believe, last week and we'll finish it up tonight. For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, saith the Lord. But lo, I will deliver the man, the men, every one, into his neighbor's hand, into the hand of this king, and they shall smite the land, and out of their land will I not deliver them. And I will feed the flock of slaughter, even you, O poor of the flock. I took and I took unto me two staves, the one called beauty, and the other I called Bans, and I fed the flock. Three shepherds also I cut off in one month, and my soul loathed them, and their soul also abhorred me. Then said I, I will not feed you. That that dieth, let it die. That that is to be cut off, let it be cut off. And let the rest eat every one of the flesh of another. And I took my staff, even beauty, and cut it asunder, that I might break my covenant which I had made with all the people. And I was it was broken in that day, and so the poor of the flock that waited upon me knew that it was the word of the Lord And I said unto them, if ye think good, give me my price, and if not, forbear. So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver. And the Lord said unto me, Cast it unto the potter a goodly price that I was prized of them, and I took the thirty pieces of silver and cast them to the potter in the house of the Lord Then I cut asunder mine other staff, even bands, that I might break the brotherhood between Judah and Israel. I called it beauty and bands. There's three things listed here. We looked at the first one last week. That is uh two staves. Then we notice there are three shepherds, and then there are thirty pieces of silver. Let's pray. I'll briefly review what we did last week and then present the other two. I think the monitors are a little strong for me, Dave, if you turn them down just a bit. Father in heaven, we ask now that you would bless our study of your word. I pray that your Holy Spirit would be our teacher Lord, this uh at least to our minds, Father, this is somewhat of an obscure passage. And I pray that you would help me to be faithful to your word And be correct in the interpretation and the application here. So fill me with your spirit, I pray, Holy Spirit, and I yield my body and my will to yours, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. Beauty and bands are mentioned here. Now I want to begin, and I know we touched on this some time ago, but I want to begin on this with this note. Whenever we're studying prophecy, and that's what most of the book of Zechariah is, is prophecy. In fact, it's one of the uh Old Testament books that have the most references to Israel's coming Messiah more than almost any other book of the Bible, at least for its size. But when you study prophecy, if you'll remember We said a lot of times in the Old Testament, these prophets, under the inspiration of God, would make reference to future events. But they would not necessarily distinguish between the distances of time between those events. And sometimes they would make reference to the first coming of Christ, and the second coming of Christ would be just in one small phrase, but those two events are separated by thousands of years. And sometimes you miss that if you don't study Scripture correctly and take it in context. Now there's another thing that you're going to find, and we're finding it here in Zechariah. God will make reference in his messages to future events, but he will not always present them in chronological order. Sometimes he will make reference in a verse to the tribulation period. Then the very next verse it'll jump to the millennium. Then perhaps the very next verse it'll all come all the way back to the first coming of Christ. And he'll make these references to the coming Messiah, but not necessarily, as I said, in chronological order, they're jumped around. That's what we're going to find here. Alright? So it's very important when we're understanding Scripture. We found here, first of all, that he makes reference to two stabs. We saw that in verse 7 and 10 through 14. One was called beauty. And the other was uh bands, and we talked about that. Now I want to get to verse eight. It's does it seem very loud? It seems really loud to me up here. If you can maybe does it sound okay down there? All right. Maybe my hearing is Improving. Look at verse 8. Alright, he made reference to the two stabs there in verse 7. One called beauty, the other called bands, and we discussed that. Now look at verse 8 Three shepherds also I cut off in one month, and my soul loathed them, and their soul also abhorred me. So these three shepherds we find The Lord loathed them. Now, what does it mean if somebody loathes something? They hate it, they despise it, they don't like it. So the Lord, whoever these three shepherds are, the Lord does not think very highly of them. In fact, he has strong negative feelings towards them. But look what their attitude is towards the Lord. I loathe, and uh he says, uh I and my soul loathed them, that's the Lord speaking through Zechariah, and their soul also abhorred me. Now that word abhorred is very similar to the word loath. It means to despise something. It means almost to make me sick. And so there was To put it mildly, there is ill feelings toward between the Lord and these shepherds. Now the question is, who in the world are these three shepherds that God loathes and they abhor him? Well, I've got my books out and studied my commentaries. Some people suggest, some Bible scholars suggest, that these are Gentile kings and Gentile nations And uh the animosity between the Lord and his people and the Gentiles. I don't think that's correct. If you'll take your Bible and study, and throughout the Bible, references to shepherds when it's figurative. God never refers to Gentile kings as shepherds of his people. He never does that. The only people in the Bible that God refers to with the term shepherds. As again, in a figurative sense, it always refers to men or perhaps a group of men that provide for and protect The people of God. And so, when he makes reference to these shepherds that he loathes, and these shepherds that abhor the Lord, I believe we're on the right track when we say these are Leaders in Israel, leaders of God's people, whose responsibility is to provide spiritually for the people of Israel and to protect them from false worship, false gods. Now, why is there three of them? I believe, and studying and looking what suggestions were convinced me that this is making reference to three classes of spiritual leadership. Are my collars sticking up in the air? Man, they keep feeling like they're sticking up in the air. Um three classes of spiritual leaders um uh and that that despise the Lord. Now keep your place here if you would. How many folks brought your Bible with you? Got your Bible with you tonight? All right, about half the crowd. Good. Turn with me, if you would, to Matthew chapter 26. Actually, more than half the crowd had their Bible. Matthew chapter 26 And I want to read verse 3 and 4. Let me ask you a question while they're turning there. How did the spiritual leaders of Israel and the Lord Jesus Christ get along? They didn't at all. There was animosity between the two. In fact, you get the impression that the spiritual leaders of Israel, when Jesus was on earth, they abhorred the Lord. You get that impression. Look at Matthew 26 and verse 3. Notice what the Bible says. It says, then assembled together, look at this, the chief priests, that's one. The scribes, that's two, and the elders of the people, three. Here are three classes of shepherds The chief priests, the scribes, and the elders. Now the chief priests were the ones who were to provide the services of the temple. A priest, for the most part, stands before God on behalf of the people and represents the people to the Lord. They take care of that. They provide spiritual leadership to Israel. The scribes, who can tell me what's a scribe? What were the scribes' responsibility? Was it? Okay, yeah that but they were considered spiritual lawyers in a sense. And they would they would copy it over, but they were responsible for determining what the law was and how it was to be carried out. They're the ones that came up with what you could and could not do on a set on a Sabbath and all that type of stuff And so they were spiritual leaders. They were shepherds, so to speak. And then the elders were folks who were to provide, help the people implement the law and the word of God into their daily lives. Much perhaps like a pastor would be in the New Testament church, but they were spiritual leaders. So we can say that the scribes, elders, and priests were shepherds Now notice their relationship with the Lord. Let's read on. Scribes and the elders of the people assembled together unto the palace of the high priest who was called Caiaphas. And they all got together and talked about how great the Lord Jesus Christ was. Wrong. Look at verse 4. And consulted that they might take Jesus by what? Subtlety, I mean they're going to trick trickery and kill him. I put in the margin of my Bible, murder. Anytime you secretly, subtly take someone and kill them, you're talking about murder. This is not punishment of a crime. This is not capital punishment. This is flat-out murder. These shepherds, quote-unquote, despise the Lord. They hated him. Jealousy, pride, all of that was a factor in it. Now come back to Zechariah. He is making reference here, and it's introducing verses 12 and 13. He's introducing these three shepherds, spiritual leaders of Israel. Who absolutely despise the Lord, and the Lord says, I've had it with you, and uh uh He's describing this animosity between them. We saw it there, my soul loathed them, and their soul also abhorred me. Now, notice what he says here in the first part of verse 8. Three shepherds also I cut off in one month. Now what does it mean he cut them off in one month? What's this one month thing? I studied, uh I studied the Hebrew and all my vast years of experience in studying scriptures and uh my extensive Bible college education I have no idea what he means by that. And I haven't found anybody that had a good explanation what the month means. So I I don't know. I'm uncertain what that means. There's several suggestions. They didn't really make sense to me, but I do know this. When the Jews rejected Jesus Christ, and question, how many folks are glad you came to church tonight? Everybody okay? Good. By the way, we got a party afterwards, so hang in there. When Jesus was rejected by the Jews, now think with me. Who was it primarily that rejected the Lord? Who was the ones what? Yeah, the leadership. Right? The Bible says in one of the Gospels, the common people heard him what? Gladly. The everyday folks loved him. They had no problem with the Lord Jesus. In fact, by the multitudes, they believed on him. But the shepherds They they did. And for various reasons, I already touched on it. If we read through the Gospels, they were very jealous of Jesus' popularity. They were very proud. They loved the uppermost seats and they loved putting on this show and exercising all this authority and all this power. Of course, they didn't live up to themselves, but they sure loved all that. And Jesus exposed them. And he rebuked them, and he was taking what they were teaching, the superficial, external, ritualistic Christianity. And he was completely undercutting that and presenting a heart relationship with the Lord. And these shepherds hated it And when Jesus Christ was rejected, crucified, set in A. D. 70, about 40 years after the crucifixion of Jesus, the Romans came into Jerusalem and slaughtered that city. I mean men, women, children. We talked about this in the previous message. And the Romans absolutely wiped out. And do you know, from that point on, Israel has not had any scribes. They have not had any priests, and they have not had any elders. Those three classes of shepherds Were removed. Done. Now they'll have little synagogues here and there, but as far as an organized nationwide priests, elders, and scribes, they're not there. And the Lord completely removed them. Look what he says. Also I cut off in one month these shepherds. He did away with them. And they're done. So Jewish leadership was broken up, and the nation since 70 AD has been without spiritual leadership. I mean as a nation They have not had spiritual leadership. Now I got thinking about that. What if I mean, what if we would remove the influence of the scribes The priests and the elders and the Pharisees fall into those categories. What if their influence would have been removed when Jesus came and presented himself to Israel? Do you think Israel as a nation would have received the Lord Jesus Christ? I think they would have. I think it is the shepherds, quote-unquote, that led Israel to reject Jesus, their Messiah. It was these things, and thus it explains why the Lord would say, I loathe these people. I gave my son. To be the Savior and these people rejected him. They led the nation to reject their Messiah and crucified him. Remember when Jesus gave the parable that he had a husbandment, a guy had a farm and he hired people to come in and take care of it, and he went on a far journey. And while he was gone, he sent some uh folks there to check how he was gone and they killed them. Remember that? And they treat him bad. Then finally he says, I know, I'll send my son Surely they'll reverence my son, and so he sent us on in this parable the o the farmer sent us on, and what'd they do to the son They killed the son. They said, Oh, now we've got the inheritance. And Jesus asked this question to the Pharisees. He says, What do you think that, and I'm putting this in the Dennis Leatherman version, what do you think that the that husband and that farmer will do to those people who killed his son? And the answer was what? He said, he will miserably destroy them. And so I think we have a picture of that here. Jesus' attitude towards that. Now, if it had not been for the pride and jealousy of the spiritual leadership, I think Israel would have accepted their Messiah. Remember when Jesus entered into Jerusalem with a triumphal injury on the little donkey? And uh what was everybody doing? All the people, what were they doing? Yeah, putting blankets and palm leaves and glory to God in the highest. So blessed is he that cometh the Son of David. And the how many people think Pharisees were in on that No. That was all the cum people. It was a whole week those Pharisees got everybody worked up and got them a week later crying. Crucify him, crucify him, crucify him. You know what that tells me? That tells me the importance of right leadership. It was the spiritual shepherds that led Israel astray. You know when a church goes bad, I would venture to say 99, if not 100% of the time, it is because the leadership leads it bad. It starts at the top. Amen? Churches go liberal? It's because the leadership goes liberal. Not because the people accused. I found that for the most part, you get a liberal church. Most of the people in the pews are more true to the Word of God than the leadership is. Common people don't have a problem with the Bible. It's the leadership. And so there's several applications there. One, you've got to have had godly leadership. And number two, that tells me this: if a person is in a church that is liberal, you can't change it from the bottom down. I got a guy right now, another party. He's not part of the church. I don't need to live around here. Never asked. But he keeps calling me, he knows me, calls me up, and he gets in these churches and and he's a good guy. I mean he's solid. I told him he ought to move up here And he gets these churches, he won in a long time, and I told him years ago, I said, You ought to get out of that thing. He says, Yeah, but I think the Lord wants me here to change this. I said, You are not going to change it. It has to start from the leadership. And after about six years of total frustration and aggravation, he finally left back and just emailed me today checking out some other churches asking, wanted my input. And so these three shepherds, I still I told him, you ought to move up here. I know it was a good church in Oakland, Maryland. So, anyways, if it had not been for the spiritual leadership, and then look at verse 9 Boy, if this doesn't make your hair stone on end, if you have any, look what it says. Then said I, I will not feed you. That that dieth, let it die, and that that is to be cut off, let it be cut off, and let the rest eat every one the flesh of another. What's the Lord saying here? He's saying, I'm done with you. He's talking to the nation of Israel, I'm done with you. My patience, my dealing with you has run out. Now God has not God has not God is not finished with Israel, right? But he says, I'm done working with you, I'm setting you aside, and now the church age has been established. So let me look lastly, real quick, and this is familiar, the thirty pieces of silver. We had the two staves. We had the three shepherds. Now he makes reference to thirty pieces of silver. And we all know immediately where that what this is talking about. But let me read it. Verse 12. And I said unto them. There's the Lord speaking through Zechariah. Give me my price. And if not, forbear. So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver. And the Lord said unto me, Cast it unto the potter. A goodly price that I was prized at them. And I took the 30 pieces of silver and cast them to the potter in the house of the Lord. What's happening here? I think in verse number 12, by implication, it is telling us that the Lord's service as Israel's shepherd is coming to an end. When you're done your work week, what do you expect from your employer? My wages. I worked all week. Now gimme my price. Give me my wages, what I earn. Give me um and uh um I was thinking of one of the boys Would cut grass sometimes for people and he would say this or he'd go oh what it was this one year we're shoveling snow uh it snowed and um sometimes it'll snow in the winters around here and um The boys were out one time, and I think it was Sam and somebody, and rather than charging people money to shovel out their driveway, he would say this, I'll shove it out, you give me what you think I'm worth You give me what I think it's worth. You know what? He made more money doing that than he did if he had a charged money. You know? And so that I believe is what the Lord is saying here. He says in verse 9, I'm done with you. You want to die, go on. You want to direct me, go on. I'm done with my patience has run out. I'm no longer. Then in verse number uh here where we're at, verse 12, he says, all right My function as your shepherd, this is Jehovah talking to Israel. My function as your shepherd is finished. Now you give me what you think I'm worth. Give me my wages. So he's asking for his price, his wages. Now it's interesting. What do you think What do you think the Lord would like to receive for all that he did for Israel? Sparing them, providing them, providing mercy for them, forgiving them over and over and over, working in them, then offering his own son to be their Savior, to die for their sins All of that, what do you think the Lord would like to have in return for all that he did for Israel? Well, what did he say, what did Jesus say the first and greatest command is? Love the Lord thy God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. And the second is like unto it, love thy neighbor as thyself. Within this is fulfilled all the law. What did the Lord want from Israel for all he gave them and all he did for them? What did he want back from? What did he want from Christ? He wanted Israel to love them He wanted Israel to trust him and obey him and let him be their shepherd. He says, give me my price. And we know from other scripture, that is what the Lord wants from his people. It reminds me of Romans chapter 12, verse 1 and 2. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, because in all that God has done for you, Jesus Christ suffered hell. He forgave us, He provides for us, He shows us mercy every morning. It's new. Over and over and over. He does so much for us. I beseech you, I beseech you, by the mercies of God. Present your body a living sacrifice. Just love me. Give yourself to me. Trust me. Follow my leadership. Let me be your Lord and let me be your God. Now the interesting thing is here, God could have made them love him. Right? God could have pro God's God. He could have just programmed into them. They have no choice. We love Jehovah. We'll do everything he says. But God doesn't want that. By the way, that's what Calvinism is. We have no choice. We're just preordained everything we do. I see in this passage, verse 12 and 13, I believe, I see in here free will. The Lord's saying, I want you to choose. I want you to give me what you think I'm worth. I want you to give back to me all that I've done for you. He's talking to Israel. I want you to give me what I'm worth. And here's the thing that just blows your mind. Notice what Israel offers. And I said unto them, if ye think good, if I've done anything for you at all, if I've done you any good at all, you name the price. You just give me my price. If not, then just forget it. And so they weighed my price. Now Israel says, Israel doesn't just walk away, now we're not giving you nothing. They said, oh yeah, we'll give you something. We'll give you 30 pieces of silver. Now that may not mean much to you and I, but if we would look, if we take the time and go to Exodus chapter 21, verse 32, you know what we find there? We find that 30 pieces of silver was what the law required if I had a slave, and that slave was gored to death by an ox. The guy whose ox it was was required to give me 30 pieces of silver to replace the slave. And so what Israel was saying to God, what God is saying, and then it's fulfilled, of course, when Jesus was rejected there, and uh with Judas and all of that took place, the 30 pieces of silver, it was a fulfillment of this. What Israel was saying is, you're nothing more than a dead slave to us. This was, I believe this was a greater insult to the Lord than if they'd have just walked away. Then if they just not done anything, like he said, listen, give me what I'm worth if not forbear. And they say, Oh yeah, we'll give you what you're worth. Here, you're worth the dead slave. An insult. Now I know Christians say, you know, I I would never do that. Surely nobody would ever do that. I want to tell you that's taken place all the time. Christians, people who will realize how badly they've sinned against God, and realize all that God has done in forgiving my sin completely completely forgiving my sin, giving a new life, blessing me with Christian family, Christian friends, and and uh all this God gives me so much. And then I just throw a little bit of Token Christianity back to God. Show up at church a little bit, but I ain't living for God. I'm doing my thing. You know what that is? Throwing 30 pieces of silver to God. Just insulting him. I'm telling you, Paul said, when we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, Paul said it's going to be a terror. When we stand there and realize what God has done for us and the penly life we gave back to Him, the disobedience, the self-will, the unbelief, the rebellion. We're going to realize we did nothing but insult God. Romans 12:1. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God that you present your body, a living sacrifice. 30 pieces of silver was a compensation for a dead slave. And what an insult to God. Then he says, and this kind of threw me a little bit, he says. Verse 13, he says, The Lord said unto me, cast it unto the potter, a goodly price that I was prized at them. A little bit of sarcasm there, I believe And I took the 30 pieces of silver and cast them to the potter in the house of the Lord. Now I thought, what does throwing it to the potter mean? What's the significance of that? I got looking up Potters and their role in this time in Israel's history, and I found this, and this was surprising to me according to some of the research I did A potter was considered a very lowly office. And the reason being there was potters all over. Anybody get a little thing and they just put pottery together, set it out in the sun, it would break very easily, they'd just make another one. And when he's talking about throwing it to the potter and the field there, he talks about that. It's talking about just throw it out with the old broken pottery. The old stuff you don't use anymore. 30 pieces of silver, all I did for you? And you give me 30 pieces of silver? And it reminds me of Corinthians, where it says, we stand before the Lord and we give an account of ourselves, and it was wood, hay, and stubble. Valueless. All that God has done for us, and so little we do back, just throw it to the potter fields. Just wood hand stones, just old broken shards. Listen, the Lord deserves our best. God expected from Israel that they would love him. that they would appreciate all that he'd done for them. They would trust him and obey him. And they insulted him By rejecting his son, and then of all things, 30 pieces of silver to Judas to portray him. How sad. Let's learn from Israel. Let's stop and appreciate all that God is. How many folks here you're saved, you know it? Say amen. If we're saved, we owe God everything we are. There's going to come a day when we're going to be in the presence of God. Those of us who are saved are going to be in the presence of God and we're going to look back. And I wonder how we're going to view our lives we live for the Lord. Wonder how we'll look we stand before God. Let's not offer him 30 pieces of silver. Let's offer him our heart. You know, in Proverbs he says, My son, give me thine heart. God wants us to love them, trust them, obey them. Father, bless now our study of your word. Help us, Lord. To, in our feeble minds, our limited way, to appreciate what you've done for us. And Lord, help us to offer back. The very best we have, to give you our heart, our bodies, our minds, and love you with all of it. Trust you and obey you. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, You know, I really need to be more grateful to God for all he's done for me. I mean, I'm grateful. But I really need to take this seriously. And I really need to diligently consider what my life means to the Lord and how I'm living for him. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray. God bless you, hands all around. The Spirit of God touches our hearts and says, you know, what do you give me for all I've done for you? What am I worth to you? And we say, Lord, you're worth everything to me. everything to me. I want you to have all of me, not just leftovers. I want you to have all of me. Father, bless our invitation now. Help us, we pray In Jesus' name. Let's stand together, our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's going to play a few verse of invitation. Maybe the Lord spoke to your heart tonight and you just want to maybe it's nothing more than this. Just