I'm going to read down through verse 29. But when we get to verse 28, I would like for us to read verse 28 together in unison So if you find that place there, I'll be, as I said, I'll start reading at 25. When I get to verse 28, I'll stop, take note, we'll read that verse together, and then I'll finish up reading verse number 29. Alright, do you have it there? Here we go. Wherefore I am made a minister according to the dispensation of God, which is given to me for you, to fulfill the word of God. Even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations but now is made manifest to his saints To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles, which is Christ in you The hope of glory. Now, let's read verse 28 together. Ready? Here we go. Whom we preach, warning every man and teaching every man in all wisdom that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. Verse 29 goes on and says, Whereunto I also labor, striving according to this working Now I want to read one other parallel passage, and uh let me just read it from Hebrews and chapter number six, and uh you don't need to turn there. But it says this. Now remember in verse 28. It said that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. Hebrews 6, verse 1 says this. Therefore, leaving the principles of the doctrines of Christ Let us go on unto perfection. You better listen to me this morning. Thank you, Lord. He's got my back. I want to speak to you this morning on how to be perfect. Verse 28, Colossians 1 says, present every man perfect in Christ Jesus. Hebrews 6:1 says, go on to perfection. How to be perfect? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our study of your word. I thank you again, Lord. Just my heart is stirred by these little children. They just put a smile on my face, Lord. They just Stir my heart to think what you can do and how you could use them around the world preaching the gospel and starting churches and Use them to share the word of God, that drunkards become sober and sinners become saints. And God, what do you can do through these kids' lives? Help us to see their value. God, help us to see the importance of church and what we're about. And I ask, Lord, that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit. And just, Lord, help me just in a few minutes to share some thoughts and challenge us. I pray your Holy Spirit would challenge us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. These verses I just read from Colossians, then in Hebrews, it tells us that it's God's will. That every person be perfect when they stand before the Lord at judgment. And I always feel it's important to put this out. Every one of us will stand before the Lord at judgment. That's going to happen. Regardless of what the world says, regardless of what Bible deniers say, that is going to happen. If there's anything clear in scripture, it's this that every man must give account on themselves to God at the judgment. Now it's God's will that every one of us, when that day comes and we stand before the Lord, that we be perfect in Christ Jesus. Colossians 128, if I understand it correctly, I believe I do, and I've got thunder to prove it God has given to every local church, our church and other churches, God has given to the local church a tremendous responsibility To warn every man and to teach every man so that when that day comes and we stand before the Lord, we are perfect. That's his will. And God gives the church that responsibility to warn every man and teach every man. And so our King's Kids Ministry, we saw here, and now they're downstairs. They're going to have message from the Word of God. They're going to be taught. They're going to be warned from the Word of God. They're going to be taught and instructed what God's Word is. The purpose of that is intended by God so that these young people, when they stand before God, whenever that day comes, they'll be perfect in Christ Jesus. Our bus ministry. God's intention for our buses going out into the community and finding kids and families and bringing them into church. The whole purpose of that, the God's intention for that is so that these writers come in, they can be taught the word of God, they can be instructed, they can be warned about God's warnings and whatnot. When they stand before Christ, they're perfect in in when they stand before the Lord, they're perfect in Christ Jesus. Our Sunday school ministry, our teen ministry Our choir ministry. I want to remind you the music uh the ladies sang here a moment ago, the choir, all the special, that's not entertainment. And you go to some churches, it's entertainment. But it's not entertainment here. It's ministry. Working, giving the Holy Spirit of God something that He can work in our hearts and lives. And make those changes challenge us so that we stand before Jesus Christ. We're perfect in Christ Jesus. Our choir ministry, uh all our teaching and preaching ministry, everything we do Turn with me. Are you there in Colossians? Are you still there? Flip over to chapter 4. Here a fellow is mentioned, the Paphoris. Paphoris. And um he's closely associated with the church at Closse. In fact, I was reading about him a little bit, and uh it's suggested that he uh probably was the fellow that God used to start this church. I'd kinda get the impression he perhaps pastored this church at least for a period of time. At the time of this writing he's with Paul in Rome But notice what Paul says, again, under the inspiration of God. Well, look what he says about this fellow at verse 12 of Colossians 4. Epaphorus, who is one of you, is part of that church, he's a member of that church, maybe even the pastor. A servant of Christ saluteth you. Now look at this. Always laboring fervent for you in prayers, that ye may stand what? Perfect and complete in all the will of God. Now assuming Epaphras was the pastor of this church, he's part of the church. Assuming he was the pastor. This verse tells me he had a tremendous burden and he prayed diligently. In fact, the words used there, fervently, laboring fervently in prayers. You know what his concern was? That every member of the church there at Colossae would stand before Jesus Christ, stand before the Lord perfect in Christ Jesus. That was his burden. That was the purpose of the church. That was the role, the responsibility God has given to the church. Now, here's where the question comes in: What in the world does God mean by the word perfect? When I say these little children we teach, our ministries present every man perfect. What does he mean by perfect? Does he mean that God wants us to be sinless? Does that mean we have to somehow attain a sinless state that we have no faults whatsoever, no flaws? That's not what the word perfect means. The word perfect, as it's used in Scripture, simply means this, to be fully mature. to grow spiritually as far as I can possibly, as it is humanly possible for me to grow To be perfect in Christ Jesus. It's translated some other places in Scriptures to be complete That's the idea there, to be perfect or complete, to be fully mature, to reach my full potential. In my life. In other words, it's that when I when my life is over and I stand before the Lord at the judgment. And the Lord looks at me and he says, Dennis, you were everything, you were spiritually, you were everything you could possibly be. You reached your full potential as a child of God, as a Christian spiritually. You were complete, you were mature, you uh were everything you could possibly be. That was Paul's concern for the church at Corinth. Now for those that are familiar with their Bible a little bit, the church at Corinth was a horrendous church. They had so much sin. In fact, it got to the point where they almost celebrated how sinful they were. And Paul's concern for them in the be at first in the beginning of this first letter to the church in Corinth, he says, I can't write to you As uh as mature, as perfect Christian. I guess you're babes. You're just little children. You haven't grown up And his concern was that they would grow up spiritually, that they would perfect themselves, mature and grow and be what God intends for them to be, not so immature, not so imperfect. So the desire for you and I as Christians, God's desire for us, and I trust our desire as Christians, is that when we do stand before the judgment seat of Christ, we're everything God intends for us to be. And again, I want to reiterate this. In fact, I guess uh there's more to this than just this, but if this is all we could get when we walk out of here uh there be an element of success uh that that's this that we will stand before the judgment someday. Now, when that happens as a Christian, I want to be complete. I want to be perfect in Christ Jesus. So here's the question: how am I perfect? I gotta say this. During Sunday school, Brian and Sandy were sitting there. I saw them talking. And Sandy said to Brian, you gotta love Sandy. She goes, oh, and the title of the sermon is How to Be Perfect. Sandy said to Brian, oh, so you're preaching today, huh? And at first I thought, well that's a great compliment, and I thought, that's not a compliment. So we'll have counseling for them later. How in the world can I be perfect in Christ Jesus? How can I be the person That God intends for me to be. How can I live that life completely that God intends for me to live? Now I just put a few simple thoughts down And let me share them real quickly. Number one, this one's pretty obvious. Most of you maybe anticipate it. One, you must be saved biblically. You must be saved biblically. I cannot be the person God wants me to be without having trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. And I use that term biblically. I must be saved biblically, because if I'm not saved the Bible way, I'm not saved. That's right. It's a lot of ideas out there. You can go to ten different churches, you get ten different plans of salvation. I'm not interested in a church's plan of salvation. I'm concerned about the Bible plan of salvation. And so I must be saved biblically. There is only one way to be saved from the judgment of my sin. There's only one way to be saved from going to hell when I die, and that is by personally accepting Jesus Christ as my own personal Savior. I must make that decision No other way to escape hell. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. The wrath of God abideth on him. So if you're here this morning and you don't have it settled in your heart and mind that your sins are forgiven, that Jesus Christ is your personal Savior and you're and that He's getting you taking you to heaven with God if there's any doubt if there's a question there listen to me you need to settle that El Pronto That needs to be settled immediately. Don't leave here without knowing for sure your sins are forgiven, and when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. Now the Bible makes that clear how we can be saved. Now, what happens? What happens if a person never accepts Jesus Christ as their Savior? And they die, whether of old age or an accident, sickness, whatever. They stand before God at the judgment, but they don't stand before The judgment seat of Christ, where Christians stand, they stand before the great white throne judgment. And that judgment is simply this. Not to determine whether they're guilty or not. We're all already guilty. We've all already sinned. The great white throne judgment isn't to determine whether I'm a sinner or not. That's established the moment I'm born. I'm born in sin. That judgment, if I die without my being saved, without having my sins forgiven and cleansed, I will stand before the great white throne judgment of God, and that is a sentencing judgment. Where the sentence is carried out, I'm casting a lake of fire for all eternity, all eternity, all eternity That's a horrible, horrible thought. And thus that makes the importance of me being saved a high, high priority. I've got to be saved. Listen, if you don't do anything else in life and all you do is get saved, you've done the most important thing a person can possibly do. It's better to be saved and go to heaven, a failure here on earth, than to be a success here on earth and die and go to hell. So how do I stand before Christ? How can I be the person God intends for me? How can I be perfect in Christ Jesus? Everything God intends for me. Number one, I need to be saved. I need to accept Jesus Christ as Savior and my sins forgiven and be given new life. Do you know for sure that when you die Your sins are forgiven and you go to heaven and not to hell. Now, if your answer to that is, I hope so, you need to settle that. That's not good enough. Not according to the Bible Paul said, I am persuaded. And these things are written unto you that you may know that you have eternal life. You say, well, I think I'm a pretty good guy. I'd probably go to heaven. That's not good enough. I got to know that I've accepted Jesus Christ my Savior and He has forgiven me and saved me. So I challenge you this morning, if that's not settled We can help you. We can show you from the Bible. It's very simple. How to accept Jesus Christ as your Savior. By the way, it has nothing to do with joining the church or anything like that. It's a personal thing between you and the Lord Jesus Christ. So number one, if I'm going to be perfect, how to be perfect in the Bible sense? Number one, I've got to be saved biblically. Number two, I need to grow spiritually. Salvation, when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior, that is just the beginning of a new life in Christ. That's the beginning of the life that lasts forever, eternal life. I got saved. May 7, 1979. It's a Monday night. I bowed my knees and I called out as a wretch. I got thinking, we were down at uh the men's getaway, we were four-wheeling, and some of the things we did, your life kind of flashes before your eyes. And um but I got thinking back and I thought as 19 year old when I trusted Christ as my personal Savior, I thought how in the world Does one person mess up their life so bad in 19 years? How do you do that? But God is gracious. When I call on the Lord Jesus Christ to be my Savior, He saved me and He gave me new life. But here's the point. That wasn't the goal accomplished. That was a life begun. That was a new beginning for me. That was a new life. Now my responsibility at that point was to begin to grow. Was to begin to develop this new life that God had given me, this eternal life, and develop as a believer now. And spiritual growth requires exercising faith in God. That's how I grow. In other words, I grow as I look to the Word of God. God gives me instructions. I trust Him. I have faith that what He's instructing me to do is the right thing. He loves me. This is good for me. And I step in faith. I obey him. And I do grow and develop as a believer. The opposite of being perfect or mature in Christ Jesus is being spiritually incomplete or immature In Christ. I tell you, these children, I just love them dearly. I can't they can't walk by me without me poking them or squeezing them or kicking them or pulling their hair or something I feel like a little kid when I get around them. I just love them to death. Hey, they walk by, I shake their hand. I gotta say something a little silly to them or whatever and try and make them smile But none of us here would say that these kids are everything that they have the potential to be at this point in life, right? Those little what are the little ones called? What are the real little kids called? Flyers. The little ones flyers if ten years from now they're still that size, still that mental maturity, we'd say something's wrong, right? They're to grow. They're to develop. Their mentality, their physical bodies are to grow. Their understanding. Emotionally they grow And that's true in the Christian life. The Bible says, as newborn babes, we're to grow as a Christian. That faith in God is to get stronger and develop and become more mature. It's possible. For a person to have been saved a long time and be very immature. Be very immature, not grow, not develop. I mentioned in a message a few months ago, I come across A news article, Fox had a news article about a gal was 20-some years old, never grew beyond uh uh about a five or six year old person Mentally, physically, never grew this. Twenty-some years old. So it's possible be saved 20, 30, 40, 10, 60 years. And yet still be very immature spiritually. Saved? Yes. Perfect? No. Far from what I ought to be, far from what Now how do I grow? I put this down. Now how do I grow spiritually? Got to be saved biblically. Grow spiritually. There's just, there's not no secret to it. We don't have any super growth spiritual pills that we can give you and you take it and boom, also much good, strong, mature, perfect Christian. Now Takes discipline, takes commitment, takes love for the Lord. How do I do it? Number one, I put this down. I must read my Bible and pray on a daily basis. So that's disappointing. You say that all the time. You know why we say it all the time? Because if you're going to grow spiritually, you've got to read your Bible and pray on a daily basis. I go to the doctor periodically, does all the tests and everything. He says the same thing to me all the time. You gotta eat right. Gotta get some exercise. If I'm gonna keep this incredible physique that I have, huh? It is incredible But uh it's the same thing for everybody all the time. I gotta read my Bible and pray every day. How many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen You know what you gotta do if you're gonna grow and be mature and be a strong Christian, be what God, the Christian God intends you to be? You gotta read your Bible every day and pray every day Read your Bible every day and pray every day. As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. There's no shortcut, there's no way around it I have never met a Christian that was strong, mature, strong in their faith, effective in their Christian life, that did not, on a regular, continual basis, read their Bible and pray. Doesn't happen. It's the way God designed us spiritually. When I first got saved, back as a 19-year-old boy, trusted Christ, God just changed so many things. I mean, just like that. For me, it was just like that. And my dad stressed to me, and the local church that I began attending, it's part of their when it first part got saved. They stressed to me over and over and over. Dennis, you have got to read your Bible every day and you've got to pray every day. They just drilled that and drilled that and drilled that. You will not grow as a Christian If you do not spend time every day. Here's a tragedy I was talking, we were heard Brother Olet preach the other week, or this past week And uh uh when he was with us a number of years ago, we were talking one time, and he said he gets out every week, preaches in churches like ours and others, big or smaller, all across independent fundamental churches, good ones. He said he's bothered By the number of preachers, preachers who do not read their Bibles and pray every day. They'll take their sermon preparation time and kind of make that their personal devotion. That doesn't work. Sunday school teachers, preparing a Sunday school lesson is not your personal devotions with God. Every one of us letters say we need to read our Bible and pray every day And that is necessary. Whether I'm a new Christian, just a few days old, or I've been saved a few decades, I need to read my Bible and pray every day. Read the Bible for instruction. God, teach me. God, give me direction in my life. Encourage, show me some encouragement. God, challenge me. Areas that are not right. Speak to my heart. Pray daily. Ask God to give you wisdom. Ask God on a daily basis. Lord, give me spiritual strength today to be victorious, to overcome temptation. Ask God to give you, meet your needs. Ask God to give you a concern for others and be a blessing to others. God give me give me compassion. Number one, read my Bible and pray every day. Here's number two. Now I touched on this last week and I hate it again because it's necessary. I must faithfully attend the services of church. Cannot grow. I've been reading, I've I read preachers and I have certain ones from years gone by. I like to read what they say. You know what they all say? Every one of them says that good, strong, growing Christians need to attend faithfully the services of the church. The Bible bears that out. Missionaries on the field will testify that the people in their churches that they're establishing in these countries around the world, the people that grow and are strong, are the ones that faithfully attend the services of the church. God has designed the church for our spiritual development. In Acts chapter 2, the very early church, as it was just being established and growing there in Jerusalem, listen to what it says about the members. of that early church. It says they continued steadfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship. They were steadfast in getting underneath the teaching of the Word of God and in their fellowship one with another. What's that talking about? It's talking about getting assembling ourselves together. In the church service. It's necessary. I put this down. Number one, read my Bible and pray on a daily basis. Number two, attend church services, faith, uh, faithfully attend church service. Number three, I put this down. Separate from sin and worldliness. I cannot grow and develop spiritually if I am living in disobedience to God. Isaiah tells us that when we have unconfessed, unrepentant sin, we tolerate it in our lives. The Bible says, God says he will not hear us. Not he cannot hear us, he can, but he won't when that sin is in our life. And we will not grow, we will not develop. Listen, I think there's preachers all across all around our world that are doing their church members a disservice by not warning them against the dangers of sin. They're doing a great disservice to the cause of Christ by not preaching and warning against the harm that sin brings to spiritual growth. If I want to grow spiritually, I've got to get that garbage out. I've got to get, I'm going to separate away from the sinfulness and worldliness and separate my place, my my uh life to Christ. Read uh jot this reference down, would you? We're not going to go to it. I'll just jot it down and for your own self, I want you to read and consider real carefully 2 Corinthians Chapter 6, verses 14 through 17. Did you get that? 2 Corinthians chapter 6 verses 14 through 17. Take that home and study that and read that very, very carefully. And I must separate from sin. So how am I going to be perfect in Christ Jesus? Number one, I need to be saved biblically. Number two, I need to grow spiritually. Let me give you the last one real quick. Number three, I must surrender my life completely. I must surrender my life completely. I'd like for you to go to one more passage of Scripture in Romans chapter 12. You got your Bibles there, turn to Romans chapter 12. Paul says, we warn every man and we teach every man. Why? That we may present every man perfect. In Christ Jesus. Perfect, complete, mature, everything God intends for us to be. I want you to notice Romans chapter 12. Now I could just read this, be honest with you. I could quote this passage to you, but I want you to open your Bible. I want you to see it there in the scriptures. So I want you to see it for yourself. Romans chapter 12. Beginning in verse number one. Now keep in mind, perfect means complete, mature, everything God intends for me, my full potential for Christ. Look at verse 1. I beseech you, therefore, brethren. Doesn't say I command you. He says I'm pleading with you. I'm beseeching you. That word beseech means to beg earnestly. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, because of all that God has done for you, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice. holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Now look at this. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed. By the renewing of your mind, watch it, that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. Someday, you and I, individually, personally, are going to stand before the Lord. For Satan will be the judgment seat of Christ. At that judgment seat of Christ, we'll be judged to how we lived our Christian life, how perfect we were, so to speak How mature was I? Did I live in obedience? Did I did I grow to all that God intended for me to be? And if I'm going to be perfect, if I'm going to be everything God intends for me, I need to come to my a point in my Christian life. where I just completely sedicate or surrender my will over to God's will I wish we had more time, but I'll tell you that word present in verse number one is a powerful, powerful word. It means this: it means a one-time action with unending results In other words, I get saved, I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I start reading my Bible, I start praying, I'm getting in church, I'm growing as a Christian God is beginning to deal with, take stuff out of my life, and God's making changes to get me the person that He intends for me and get away from what sin was making me into. And I come to a point where I say, all right, God, I'm just going to let go. I'm just going to die to my own self, my own will, my own dreams, my own plans. I'm going to put it all and I'm going to present everything I am and have. And I just present myself to you. And here I am, God. I'm yours. You do with me however you whatever you see fit. You say, brother, that's kind of scary. On this side of it, it is a little scary. Man, what's God going to do? And I tell you, you'd act by faith and you say, all right, God, you've been good. You've been merciful to me. By your mercies, Lord, you've sure saved me from hell. You've done so much for me. I'm not just going to trust you with my eternal destiny. I'm going to trust you with my life now. And I'll tell you, there is a peace that comes. There is a filling of the Holy Spirit of God. And then God's will starts being done. God's will starts being accomplished. As I've taken my hands off. I was saved in 1979, as I mentioned so often. I began growing. I tell you, I fell in love with Jesus Christ. And God began to change my life. And uh I I went when I first went to Bible College, I just wanted to study the Bible. I wasn't thinking too much of much. And I went to a little Bible, first I went to Bible Institute at the church, then I went to Bible college there in Philly And then I went down to a Tennessee Temple down in Chattanooga. I thought, well, God's maybe leading me into the ministry. And I, like many of you, I like to plan things out a little bit. It doesn't look that way sometimes, but I really do And um man I had it planned out. I was gonna work uh in children's church and uh I'm not children's church, I was gonna work I want to teach a Christian school, I was gonna work in the elementary department, probably two or three uh second or third grade, somewhere in there My age level, RIQ, and um I haven't gotten beyond that yet, but um that was I had it all planned out What I was going to do, how I was going to do it, and it was all serving God. It was all good. But God began working my heart. And uh through the teaching of God's word and influence of men of God, I finally came to the point on August 25th, 1985, sitting in Sunday night service And finally I said, God, I don't know if it's your will for me to be a school teacher or what. I was preaching everywhere, soul winning. I traveled summer in Bible time But I never come to the point in my life where I say, God, no Moss, no more me. I'm just going to take my hands off God. You do whatever you want with my life I knelt an old-fashioned older, very similar to this here, a little bigger, that Sunday night, and I put myself there and said, God, I present my body to you. I present my life, my future, everything as a Christian. I want you to take me and use me however you see fit. Outwardly there wasn't a whole lot of change. That all happened when I got saved. But I tell you, inwardly, things started changing. And God started leading and directing in a little bit different direction. Now I'm not saying if you pres if you come to the point and you dedicate your life to Christ, you present, God's not going to call everybody into ministry You know what God needs? God needs some good, strong, dedicated truck drivers. God needs some good strong sold-out for Jesus Christ, died to self, school teachers, secretaries, businessmen. You name it. He needs people who have completely yielded and surrendered themselves to God in every area of vocation. That's legit. That's not unscriptural. So don't say well if I do that then I'll have to go into ministry. Not necessarily. By the way, it's nothing wrong with going into ministry. Amen. That's been pretty good. F. B. Meyer was a great preacher. In fact, when Charles Spurgeon passed away, F. B. Meyer pastored the great Metropolitan Baptist Church in London for a number of years. Great man of God. He said he had a dream one night. Now I'm not big on dreams, but he said he had a dream one night. And in that dream he faced the Lord Jesus and Jesus Christ asked him for the keys. He said, I envisioned in this dream, I kind of saw my life as a house. And the various rooms in my house were the different parts of my life, different aspects of my life. And each room had a door that was closed and locked. That was my house. Those were my rooms. Those are my areas of my life. They were mine. They were locked. And Jesus Christ came and said, I want to control you. And he said, Lord, I want you to control me. I want you to have my house and all of it. I want it to all be yours, my whole life. And so he began handing over the keys to the various rooms of his life, one at a time, one at a time in this room of his life. And I I don't know how you'd apply it, but you're my vocation. My uh hobbies and my family life and this. And he started handing these keys, Lord, I want you to have total access, control of this, this. And then there was one left And he said, Lord, I want to keep this one room in my life for myself. I want to run that part of my life. I want to keep that for myself. And he said in his dream, the Lord took all the other keys. He handed them back. He said, if I can't be Lord of all, then I'm not going to be Lord at all. It's all or nothing as far as this matter of surrender and dedication is. And F. B. Meyer said in his dream he began weeping And he took the keys and he cast them at Jesus' feet and he says, I want you to have all of my life. All of me, Lord, not a part, but all of me. And he said, God blessed. God bless you. Blessed. Now, where are you at this morning? Do you know for sure that when you die, your sins are going on your way to heaven? If that's not settled, you need to settle that. Listen to me. You need to settle that Now. Not later. If you're saved, if you've already trusted Christ as Savior, get these things in place so you can begin to go. Bible reading, prayer. We got Bible reading schedules. Pray. Be faithful to church. Get that junk out of our life that's displeased, Lord. Then consider this. Come to the point where you say, all right, Lord, it's no longer me, God, I just want to give my whole life, everything. I surrender it completely over to you. And then you and I can stand before Jesus Christ someday. Perfect. Complete. Everything God intends for us to be. Now it's a lifelong process working at that and you know maintaining that. That's the will of God. Father in heaven, bless us, Lord. I thank you for these little children as we try and teach them. To know Jesus Christ as Savior and to grow spiritually and that someday they can stand before you perfect in Christ Jesus. Our teenagers, moms and dads, grandma and grandpa, every one of us. That we can be perfect in Christ Jesus. With our heads bowed and with our eyes closed, let me address those who are saved and know it first of all this morning. Let me ask you this, those that are saved and you know you're saved, there's no doubt it's all settled, do you read your Bible and pray on a daily, consistent basis? Or is it just hit and mess here and there, a little bit now, a little bit later? Or is it a disciplined daily part of your life? How many would say, preacher, my Bible reading really isn't all it ought to be? I need that. I need to straighten that out so I can grow and be a better creation. be the kind of Christian God intends to be. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Let's just do some business with God this morning. Listen, hands all around. Let's settle that. Let's get that straightened out before we leave this morning, okay? How about faithful church attendance? God designed the church so that He can use it to help us grow. How many say, preacher, you know, I'm really not as faithful as I could be and should be? You'd say, preacher, pray for me that I can help get that settled and get that in place. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? How about it? God bless you. A number of hands around. It's important How about this matter of separating ourselves from the yuck of the world and to the Lord Jesus Christ? How many say, now let's be honest, our heads about eyes are closed, let's be honest. How many say, preacher, there's some areas of my life that really ought not to be there? There's some things that I know they're not pleasing to God. You say, preacher, pray for me. I want to grow and I want to be what God wants me and I've got to get these things out. I've got to get this corrected. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Come on, between you and I and God. How about it? Yes. God will help us. That's where prayer and Bible reading come in. Now here's one last question. How about this matter being sold out for Christ? Have you come to the point in your Christian life where you say, all right, no longer me that lives, but Christ? I just want to present myself and I'm just giving it all over to him. He can take me and use me however he sees fit Now that's something we voluntarily do. That's something we of our own free will, say God. Everything I am and have and ever hope to be, I put on the altar. I want you to take it, use it. Is there anything like that? Say, preacher, this morning. I've never made that decision as a Christian. And today I just want to be totally sold out of Christ. No longer me, but Christ living in me rest of my life. How about it? Any like that? Any like that? So that's a powerful decision to be made. That's important. It's not insignificant Now I said one last question. Let me ask this. Is there any here this morning? You say, preacher, I really don't know for sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven. You may be a church member and don't have that settled. Rachel, I'm not sure that when I die, I'm going to heaven and not to hell. And I really need that settled. I need that sure in my own heart That God has forgiven me and saved me from sin and hell. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me also. When you pray for this other folk, you pray for me too, that I can get that settled. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand, preacher I'm not sure about that. I need that settled in my life. That I go to heaven and not to hell when I die. I don't want to risk that. I don't want to just hope on that. I want to know that's settled. Any at all? Any at all Now, the old-fashioned altar is designed for us to make decisions. When God speaks to our heart, we kneel at that altar and say, God, here it is. I'm making a decision. I'm asking for your help. I'm asking for your leadership. Yes, Lord, I'm going to agree with you. That's an important part of our decision-making process. So Father, now as we come the invitation time, I saw hands, you know hearts. Help us, Lord, to be submissive to you, to trust you and obey you, as you've dealt with us now in Jesus' name. Let's stand together