And institutions. We've got um we've got the home that we had in Sunday school. We've got the government. God himself ordained government. So it'd be inconceivable if God's people did not get involved And then we've got the church. Praise God for the church. Church is a divine institution. The local assembly is what we're talking about. I know what we mean when we say the body of Christ, being in Christ, people all around the world in Christ that are saved. But the local assembly is what the Bible emphasizes. And so you're with the local assembly. This building is not the church. This is the church campus. The church building, the building that we gather in, but no the building's not the church. The people are the church God's people, saved people. And so our title today, I like the title, How to Be an Exceptional Church Attender. I like that title. How to be an exceptional church attender. It's a very, very practical sermon. Look at the Bible, Psalm 122, verse 1. David said, I was glad When they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. Don't you love that verse And I'm glad every time I get to come to church, every single time. I mentioned that Sunday school I've been in 122 churches. Uh excuse me, a hundred and twelve. Don't exaggerate. That's a lot of places, Pastor. There's churches all across this country that loves God I mentioned just for a second that I was in Portland, Oregon this year. There are God's people in Oregon. Did you know that? And the devil's ugly grip is on a lot of our major cities. But there's God's people there too. I went over to Seattle and I found God's people over there, and I found America's best guest I know it was the best because of how much I had to pay for it. I didn't dare buy Diet Coke. I had no idea how much that would be, you know Uh Chicago, Illinois, we saw people saved. Milwaukee, we did these God and country rallies at these places, and we're seeing people saved. Praise God. Now one uh state senator we've led to Christ, he has not missed church one Sunday since he got saved two years ago. That's good, is it not? Another fellow I led to Christ, uh he got baptized, Independent Baptist Church, but he wandered off about four weeks ago, and he decided that morning he'd go to a Unitarian church. And he called me and told me about it. I said, What'd you do? I said, why weren't you at your church? He said, Well, I went to this Unitarian church. I said, Well, how was it? He said, Well, now this is a you this is a young believer. He said, Well, they didn't quote any Old Testament. And they didn't quote any New Testament. The only thing they did is quote Hollywood. I said, You're kidding. I said, what'd you do? He said, I got up and left. I said, Good Go back to your church. I'm talking about a Bible-believing church where we do read from the Old Testament. And we do read from the New Testament. Amen. We quote it, we memorize it, we teach it, we preach it, we try to apply it to our lives. Amen. And so here, Psalm 122, I was glad when they said unto me, let us go into the house of the Lord. Now I've got 11 points, so I better get on with it. Very practical sermon. Number one, you want to be an exceptional Well wait a minute, wait a minute. Let me ask Do you want to be an exceptional church tender? Oh, good, good, good, good. Well, here's how to do it: 11 steps. Step number one: show up for every service. That's pretty practical, isn't it? We got another service tonight. This week we got a service Monday night. We got a service Tuesday night. Man, we're just coming up with services now. You know what I'm saying? Oh yeah. And every week, Sunday morning, Sunday night, and Wednesday night, three to thrive. If it's ever a bad idea to have three uh services every week, I'll apologize if that ever turns out to be a bad idea. But it's not a bad idea, it's a great idea And we want to attend every service. Show up for every service. Way too many Christians. Way too many Christians are attending church about once a month. No, even once a week's not enough for me. I told you 112 places. I'm showing up a lot, different places. Look, we're not doing God some big favor by showing up. No, no, it's helping every one of us. Every time I have come to church with these three 11 steps in mind, every time I've done these things, God has blessed me every single time. Hebrews 10, 24 and 25 Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. See, here at our church, we love each other and we are provoking each other to do good things, good works. Then it says this, not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together, as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see The day approaching. Now, let me ask you a question. Do you believe the American culture is getting worse? Oh. Well, do you think that uh the church needs to meet less then? I don't think we need to meet less. If anything, we need to meet more. Because the lack of real pulpits in America, I'm glad we got a preacher who actually preaches the Bible. Amen to that. And so many of our churches that we they don't even have a saved man as pastor. Uh but oh uh we need church not not less, we need it more America doesn't need less church. She needs more church. And by the way, you don't need less church. You need more church too, just like I need more church How to be an exceptional church attendant. Number one, show up. Show up for every service. Number two, show up early. I like that. Colossians 3. 23. Whatsoever you do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto men. Coming to God's house to worship God, to obey God, to hear from God, surely that deserves our best effort. Would you agree? And show it up early as part of it. Now, uh I said, well, Brother Fox, you don't understand, these children that God has blessed us with, these children, oh, they they make it a challenge. Sure they do That's why moms and dads make plans. All right, son, you're six years old. Now, I know it's Saturday night. You go get ready to go to bed. Now you see these clothes. These are the clothes you are wearing tomorrow. Okay? When we get you up, you do wash your face, comb your hair, brush your teeth, and you put these clothes on These are your church clothes for tomorrow. End of discussion. You know? And you make some plans. Is that not what you do? Is that not what you should do? Yeah, it's what you should do. I've got to remember all these things. You've got to remember all these things. You make plans. You prepare ahead of time. Folks who are always late, I can help you. Leave home earlier. Yes, I've done this I got to a church service that I had on one black shoe and a brown shoe. And yes, the pastor made fun of him. He poured it out to everybody at the church. And I told everybody at the church that day that I had a parrot at home Just like these. I had a brown and and and black one at my house too. Yes, sometimes in your hurry to get there, you might even put on two different kind of shoes. That's all right. Keep showing up and show up early. Find that tie, sir, the night before. Pick out your clothes the night before. Plan ahead. Make sure the cat car has gas. All those things. It's a spiritual thing that we're involved in. Going to church is a spiritual thing. And getting here early will help you not to come frazzled Now look, if you're late, we still want you to come, all right? Please, still come on. But you know, if you can get here without your mind all cluttered up and distracted with everything, it'll really help you. It'll really help you. Number one, show up early for every show up for every service. Number two, show up early. Number three. You want to be an exceptional church attender? Number three, show up ready to receive. You are ready to get something from the church service from God. If you're listening, say amen. Listen at this great passage in the Word of God, Psalm 19. The law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure Making wise the simple. The statutes of the Lord are right, rejoicing the heart. The commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The judgments of the Lord are true and righteous All together. More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold. Sweeter are they than honey and the honeycomb. Moreover, by them is thy servant warned, and in keeping of them there is great reward. Who can understand his errors? Cleanse thou me from secret faults. Keep back thy servant from presumptuous sins Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright. And I shall be innocent. From the great transgression. Let the words of my mouth and the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength At my Redeemer. You can't improve on the Word of God, can you? Oh yes, this matter of church attendance Come early and come eager. Eager to rejoice with your church family. Rejoicing at how God is working in your family and how God is working in your life. And uh don't just listen to the preaching, but but tune in and agree with the preaching of the Word of God. By the way, shut off the phones No calls here in church. I've had people accept phone calls while I preached. Really? Yeah, there's some fellow up here he's talking. Uh, what will you need? Really? Yes, I've had that done. I've had protests, I've had a lot of things, uh, had disruptions, all that stuff. But stop all the self don't be sending text messages to your friend. No focus on the service. Amen. 2 Peter 3 and verse 18. Grow in grace and in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and forever. Growing means changing. And so we're going to need to do some changing. See, let me make a statement to you. God loves everyone exactly where they are. Oh yes. God loves everybody exactly where you are right now. But God loves all of us too much to let us stay right there. He wants us number one to receive Christ. Has everybody in this room received Christ? Have you repented of your sin and believed on the Lord Jesus Christ and be born again the way the Bible says? That's step one. What's step two? Being conformed to the image of Christ. You get baptized, you attend church, you read your Bible. All these things of discipleship. We are all disciples. We're pupils We're students of our Lord and Savior. And so we're to grow in grace. And part of that comes through church as you're here and we're invigorating, and God is meeting with us. How wonderful is that So exceptional church attender. Number one, show up for every service, show up early, show up ready to receive. Number four, show up ready to give. Be ready to give. 1 Corinthians 16 and verse 2. Upon the first day of the week, let every one of you lay by him in store, as God hath prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come. Give. Let me ask you a question. Do you think God needs American currency? I mean, God spoke the entire universe into existence. You think he needs American money? I don't think he does. It's our joy to give in the cause of Christ. It's a joy, it's an honor. By the way, God owns it all. You know that. You know, we're just stewards for a little while. And uh do your giving. Oh prepare that tithe and those offerings. My wife is the worst at putting it in. She'll go to church and she'll pass the offering plate and the offering be right there in her purse and she'll just pass it on. Go home and I'll talk with her and she'll be like, oh, I forgot to put it in Baby, you touch the orphan plate. When you touch it, that's a good reminder. Put it in. You know. I'll give it tonight. Yeah. Yeah. I've gotten now where it's just automatically sent to my church, okay? She gets put in offerings. Tithe and and some offerings just go there automatically 'cause she can't remember. Looks like handing that offering plate would be a good reminder. Yeah, give, give, give. My wife and I, you see this beard. Yeah. Yeah, I went three days without shaving and my wife said, You gotta grow me a beard. Okay. So I've never had one of these things. But here it is. Yeah. And um I had it for about four weeks. I I was driving through Atlanta and I saw a Dunkin' Donut. Decided I need to put a donut into the ministry. I went inside there and uh The lady said, uh, may I help you? I said, Yeah, I want a gla one glazed donut. So she gave it to me. I said, How much? She goes, Oh, she's free. I'd had this beard for a month. Okay. I'm driving home. I call my wife at 1 a. m. I've just about got back in town. She said, um, she called me. She called me. She said, you want to be the best husband ever? I said, uh, well you won't She said, I won't you get me one of them little slurpees down there at 7-Eleven? So I went in. Got a little Coke Slurpee, walked up there. They said, you can just have it. Hmm. Two days later I'm flying through Atlanta. I'm at the gate. Haven't eaten in 18 hours. I'm hungry There's five guys hamburgers right beside. Those things are expensive. They're also fantastic. I went over there. When five guys gave me my food, I said, I'm keeping the beard. This is like reverse Santa Claus. They've given me stuff. You know what I'm saying? They think I'm ninety-one and homeless, but it's working. So, you know That's my wife. So uh praise God for her. The beard is here, okay? She loves it. Well, my wife's gotta learn to put it in, okay? And we're we're getting a little better at it, but she forgot it several times in a row after give it the next service. Oh no, show up ready to give Show up ready to forgive. And don't be sporadic in it. Don't take it flippantly. This is a wonderful thing that we get to show God we love Him and that we trust Him And do your giving. Number five, show up ready to sing. How do you like that, Brother Mark? Show up ready to sing. Yeah, when you come to church, you want to be an exceptional Church attender will show up ready to sing. Colossians 3:16. Let the word of Christ dwell on you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Yes. Carrying a tune, by the way, is not a requirement. I know this morning we had a bunch of bad notes. I know we did. And it's still the most glorious music in all the world, is it not? I'm talking about congregational singing. I mean I love this choir. Woo, I like that I like quartets, all that, but oh my, the world has nothing that compares to congregational singing At our citywide crusades, uh during the offering, we always have some special music, but then at the end we always make sure that We that the special's not long enough that we have to fill some time as they're still passing the orphan buckets. And we just acapella I mean we'll have five, six, seven, up to nine thousand people singing amazing grace. Now I'll tell you, it's been a long time since the world's seen anything like that. Woo, glory. When you come to church, show up ready to sing. Psalm 40, verse 3. He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. I wish I had time to just give you some stories about people who have just gotten saved and then oh how they began to sing at at first at church. Oh it's glorious. And we that have sung the old rugged cross, how many in this room has ever sung that song with the church? Yes, every one of us. Don't you still love doing it? That song came out in 1913 and we're still, 110 years later, we're still singing on a hill, far away. Don't you love singing that song I do. We'll we've got to sing that sometime this week. Number six, I've got to get on with it here. Number six, show up willing to serve. You want to be an exceptional church attender, number six, show up willing to serve. Get involved. Galatians 5, verse 13. Brethren. Ye have been called into liberty. Only use not the liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another. Oh yeah, we're a bunch of servants. We come together as a bunch of servants, serving our Lord, serving our pastor, serving our church, serving our friends, yes And we serve, some serve as Sunday school teachers. That's a wonderful thing to serve as a Sunday school teacher. Serve working with the children The junior church and all this and and serving with the young people and serving in the nursery. We like those nursery workers, praise God. Yeah. And that's a women only job, praise God At least that's the way it is in my church. We don't want any men in there. I'm glad about that as a man. I'm for that, Pastor. Good leadership, Pastor. Serving in the bus ministry. Oh yes, praise God. The bus ministry. So many have been saved through the bus ministry. One of our United States congressmen There's 435 in the House of Representatives, 100 U. S. Senators. One of our 435 House of Representatives, how do you get saved? Well, the bus driver from the church and the bus captain in Ohio went and knocked on this boy 15-year-old door and said, Bill, you ought to come to church in Sunday school I don't want to go to church at Sunday school. Little skinny fella. I don't want to do that. Well, Bill, we we have donuts and orange juice. Bill said, I'm coming. Why? Because he starved. Why was he so skinny? His mom and dad were nothing but drunkards. He said, can my two-year-old sister come? Now, that's taken a lot of risk, but all those years ago the two-year-old too. Bill and his little two-year-old sister. Stepped over across their drunk parents, got on that little blue Baptist bus, went to church, had orange juice and donuts. And the Sunday school teacher gave the lesson and told Bill how to be saved. And right there in Sunday school, his very first Sunday school, he received Christ. Now here he is sixty-some years old. Here he's forty-s five and forty-six, forty-seven years later. I've used him to stand at these God and country rallies and tell everybody how he received Christ as his Savior. Amen. You know, that we got about a hundred members of Congress that are saved, but we only have about ten that would really go out there and say the only way to heaven is through Jesus Christ. I'm glad Bill Johnson's one of those. I'm glad that Bob Good of Virginia is one of those. I'm glad that Tim Scott from the South Carolina is one of those. Amen to all of that We need more that'll stand up for Jesus. Oh yes. But you come to church and you're willing to serve. You serve in that bus ministry. You might be leading the next senator or congressman to Christ in that little Sunday school class and working in that bus ministry and and serving it uh all over serving his offering counters and greeters. You know, Walmart's got theirs, we got ours too Now this is not the guy we put on out there greeting. Never thought we'd see you come to church. Roof probably fall in down if you're here. That's not the guy we put on greeting. That's the guy we put in security, okay? Yeah, that's the security chief, okay? What are you doing here? What do you think you're trying to do, boy? Yeah. Tech team, praise God. People running the sound. Oh, these places of service. It's service. Isn't it a wonderful thing to get to serve? Yes, it is. All right, number seven Show up. You want to be exceptional to this church attendance stuff? Number seven. Show up with invitations pending. Oh yeah, all week long you've been inviting folks to come to church. And you're out there at that door saying, I wonder where my visitor is. He promised me he'd come. I've got me some invitations pending. All of us ought to have a few invitations pending. I mean, who is it that you invited to church? Most of y'all showed up, by the way. Five or ten first-time ever visitors in the room today What by the way, we like first time folk. We like second time folk. All you first time folk come back tonight. For the second time. I'm serious. Come back and get in on this. But all of us ought to show up with an invitation pending. I saw a man in Kentucky, Perry, received Christ. I witnessed to him many times. He received Christ. Now everybody in town knew him. He had been the coach in town for all these ball players through the years, and just everybody knew him. So I was back To preach the grand opening of their new building. And so they had saved up all their baptisms. They had several to be baptized. And so I was chatting with Perry on Saturday. We're in Kentucky. Perry's gotten saved now. He's going to get baptized. 60-something-year-old man's going to get baptized. He said, Brother Fox, he said, I got 31 folk who's promised to come see me get baptized I said, my, that's a big number. 31. He said, yeah, my family doctor said he's going to come see me baptized. I said, really? He said, yes, fella, the other day I bought a car for him. I said, you need to come see me baptized. He said, I'll come. I thought, oh my. And I said this to Perry. I said, well, Perry, I've had a lot of people promise And then not come. I was trying to let Perry down. You know what I'm saying? So he wouldn't be shocked when he didn't go thirty one visitors. I said, well, Perry, I I've had a lot of promises. I said, it's pretty hard to get a family doctor to come. He said, you think my family doctor's not going to come? I said, oh no, it's pretty hard to get him. He said, well, I'll just call him. Make sure he's coming. I've never seen this before in my entire life. He went 31 for 31. His family doctor was sitting there. That fella he bought a car from was sitting over there. Thirty-one folk had come to watch him get baptized. Now think about five of them got saved that day We ought to all show up with some pending invitations, some folk that they've said they're coming. Luke 14, 23, the Lord said unto his servant, Go out in the highways and hedges and compel them to come in. that my house may be filled. I you know, I'm pretty happy with the size of the crowd, but we still got room, we got we still got some seats, you know I've I've seen services where we had to use the organ bench and the piano bench. I like it. And boys and girls, one meeting down there in Georgia, I mean there's just people everywhere We saw a touch of revival. Hallelujah. Glory be to God. Number eight. I've got to get on with this. Number eight. Show up with a guest. Don't just have invitations pending, but number eight, bring your guest with you, Andrew in the Bible What was Andrew doing in the Bible? Well, every time you read about Andrew in the Bible, every single time you read about Andrew, you notice every single time he's bringing someone to Jesus He first finds his brother, Peter. Yeah, Peter, that loudmouth guy. That was Andrew's brother. And Andrew said, Come on, you gotta meet Jesus. Come on, you gotta meet him, you gotta meet him. And he brought him to Jesus Um one is the feet of the five thousand. That was in my Bible reading this morning, the feet of the five thousand. Uh who was it that brought the little boy with the fishes and the and the bread? Oh, that was Andrew Every time you find Andrew in the Bible, he bringing someone to Jesus. Hey, why don't you use your car? And why don't I use my car as part of the bus ministry? And if there's some open seats, let's find somebody to get in the seat. I was out door knocking in my town, Smithville, Virginia. And um I was going to be preaching there that that Wednesday night And um I went out door knocking, tried to get me somebody's church, knocked on this young man's door, I don't know, twenty-something years old He came there to the door. I said, my name is Byron Fox. I'm from Calvary Baptist Church. I said, I'm trying to get somebody to go to church with me tonight. He said, Well, I'm spiritual. I said, wow. What does that mean? Well he didn't exactly know what that meant. He had heard somebody else say it, I guess, and he just thought he'd use that line on me. I said, wow, what does that mean? He didn't know what it meant. Finally he said, I'll come to church with you. I said, don't play with me. Are you serious? He goes, yeah, I'll come. I said, now look, you see my car right there? I'm going to bring that car up at 6. 30 Well, service at seven. I'm going to park right there. I'm going to come up to this door. And I expect you to keep your word and get in that car then. And guess what? He came to church with me. You can find them. I was with Pat Creed Jr. , there in that part of Maryland. We was eating at a Chinese restaurant. Yeah, I eat Chinese You you name you name the country, I eat it, okay? I like it. We're eating the Chinese and me and uh Brother Pat we're we're we're eating and I noticed this guy listening. I said, hey, we're going to church after a while. You wanna go with us He came with us. If we'll invite enough folk, we might get somebody. You throw enough hooks out there in the water, you might get somebody. The woods are full of them, friends Get us some visitors and bring them right here to church. Remember those four men that they carried that fellow, that lame fella, and they finally had to rip the roof off and lower him. They were determined to get that fellow to Jesus Hallelujah. We need more of that. Oh, I love it. Oh, so you want to be a you want to be an exceptional church attendance. Number one, show up every service. Show up early. Show up ready to receive. Show up ready to give. Show up ready to sing. Show up ready to ser Number seven, show up ready with an invitation pending. Show up with a guest. Number nine. Look this way. Show up with your Bible. Bring your Bible. Please, bring your Bible. It's a Bible believing church. Y'all have a manual over there at uh the church. Well, we got some documents of sorts, but here's our manual. It's this I've been working with a church in Virginia, a non-denominational church. That preacher had been coming to our rallies and so forth, made friends with him, all that. They've now settled which Bible they're going to use. They're they're now using the King James. And um his two women deacons came to him and said Pastor, we can't be deacons. No, women are not supposed to be deacons. They got reading that Bible. They're singing hymns now. In fact, he said to me, he said, I think we're going to become independent Baptist. Welcome aboard. Amen. See, the Bible will straighten out a lot of funny things, will it not? Amen to all of these things. Hallelujah. Show up with your Bible. 2 Peter 1. 21. The prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. This This word, this Bible here, the word of God, inspired by God Himself. Amen. God breathed. And so bring your Bible to church. I think it's better than looking at your device. I'm just telling you my personal opinion there. But bring your Bible and be able to mark things in your Bible. Number 10, show up praying. You'll be exceptional to church attendance. Show up with prayer. Pray. John 15, 5, Jesus said, I am divine, you're the branches. He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit. For without me, ye can do nothing. Human energy is not enough Brother Mark, we never want that choir to sing in human energy alone. We need the hand of God on the choir. We need the hand of God on the preacher who's going to try to preach, the singers who are going to sing, those who are serving throughout the ministry. We need the hand of God on this place. Colossians 3. 17, whatsoever you do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus. Giving thanks to God and the Father by Him. Yes, the teaching, the preaching, everything that's done here. Needs to be prayed over. I was talking to a country preacher there in Emporia, Virginia. Was talking on the phone, I think it was two days ago. He said, Brother Fox, as you travel this country, are you seeing any real revival? Or is it just meetings? I said, oh, let me tell you about this meeting in Winchester, Virginia. Steve Reberts Church. I said, let me tell you about this meeting. I saw services for grown men bawling their eyes out at the altar. I went over to one fellow and said, What's wrong with you? He said, My family. It's like a nuclear war. We come here to church, but oh it's not right. Oh brother Fox I've not done right. I have sinned. I am not letting my family the way I should have. Oh, things getting real now This fellow over here, what's wrong with you? Weeping your eyes out. He said, I'm a hopeless gambler. Keep playing that lottery, and I know it's wrong. I know I've violated what God wants me to do. There's no women on the altar, it's all men I said that country preacher down there in Emporia, I said, Oh yeah, I'm seeing some. He said, Well you're not seeing it without prayer. I said, Well, Pastor Robert had 40 days of prayer leading up to the revival meeting. Everything we do here at this church, everything should be prayed over. Would you agree with that? I mean, pray about everything. My wife and I at our house, we pray over everything. You know, I mean immediately we let's pray. And I mean we just pray. Prayer, uh praying always, the scripture says. Men ought always to pray and not faint. In everything, give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Right there in that same passage it says, pray without ceasing. Oh, Brother Fox, I can't pray without ceasing. Why not? Well, if I prayed without ceasing, I'd have to be a Christian. Amen. Prayers for the Christian. I hear lost people, people who are lost, that have not received Christ. I hear lost people say, Well, I'm praying. God has not obligated Himself to answer the prayer of lost people. Read the Bible. Now God's aware of everything. He knows words that people say. But if you want to get on praying grounds You need to be born again. Amen. And come to church praying. Lastly. Hey, how about that word? Lastly. Number 11. Show up. With a desire for God to reveal Himself to you. Church is a unique time It is a special time, a special connection with God and God's people. And when we leave here today, we ought to be more enthralled with God. Amen. We ought to leave here a little more thankful for God's grace. We ought to leave here today humbled. God resisteth the proud, but he giveth grace to the humble. Brother Fox, a great preacher. I've heard people say that. One time they they built me up so big. I got up there, I said, I'm so under conviction. I said, I'm not anybody great God is great. I appreciate nice things, but it's God who is great. His promises are great. His Son is great. His mercy is great. You can just keep talking about the greatness of God. Amen to that. We ought to leave here a little more humble. We ought to leave here with some more hatred for sin. I'm going to tell you something I don't believe in. Here's something I do not believe in. I do not believe lost people ought to be members of the church. I don't believe in lost church membership. Well, Brother Fox, would you let a lost man come to church to the meeting? Well, of course we do. We ask everybody to come. First time I came, I was a lost boy. And on the second service I was ever in, I walked down this aisle and said, Somebody told me tell me how to be saved. I want to get in. I want to go to hell, I want to go to heaven. And I got saved. So on a Thursday. Changed my life. I'm glad. I'm glad to come to services. You don't have to be saved. I'm glad about that. But do you think that this church could get you to heaven? Our church doesn't have that kind of power. But we know someone who does. His name is Jesus Christ. Brother Fox, are you going to heaven? Yes. Well, Brother Fox, why are you getting to go to heaven? Because about 52 years ago, as an eight-year-old boy, I came to Jesus. And the man who was dealing with me said, well, pray and ask him to save you. I said, I don't know how to pray. Well, son, prayer is just talking to God. Just tell him what you want. And I'm going to give you the essence of a little prayer. I prayed, oh God, I know I'm wrong. I know you're right. Would you please save me And you know what? He did. Jesus was never turning anybody away. He won't turn anybody in this room away, anybody watching online who's not saved. This this church attendance stuff, that won't get you to heaven. Receiving Jesus Christ's will. Would you bow your heads? I read it this morning in my Bible reading in the book of Luke. Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish. Well, who said that? Jesus said that. In a few moments our pianos are going to play, I have decided to follow Jesus. Yeah, Jesus said, Except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish. Jesus said that. The Bible says this: Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Jesus died on a cross, not for his sin, he died for you. He died for everybody in the world. There's not one person that Jesus does not love, and there's not one person that Jesus does not want to save. Save is a Bible word. Means rescued. Jesus rescued me from going to hell. He saved me. He saved me from my sin. He saved me to get to go to heaven. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. With heads bowed and eyes closed. How many in this room would say, Brother Fox, I'm not saved, but I want to call on the Lord as my Savior today? I'd like for Him to save me today. Brother Fox, I want you to pray with me. I want to be saved today. Is there some people today who would raise a hand and say, Brother Fox, I want to receive Christ as my Savior today? Would you slip a hand up? Say, Brother Fox, today I want to I want to call on Jesus to save me. Let me ask it this way. How many of you know for sure if you died today, you know for sure that you're saved. You've already received Christ. How many of you know that for sure? Would you raise your hand? You know for sure you're saved. Is there anybody in this room who said, Brother Fox, I don't know for sure I'm saved? Brother Fox, would you at least pray for me? There's some folks who would raise a hand right now. I'm not here to embarrass anybody. I'm here to help if I possibly can. I'm a little servant of the Lord. So if somebody would raise a hand now and say, do I see your hand up? I see it. Oh yes. Oh yes. Oh Lord, this one. Oh God, I remember you saved me. Lord, speak to him. Draw him. Is there anybody else? Is there anybody else who would say, Brother Fox, pray for me? Anyone else, any place? The one who raised your hand. Would you like to bees look at