If you would, if you have your Bible with you, would you turn back to Romans chapter number ten, brother Pat read from a few moments ago? Romans chapter ten. I'm just going to read verse number nine, and what I'd like for us to do is read verse nine together in unison And I'm going to do something different this morning, uh a different approach perhaps than um other times, and uh I trust God will use it to bless and encourage you. Romans chapter nine, uh getting squealing up here now, uh Brother Sam, a little bit. Verse number nine, Romans 10, verse number nine. Will you read this together with me if you have it there? Would you read it with me? That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, now look at this And shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. That is an Easter message. If thou shalt believe in thy heart that God hath raised him, Jesus, from the dead, Look at this last part. Thou shalt be what? Saved. This morning I want to speak on how to be saved. And to know it. It is an Easter message. It's what the resurrection is all about. So that we can be saved And know it. Now, I want to approach the message this morning. Give me your attention up here, please, if you would. I want to approach the message this morning. As if I was sitting in your living room. I've come by your house. We've met and talked at the door. You've invited me in. I'm sitting in your living room, or maybe at your kitchen table, or perhaps it's getting nice out. We're sitting out on your front porch. And I have an open Bible with two of us sitting there. And my open Bible, and I am explaining to you the best I can, how you can know for sure that your sins are forgiven. And that when you die, you go to heaven and not to hell. That's my purpose. Now, before I pray and get into it, I want to make a few statements. First of all, there's many folks here, you have heard this over and over and over and over, many, many times. We preach it from this pulpit and in the streets, Oakland and surrounding areas, over and over and over and over. So I'm talking to some folks today. This isn't anything new But you know what I've found? I've found that those who know this story best seem hungry and thirsting to hear it just like the rest. I found that the message, how to be saved and know it, never gets old for those who are saved and know it. So I'm talking to some folks this morning. You've heard this. You could stand here and you could say the very same things I'm saying very easily. And by the way, I don't apologize for preaching this message over and over and over. Now, I'm talking to some other folks this morning that you have heard this message, but maybe you've heard it in bits and pieces. You've been to churches, or maybe you go to a church or whatever, and you've heard talk about being saved. You've heard talk about Jesus dying on the cross. You know about the resurrection and you know the stories and the miracles, but you're here this morning and you've never put that together. You say, preacher, I know about being saved, I know about heaven and hell, I know about sins and being forgiven, and I've heard that, but I don't know how it all fits together How does it apply to me? I don't understand the significance of all of it, though I'm familiar with the facts. Maybe that's your case here this morning. My plan and purpose is hopefully be able to bring that together for you where it makes sense. Now, there's another possibility. Maybe talking to some folks this morning, you've never heard this at all You nobody's ever opened a Bible or you've never been in a service where, uh, uh that's the Amen section down here, by the way. Hey, we we're thank God for babies at church. Amen. Thank God for take 'em out and plug them up, you know. But there's a very real possibility that I may be talking to some folks this morning, you never even heard this story You say, uh be saved? I don't know what you mean by being saved. Ah, heaven, hell? I've heard people use it as cuss language, but I don't know anything about this stuff. Hey, I've got good news for you. We can explain that. What this is all about. You say, surely, Brother Leatherman in Garrett County, United States of America, everybody's heard about Jesus being crucified. Everybody knows about how to be saved and what to be saved. Hey, you know what I'm finding? As years go by, I'm meeting more and more and more people who know nothing about salvation. It's the day we live in It's the need of the hour. And so, I don't want you to get too comfortable, but I want you to imagine we're sitting in your living room. You've invited me in. out on your porch. I'm sitting beside you. I've got an open Bible. In fact I was tempted, I didn't do it and it wasn't real serious a little bit serious. I was tempted to just move the whole platform off and set the platform up like it's a living room. I was tempted to put the chairs and sofa and whatnot and bring one of our deacons or something up there and sit down like I was visiting them. But I was afraid the deacon would fall asleep. And so We didn't do that. But that that's that's my approach. So I want to ask uh I want to make this statement. This message this morning is so important. It's what Easter, it's what the resurrection is all about. And so I want to ask you just for a few moments, if you put aside the cares and issues of the world, and just give me your full attention And I believe God will bless you. I believe it will benefit. Let me have a word of prayer, and we'll get started. Father in heaven, I thank you for Easter Sunday. And what a special day it is, and we can refocus on the fact that you are alive. You came down, you lived on earth. You died for our sins. You were buried. You rose again. You're alive now. You hear me talking, Father, Lord Jesus. You don't only hear me talking now, Lord, you know the thoughts of our minds. And you're here with us. Some of us sense your presence. Others don't know you. They're separated from you because of sin. Lord, we want that separation to be absolved this morning. We want everyone to know you, be in fellowship with you, and experience your leadership, your blessing, and your work in our lives So I yield myself to your Father. I present my body anew. I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. And God, I pray that through me you would teach us from your word how we can be saved and know it. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. First thing I want to ask you. You've invited me in, I'm sitting beside you. I want to ask you this question Do you know for sure? Absolutely for sure. Now don't answer out loud, but do you know for sure That God has forgiven you all your sin, and that when you die, whenever that day is That you will go to heaven and not to hell. Do you know that for sure? Let me ask you this question: Do you ever give that much thought? Do you ever think about heaven and hell? Do you ever think about what your state will be after you die and where you'll spend eternity? Let me ask you another question. Have there been things happening in your life? Listen, have there been things happening in your life recently that have caused you to think about heaven and hell? Have there been events taken place in your life that has prompted you to think about God, about your standing with God? The Bible says that we can know for sure. We can know for sure without a shadow of a doubt. That God has fully forgiven us all our sin, and when we die, we go to heaven and not to hell. The Bible term for that is being saved. Being saved. Romans chapter 10, verse 9 says that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus and believe in thine heart That God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. Now that's what we're talking about Being saved simply means God has forgiven me all my sin. Completely erased the record. And when I die, I go to heaven and I'm saved from going to hell. That's what we mean by being saved. Now I think it's important for us to understand. Now remember, we're sitting in your living room, out on your porch. Where would you rather sit? The living room or the porch? How many people would like to sit in the living room? Raise your hand. How many people would rather be out on the porch? Raise your hand. How many people would be anywhere but here? No. Alright, we're out on the porch. Now remember, keep that setting in your mind. I want to show you from the Bible, sometimes, you know, sometimes folks say something like this to me. They'll say, Pastor Leatherman, I appreciate your concern. Appreciate you coming by the house here, talking about this. But I don't believe it's possible for a person to know That when they die they go to heaven and not to hell. I don't believe it's possible for a person to know that their sins are forgiven. They have to wait until you die. And then you find out whether you made it to heaven or not. The Bible says that we can know for sure. Now. If we were sitting on your porch, I'd take my Bible and we'd turn to these verses. So if you have your Bible there, look at Romans 10, come down to verse 13. Bible says this, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, and we're going to touch on that in just a minute. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord, look at those last words. Shall be saved. Now, God uses words very deliberately. He doesn't say might be saved. He doesn't say can be saved. He says what? Shall be saved. That is an absolute statement. That is a positive statement. Shall be saved. We won't take time, but we could turn to 2 Timothy 1, verse 12, where Paul says this. He says, I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. He says, I am persuaded. That he will keep that which I have committed unto him. In other words, Paul is saying, I've trusted Christ as Savior. And I know, I'm persuaded, there's no doubt in my mind. That my salvation, my eternal destiny that I put in God's hands is secure. I have it settled. Now I do want you to turn to one other verse, and I'm trying to save time here. Come back, if you would, to 1 John. Back in your Bible towards the end, not the Gospel of John. 1 John. Now this for some of our deacons. It's right before 2 John. 1 John And the last chapter, 1 John, maybe you can get with somebody beside. I'd really like for you to see this. To me, this is the clearest, one of the clearest portions of scripture that we can know. That our sins are forgiven completely fully, and when we die, we go to heaven and not to hell. 1 John chapter 5, and I'm going to begin reading in verse 11. Now if we were sitting on your porch, we imagine we're there, sun's out, birds are singing, uh, we're drinking iced tea. And I have my Bible open and I'm reading this to you. Alright? Here it is. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life And this life is in where? His Son. So eternal life, going to heaven when we die, is in Christ. That's what he's saying, Lord Jesus He that hath the Son, what? Hath life. He that hath not the Son of God, what? Hath not light Now look at verse 15. These things have I written unto you, those few statements he just made. Says this is why I'm writing. This is the record that God hath given eternal life. He that hath the Son hath like he hath not son of that. This is why I'm writing it. Verse 15. These things have I written unto you. That believe on the name of the Son of God. Now look very carefully at this. That ye may what know that ye have eternal life And that you may believe on the name of the Son of God. I don't know how you get any clearer than that. I don't know how you can argue with that statement. I don't know how you can come up with any other conclusion than the Bible says that we can know that we have eternal life We don't have to hope so, we don't have to think so, we don't have to wonder, we don't have to say, well, you know, I'll find out when I get to heaven. No, one of the reasons God has given us the Bible is so that we can know now That God has completely forgiven us. And when that day comes, and it's going to come for all of us, when that day comes that we die, we go to heaven to be with the Lord, have eternal life. We don't go to hell. Now we can know that. Now the reason I come by, the reason we're sitting on the porch here, is so that I can show you from the Bible How you can know that and have that. And we come back to the book of Romans. Now, I don't know how familiar you are, perhaps, with the Bible. A lot of people are aware of the fact the Bible's made up of many different books. It's really a library. The books have various themes throughout the Bible. And the book of Romans. The theme of the book of Romans, for the most part, is, and I'm putting it in my own words, how we can be saved and know it How I can have my sins forgiven, be made right with God, and when I die, I don't suffer the judgment I sins for all eternity, but I have eternal life. That's pretty much what the theme of the book of Romans is about And so we can go through the book of Romans very quickly, very easily, and we can find out how we can be saved and know it. The first thing we need to understand is in Romans chapter 3 So we're going to turn back over there. And if I was on your porch, I would have my Bible out. I would turn to Romans chapter three right now And notice I would point out verse number 10. Romans chapter 3 and verse number 10. Now look what it says. As it is written, that's a reference to the Word of God. As it is written, there is none righteous. Now, the Bible could stop right there, and the point would be made. There's none righteous. That statement, how many people are righteous? None. Righteous simply means are completely right with God, have completely lived up To everything God expects from us. Everything God demands, we fully lived up to that. Now, according to that first statement, how many people have lived up to God's demands for mankind? None. Now, as I said, he could stop there and the points made. But he doesn't stop there. As it is written, there is none righteous, then to re-emphasize it, to make sure we understand it. He says, no, not one. Not a rich person, not a poor person. Not an educated person, not an uneducated person. There's not a good person, not a bad person. Oh! Are unrighteous. There's none righteous. No one has lived up to that standard. Now he takes the next several verses, verses uh 11, 12, 13, 14, down on through there. And he kind of elaborates and he gives illustrations. Their tongue is this, their feet have done that, and their feet. And he's describing mankind in general terms. kind of trying to prove or illustrate his statement in verse 10 that there are none righteous. Then you get down to verse 23 and he summarizes this whole passage here, what he's saying. And in verse 23 he says For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. So before we can know we're saved, before we ever get that matter settled, that our sins are forgiven, we die, we go to heaven and not to hell Uh before we have that settled, we need to understand that every single last one of us are sinners. None righteous, not one. All have sinned. Now the question is, what is sin? Sin very and I like to if we were sitting on the porch, maybe right around there, I'd take a sip of iced tea. And I would look to you and I would say, Do you understand what sin is? And I've had every definition in the world given to me about what sin is. This most simple leather, you know, I'm kind of a simple guy. I've got to boil things down. To me, the simplest Understanding of what God means that we've all sinned is that we've done things we ought not to have done, and we haven't done things we ought to have done. Anybody on my level there, you say, well, I can understand that. Yeah. We've done things we ought not to do, and we haven't done things we should do. And the Bible says everybody has done that. The word sin itself means to miss the mark It means we haven't lived up to the requirements that a holy God demands for us to be accepted by Him, for us to go into His presence. He's holy. We're sinners. We haven't lived up to that demand. The Ten Commandments is an expression of God's holiness, what his standard is of acceptance. Not one of us have lived up to the Ten Commandments, not one of us. I like to point out, every now and then I'll have somebody who says, Oh yeah, I know I'm going to heaven. I've kept all the Ten Commandments. You know what I like to do? I like to say, all right, can you quote them to me? You know what I found? Can't quote them. How do you know you've kept them if you don't even know what they are? Well you go. I had a lady in Tennessee one time tell me. I said, do you know for sure you're going to heaven when you die or stands with the hand? She goes, oh yeah, absolutely. I said, how do you know? What gives you that assurance? She goes, I helped my neighbor catch chickens one time. They all got out and I helped her catch chickens. And uh said, Praise the Lord No, we've sinned. We've not lived up to God's command. For all have sinned And come short of the glory of God, the standard that God has established, the holiness that God is, and what is necessary for man to approach Him and to have a relationship with Him. We've come short of that. I enjoy swimming when I don't swim much now anymore, but when I was young, we were avid swimmers. And we would swim and swim and swim. And I felt like I was pretty good. But you know, if we were in the west coast in Southern California and we said, all right, let's swim to Hawaii, some of us could swim farther than others. But none of us could swim that far. And that's kind of the way it is approaching God. Some of us might not be as bad as others. Say, well, I I don't do this and that and a neighbor. He's a Yeah, you might be humanly speaking, you may be a lot better than your neighbor You may be a lot better than your cousin or Uncle Bob or whoever. But the fact of the matter is, it doesn't matter whether you're better than them or not, we've still fallen short of God's glory. None of us have attained that. You say, preacher, what are you saying? I'm saying we're all sinners. Somebody think I'm that bad. I had a guy, another guy in Tennessee I worked with him. He said, I'm not that bad Little boy one was came in, his daddy came home from work. The little boy said, he's just a little five or six-year-old, boy said, Daddy, I'm six feet tall. Daddy said, That's cute, Sonny. Six feet tall, yeah. Supper, the boy said, Daddy, no, really, I'm six feet tall. And the dad said, Yeah, fine, son, six feet tall. He said, Daddy, really, no, really I am. He said, son, you're not six feet tall. You're only five years old. You're only about three foot tall. He says, I'm six feet tall. I can prove it. He says, okay, prove it. Ran over there, got a little stick, and he had written on it, one foot And he measured himself with his stick, and lo and behold, by his standard, he was six feet tall. The problem was he didn't have an accurate standard And you and I can look at ourselves in the mirror and say, you know, I'm not that bad. The problem is you've got the wrong measurement, you've got the wrong yardstick. You got the wrong measurement. We put ourselves next to God's standard, we fall short, we're guilty, we're sinners. For all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Nobody is ever going to make it to heaven until they acknowledge and accept the fact that we've sinned against a holy God. I've broken his law. I am guilty of breaking God's law in sinning. Now, that's usually not too hard for folks to accept. Yeah, I understand. I haven't been older than God wants me to be. I I've sinned. So that's number one. Alright, the Bible says there's a consequence for our sin. If you come over to Romans chapter 6, and if we were sitting on the porch, I'd take another sip. If it tasted any good, the iced tea he gave me, I'd take another sip. And um I'd flip over to Romans chapter 6. Look at verse 23. And I would hold it up in front of you, and I would put my finger under this verse, and it says this, for the wages of sin is what? Death. So this verse is telling us, and this whole passage here elaborates on it, but this verse is telling us that there's a consequence for us being sinners. God isn't just, oh well, nobody's perfect. No, God's holy. His holiness demands there be a consequence for his law being broken. uh huh his his uh holiness being violated and the consequences for us sinning against God is death. Now what we think immediately is physical death and it's included in that but that's not what he's talking about. He's talking about the death of us as a person, not the death of our body And we try and emphasize here, because the Bible is very emphatic, that we, you and I, are not a body. We have a body. We are a soul. We inhabit this body. The soul is human what we are. And so when he's talking about death here in Romans 6:23, he's not talking about our heart-stopping beating and our physical death. He's talking about death of us as a person, our soul. You say, well, what is that? Is that deceased to exist? No. It's separation from God. James tells us that death is separation. When the soul leaves the body, the body's dead. Soul leaves the body, the body's dead. So there's a separation. When there's separation of body and soul, the body dies. So what does it mean for the soul to be dead? The soul to be dead is separation from its source of life, God. The wages of sin is death. Spiritual death is when I am separated from God. It is possible to be alive and be dead. You can be alive physically, but dead spiritually. In fact, every person until they're saved is alive physically but dead spiritually. That's why Jesus told Nicodemus in John chapter 3, ye must be born what? Again. Not physically, that was settled. But you need to be born spiritually. You're done alive spiritually. You're separated from God. You're spiritually dead. You need that spiritual life given to you. So the wages of our sin Is death. Physical death, yes, but that's not what he's talking about. Spiritual death. Now, what is spiritual death? As I said, spiritual death is separation from God. And here's the thing. If I die physically in that condition, I am separated from God forever and ever and ever and ever. The only time I have opportunity to get spiritual life is while my body is still alive. Once my body dies, once my spirit and body are separated, I have no more opportunity to gain spiritual life. And I am separated from God for all eternity. Now, Jesus used some very descriptive language to try and teach people what that means. His term for being separated from God for all eternity was the term hell. Now today it's a curse word. You can't hardly go a day without hearing somebody reference hell in a blasphemous way. But when Jesus used the term hell, he was describing the condition of a person who dies in their sins, a person who experiences the wages of their sin. Spiritual death, separation from God, the body dies, they go to hell. And then he describes hell. Number one, it's unpleasant. This understatement of the day. It's horrific. It's a place, he said, of outer darkness, of eternal fire, a place where you do not ever cease to exist. So the wages of our sin, the consequences, the results of us violating a holy God's law. Is separation from God. And if we die in that condition, if we die in our sins, we're separated from God for all eternity in a horrific place called hell. According to the Bible, that's what we deserve. According to the Bible, that's what we deserve. But nobody in their right mind wants to go to hell. I've never had anybody seriously in their right mind say, Preacher Leatherman, I would like to go to hell when I die. Nobody's ever told me that. I mean some people in mocking have said that, but not seriously. It's too serious. And here's the good news. This is what brings it all together. God doesn't want you to go to hell either. No person in their right mind wants to die and go to hell for all eternity, suffering the judgment of God and the presence of the devil and his angels. Nobody wants to do that. And God doesn't want anybody to do that either. And the rest of verse 23 in chapter 6, if you'll notice, the wage of sin is death, but the gift of God. Is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. God says escaping hell and having eternal life, going to heaven, having my sins forgiven, is a gift. A gift. If somebody gives you a gift, you don't pay for it, it would cease to be a gift, it would become a purchase. If somebody gives you a gift, you don't work for it, it would cease to be a gift, it would become a payment A gift is something that is offered to me. I accept it, I receive it, I take it to be my own without any remuneration. Of time, of finances, of effort, of abilities, anything. It's mine fully and freely. I just accept it and take possession of it. And that's what God says eternal life is. That's what God says, escaping hell, going to heaven, being saved from the judgment of God on my sin is a gift that He offers to me. Now, how does he do that? Through, what's the last part of the verse say? Through Jesus Christ our Lord. We go back to Romans, we were on the porch. I'd turn back to Romans 5. 8. It says, but God commendeth, that means he proved his love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died. What's that next word? For us. He was our substitute. He on that cross 2,000 years ago suffered the judgment for my sins Every word that has come out of my mouth that ought not to have come out of my mouth, every word that should have come out of my mouth that hasn't come out of my mouth, every deed my hands have done, every place my feet have gone, every thought my mind has thought That was displeasing to God. That was against the holiness of God. Jesus suffered the wages of that sin for me and for you. You say, preacher, I've done some things that are pretty bad. Jesus paid it all. The blood of Jesus Christ his son, 1 John 1:7 tells us, cleanses us from all sin. So the way Jesus, the way we can escape hell and the judgment of our sin and be forgiven. The way that's a gift that God offers it to us is because Jesus paid for that gift. He suffered hell as our substitute and our place He paid the wages of our sin is death. So God says, Hey, this eternal life, this this forgiveness and escape from hell and uh uh eternal life in heaven Jesus paid the punishment for your sins. I have it here to offer it to you. It's a gift Now just because Jesus died on the cross, oh by the way, when he died on the cross, they took him down, buried him, and he rose again the third day Now, we proved that in Sunday school this morning, that Jesus rose from the dead. Just because Jesus died on the cross, was buried, and rose again, doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. Somebody says, oh good, now we're all going to heaven. No, no, no, no, no. God doesn't take anyone to heaven that is not willing to accept what he's done for them. Follow what I'm saying? Turn over, if you would, to chapter 10, where we started. This is where we're going to end for the most part. And look at verse 13, chapter 10, verse 13. Notice what it says. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord be saved. Again, just like verse 9, shall be saved. Very emphatic. So just because Jesus died on the cross is buried and rose again, doesn't mean everybody's going to heaven. God offers the gift of eternal life. It's a gift, He's offering it to us. We can accept that forgiveness and that home in heaven and receive it freely, take it to be our own possession, or we can say no thanks. I'm going to try and work my way there. I'll try and be good enough. I'm not interested. I'm not worried about that. And you can walk away from it. Or you can accept it and say, you know, I am concerned about where I spend eternity. I am concerned that God forgives me. I am concerned that I don't go to hell. I'd like to have that gift. How do you get it Where do I go to get this gift of eternal life? Do I go to the baptistry? Look at Romans 10. 13. Does it say anything about baptism there? For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Doesn't say whosoever shall be baptized. Now, if a person gets saved, they ought to get baptized. But that's not what saves them. Look look at the verse real carefully. Does it say, For whosoever shall be faithful to church shall be saved? No, it doesn't say that. There's not a church in the world that can save someone from hell. There's not a church or a priest or anyone else that can forgive another man's sin. Only God can do that. What's it say? For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall, not might, not Ken, shall be saved. So how do I receive this gift? I call on the Lord Say, what in the world? What's his phone number? How do you do that? It's very simple. Let's suppose You're driving home today. I want to illustrate what that term call means. Let's suppose you're driving home from church and um uh you're heading home and you come around a corner and lo and behold, here's a house engulfed in flame I mean the thing is burning. And you pull over, you grab your phone out, say, good night, 911, and you're starting to call and um And you look up and there's somebody in the window, and there's smoke billowing out the window. There's flames coming out the roof above them on the second floor. There's flames coming out the windows below them And they're crying out, help, save me, help, save me. What are they doing? They're calling on someone to rescue them from dying and burning up. And you jump out and they see you. Hey! Save me! Save me! What are they doing? They're looking to you. They're depending on you. They're trusting you to do for them what they cannot do for themselves. They can't get out of this thing. If they jump there on the ground, they'll die. They go back in, they'll be burned. They're trusting, depending on somebody saving them from burning that. That's exactly what Romans 10:13 means. For whosoever, anybody, doesn't matter what you've done, doesn't matter what your past is, how much you know or don't know, for whosoever shall call. Lord, I'm a sinner. I've broken your law. I've broken your standards. I'm guilty. According to your word, I deserve to die and go to hell. I don't want to go to hell, God. I'm calling on you to forgive me and save me. I'm trusting you to do for me what I cannot do for myself. And God says when we do that, He'll forgive us. He'll save us from hell. He'll give us a new life. He'll take us to heaven when we die. Say, it's that easy? Hey, person out the window, they're about to burn up. Help, save me! Oh, I heard that. Yikes, that person needs to be saved. Is that all they had to do? Was call? That's all they had to do. Get their attention. Call, save me. That's the way it is with. And I suggest to you that God is leaning over the edge of heaven. And he's looking and watching and waiting for folks to call on him, to trust him, to forgive them and save them from sin and hell. God has done everything he can to keep us out of hell, it's up to us to accept it or reject it. Now when Jesus died on the cross, he died for you and me right the way we are. Our sins, the stuff, the garbage we've said. The wicked places we've gone, the sinful thoughts we've had, he died for all of that, just the way we are. Because he loves us. It's buried and rose again. And since he was willing to do that for you and for me, would you be willing to call on him? Lord, I'm trusting you, depending on you to come in my life and forgive me, save me from sin and hell. And God says when we do that, He will save us. And we can know it. Let's bow our heads. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. You've agreed with me that you've agreed with God's word that you're a sinner. We all are. You believe Jesus died on that cross for your sins, was buried, and rose again. You believe that. You say, yes, I believe that's true. I believe he did it for me And because he did that for you this morning, you're willing to say Jesus. You're willing to call on him and trust him for eternal life. Then I ask you to pray this prayer with me. It's not magic words, it's not some hocus pocus. You've got to mean it in your heart. Believe in your heart. And what I'm going to pray, I'll give you a little heads up with our heads bowed, eyes closed. What I'm going to pray is I'm simply going to lead a prayer, and you join in with me. You're welcome you to join in with me, admitting to God that you're a sinner. Acknowledging to God you believe Jesus died for your sins and rose again, and calling on Him now, trusting Him to forgive you, to give you eternal life, and a home in heaven, escape hell. Now here's the prayer. Heads abound, eyes are closed. I invite you to pray this with me. So you can know. If you've never done this, you can know. Here it is. In your heart, between you and God, dear Lord Jesus. I know I'm a sinner. I believe you died for my sins and rose again. I'm calling on you now to forgive me and save me for Jesus' sake. Amen. Amen. Now there are heads bound, eyes closed. If you just prayed that prayer with me just now, heads bound and eyes closed. You preacher I prayed that, I meant it with all my heart. Would you slip your hand up right where you are? Is there any like that? Preacher, I just prayed that prayer. I meant it with all my heart. How about it? Just hold it up. Any at all? God bless you. How about it? Any others? Anyone else? Say, Preacher, I just now meant it with all my heart. I prayed that prayer. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Preacher, I prayed that prayer and I meant it. God bless you. And God bless you. How about it? Preacher, I'm not ashamed. Jesus died for me. I'm not ashamed that I trusted him. How about it? Anyone else pray that prayer with me? Now I'd like for you to look up here at me with me just a moment. If you want everybody, just look on up here at me with me just a moment. Romans 10, 13 says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Now remember, we're sitting on your porch. We're still there. Romans 1013 says, Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. If you prayed that prayer with me, you just now called on the name of the Lord, right? You just did what that verse said. According to that verse, if you died now, where would you go? Heaven. If you call on the name of the Lord, you shall be saved. Saved from what Into hell. You come up a couple verses. It says, Whosoever believeth in him should not be ashamed. You know, when Jesus died on that cross, here's a little known fact: he was crucified naked. Shame. Brutal. Now, if he was willing to do that so that I could escape hell and go to heaven, surely I would not be ashamed. To confess that I trusted him as my personal Savior. Does that make sense? Somebody would do that for me, and I've accepted that. Surely I'd not be ashamed to say, you know, I've trusted him I believe in Jesus. I confess with my mouth the Lord Jesus Christ. I'm not ashamed of the fact he saved me from sin. Hell I deserved it And that's where we all come in. Whether we've just trusted Christ this morning or whether we have 15, 20 years ago, we ought not to be ashamed of the fact that we've put our trust in a living Savior. Who died for us and rose again. And we need to share that message with others. And we need to live for the Lord, not to stay saved, but because we're saved. Does that make sense? Father, bless our invitation now, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. And God spoke your heart. Maybe you prayed that prayer with me Maybe your burden is to share the message of the gospel with others. Maybe there's some areas in your Christian life that you just need to bring to God as the piano plays. Why don't you slip on out Why don't you come to an altar and say, Lord, maybe if you prayed that prayer, you can come to an altar and say, God, I just prayed that prayer. I just trust in you. Thank you for hearing me and saving me. Maybe you're here this morning say, I didn't pray that prayer. You know, I still got some questions about all of this. We invite you to come. We got folks can show you from the Bible how that can be settled How you don't have to go through life hoping and thinking whether you're accepted of God or not, whether you're forgiven for that sin or not. You can know Why don't you come on? Maybe there's some folks this morning. You have somebody that needs Christ, a family member, a friend, a neighbor. The most powerful thing you can do for them is pray, pray, pray, pray. God opens their heart, saves their soul, changes their life. Once a person's been saved Normally if I'm on someone's porch or somewhere I would come back at another time say trusted Christ and explain about baptism. Doesn't save us, doesn't keep us saved, but it's a testimony to the fact that we've been saved Maybe you trusted Christ, you've not so important. Church membership, all these things are part of our spiritual growth Thank you, Father in heaven, for speaking our hearts and have your way in our lives, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. You may be seated The ushers are coming down to take our offering up, and while they're coming, I want to remind any visitors with us about the uh guest card here. If you have a moment, fill that out real quick, drop that in the offering plate And again, any prayer requests you might have or whatnot we'll be uh glad to pray with you. We have a number of requests that were turned in because