I don't think it's hyperbole for me to say that we literally, I'm not speaking figuratively, I'm not being uh speaking hyperbole. I think we are at the precipice of losing some freedoms, perhaps a way of life that we count very dear. If we're not on the precipice of losing it, it's going to change so as to be unrecognizable from what we have experienced in the past. I really believe with the changes in our culture, and when I say culture, I just I don't just mean our American culture and Hollywood You know, I'm I I personally have come to the place where I'm tired of blaming everybody else for where we are. Uh our church cultures. We've walked away from the Word of God. We've walked away from the responsibility of being salt and light in our communities in a general sense. I'm not saying you here, but I am saying that. Really, the the issue lies at the door of the church as much as it does at the door of the government uh square. I have people all the time saying to me, preacher, you guys talk too much about political things in church. And I just want you to know I love you, but if you're if that's your mindset, I could not disagree with you more. And we'll agree to disagree, but I think the quietness that the church has exercised over the last decades is the reason we are where we are. And I'd want to be very clear when I speak about these things, I'm not talking about politically. I've never endorsed a candidate in a church. We'll never endorse a candidate. I've never tried to tell somebody who to vote for, won't try to tell you who to vote for. But I am weary of the strategy of the devil and the strategy of the secular mindset that in church we are never to talk about issues that the world has determined political. Life is not a political issue. The sacredness of life is a biblical issue. And the most vulnerable in life need for us to raise our voice in defense of them. They can't speak for themselves. I'm not only talking about the child in the womb. I'm talking about something that all of us are approaching, and that is the vulnerability of old age. At some point, will they count us as useless as the baby in the womb? Life is an important issue. It's a biblical issue, and God tells us to be very careful about life. Marriage is not a political issue. Marriage is a Bible issue. One man, one woman for one lifetime. And God is very serious about marriage, and our silence on the issue I think has allowed for, we didn't cause it, but our silence has allowed for the deterioration of the home in America to where it's unrecognizable We don't even know how to define a home. We don't know whether it is two men, two women. We don't know whether it is a single mom. And by the way, let me say this. The group of people in America that have my greatest respect is a mom who has been left to raise her children Be father and mother to her children, provider and protector to her children, while her husband has no interest, or her ex or whatever has no interest. in raising her child. God bless single moms who try to do the best they can do in raising their families. But I'm just telling you, our silence on the issue has allowed it to progress to where it is. We've gone past the home now. Now we can't decide what a man or a woman is. I just want to be very clear this morning. Our culture may not be able to decide on it. God's real clear on it. God knows exactly what a man and what a woman is. All I'm suggesting is those are not political issues, they're Bible issues. Integrity in our government is not a political issue, it's a Bible issue. Anti-Semitism, the hatred of race, is not a political issue. It's a Bible issue. And here's my point. If the church is not salt and light in the community, who is? Who will be? Who will speak the truth into our communities if it's not heard from our pulpits and from our pews? And so all I'm urging you to do this morning, and I'll try to be Clear in what I do, I want to answer two questions. Number one, how did we get here Both songs that were sung this morning by the wonderful men's group and by the choir address the issue that America has moved. We're not where we once were. The values that we once held are no longer universally held The principles that our nation were founded upon are no longer the principles that govern the direction of our nation. What Happened. Where did that go? And I would suggest that a lot of the fault of that lies at the front door of the church. Let me try to explain what happened. Turn with me to Proverbs 14, verse 34, as our text. One verse, and yet it says so clearly how we have gotten where we have gotten. It's a familiar verse. Proverbs 14, verse 34, and it simply says this: Righteousness exalteth a nation. But sin is a reproach to any people. That's not philosophy That's not some man's opinion. That's a principle that God set forth. Let's consider it. Pray with me. Father, we thank you for the few moments that you've given us this morning. And I pray that you would speak into our lives today and help us to see what has brought us in our nation from where we were to where we are. And Lord, what is our responsibility to move back to where we were How do we fix it? What do we do? Is there hope? And yes, there is. Speak to our hearts, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Every great empire, every great nation, if you will, that has ever risen has risen and reigned, but in the end has failed because of one reason, because of sin. If you look at Egypt, it fell under the weight of its own idolatry. Babylon was undone by its cruelty and its immorality. Media Persia by its excess. Greece, removed because of its worship of the sensual. Rome, because of its lust for wealth and power and pleasure, speaks to all of us. In essence, what I'm saying is that sin destroyed every great power that has ever ruled this earth. Now, let me be very clear. I understand the sovereignty of God. I understand that God allows powers to be raised up. I also understand that God is responsible for taking powers down. It may look like man rules and reigns, but make no mistake about it, God still rules, alright? But in that economy of what reigns and what does not, God allows righteousness to take men to the top, but he also allows for sin to take men and nations to the bottom. I want you to notice what he says here Righteousness exalteth a nation. Concentrate on righteousness. There's a word that we don't hear our politicians speak very often. Righteousness. Well, we hear them talk about fairness, but understand that fairness is a man-centered thing. It's a man-decided thing. I hear them speak of tolerance, but I only see them exercise it towards their chosen philosophy I hear them speak of diversity and equity, but when they speak of equity, they don't mean equal opportunity. They mean equal outcome. And to achieve equal outcome, you must be brought down as others are brought up so that we are all the same. Can I give you another name for that? That's called socialism and communism. However, righteousness is an exclusive word that carries a great deal of truth behind it. You see, righteousness implies an absolute. It implies that there is something right and there is something wrong. There is some sovereign who decides what is right and what is wrong, and get this It ain't us. One of the things our world hates is the exclusivity of truth. When there is truth, absolute truth, then anything but truth is wrong. And our world functions on the philosophy of relativism. There is no absolute truth, our world says. There is only what I decide is truth. There's my truth. And there's your truth. And I want you to accept my truth. But God says, no, no, no. I'm sovereign There is an absolute. There is righteousness. And because there is righteousness, there is unrighteousness. May God help us to understand that in the end of things we do not settle up with another man's experience. We settle up with God. Who has set the standard of righteousness? I remind every person in this room that it's true not only for nations, it's true for individuals. And there's going to be a day when all of us will stand before the Lord. And when we stand before the Lord, it will do us no good to say, well, here's what I thought. Because we will not be judged by what our experience was or by what our thought process was. We will be judged by the standard of God. And my book of Revelation still tells me that when we stand before God, the books were opened. And they're not the books of Marks, and they're not the books of the philosophers of the day, they're the books of God. I think God is first of all going to open his Bible. And he's going to say, I revealed myself to you. I provided knowledge of who I was, and I told you what right was and what wrong was and I told you that I loved you and that I sent my son to redeem you and I told you that by faith You could look to his work on Calvary, and I would receive you. You could be saved. And then he's going to open the book of works. My works. And it makes me shudder. It makes me uh sober to think that God has recorded every deed in my life. I may try to forget them. I may try to cover them up. I may not want any of you to ever know them. God has recorded every deed in my life. And you know one of the deeds he recorded, not works, but one of the moments in my life that he recorded He recorded February 1975 when I fell on my knees before him and said, You are right. I am a sinner. And I have no power within myself to change what I am, and I acknowledge that my sin separates me from you. But I'm trusting what you sent your son to do. Then Jesus came and died on a cross and in a tran a transaction I don't fully understand. My sins were placed on him and his righteousness was placed on me and when God looks at me he no longer sees my sin He sees the righteousness of his son. And then he opens that third book, the book of life. And he says, hey, there you are. And then he looks back at the book of deeds, and you know what? There's a red blot. Over all my sin. And he no longer remembers them. And they're no longer accounted to me. They've been accounted to the Lord. Listen, I didn't make that up. That's God's truth. And the only righteousness I will ever achieve is the imputed righteousness that Christ gives to me. But that's God's standard. Is there righteousness? Yes, there is. There is God's righteousness that He will place upon us when we humble ourselves and confess the truth that we have none of our own. And you know what? That righteousness has done something in my life It lifted me out of the miry clay. It set my feet upon a solid rock. It put a new song in my heart. And to be honest with you, not one day have I been perfect since. And every day since I've got saved, I've had to confess sin and failure. But since that time, my life has been moving up. You know why? Because righteousness exalteth. Isn't that what our verse says? Righteousness exalteth a nation. Righteousness brought me out of the miry pit. It is a principle, it is truth, that righteousness also exalteth a nation. A nation. There's very little doubt that America is or was an exalted nation. We are materially the most blessed people the world has ever seen. I know there's poverty, but our poverty in most nations across the world would be considered great wealth. I'm not trying to make us feel bad. I'm not trying to talk silly. I'm just telling you the truth. God has blessed our nation. God has made us to be a world power. God did that. I sometimes have to answer to people, well, you know why America is blessed. We're blessed because We were isolated because of the Pacific Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean. And I want you to know that we're not blessed because we were isolated by the Pacific Ocean and the Atlantic Ocean. Well, America's blessed because They had great natural resources. Oh my goodness. They had places to grow food and they had gold and metals and they had Everything, rivers, they had all that they needed. They just geographic. We're not blessed because we had rivers and and metals and and food places We're not blessed because we've got great armies. I'm for them. But they're not the source of our blessing. God is the source of our blessing. And God is the source of our blessing because in our birth we exalted God. We honored God. Righteousness? I don't mean perfect righteousness. I don't mean that angels or Jesus wrote the Constitution. But I am saying to you, men that honored God in their thinking, wrote the Constitution. You say some of them were deists. Yeah, I know. They weren't saved men, but they knew there was a God And they honored the Lord and they respected his word and they wrote into our documents the principles that raised us. And we are not America because of our armies or our natural resources or our geography. We are America, because in the beginning we were good, and God bless us good. Boy, and that explanation is why we are experiencing what we are now. Because God blesses righteousness, God exalts righteousness, but sin is a reproach to any people. Surely as righteousness exalts a nation, sin destroys it. And that's the process, that's the direction of America. I'll speak just from my own experience. I was born, I was a baby of the World War II age. My father fought in World War II, came home, married my mom, and and uh had my brother and I. And and I can remember living back in conservative Cincinnati. We were Kentucky uh from Kentucky, but moved to Cincinnati for work. I I can remember things. I I can remember as a child, please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I never met a divorced couple. And if I d and if you did, it was it was something they went through. It was in a sad setting, not eh In my experience, I never met a homosexual as a boy. I know they existed. But they were never prominent. We were not a Christian family. We did not go to church, but we respected people that did. And on the few occasions that we did, it was a big deal. I mean we dressed up to go to church and we went and were respectful in those things and and we we believed that we were We were very respectful towards our government. We went to a school. I went to a school where I had a number of teachers that read the Bible every morning at the beginning of school. I went to an elementary school that the principal prayed over the loudspeaker right after we got under our desk to protect us from a nuclear bomb. You know, that was a good strategy. But then it started to change. And we noticed more and more that things were changing. And that marriage wasn't as sacred as it was, and life wasn't as sacred as it was And just over my lifetime, we have come from that, what I call my Mayberry lifetime. We've come from Mayberry to Babylon. And the truth is now we don't know what a home is, and now we don't know what a marriage is, and we don't know what a man or a woman is, and and the truth is we we We've come to the place, and and you're going to see it, where we're the problem. I can take you to England, where our heritage for a nation is, and they're being arrested, literally arrested and imprisoned for speaking out against LGBTQ. Same in Canada. How far for us? That's why I'm saying it's not hyperbole. I'm not trying to be negative. I'm not trying to be scary. I'm just saying what happened? I'll tell you what happened. I remember when they uh disallowed my teacher to read the Bible. I remember when they stopped praying over the loudspeaker. I remember and warned about when you couldn't have the Ten Commandments on the wall. at the schoolhouse or the courthouse. I remember when they started taking God out of everything in the marketplace. Oh, you preachers, you're just, you just want the ten comes. You just want this And you just no, it was the direction we took God out. And when you took God out You let man in. And man knew no depths and no bounds, and now we have immoral politicians We have literally we question integrity in every facet of our government Why? Because we took the standard of righteousness and removed it, and sin destroys every nation. Well, we still acknowledge God sometimes by name, but it's not the God of the Bible. And what we're experiencing today is the reproach of a people who have forgotten God. We took God out of our daily lives, and now God has allowed us to go our own direction. There was a time when God was forgotten by Israel. And They had assumed that they were always God's chosen and that God would never allow them to fall. But there was a time when they actually did fall. They were taken off in captivity to Babylon, and God in his mercy allowed some to go back and Nehemiah was one of those, and when they got back, he had the desire to rebuild the walls. But listen to what he says in chapter 1. They said unto me, the remnant that are left of the captivity there in the province are in great affliction and reproach. The wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned with fire. Did you hear that word, reproach? They had lost their standing, they had lost their safety, and now they find themselves reproach They no longer are the exalted nation. They no longer have their beautiful temple. Their walls are crumbled. Their safety is gone. Their standing is gone. They are literally ridiculed by the people that stand around them. They are the objects to be pilfered and stolen from. The safety is gone all because they forgot. God. They just took God out. It's amazing to me when I read of Josiah that un Josiah And by the way, he was the last king that God blessed. But even in that time, the temple was in disrepair. And it stands out to me, they had lost the book. It was amazing to Josiah that they found the book. Here's the king of Judah, David's tribe, and they don't even know where the Bible went. That's where we are. And my friend, sometimes we get lost in the thought of politics. We're not here Because of politics, politics is the symptom of why we're here. We're here because we forgot God. And because we allowed him to be taken out of the public square, the public school, the public courthouse, the public hearing. And we sat quietly within our walls because we wouldn't we didn't want to be political And the truth is we stopped being salt and light. I love what Nehemiah did. Nehemiah said, We're going to rebuild these walls. And you remember what the results of rebuilding the walls were? They were hated. Man, they had enemies, Sanbala, Tobiah. Oh man, they ridiculed them, they hated them, they tried to stop them. In every way they tried But it came down to this. It came down to Nehemiah saying, We're building these walls back. We're going to stand for what is right. And with a trowel in one hand and a sword in the other They rebuilt the wall. And if we were ever, if we needed an image of where we are today in our culture You can sit around and cry, you can sit around and moan, you can sit around and blame, you can tell everybody it's the Democrats' fault. It's the Republicans' fault. It's the independent's fault. You can tell them it's the big city's fault. It's somebody's fault. I know that, but I know the symptom. The symptom is that we were once a nation that honored God And we forgot God and we now are no longer an exalted nation because we forgot God's sin came in and took his place in our public square, and now we are coming into the place of being a reproach. Where people once feared us, not because of who we are, but because they knew God's hand was on us, they no longer fear us. Because God's hand is no longer on us. And so what are you preaching, preacher? I'm almost there and almost done. You preaching that that we ought to get a sword And take this thing by force? Yes, I well no, I'm not preaching a so I'm not preaching that, but I am preaching we got a sword. And I am preaching that these biblical values are what exalted America. It wasn't George Washington's prowess as a general. It was not our natural resources. It wasn't that we were better fighters. It was God. It was God. And when these principles were honored, we were exalted. And when these principles were put away We became a reproach. We're in the process of becoming a reproach. So you say, preacher, what are you advocating? I am advocating this. I don't have a trowel and a sword, but I've got a Bible and a ballot. And I'm going to vote my ballot not according The fact that my parents were in a political party and I'm in a political party. And I think he's good looking. I don't like how they look. And I think he makes promises and they make pro I'm going to put these values down on this ballot. And if a man or a woman says that a baby can be killed on the delivery table, and call it an abortion, they're not getting my vote. And if a man says that marriage is not a man or a woman And if a man says that it's okay for a man to get dressed in the woman's locker room or to beat up a woman in a boxing match, or that there's no difference between I'm not voting on that. Because God gave me a Bible and a ballot, and God allowed me to be born in this nation, and I have a responsibility, I have a stewardship to make sure that my ballot represents biblical values. I don't care if it's a D or an R or an I I don't care what their personality is, I don't care what their promises are. If they don't line up with my biblical values, I'll register that on my ballot. Say, preacher, you think there's hope? Of course there's hope. Man, the enemy was at the gate when Hezekiah spread the prayer sheet out. Josiah was all but gone when he found the book and restored to Israel what needed to be restored. Nehemiah was out there with a trowel and a and a sword Doing all he could, but God bless, God bless us when we remember God. That's our hope. You say, well, and I'm done. You just don't understand, preacher. We're just one person The greatest ills that have ever happened on this earth have been when people who thought what they did was just a little, so they did nothing. We cannot choose to do nothing. If you're not registered, get registered. Vote early. But vote. Take somebody with you. Why, you're just, you want somebody to be elected. No, I want God to be honored because righteousness exalts and sin destroys. And you and I have a stewardship, a responsibility to represent on that ballot the values of the Bible. And God help us do it. May we join in prayer and ask God to do what we cannot do by ourselves, but to multiply. our efforts and our vision for restoring God to our marketplace. Would you pray with me? Father, would you convict us this morning? Not about a political party, not about a candidate, but about your values. Lord, would you speak to our hearts about doing what we know is right to do, and that is to be active, to be salt and light in our community, to speak truth into this darkness. And Lord, would you help us in our lives to restore what we can do to vote biblical values But Lord, it's beyond that. If we expect a nation to be right, then we've got to be right And not from hearts that just want a political outcome, but from hearts that want to be right with you We can't ask for prayer to be put back in the public schools if we don't even pray ourselves. We can't ask for great blessings when we're unwilling to sacrifice ourselves So, Lord, I pray that you would help us to understand that revival for righteousness does not start in the public square, it starts in our own hearts. And may we turn to you. May we repent of taking for granted the blessings we have. May we repent of sometimes forgetting you in our own hearts. Being independent of you. Lord, may we turn to you and be salt and light I pray for those who are here today that may be unsaved. Lord, I pray that you would speak into their lives because Righteousness will build their life. It will lift them out of the place they are. It will bless them. It will bring your favor to their life. But Lord, if they're ever to be saved, they've got to acknowledge their sin that is a reproach, that has ruined where they are. And if there's one here today that's unsaved, oh God, would you convince them of their need of Jesus Christ? Convince them that yes, they are sinners, but if they'll turn to him, they can have sin forgiven. They can have the righteousness of your Son. Lord, every one of us will stand there at some point, either at the Bhima. are at the great white throne. And there at the great white throne, no excuse, no hard life, nothing but the standard that you've set will be judged. So Lord, I pray that you would speak into the lives of lost people today and help them to see their need. God, help us. to pray for revival in our nation by praying for revival in our own hearts to be the salt and light we need to be. We thank you for it in Jesus' name. Amen. Would you quietly