Number four with me. It's a good day today, wasn't it? Amen. Praise the Lord. I'm always excited for the Lord's Day and um such a blessing to be a part of the family of God. James chapter 4. We're preaching our way through the book of James. I don't know if if anyone else is getting anything out of it, but I sure have enjoyed studying this book. And um preparing these messages helped me tremendously. And we trust that God is using it in the lives of people. We appreciate Everyone that has a part around here especially appreciate, I tell you, I just really appreciate uh Robin and her whole family all these years. Shortly after we showed up, they started coming here and stuck it out and taught faithfully for what twenty-one, twenty Some yeah. So yeah, counting the previous church um for forty, fifty years I would say, probably. At least Look at James chapter four. I just want to read verse number seven. Maybe if you could back me down just a little bit, Dave. Uh verse seven. The Bible says, submit yourselves therefore to God. Excuse me, submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil. And he will flee from you. How to chase away the devil. How many people like the idea of chasing the devil away? Man, praise the Lord. Well God tells us how to do that here. So let's pray and we'll look at what the Lord says here. Father in heaven, bless Our time in your word now as we look at this one simple verse. And I pray that our hearts and minds would be open. We'd be willing to do, and uh we willing to do, Lord, what you instruct us to do in this passage. And uh my what peace we could have and how many struggles we could avoid if we just do what you say and chase that old devil away from us. Lord, I present my body and yield my will to you again tonight, pleading with you, Lord, to fill me with your spirit that you would teach through us. And uh Lord, it'd be wonderful to have a devil-free week. And um and uh we could just walk with you and uh give you the glory. So bless, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. It's been a number of years ago. In fact, it was way back when folks first started getting on the internet, and we made a decision we were going to try and make a purchase of something on the internet. And um I'm gonna say my wife did it, I'll blame her, but uh she bought something on the internet, I don't know if it was her or which of us. But anyway, after that purchase, we noticed on our bank account that each month there was a $25 withdrawal that went to some place that we never heard of. And the first time I saw it and I thought, well Uh maybe Kathy bought something I didn't know about. Then the next month it showed up again. I thought, what in the world is this? And I did a little research and uh lo and behold, when that we had made that purchase. Now this was early on before PayPal and a lot of these secure things we didn't know. And um lo and behold, on that purchase in small print somewhere on there We had unwittingly given them permission to charge us twenty-five dollars a month for nothing. Just they could withdraw and we didn't realize that and after phone calls with the bank and with this organization and threats and and thunderings and uh all this stuff. We finally got that off and got that thing away from us. And uh but they were very literally stealing From our account every month, this $25 or something along that. James here is addressing some Christians who the devil had been stealing from them some things. If you remember, we looked in verse number 1 through 6, and what was happening was the devil was in a very real way stealing their peace from them They were fighting and fussing and going on and just not getting along. See that there in verse 1? Comes wars and fightings among you. The devil was stealing their peace from them And then he comes down a little bit later, verse second part of verse 1 through verse 3. He was stealing their contentment. They just wanted and wanted and wanted. They could never get just contented. And so the devil was stealing that, their peace, their contentment. He stole their friendship with God in verse number four. They became friends with the world. And any Christian that's a friend of the world is the Enemy of God, as the Bible says. And so he addressed that. They sold the peace of the Holy Spirit. Verse 5. The Holy Spirit was lusting to envy. And there was that battle going on in their lives between the flesh and the spirit, and that conflict taking place. And so what was happening was, I believe, particularly in with the considering verse number seven, the devil was wreaking havoc in their lives. The devil was stealing their peace and stealing their joy and destroying their testimony. Now, I would like for you to find, keep your place here, but come over to 1 Peter. Right after James, the next book, going back in your Bible. And a familiar verse for many of us. In fact, we memorized it as a church not too awful long ago. 1 Peter chapter 5. And notice verse number 8. Now, if you're in a habit of underscoring verses in your Bible, this is one that I highly recommend. 1 Peter chapter 5 and verse number 8. It's very instructive. In fact I'm going to go ahead and read verse 9. We're going to come back to verse 9 in a little bit, but I want to read it right now. Verse 8 and 9 of 1 Peter chapter 5. Notice the Bible says, be sober Be vigilant. Why? Because your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. Whom resist steadfast in the faith. Sounds like James 4. 7, doesn't it? Resist steadfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world. Here Peter, under the inspiration of God, is confirming what James was saying, that the devil is out to destroy our testimony, to steal our joy, to destroy our witness. And our peace with God. If a person is saved any length of time, now I think I can get you to agree with me on this one. How many folks here are saved and you know it? Say amen. If you're saved any length of time, you know, uh you uh any length of time, you know the devil has attacked. Right? Anybody here ever experienced the devil's attacks on your life? Anybody at all? Sure, you've been saved any length of time. Either in tempting us to sin, getting us to be selfish. Maybe causing us to doubt the things of God, maybe discouraging us one one way or another. The devil does anything he can to get us out of the will of God Now somebody had asked, I heard a preacher mention this a number of years ago, and uh I think he had a point. Somebody had asked, does the devil have a will? for the Christians life. God has a will. We know God's will. We God has a will for each of us. Does the devil have a will? Is there something he wants us to do? I want to suggest to you, and I uh this is what the preacher suggests, and I agree with him. The devil doesn't have a will for your life. All he wants you to do is not do God's will. As long as you don't do God's will, the devil's satisfied. He's not out to make everybody a crackhead You don't care whether you're a crackhead or not as long as you're not doing what God wants you to do. See what I'm saying? He don't want you to be a uh necessary be an adulterer or a murderer or something like that. Now if he gets you to do that, great. But as long as you're not doing God's will, you're exactly where the devil wants you to be. As long as you're not doing God's will, you're doing exactly what the devil wants you to do. And so if we've been saved, then you like to tell how many folks here ever were in a revival service or maybe you had a good Sunday and God stirred your heart and you came out of the revival meeting or you came out of Sunday service, Sunday night, and you're back from the altar and you head out heading home and you just feel like God really did a work in my heart today. I really made some good decisions Lord really stirred me. I feel like I'm tight with God. I'm close to the Lord. And within 24 hours, the devil had you lying on your back. Anyone know what I'm talking about? I like what Lester Ross said. He said, if there isn't any devil, then who's doing all this devilry? It's a good question. And so here We have God's formula, God's plan for chasing the devil away, getting him to flee, getting him to take off. Now, I'll tell you this, we're no match for the devil, are we? We're no match. I was reading um about Alexander the Great, and we're all familiar with him in according to the history books In the year 331 BC, apparently, Alexander the Great had this great army and he was conquering the world and he faced the Persian army under Darius. And uh they tell us that these were the two, at that point in time, um, the two greatest armies in the world And they faced each other. And in this instance, Darius, who they say was a ruthless leader and had a powerful, powerful army, when they met Darius outnumbered Alexander the Great. I mean like five to one. The numbers are astronomical, where Alexander the Great was outnumbered. But Alexander the Great was a genius at military strategy. And uh the account that I was reading that they had faced off and they had these battle lines between these two great numbers, Darius and the Persians, far outnumbered. It was like something, I'm just throwing figures out here But something like 50,000 soldiers he had, and uh I think uh Alexander the Great had 25 or 30,000, so it's two to one I should say. I think those were close figures Anyway, they battle lines, they lined up. What Alexander the Great did was hit his right flank, which was Darius's left flank He instructed them that when they engaged the Persian army, they were to very slowly, very carefully kind of draw them away back and uh back away from the battle lines Well, of course, in the heat of battle, the Persian army pursued after them. But in so doing, as the Greek uh flank backed and peeled away a little bit and the rest of the battle lines here, what'd that do? That left a little gap in the battle line there. Because they followed them back Alexander instructed his cavalry, and he had a tremendous cavalry, he said, as soon as there are gap, there's a gap in that battle line, as soon as they draw that left flank back away You raced in that little gap there, that little space. You get in there and you come around behind. And in so doing, Alexander the Great defeated the Persian army in that battle. A little bit of strategy. Now the important thing was that he emphasized was you must follow the directions exactly. Timing is very important. Uh everything is very important. You must do it exactly. I read that. I thought about us and the devil. I'm telling you, the devil has us outgunned in and of ourselves. We're no match for the devil. One-on-one, we're no match. But I'm telling you, if we do, listen If we do exactly what God tells us to do, we can run that devil off. We can get him to flee from us. We can have victory in our Christian life if We do exactly what he tells us to do. Now, in verse number 7, God gives the battle plan. God gives very simple instructions here how to chase the devil away, how to get him off your back. how to be free and win the battle against the devil. Now he's talking to saved people. If you're here tonight and you're not saved, then uh what you need to do is get saved You're just you're just lion meat. You're devil's food cake, if you're not saved. Uh that's pretty good. I just thought of that, Brian Devil's food Kate. But uh but it's really not a laughing matter. If you're not saved, you're exactly what the devil wants. You say I'm a p I'm a church member. Great, but if you're not saved, you're exactly what the devil wants you to be You need to be saved. This is to save people. This is to God's children, to chase the devil away, get him off our back, have him flee from us. Very simple. It's not complicated. Let's see what it says. Number one, this is my first thought from verse 7. I want us to notice the premise of this verse. Now there's a key word, and that's where I get this thought from. Look at verse 7 Submit yourselves, what's the third word? Submit yourselves therefore. Submit yourselves therefore to God. What is that word therefore? Therefore Why is that in there? It is referring back to some previous statements made. It's referring back to some previous truths because of what is established in the verse number six, then you should do the instructions of verse number seven. A premise is a basis for action. The premise is the basis of an argument. It's an established fact that I act upon. And so when he tells us here to re-submit ourselves, therefore, to God And resist the devil, he's saying, therefore, because of what was stated in verse number six. Now what was stated in verse number six. We looked at this last week. He says, God uh, but he, God, giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble. Because God gives grace. Now, what is grace here for the Christian? In this context, the grace of God is God giving me the ability to live my life like I should. God enabling me to deal with the issues of life, to deal with all the things. God's grace. Now, how do I get God's grace? I need it desperately. Well, I get it by uh by uh not being proud and by humbling myself. Look, God resisteth the proud But he gives grace to the humble. Here's my point. I cannot implement verse number seven until verse number six is established. In other words, verse 7 says, submit yourselves therefore, because of verse 6, to God. I'm suggesting to you that this is teaching us I cannot submit myself to God if I'm proud. I need to deal with the pride issue first. I need to humble myself before I will ever be able to submit myself to God. I venture to say a very real possibility. I'm talking to some folks tonight You've not humbled yourself before God. Your heart is hard. Your neck is stiff against God. You'll say, I'll not have God tell me what to do. Tell you what, you do that, you're never going to chase the devil away. You're going to deal with the devil. You're going to have problems and attitudes and issues. And uh it's it's interesting to me, and it's sad. That some of the most miserable, angry people in the world are Christians who will not submit themselves to God, will not humble themselves to God. And so they're angry at everything, and they're bringing on themselves. And they'll think, well, you know, I want people you all be like me. I'm mad and angry. Be like me. I'm cool That's the world's attitude. No, no, no. There's a premise here. Before I can ever submit myself to God, before I ever resist the devil, I've got to learn to humble myself. I cannot be proud and submit to God. I cannot be proud and resist the devil. An attitude of humility is absolutely necessary in every aspect of Christian life. Especially in our interaction with the devil, we must be humble. We must be humble. We cannot overemphasize the importance of humility. In the Christian life. We cannot overemphasize the destructiveness of pride in the Christian life. So the premise for verse number seven of chapter four is The grace of God given to those who humble themselves. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Now, I want to second of all have us look at the principles that are given here in this verse. Two of them. They're very simple. They're very effective. Two principles, if we follow, if we implement them in our lives, I can affect the devil's actions. I can stop the devil in his tracks. Now I'm not big. You'll hear some some of the charismatic crowd. They'll talk about commanding the devil. And yeah, I've heard one guy, saw one guy on TV, he's telling the devil to go back to hell where you came from Well, one, the devil didn't come from hell. And two, uh I I'm not going to go around commanding the devil to do anything. It's more important that you and I humble ourselves and submit to God. That's more important than going around commanding the devil to do stuff. And so my uh what I'm trying to say is, but I I I'm not big on commanding the devil and all that stuff. I'm not big on that. But it is interesting, this verse tells me that I can affect the devil's actions. I can behave myself. I can make decisions and take actions that will cause the devil to flee from me. Think about that. He's far more powerful than you and I are. He's smarter than we are. But if I'll follow God's instructions, if I'll implement these two principles into my life, I can literally cause the devil to flee from me. That is an amazing thing in my mind, that I can affect him. I can stomp him in his tracks Now, what are these two principles that are so effective? Number one, very clear, it's not complicated, it's very obvious. Number one, what? Submit myself to God Submit yourselves therefore to God. The word submit is actually a Greek military term. It has this idea to arrange myself under the command of a leader. The idea is this, as you have the commander or whatever title he might hold, got the troops out here, he says, right face hurt boy that was left. Right face I wasn't in the military, obviously. But uh I mean his word, he gives the instructions, and uh those fellows just follow those instructions. They are submitting themselves. To that leader. The term as it's used outside of the military vernacular is to voluntarily give into or obey the instructions of another. To voluntarily submit my will to the will of another. So he says here, I am to submit myself to God. I am to place myself under the leadership of God. I am to voluntarily give in to God's will. Now, to chase the devil away, get the devil off my back, I must first of all yield my will to God's will. Now that's expressed various ways throughout Scriptures. One of my Favorite phrases and are very challenging to me, and I heard especially under the ministry of Dr. Lee Robertson so much, one of the terms is this: dying to sell. Dying to sell. One of the first principles in having victory over the devil, one of the first principles in chasing the devil away. is I learned to die to myself and I pray a prayer or I maintain the attitude that uh Jesus had in the Garden of Gethsemane when he said, Nevertheless, not my will, but thy will be done. Now the devil, I'll tell you what prayer the devil likes to hear from a Christian. Now we don't say it, but here's a prayer the devil likes to hear, not thy will. But my will be done. You get that mentality, you get that way of thinking, I'll tell you one thing, you've got the devil all over you. You got the devil, you're giving him an open door to come in and just destroy your testimony, steal your joy. get you in all kinds of fusses and angry and bitter and absolutely under the pile. When I get to the point where I submit myself to God and I say, God, no no no no no more. Not my will, not my will. I'm submitting to you. Not my will, but thy will be done. I'll die to self. The key to victorious Christian living is simply this, humility Submission to God, trusting Him and obeying Him. It is the exact opposite of what the world suggests you and I do. The world says that we should not submit, that we need to take charge. The flesh, I'll tell you one thing, this old flesh does not like to submit. Mankind hates the idea of submission. Nobody's telling me what to do. Huh? Oh, who do they think they are? Tell me What to do? That is the mentality of mankind, and that is the mentality of lost mankind before God. And it's a tragic thing when you have Christians That had the attitude. They would never say this. Not in a thousand years would they verbalize this. But their attitude is: you're not telling me what to do, God. Not your will, my will be done. God says you want the devil to run away, you want to chase the devil away, you got to get that out of your head, and you need to turn that around. You need to submit yourself to God and say, God, what's your will? What's your instructions? I voluntarily submit myself to To your will, your your plan, your purpose for my life. That's the first step. So the first principle is this submit myself to God. The second principle It's very clear, very simple. Submit yourselves therefore to God. What's the next word? Resist the devil And then he'll flee from you. I put it this way. Number one, submit myself to God. First principle. Second principle is stand against the devil. Submit to God Stand against the devil. Resist the devil. The word resist has this idea to bravely stand against You remember a number of years ago in Tiananmen Square over in China, there was a little uprising and there was one college student, if I remember correctly, he had a briefcase and he was in a suit. Anyone still see that picture in your mind? And those tanks were coming in to disrupt the uh uh they were trying to get some freedom for themselves. And that one young uh uh Chinese college student Stood there in front of that tank. And if I remember, did he have a briefcase? For some reason I'm thinking he was holding a briefcase And he stood there in front of that tank, and that tank was approaching him. And everybody was wondering, what's going to happen? Is it going to just run over him? And it got up to him, and the tank did what? Stopped And he stood there. You know what he was doing? He was resisting. That's the idea of this word used here. Resist the devil. Withstand him, to bravely and courageously stand against. It has this idea. I will not comply Resist the devil. I will not comply to you. I take a stand against. It is the exact, perfect, exact opposite of submission. What I am supposed to do to God, to the devil, I am to do the exact opposite. Submit to God, resist the devil. You want to simplify it? This is my simplification of the idea resisting the devil. It's saying this. No. No. Can you imagine how different mankind would be today if Eve had resisted the devil? Yeah, you have no. No. I'm not going to listen to what you have to say. I'm not going to engage you. I'm not going to communicate. No! How different things would have turned out. Now, she didn't, and here we are. But I'm just wondering how different people's lives would be. If we would learn to say no to the devil, I wonder how much how happier homes would be if Christians We'd learn to say no. No. I wonder how many people would have happier, better lives if they just learned to say no to the devil. Can I take it a little step farther? I wonder how many people would not be in a hospital bed tonight if they just learned to say no. to the devil. Now I'm not suggesting everybody's in the hospital because they're submitting to the devil, but I am saying this. A lot of that could be avoided Can I suggest to you, there's some people still be alive today if they had said no to the devil I've been doing this long enough, Brother Williams. I've done enough funerals for teenagers and young people who got messed up and made stupid decisions and cooperated with the devil rather than resisting them. And not just young people, adults. I'm telling you, I know I'm absolutely positive. I've got Bible for this. There are some young people who could be a whole lot happier. If you start saying no to the devil instead of cooperating, come on now, help me out. There's some homes, be a whole lot happier. Whole lot happier. We learn to resist the devil. No. No, we're not doing that. We're not going there. We're not watching this. We're not engaging this. We're not going to no, we're not doing. No. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Yes, God. Not my will, your will be done. No. No, devil, no. It's really not complicated. It's really not complicated. Ephesians chapter 4 and verse 27, the Bible says this: neither give place to the devil. Don't give him any room. No. No, no, no. I found out the fuller I am of God, the less room there is to give the devil. The more I submit to God, the easier it is to resist the devil. 1 Peter 5:9, we read it here a moment ago. Resist, speaking of the devil, whom resists steadfast in the faith. I mean, just do not budge. I will not compromise what I know is right. I will not talk in a way that displeases my God. Steadfast resist them. No. Two principles the Bible gives us here. If we follow them, it says you'll chase the devil way. You'll chase the devil way. The Christian has one word for the devil. No That's the Christian's response to the devil. No. How different David's testimony would be when he stood on that rooftop, he just said no. Right or wrong? How different his testimony would be when he first had the idea of numbering the people. You know 70,000 people died because David got proud and numbered his soldiers How different that would be if he'd have just said no. How different Samson's testimony would be Peter just resisted the devil. I wonder how long Achan would have lived, his boys, and his family. Peter just said no. When he saw that Babylonian starment, the gold and silver. You follow what I'm saying? Submit yourselves therefore to God. Yes, Lord, not my will, thy will be done. No, no, devil, no. Do those things. The Bible says the devil will flee from us. Now, I can't speak for all of us, but I I know a lot of you well enough. There's a bunch of us here, and I'm including myself, there's a bunch of us here that if we needed to, we could stand up and we could say, you know, there's times in my life I wish I'd have said no Am I right or wrong? We look back over our lives. We say, man, I wish that'd have said no there. I wish that I'd have said no there. Now, I just want to say a word to our young people. I love you dearly, you know that You'd be awfully wise. You'd be awfully wise to listen to older folks when they suggest, hey, you ought not to get involved in that. Right or wrong? Some of the folks have been around. They've made those same decisions. We've been bit. We've been stung by the devil when we didn't resist him. And we're love you. We're saying, listen, you better say no to that devil. He'll bite you every time. Ah, old Fuddy Dud, they don't know nothing. That kind of thinking is foolish thinking Can I be so brazen? If you think older folks, just a bunch of stupid old people, I'm telling you, you are a fool. Come on, help me. Some of us some of us wish we'd have said no. Some of us still paying the price a long time later. The Bible says, submit yourself therefore to God and resist the devil. Resist the devil. And let me throw this out. I don't believe you can resist the devil without first submitting to God. I think there's an order here. I think it's given in this order on purpose. Submit yourselves therefore to God and resist the devil. If I'm not submitted to God, it's going to be awfully hard for me to resist the devil. I need the Lord's presence. I need God's grace. I need to humble myself and submit before the Lord so I even have the ability to say no to the devil. I think that's one reason some people are just their lives are being destroyed. What you need is Jesus Christ in your life. You need to accept Christ as your Savior and get Him in your life and give you that ability to resist the devil. You cannot resist Satan, I don't believe, without first submitting to God In fact, the very act of submitting to God is resisting the devil. The devil doesn't want you and I to submit to God. When I make that decision, maybe after a message or something, and God speaks to my heart, and there's something the Spirit of God tells me I need to do, some adjustments need to be made, some decisions need to be made, and I say, yes, Lord, you're right. And I'm going to respond to that, Lord. I submit to you. I will do what you instructed me to do from your word. The very active doing that is resisting the devil. Saying, no, no more, devil, no more. I'm going to submit to God. See, the fact is every one of us are in a state of rebellion. Right now, every one of us understands. You say, I'm not rebelling against God. We are either rebelling against God or we're rebelling against Satan. In submitting to God, I'm rebelling against Satan. In doing what Satan wants and giving in to the sins of the flesh or whatever, I'm in rebellion against God. We're a bunch of rebels Now, I would far rather rebel against Satan than rebel against God. It's a whole lot better to resist the devil than it is to resist God. And so, um, uh, and it's interesting. Are you there in James? I'm I'm done here. I got one more promise I want to give you. But look at look at James. I thought I caught this this afternoon. Look at verse six. But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith God Look at verse six. Are you following me? But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith God Resisteth the proud. Then you come down to verse 7, he says, resist the devil. The very thing that God instructs us to do against the devil is what God does. To those who are proud. Do you catch that? God resisteth the proud. That's the same thing He tells me to do against the devil, to resist the devil. Again, the importance of humbling ourselves before God and pushing pride out of our hearts and lives. Then last of all in verse 7, at the end of the verse, he gives a tremendous promise. Very simple. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. The word flee means to quickly escape, fly away. This is a promise of God. Apparently, apparently, Satan cannot tolerate a humble, submissive Christian. Apparently, Satan is all over the proud, hard, unsubmissive Christian, Satan's all over that one. I mean their life is miserable, their mind is blinded, they are just messed up. Because Satan's all over them. I'll tell you one thing there's one thing about the devil I appreciate. There's one characteristic the devil has that I would like to have more of in my life, and that's this. The devil is tenacious. The devil does not quit. Right or wrong. He just comes at it and comes at it and comes comes at it and comes at it. Listen, some of y'all might have gotten some victories today in church or whatever. You might have got some victories. You better be ready tomorrow. He's going to be right back at it. Jesus, when Jesus was tempted in the wilderness, the devil came one time, then he comes back again, and he comes back again, and he just comes after us and after us and after us. He does not quit. You know what I noticed? The devil takes no vacations. In fact, I think he works harder when we take vacation. And so what's not what are you saying? I'm saying this. You and I may humble ourselves tonight and resist the devil tonight But we gotta get up tomorrow and do that exact same thing again. And again and again and again It is not a one-time decision with unending results. It is a continuous thing, continually submitting myself to God. continually resisting the devil, saying no to the devil, standing courageously against the devil. Continually, continually. You say, surely, preacher, when you reach retirement age, the devil backs off. Ha! Not until we cross Jordan's rivers are we safe from the devil's attacks. Am I right or wrong, senior citizens? So, how do you chase the devil away? Man, it'd be nice just to be free of this guy. Submit yourself to God. Resist the devil. God promises He will flee from you. Alexander the Great told his troops, do exactly what I say. You back off, that opening, boom, you get in there, we'll win. God says, you do exactly what I say. You submit yourself to God, you resist the devil, he'll flee from you. He'll flee from you. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to help us to follow these instructions. Pray you'd help us to incorporate these in our lives and take this very, very seriously. With our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I know there's some areas in my life I really need to submit to the Lord? There's some areas in my life I really need to say no to. I know they're there. God spoke into my heart tonight. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I know they're there. I know they're there. God spoke to my heart. God bless you. Now it's up to us We can do what God says, or we can harden our hearts and do it our way. It's our choice. But we can't choose the consequences. And if we'll trust God and follow him, that old devil will flee. That's a promise of God. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now our invitation time as we finish out this Lord's Day, as we go into a new work week. I pray that our hearts would be yielded to your will, and our hearts would be hardened against the devil, and our will would resist him, and you'd give us victory this week, we're asking in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.