Second Samuel. We started this series a couple years ago, I think, and we are out of first Samuel now. We are entering into second Samuel. Does anybody here know what jiggers are? Chiggers. I found out Missouri has chiggers. And uh the only poem I ever memorized in my life Here's to the chigger, the bug that's no bigger than this head of a very small pin. But the itch that it raises simply amazes, and that's where the rub comes in Great spiritual poem. Memorized years ago. But uh no Sam's very kind. He just gave me all kinds of stuff, sent me back home with chigger. So um You pray for me. First Samuel chapter or 2 Samuel chapter number one. Actually, what I want to do I want to read the entire chapter number one. Just to kind of get a setting. We are at a major, major transition in the life of David. We're studying the life of David. And uh this is a this is a milestone. This is a uh a huge, huge transition uh for uh uh David as he is now. Saul is is is dead. We're going to see this in a little bit. Saul is killed on the battlefield, along with Jonathan, and now the process is beginning. for David to step into the uh the the throne room to become king of Israel and uh all his training, all these experiences have been gone through are now coming to a head And so this is a very, very important time for David. And uh so I'm going to begin reading in verse number one. I'm going to read all the way through the end, verse tw uh verse twenty-seven. So if you'll bear with me, we're going to set the get the context here And then actually what I want to do tonight is I'm not even going to get into breaking down these verses. I just want to kind of give an introductory thought as we begin this. As I was studying this, I thought This is kind of like David is in his final semester of his master's degree in Christian education, I guess. And um and so uh uh that's where we're at. So if you follow along, verse number one, and I'll I'll share a few thoughts with you tonight. Verse one says, Now it came to pass After the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Zaglach. And it came to pass on the third day that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul with his clothes rent and earth upon his head. And so it was when he came to David that he fell to the earth and did obeisance. Now, here's the setting. If you'll remember, David was rejected by the Philistines. The Philistines and Israel are going to go to war. David kind of got sucked up into that because he was sheltering with the Philistines. They rejected him because they said he'll turn on us in the middle of battle And so they sent David back to Zaglag. Remember, they got to Zaglag, and the Amalekites had raided the city while David was up with the Philistines. I mean just burnt it to the ground, took his households, everything captive. David prayed first time for a while, he got back and Right with the Lord. He prayed. God said, Go get him, you'll recover everything. He did. He brought everything back. Now that's the setting. David has gotten back. He's been back in Ziglag. Notice verse 1. For two days. Uh now let's pick up verse two. And then verse two, this guy shows up. They're in Ziglag, no doubt. They're fixing things up. I mean it's destroyed, so they're straightening things up and rebuilding probably and uh recouping from what the Malachites did. And this guy shows up. Verse 3. And David said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. Now remember, Saul and the Philistines were fighting. The Philistines had attacked Israel. So Saul and them are out there battling. Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped? And David said unto him, How went the matter? Wondering how for King Saul and Israel, how'd the battle go? I pray thee, tell me. And he answered, that the people are fled from the battle. And many of the people, the Israelites, many of the people also are fallen dead. Now listen to this. And Saul and Jonathan, his son, are dead. Now that had to have been a blow to David. And David said unto the young man that told him, There's something about this guy, David was skeptical David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan his son be dead? How do you know that's true? This guy's an Amalekite And the young man that told him said, As I happened by chance upon Mount Gilboa, behold, Saul leaned upon his spear, and lo, the chariots and the horsemen followed hard after him And when he looked behind him, he saw me and said and called unto me, and I answered, Here am I. And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I answer them, I'm an Amalekite. That's the folks that raided Zaglag, that took David's household. That's that same crowd. Verse 9, he said unto me, Stand, I pray thee, upon me, and slay me, for anguish has come upon me, because my life is yet whole in me. So I stood upon him and slew him, because I was sure he could not live. After that he was fallen. And I took the crown that was upon his head and the bracelet that was on his arm and have brought them hither unto my Lord. Now we'll look at this as we get in there a little later, but we go back to chapter 30 of 1 Samuel. And there we find the account of King Saul. He was defeated, and um uh he didn't want the Philistines to kill him, so he att he tried to get a young soldier there with him to kill him, he wouldn't do it And so Saul fell upon his own sword, and you have that account there in chapter 30. We're going to look at that in a little bit, but I just want to keep the context here. Verse 11. Then David took hold on his clothes and rent them, and likewise all the men that were with him, and they mourned and wept and fasted until even. For Saul and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of the Lord, and for the house of Israel, because they were fallen by the sword And David said unto the young man that told him, Whence art thou? And he answered, I am the son of a stranger, an Amalachite. David said unto him, How wast thou not afraid to stretch forth thine hand to destroy the Lord's anointed? David called one of the young men and said, Go near and fall on him, fall upon him. And he smote him that he died. And David said unto him, Thy blood be upon thy head, for thy mouth has testified against thee, saying, I have slain the Lord's anointed. David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son. Also he bade them teach the children of Judah to use the bow because it is written in the book of Jasher. The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places. This is David speaking now. How are the mighty fallen? Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon. Let the daughters of the Philistines lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you, nor the fields of offerings. For there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away The shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil. From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back, and the sword of Saul returned not empty Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives. And in their death, they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles. They were stronger than lions. Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you in scarlet and with other delights, who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel. How are the mighty fallen in the midst of battle? O Jonathan, thou wast slain in thine high places. I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan. Very pleasant hast thou been unto me Thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women. How are the mighty fallen? And the weapons of war perished. I've entitled tonight the message in this part here, How the Mighty Are Fallen. Let's pray together and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father in heaven, Lord, we're grateful for this record, this inspired and preserved record of Saul's demise and David's response. And I pray you'd help us here, thousands of years after the event, that you would help us learn from this. Holy Spirit, teach us. You promised us in the New Testament that all these things were written for our ensamples And we can learn from that. And so fill me with your spirit is my prayer. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. All my heart, I ask you, fill me and be the preacher tonight, be the speaker, speak through me, I pray. In Jesus' name, amen. We're seeing David's development as a man of God. He started out strong, his faith in God. He killed Goliath by faith. uh worked his way uh almost instantly up the ranks in the military of Israel. And then King Saul turned on him And he struggled. He's kind of knocked the feet out from underneath him. His faith wavered. He leaned on his own understanding a a good bit. But now he's he's uh he's coming back around. I got thinking as I was Preparing this and studying this, David is said in the book of Acts, it is said of David that he is a man after God's own heart. Now I'll be honest with you, I can't hardly think of a better compliment to be made of a person than to have said they are a man or you could say a woman after God's own heart. David shared the heartbeat of God. And I take that to mean what God loved, David loved. What God hated, David hated God's will was David's will. He was a man after God's own heart. And what I got thinking about as we're looking at this here And I see the response of David to the death of King Saul, who has been trying to kill him now for a couple years, chasing them all over. uh lying about him, uh mistreating him, unjustly persecuting him, prosecuting him. David's response to the death of King Saul, I believe, is a reflection of the heart of God. And this is what this is what the thought that came to my mind David being a man after God's own heart, we should see reflected in the life of David the heart of God. Right? You follow what I'm saying? If David was a man after God's own heart, then in his actions, in his commitments, in his response, it would be a reflection of God's response. of God's approach, of God's attitude towards situations, if David's a man after God's own heart. You follow what I'm trying to say? Now it's not a perfect reflection David is a sinner. He's saved by grace, just like anybody else. So that would be a tainted reflection. It would be a uh shadowy perhaps reflection. It would be to use Paul's terminology, we would see God's heart in the life of David through a glass darkly. Because of the humanity of David, but I can see it. I can see the heart of God beating with the heart of David. He's not the only one in the Bible that this was the case. You come into the New Testament and Well, we won't take time there. We'll never actually get to the passage, but uh you go into the New Testament and there was uh time when uh Peter and John and them were there and they were being persecuted, they were preaching the gospel. And it says in facts, I think it's chapter 3 or 4, somewhere around there, it says that the Pharisees took note that they had been with Jesus. Now, what in the world does that mean? They're watching, they're unlearned and ignorant men, but they these guys had been with Jesus. I think what they were saying was the heart and passion, the love, the commitment of the Lord Jesus Christ was evident. In the lives of Peter and John. Here's my question. To myself and to all of us, I wonder if anybody ever sees The heart of God reflected in my actions, in my life, my behavior. And who I what I am. Would anybody throughout the day at the market somewhere, or maybe you're on the job somewhere. Would anybody throughout the day spend a little time with me and say, you know what, that guy's been with Jesus. I see the influence of Jesus Christ in that guy's life And I think we see that here in David. The influence of God, the heart of God, is reflected here in David's response to the uh the death of King Saul. And then we're going to see that as he comes in and becomes king and his interaction with people. We're going to see it clearer and clearer. Now again, it's not a perfect reflection Um I got I got these new eyes. I am did have I mentioned I got my work done. I am so excited about this. And uh we went to the doctor today and had a little follow-up and they just went through and they squirt stuff and spray stuff and poke your eyes out. And uh for a minute there, I thought he had it out, was looking at it and stuck it back in But uh he says, Well, how do you like it? I said, It's amazing. I said, in 60 years, I walk out and I look at the stars and I feel like I'm looking through a telescope at the stars. They're so crystal clear And you look at the moon, and the moon is a bright shining sphere in the sky. But that light is not the moon's light. Not the moons light. Now we talk about moonshine. James had some earlier. But uh we uh But that light is the what? The reflection of the sun's light. And I think we see, and I know I'm belaboring that A little bit, but I think we see in David, we're going to start seeing clearer and clearer the reflection of the heart of God being displayed in David. And I'll be honest with you, as I study this and and we're And spend a little time on that thought. God challenged my heart. I would like for people to see Christ in me. I would like for my life to be a reflection of the holiness. The love and the goodness and the purity of Christ. And I'll be honest with you, that's what this whole world needs. That's all what the this whole world needs. In fact, the word Christian, you know where the word Christian came from? It was a derogatory term the unsaved world came up with to refer to uh Christian to uh saints of God, believers. And the word itself simply means this little Christ. And they would make fun of them. Oh, they're just like that Jesus. Oh, they're little Christ. And the believers of the day took that not as a derogatory term, took that not as something to be offended by, but they owned it. I said, yes, that's what we want to be. That's what we want to be. So David, a man after God's own heart, and again it begins We begin to see that reflection of God's heart here being displayed in the life of David. Now, before we get into chapter 1 and start working our way through here, it's a fascinating event. It's a lot of a little bit of drama here, a lot of emotion. And a lot of spiritual maturity here. But I want to spend this evening considering the death of Saul. I almost entitled the message, The Death of a Fool. The death of a fool. How many people here believe that God loved Saul? Yeah, absolutely. I think God loves Saul dearly. I believe God had tremendous intentions for King Saul. You know, just because God wills something for someone's life doesn't necessarily mean it's carried out. Doesn't necessarily mean it happens. That doesn't take away from God's sovereignty. That doesn't take away from God's control or power. It simply means that we as individuals have a free will God can have a plan and a purpose and an intention for someone's life, and yet they can choose of their own free will to disregard that and And go another direction, and there are always consequences for that. So we're studying the life of David, but I want us to consider King Saul. I believe God loved him dearly. I believe God had great plans for him. But here's the thing: this is the message about Saul tonight. Saul became proud. I believe the more I study this, the more I'm convinced Saul, the root problem for Saul was pride. And that was his downfall. That was his downfall. He became proud, and his pride produced Foolishness. Now come back. Keep your place here. We're going to look, we may get to this in a little bit. But come back to chapter 26 Of 1 Samuel. And we looked at this and we kind of touched on it in passing a little bit. But I want to pick up a statement that King Saul made back in chapter 26 and in verse number 21. This is where David had opportunity to slay Saul. He was asleep. He went down in the trenches. Remember that we studied this. He broke, got his sword, he rebuked Abner sharply. Oh, Abner, you didn't take care of your king, you didn't do your job. And of course God was uh had intervened there. And uh and then he appeals to King Saul to show mercy to him, stop chasing him, I've done nothing. And look what Saul says in verse 21. Then said Saul, I have sinned. Now it's interesting. That's a powerful statement right there. I have sinned. By the way, it would be good for you and I to learn how to say that. Go to somebody and say, listen, I've sinned. I've done wrong. Sometimes we say we're sorry, say you're sorry, and that's I'm not that's okay Well you can be sorry for a lot of things. But if I say I have sinned, that's cutting to the chase. So King Saul says here, sincere or not, I have sinned. Return, my son David, for I will no more do thee harm, because my soul is precious in thine eyes today. Now look at this. I underline this next statement. Behold, I have played the fool and have erred exceedingly I have played the fool. That pretty much sums up the second half of King Saul's life. I played the fool. Can you imagine, I hope uh uh uh think this through a little bit with me. Can you imagine getting to the end of your life The last, I mean this is, it's just months that Saul has to live after he makes this statement. He doesn't aware of that, but it is. Maybe months, maybe days. Imagine getting to the end of your life and looking back and assessing your life and saying, this, I've played the fool with my life. That thought there, I believe, makes our youth ministry so important. So important. To help young people to be wise. To help your, and us to be wise in the decisions we make, in the direction we go, in the attitudes we tolerate All said I have played the fool. Somebody, one of the commentaries I was reading on this, they said, what an appropriate epitaph on the tombstone For King Saul, would that statement be? Can you imagine going through, I was out with my son Monday and we were we went down to Arkansas, he's working a job down there, this big 5,000-acre ranch type thing And we're going up through there. It it it was hard work. I mean it was hard work. We drove uh four wheelers all day around looking at stuff and um and I was exhausted. I got chiggers all over. But um We came up around there and here was this old, old graveyard. Old wood, just old stone tombstone. Just so you could tell they were just kind of chipped out of a rock. And um from back in the Western days, you know, the early days Arkansas, homestead, found this old old um uh uh fireplace, stone fireplace, building gone. It was way back in the mountains in the woods. Uh homestead, they had gotten there, probably got the property from the government, you know. and Holmes edited it. I'm going on because I'm trying to remember why I'm telling this story. Because we saw the tombstones. And can you imagine walking through a graveyard, looking at the tombstones, and on one of the stones has the guy's name, born, died, and underneath, I have played the fool. Wouldn't that be a tragedy? Summary of my life. I played the fool. Played the fool. Saul said, I've played the fool. Saul had tremendous potential. He was smart, really smart. He was gifted. He was good looking. He was taller than all the others, and just a sharp-looking young man, smart, intelligent, gifted. Had leadership potential, the potential of King Saul. And the opportunity that God would have the prophet Samuel anoint him to be king. What an opportunity! But he played the fool. He squandered it and ruined it. Um ruined it by pride. He was I put this down, talent Without humility is useless to God. Good looks and position Without humility is useless to God. God resisteth the proud. But he giveth grace to the what? The humble. The humble. King Saul had it all. But he allowed pride in there, and it ruined it all. I put down the greatest attribute in the Christian life, I believe, is humility. Holiness without humility becomes self-righteousness. Any other characteristic in the Christian life without humility becomes tainted and defiled by pride. But you build the attributes of a spiritually mature Christian upon the foundation of humility before God. And you've got a Christian life that's on solid foundation. One of the greatest attributes, if not the greatest attribute in the Christian life, I believe, is humility. Jay Sidlow Baxter. Anybody recognize that name? Brian, you recognize that name. Jay Sidlow Baxter. Eh, you've probably heard it before, Brother Wilbur. I bet you have. He was a preacher, a British preacher in the mid-19 in the mid-1900s. He was born 1903 in Australia. And he went to England, was raised, and he preached. I think he preached in Spurgeon's Tabernacle. He preached whatever. Every now and then the sword of the Lord will have a sermon in there by Sidlow Baxter. He's a great preacher. He wrote scores of books. I enjoy his sermons. He has a book Explore the Bible or something like that. It's excellent. He uh He suggested, described, how Saul had played the fool. Now he gave a list, so I want to take that and I've kind of worked it over and tweaked a little bit. And let me, in the little bit of time I've left, let me go through this list, how King Saul played the fool. And see if God can't use this to help you and I to be wise and not uh make the same mistakes that King Saul did. Number one, I have this down. If you want to jot these down, these are how Saul played the fool. Number one, he neglected his godly mentor. Now think with me, we're going to do a little trivia here. Who do you think would have been King Saul? Who would have been his mentor spiritually? Samuel, the prophet Samuel, one of the greatest prophets in all of Israel's history, Samuel the prophet. And think about this: King Saul had Samuel To go to for assistance and for help and for prayers and for direction, for advice, for counsel And King Saul just completely neglected that. I tell you what, um I I don't know uh uh to have the opportunity as pastor of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church to have the prophet Samuel be my mentor, be my counselor, be my advisor. Wow. What an opportunity. But you know what? If you go back and read King Saul, he just completely neglected that He failed to appreciate the opportunity that God had given him, the the resource that God had given him to rule the nation of Israel in wisdom and in power and by the uh the direction of God Almighty. And he just pushed that aside. We must never underestimate the importance of Christian mentors in our lives Can anybody say, back maybe in the early days of your Christian life, somebody that God used to help you grow and develop? Anybody here think of anybody? I do I remember when I first got saved, it was actually at that point there's two young fellows in seminary, there in uh in a little seminary in Hatfield, Pennsylvania. And uh I showed up in church. I've told the story before, but I showed up in church. I got saved uh Monday night. Um I'll tell you about that sometime. I got saved on Monday night And then that next Sunday I went to a little liberal church right down the road. I was the only one, I was saved one week, Monday to Sunday, I was the only one in the church that had a Bible. The preacher didn't even have a Bible So I wasn't I wasn't very smart, but I knew that wasn't right. So the next week I went to uh the the other church I attended then and uh Long hair, yes I had hair. It was uh I mean all over top everywhere. Uh long hair, I mean it was long. You would love this. I had to wear a net at the work when I was cutting meat. I had to have my hair up in a hair net. It was beautiful, silky, beautiful. And um so I walk in, I got this hair I got these. I told you before, bell bottoms, silk shirt, you know, I was John Travolta walking in there, had my Bible, and uh every where I sat, then everybody kind of scooted away But when it was over, this big church, everyone about six, seven hundred when it was over, I was walking out, these two guys They came right. What's your name? I'm Arden. I'm I'm Terry. And uh oh you're new here. What brings you out? And uh I I I didn't know anything. I said, Well, I got saved last week. I accepted Jesus as my Savior. Woo! We're gonna come over to your house. Okay. And those two guys took me under wing And I mean they taught me how to memorize verses. They gave me little Bible studies to do. I mean, for 12 weeks, every week they were with me Just working me. You know what? I thank God for those two guys. You know what would have been the most foolish thing in the world for me to do was just neglect that opportunity. That they would have come and worked with me. And then I go through my Christian life and I got to Bible college. Randy Miller took me under wing. Then Tom Sexton helped me so much. Then Charles Holmsher took me under wing. And all these years, God, I'm convinced that God sends us people to help us grow and develop in our Christian faith. Saul had that. He had the best of the best. And it meant nothing to him. He just neglected it. So number one, one of the foolish things he did was he neglected his godly mentor. Number two, I put this down. He failed to wait on God. He failed to wait on God. You study the life of Saul. Now I know our study is the life of David, but we're stopping here for a moment, look at Saul a little bit, because it's such a significant turning point in David's life. He failed to wait on God. Over and over you find King Saul leaning on his own understanding. Rather than waiting on God, something situation comes up And uh he just tries to figure it out himself and he's going to do what he does rather than stop and wait on God. I said this a thousand times the last 27 years. I have never regretted waiting on God There's plenty of times I've stepped out and got ahead of God and decided I gotta do something. Man, I regretted that. Learn to wait on God, just trust God, lead on his own understanding, allow circumstances to govern his actions. How foolish it is To lean on my own understanding when I can wait and trust God and let God lead me. Let me ask you a question. This might be a dumb question, it might be an obvious answer, but why would it be wise To wait on God. What would be the wisdom in that? Waiting on God? Why would that be a wise thing to do? God's timing is best. You know what came to my mind? I thought, why would waiting on God be good? Here's why I think God knows the end from the beginning. And he knows the consequences, the outcome of every potential decision I would make. Now think about that. He's all-knowing. And he knows if I decide this, if I would do this, any multiple, innumerable amount of decisions I would make, God knows what the ultimate end of that would be. And with that in mind, I think it'd be a pretty good idea to let God lead me, let God direct me, wait on him, trust him, let him show me. He knows the end from the beginning. Anyone here ever take things in your home, do it your way, and it didn't turn out exactly the way you planned? Yeah. Yeah. So Saul very foolishly failed to wait on God. Over and over. He would take things into his own hands. I've got to hurry here. Number three, jot this one down. Here's an important one. He failed to obey in small matters, small little details. Partial obedience. You finish this sentence for me, will you? Partial obedience is disobedience. And a lot of times Saul would get the big thing that God would say, but boy, he'd neglect the little details that God said. Oh, he'd he'd uh he'd uh defeat the Amalekites, but he wouldn't kill them all Like God said. And here I'm way ahead of myself, but this is interesting. According to this boy's account in chapter one, the people that God told uh Saul to kill them all, and he did He ends up, if this boy account is correct, he ends up being killed by one of the people he was told to destroy before. Hmm. It's funny how things come back to bite us, isn't it? He failed to obey God in small things. Luke chapter 16. Again, I wanted to look at all this. We don't have time. But uh he that is I I'm not don't know if I'm quoting this exactly correct, but I think you'll know what uh what I'm referencing. He that is faithful uh in l uh in little will be faithful in what? And there Jesus is talking about money. If you can't be faithful in the little things of money, how are you going to be in something that's temporal value? How are you going to be faithful in something that is of eternal value? And what the Lord was teaching, what he was pointing out, is hey, we need to be careful in the little things in life. The deep, don't sweat the small stuff. I say the small stuff is pretty important. Remember when David we're going to see this here in a few years probably. Remember when David is moving the Ark of the Covenant from uh where the Philistines sent it back. Remember they after they had it and he's moving it and um uh he puts it on a new art new cart. We talked about this recently puts it on a new cart And uh they're going, uh the oxen stumble, and Uzzah puts his hand up to keep it from coming off. Very pure intentions, his intentions were good, but he touches the most sacred thing on planet earth and he drops dead on the spot. You say, oh brother, God's that picky about little stuff? Yeah. Yeah, it's important. They were supposed to put the rods through there and carry that thing a very small Specific way. Oh, brother, that doesn't matter. Important thing is you get it back to where it's supposed to be. No And that was one of Saul's foolishness, is he would disregard the small details. Details matter to God. Number four, I put this down, I gotta hurry. He attempted to excuse his disobedience Now listen, we all mess up. We all anybody here ever make a stupid decision? Can I get a witness? Three people. I made my hand was raised. You know what the best thing to do when we do something dumb? You know what the best thing to do is Own it. Well, yeah. But first of all, own it. Take responsibility for it, right? Yes. Here's a good thing. Everybody say this with me, will you? You online, say it at home. Say this with me. I messed up. Saul would never do that. Well, at the end there, he said, I've sinned, I played the fool. But earlier Come with me, if you would, real quickly, come back to chapter 15 of 1 Samuel. I know we're studying the life of David, but I want to look at Samuel here a bit. So we leave him behind after tonight. For the most part. Chapter 15, 1 Samuel, look with me at verse 9. Here's where they were told. To go, and uh David uh Saul was told to uh uh eliminate the Amalekites, wicked, wicked people. Uh God's done with them. And he goes, and look at verse 9. But Saul and the people spared Agag, that's the king of the Amalekites at the time. And the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them. Now go back to verse 3. This is what God told him to do Now go and smite Amalek and what? Utterly destroy all that they have. Verse 9, and all that was good and would not utterly destroy them, but everything that was vile and refuge, that they destroyed utterly. So he took it upon himself to decide whether what part of God's instructions he was going to obey or not. And here's what I put down. He attempted to excuse his disobedience. He disregarded God's word. I tell you, before we get too hard on King Saul, we are pretty good at picking and choosing as to what God tells us to do, what we're going to do, right or wrong. Well we can pick this out. I like this, I'll do that, but uh, you know, I don't know. Those are some pretty nice sheep God said destroy them. Yeah, but look how good they are. So he had a disregard for the Word of God. Remember what we said? Partial obedience is disobedience. So he disregarded the word of God. Look at verse 13. And Samuel came to Saul. This is after they're done. He spared all these uh the king and these best sheep. Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of the Lord. Look at this. I had performed the commandment of the Lord. I put this down. He had a disregard for the truth. He didn't fulfill the commandment of the Lord. I don't know how he thought he was going to get away with this. This is a prophet of God. And look what happens on the next verse. And Samu said, what meaneth then the bleeding of the sheep in mine ears and the lowing of the oxen? What's that sound? So he had a disregard for the truth. We used to teach the little kids on my bus route when I was down Tennessee and had the bus route. I'd teach them this verse all the time: a poor man is better than a liar. From Proverbs. A poor man is better than a liar. I'm telling you, I don't know how you are, but if somebody lies, That's a tough thing to swallow. And Saul had no problem lying. And here's the thing: he had no problem lying to a prophet of God who he knows knows the truth. But he lied anyway. And then the other one, uh verse 15, look what he here's what I'm getting at. He attempted to excuse his disobedience. Verse 15. And Saul said in response to Samuel's question, They, the people, have brought them from the Amalekites. For the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God and the rest we've utterly destroyed. So he's doing two things here. One he's blaming the pe it wasn't me, I was Samuel, listen, I was for it. I wanted to do what God said. But all the people out there. Who does that remind you of? Somebody else in the Bible blamed other people. Yeah, Adam and Eve. The woman thou gavest me, I would have I would have never eaten that, Lord. Good grief, you know me. I would never eat that. That woman We're very good at that. So he blamed other people for his own disobedience. Not my fault. Anybody here ever hear kids say that? It's not my fault. And then the other thing he did was he tried to excuse or justify their disobedience. We were going to sacrifice it to the Lord honest So he was foolish in his attempt to di excuse his dispute. The best thing to do when I disobey God is to own it. God, I was wrong. I sinned. I've often said this. If we sin, if we fail to obey God, number one, confess it. That means take responsibility for it, forsake it. And then learn from it. Get up and go on. Number five, quickly, he allowed bitterness to consume him. He allow bitterness to consume him. Write down this reference, Hebrews 12, 15. It references, there Paul references a root of bitterness. He says, don't let, again, I'm putting my own words, but he says, don't let this root of bitterness spring up inside you. And then he says this, by which many are defiled. The word defiled means to be polluted, contaminated, unusable. I tell you what, you and I let bitterness in our heart. We get bitter at somebody or something, and I'm telling you, we are not usable to God. He cannot use it's defiled. You say, yeah, but I keep myself pure and I and I do this and I do that and I sing in the choir and I work this and I do this for the Lord and I read my Bible Yeah, but if you and I got bitterness in our heart, the Bible says we're defiled. It doesn't mean we're not saved, but it means God can't use somebody that's bitter And then we get angry and we get frustrated and things just deteriorate. God was so good to Saul, so good to him, the opportunities he had and the resources he had And he allowed envy and bitterness to come in and defile him. Somebody said this, bitterness is battery acid on the soul. I believe that's true. Let me and here's the last one. He fought against God. There's no doubt in the statements he made to David towards the end, when David would spare him There's no doubt the statements that King Saul made, he knew he was wrong. He knew he was going against the will of God. He knew he was fighting the plan of God for Israel and for David. He knew that. I tell you, one fight you and I will never win, that's the fight of it with God. Never gonna win that one. I'm telling you right now, we nobody ever has. Nobody the devil himself can't fight. Can't win in a fight with God. The best thing is surrender. The best thing is just say, yes, Lord. Not my will. Thy will be done. Saul died a tragic death of a fool. This is what I take away with. This is what I end with. We have one shot at life. We have one shot at this thing called life. Sixty years of mine is gone. One shot. We don't get do-overs Can't go back to the beginning and start again. How many folks here if you could go back and do some things differently, huh? Yeah. You say, I wouldn't change a thing. You're a knucklehead. You didn't learn nothing. We got one shot. And we can be wise or we can be foolish. Saul was foolish. Saul was foolish No do-overs, no second chances. Now we get second chances in life, but we don't get a second chance at life. Just got one life to live I read about a Civil War a Union general named John Sedgwick Sedwich. Sedgwick. Am I saying it right? Sedgwick. Sedgwick He was a general in the Union. He got to the Battle of Gettysburg late. And so he wasn't in on the main skirmish, but uh He got his men up there as reading about this fella, and um he was assessing the situation across the little meadow there, the enemy was on the other side, and there was a little kind of an overlook type thing, and these guys are hunkered down behind. They got uh uh uh foxholes dug out there and they're hunkered down behind and uh Sagewick stood up on that little overlook And he's assessing the battlefield and where the enemies. And one of his officers said, Uh, Sir A little dangerous up there. It might not be wise to stand right up there out there in in line of the enemy and uh may be best to just duck down when you're up there cr run across there And he looked to the officer and he said, and uh let me let me quote him here, he said, nonsense. In fact, the uh one account I was reading, he snapped at him, he was angry. Nonsense, he said. They couldn't hit an elephant from this disput. They shot him and mortally wounded him. He died. Because he very foolishly stepped out into a dangerous area. I tell you, you and I step out into the edge that Saul stepped out on And there's dire consequences. Pride, neglect. We must be wise. We must be wise. Wisest serpent. Jesus said, let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to learn to trust you, learn to wait on you. Lord, help us to be teachable and humble, and learn from the life of King Saul. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many folks here, one of that list, one of that list we shared tonight, you say one of those struck home with me. Spirit of God, maybe they're more than one, but Spirit of God struck. Anybody, any like that? Yep, yep. A couple of those there struck home. Got close to home Maybe tonight you'd say, Lord, I'm going to respond to that. I'm not just going to hear what you say, but I'm going to respond to what you said to my heart and make adjustments that we need to make. And let God lead us. Wait on him. Trust him. Let Him lead us. Father, that's the invitation now. I ask in Jesus' name. Amen.