Valuable conditional promises that we can hold to as believers. Listen, it doesn't matter who you are. If you draw nigh to God God makes this promise. I will draw nigh to you. Let me ask you a question. And kind of the challenge this morning is, how close is too close for you? Okay, what I mean by that is we have all sorts of groups, categories in this room this morning, but the sole person, the only person in this world that can dictate how close you are going to walk with your God Your creator is the person that you look at every day in the mirror. It is you. You say, well what about my circumstances? What about my family? What about My spouse, what about uh so-and-so? What about the our our political climate? What about all these things? How can you say what about Satan attacking me and all these things going on? That the one person who can dictate how close is too close for you to in your relationship to your walk with God is you alone. So let me ask you a question. How close is too close? There's a category of people I have a feeling in this room, I know because I was once there. where uh you definitely want to be a Christian. You are a Christian. You place your faith in Christ, but you say, I don't want to go too overboard. I'm a little concerned where that's going to take me Others of you are saying, I'm only here because of friend, or I'm new to the area, and I'm not even so sure about this thing. But then there's a certain group here that I believe earnestly desires to have that dynamite fervent close walk with God. I want to challenge you in your relationship, your walk with God. What kind of uh different facets that James is pointing out Understandably, I I know that this is not going to be necessarily earth-shattering when it comes to uh biblical doctrine. But this is more to encourage us as believers. Maybe somebody here who says, I don't even know about this Christian thing. It can still encourage you. to foster, to develop, to have, to begin this close walk with God. So some facets that James is pointing out here Uh number one is a close walk. Number two, he's a he's pointing out you need a clean walk And then lastly, we're going to look at a consistent walk. You need those three things if you desire a close walk with God Uh young man, young woman, uh uh mature man, mature Christian woman, that if you want to walk close with God, listen, James Points it out here. He says, you have to, if you desire a right relationship with God, you've got to have a close walk, you've got to have a clean walk, and you've got to have a consistent walk. Let's look at, first of all, a close walk Let me say this before I delve into this. Closeness is impossible without Christ. We're studying in Bible Institute on Mondays, a little plug for that, that I'm learning all sorts. Hopefully they are as well. But one of the hallmarks of the Old Testament is sacrificial system and the uh job of the priest. We learned this in Sunday school with the teens a little bit, but Do you realize in the Old Testament there was a job of one person to go into the Holy of Holies to make atonement for the entire people? That job was the priest. Anybody else who dared enter into that holy of holies, they were going to be smitten down by God. They would die. Okay? It was very serious. Offense to do that. But if we come over into the New Testament, Jesus says, hey, all that was pointing to me. You know what happened when Jesus Christ died on the cross? That they'll rent in twain so that now we have access. You say what's the big deal about that? Well closeness is impossible without Christ You realize Christ made that partition separate and rip in twain so that you now can come to God. Some of you have this idea, well, I'm going to get closeness with God. because of my attendance at church or my observance of certain practices. Listen, certain things may be good. Certain religion is fantastic. Certainly the Bible talks about James says there is a pure religion and undefined. But you've got to realize this. The Bible says closeness to God without Christ is absolutely impossible. You say, I knew that already Uh maybe you're you're teeter-tottering on that decision. Well how about Christian? Do you realize the same thing's true with you? The Bible says, as ye have therefore received Christ Jesus, so walk ye in him. Sometimes we lose sight of Jesus Christ and who he is. Closeness Is demanded by God if we're going to have a right walk with him. You see, that's very obvious, but you're as close as you to God as you want to be I want to keep throwing that out there to get us thinking, to challenge us as believers. James is saying it like it is. I want to take it like it is, okay? He's saying, listen, the only person who's determining how close or how otherwise far from God you're walking today is you. So uh let me just ask you again, is um you are as close to God as you want to be. Um with a promise like this, it should be comforting, but sometimes I find that it's a promise of comfort is is really a commandment of conviction that we realize we're not matching up, we're not where it's where we're supposed to be. Do you realize isn't it interesting how closeness kind of brings likeness as well? Have you have you noticed that The um the this is why we need to choose carefully whom to hang out with. Um that is uh teens and right on up on on down the line. We need to be uh careful who we fellowship with But it's true the closer you are to someone, the more like them you will be. My mind goes back to my Bible college days and I can think of this couple Jen would know who I'm talking about. Doctor and Mrs. Cummins. They've been married for like 350 years or so, and they uh just have always been together, you know, since the beginning of days. But they are remarkably similar to each other. I mean down to you can w uh watch them walk and they both have a little stamper as they walk. I'm serious, it's like synchronization. It's like And you know, as they kind of walk down the hall. You can hear their their synchronized steps. They would laugh the same, a nice, kinda hearty, fun, jovial laugh. Oh, that was different. You know they would laugh the same they even this is kind of crazy. They had a mole in the same spot on their face. Exact same s Like what how'd that get there? So but interestingly enough that closeness for them Definitely brought a lot of likeness. I think about our marriage and um how the uh we are slowly conforming into the same people. How uh she rubs off on me, I rub off on her. I remember um Then uh so you guys that know me know that I can be a little crazy. Sometimes I say outlandish things and she'll kind of look at me like with this look, guys, you know what I'm talking about, okay. And she would just say it just like that. So sometimes I look at the teens and the things they do they're all but crazy um crazy so I'll look at them and say, Okay, you know. I'm finding I'm doing the same things. You know, when I we got married I didn't care a lot for chocolate. Now I do. She didn't care a lot for spicy things. Now she does, okay? Or sometimes maybe I'll be gunning for that last brownie brownie in the batch, and there she is join enjoying the chocolatey goodness And she'll look at me to make it worse and say, You still love me. You know, like a matter of fact, you will love me. So I drink the last bit of pop and I say, You still love me Okay. So we we pick up on each other's quirks. We love to exaggerate. It took you like 1. 2 million years to get ready, dear. What took you so long? And she'll say, well it took you about 3. 2 million years to get this sort of thing fixed. So we kind of go back and forth. We like to exaggerate all sorts of ways that. W for us, I really can see even in the three plus years that we've been married that closeness brings likeness. And the more we spend time together, the more like each other we become Do you know that's exactly what happened in the book of Acts? They observed Peter and John, two of Christ's disciples. They learned that these guys were Kind of dumb fishermen that were unlearned, uneducated, ignorant men. But one thing that they marveled at about these two gentlemen is that they had spent time with Jesus. Something was different about them. Yes, biblically, closeness brings likeness. So let me ask you a question. How close are you? Is this a serious thing that you're taking into account? Paul writes in Philippians 3. 10 That I may know him in the power of his resurrection, the fellowship of his suffering, being made conformable. But do you see how knowing brings confirmation to God? Conforming to God, more like him? 1 Peter 1. 15, of course, says, as God which is holy Uh the Bible says as he which hath it uh as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. Perhaps this isn't any alarming thing to you that yes, God desires closeness, but I find that there are some stumbling blocks when it comes to closeness. I like doing track, but I like the long distance. I like beating out a pattern, I like counting my steps. One event that I did not like was hurdles, okay? Hurdles just annoyed me to death. I'm not that tall of a guy anyway. Guys can whip over them like it was nothing, but Uh hurdles were just not really my thing. But when it comes to a close walk, I realize and that there are legitimate hurdles We must cross. What are you talking about? What does James say? Well, um I'm gonna have you do some flipping around in the book of James. Realize he's pointing at things. He's he said, I realize you're gonna have some difficulty But um w what are some stumbling blocks to a close walk? Well, number one, I'd say the events of life. Look at James 1-2. James 1-2, you got your Bible there. It says, Blessed is the man, James, 112, rather. James 1, 12, blessed is that man that endures temptation, for when he's tried, he shall receive a crown of life, which the Lord. . have promised to them that love him. . But you know what I find is that when you go through the venues, the throws of life and things kind of get events of life kind of get you down. Perhaps you can think about it this way. Was there ever a time you were closer to God than you are now? What's the deal? What happened? James says Blessed is that man that when he is tried, when he enters that temptation. Temptations in other words for the stuff that we don't like in our life Okay, that's just a fancy word for that when stuff comes your way that you don't like and deters you gets you off track. You know, it kind of reminds me of uh trying to get on a diet, you know, and then something happens, your routine's broken, and then you get off your diet, and next thing you know the whole thing's gone. At least that's the way it is for me. Well sometimes with our Christian life, something bad happens and it's all gone. The events of life can really deter you from a close walk. How about the enticement of sin? You're in James chapter 1, drop down to the very next verse. He says, let no man say when he's tempted, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither is he the one that's doing the tempting, but we could be uh enticement of sin can bring about that stumbling block to a close walk with God. Well, we all allow that sort of thing to happen. How about entertainment Just entertaining ourselves with either inappropriate things or things that rob our devotion of thoughts to God. How about four error of business? Turn to James chapter four where we were just at. James chapter four Again, this is all confined within the challenge James gives us. So that I'm doing this on purpose, because James says, listen, this is the whole bundle here. I realize what you're going through. error of business or busyness, rather. James four, verse thirteen. Go to now, ye that say today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain, whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapor that appears for a little time and then it vanishes away. For what you ought to say is that the Lord will we shall live and do this or do that. How many of you are would describe yourself as someone who is a planner? Okay, you're very keen on planning. I know my wife is, okay. So several of you would fess up to it. There's nothing wrong with planning. God does not say you cannot plan. But sometimes a close walk can be interrupted, can uh this can be a stumbling block as the error of busyness. You're just too busy, busy, busy and planing everything out to the that you don't allow God to work in your lives at all. And really we ought to be focused on God. God, whatever I do, I'm going to do it. Lord willing, I'm going to do it if you allow me to. So some stumbling blocks. How about the seriousness of this command? That goes forward. I just said it. It's a command. Okay. Um when it my dad turned 19 years old, he left home, he enlisted in the United States Air Force as a newly enlisted airman He learned the stress that the United States military, no matter the branch, puts on obedience and how it deals with disobedience. For example, if the Chief Master Sergeant, Brother James, comes in to the room, you better believe it is an absolute saluting in anything he says, yes sir, no sir, because you know y there will be a great penalty. If you disobey whatsoever. Why? Because this is a command from an authority. But I think that we don't have a yelling drill sergeant in our face, but rather we have a compassionate savior who's desiring a close walk. But I've got news for you folks. Just because God is gracious does not mean that this is not a command. So we have no excuse whatsoever. How about maybe you're here and you say, uh, I do desire a close walk with God. But if you're anything like I am, sometimes I scratch my head, and the biggest problem I have with any project in my life is just simply getting started. If you feel like that, uh then you can kind of go along with me. Where do I get started? I realize I'm not where I should be. I realize that I was closer at one point to God than I am now. I realize it was a sensitivity of tenderness. What what do I do, Pastor Brad? What does the Bible tell me to do? Well James tells us in James 4, verse 6, I think a good place to start. We read it together. James chapter 4, look at verse 6. He says, But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, listen to this carefully, God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. You want to know a good place to start? How about humility? Andrew Murray said this: humility is not thinking poorly of oneself. It's not thinking of oneself at all. Humility is a being honest with God and with yourself. Do you know James says that um there are some people in this room That God is resisting you. That's sort of like a running back in football trying to make his way to the to the end zone. While going through, he's stiff arming, blocking the defenders to keep them from approaching him and keeping them at a a certain arm's length distance. The word resist is literally stiff arm. I wonder how many in this room is God actively resisting you with the very same arm he desires to wrap around you. It could be our pride admitting to God where we're at Admitting we messed up. Turning maybe to the person next to you that you've wronged and saying, listen, I know I'm not right with you. There's no way I can be right with God. This is where the rubber meets the road. James says if you want to start this close walk, then you gotta realize You gotta be humble. In order to be close to God, you've got to be right, isn't that what he says? He resists, he keeps you like this until you can swallow your pride. And tell come to God the way that He sees you. Humility before the Lord. Notice it says um uh that It's humility before the Lord. It's not a showcase for others to see how humble you are. This is just between you and God. The Bible issues a lot of stern judgment concerning pride. Proverbs eighteen twelve. Before destruction the heart um is um is haughty, um, and before honor is humility. Proverbs sixteen eight five goeth before destruction. Proverbs twenty-one twenty-three A man's pride will bring him low, but honor will bring him high, will exalt him, um will will um We'll uphold the humble in spirit. So you see the the problem here maybe with some of us is that we're not coming humbly to God This brings me back to uh my my basketball days in high school. Um I played a little bit of basketball up to my senior year, and I'll I'll never forget we were in the championship, but our coach asked if we can uh go to this game to observe and see how that they do it. We heard about this one guy, particular guy on the uh the team that was favored to win, and this guy was pretty good basketball player, but he was nothing but a Big showboat, real proud, real braggadocious kind of guy. And like they do if you've ever been to a basketball championship before, they do it up really big and of course They get the big giant huge posters with the the wrapping on it and then they put all the names on there. Cheerleaders will help them out, you know, decorate it, make it look real nice and stuff. And then the music's going getting them uh excited about the game ahead and they're in the locker room and you wouldn't believe the tension and the excitement there. Uh so this scene is going on. And uh they begin to line up and the coach begins to line them up. Well this guy, this braggadocious big headed, big shot kind of guy, thought that since uh clearly I'm the best person on the basketball team I should be number one. I don't know what's going on here. There's some sort of mistake. So he heard the music which was kind of their cue to go off and rather than waiting in line He jets out the first thing out that door. He runs with a huge jump, makes his way through that nice poster board that they made. The problem was his head clipped the top of the two by four in his zeal. And he flipped in the air. Everyone broke into hysteria at the scene. This guy's got a bloody gash on his forehead, couldn't play the first quarter as they examined uh examined him and I just laughed and laughed. What happened was that that uh his pride got to him, didn't it? It knocked him pretty low You know, God, He wants us to just be honest with Him. He's not looking for big shots. You say, I don't really have a lot, Pastor Brett, that I can do I realize God gifts differently. People, not everyone's designed to do certain things. God's not looking for big shots. He's looking for somebody humble. He would much rather a close walk with one of his children. How about you? Are you do you have a close walk with God? Would you describe it that way? Would your spouse describe it that way? Would your mom or your dad describe it that way? Would God describe it that way? How about uh not only a close walk is uh a facet of a right relationship with God, but James is also saying a clean walk, a clean walk with God. You can read that in James 4 verse 8. He says, draw an eye to God. He'll draw an eye to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Okay? So this may be very basic, but did you know the only time something needs Cleaning is when it's dirty. Okay? Teens with your room. The only time that mom and dad will tell you to clean the room is if it's dirty. Alright, so good idea. dishes that are are not uh that are not clean, that means that they're dirty. Okay, this is very basic, rudimentary, but uh James what what I'm pointing to, what James is getting at here is, listen, I understand as believers, remember His admonition, he's writing to Christians, blood-bought people, people that know Jesus Christ as their Savior, people that can speak the lingo, people that uh are familiar that go to church all the time, obviously because they're reading this letter and they're getting it and they know all these things. But he's talking to um believers that um realize this that God desired, he says, I realize sometimes our life isn't as clean as it should be. I realize there are some inconsistencies. Some things maybe you don't want other people to know about, but James says you have to realize in order to have a right walk with God, it's got to be a clean walk. You gotta clean your hands. Think about how many blessings we forfeit simply because we refuse to confess known sin. We refuse to go to the sink, stud up with some soap, wash our hands off, so that we can actually do things and it be appropriate, okay? So the W what kind of blessings do we forfeit in our Krishna? I think about that all the time. It's a whole nother message. But you know when we're confessing our sins to God, I think it ought to be a few It ought to be number one specific. I feel like all right, Lord, forgive me for these things. It ought to be soon rather than letting it go all day. And I think that it ought to be sincere. But think about the blessings that we forfeit just because we say I'll let it go. Man, how how can you walk all day in the spirit if you let that sort of thing go? How can you expect to be the parents you should be to your children? when you know there's animosity either against them or your husband or your wife or whoever it may be or somebody or you got this going. How can that go on weeks and weeks unchecked and you think somehow you're going to be over Okay, that's not how it works. James says, listen, I want you to be encouraged. I get it. I realize that you're going through stuff. I realize you trudged. through a terrible, disastrous world that i the uh despite our best efforts, it gets on you and we need to um to get rid of that. David was a good example of this. For time's sake, I'm not gonna have you turn there Psalm 51. You really ought to learn to fall in love with Psalm 51. If you fall more in love with Psalm 51, where David begins to pour out his heart in confession sincere. confession to God, specific confession to God, then I've got news for you. You will have more of a heart of God. Okay? David wasn't a perfect man. He just knew how to get back with God perfectly. Okay? So the same thing with us, you may be a Christian downtrodd and made mistakes and da-da-da and got your hands real filthy, real disgusting You know, you could be like David and turn your heart to God. I like some of the verbiage David uses in Psalm 51, verse 2. Again, you don't need to turn there, but he says, Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquity. Wash me, cleanse me from my sin. Verse 7, purge me with hyssop. I shall be clean. Wash me I shall be whiter than snow. Verse 10, created me a clean heart, O God. You see this verbiage that he uses? I want to be clean before God. Without cleanness there cannot be closeness. Plain and simple Some of you, how many of you guys like washing a car? I do not have I'm made to do that. Okay. So some of you like washing a car, especially if you got maybe a model car or something like that. Um nice and you keep it Uh that could be kind of fun, but I've never owned a nice model car. So uh you know it for me it's just nothing but a chore. But when you think about washing a vehicle, okay obviously you wash a vehicle because it's dirty. Maybe you went muddy, maybe you had fun. Maybe it's just an Oakland winter storm and it gets real sloshy. Okay, so then you've got to wash this thing off. So you start off washing this entire car off, you know, if you're doing it by hand, and then uh m then you've got to um clean it, wipe it off. And then you're just about done, but not quite there. The last part of a car wash, not just washing it down, not just cleaning it and detailing it, but then you've got to what? Wax on, right? Wax on, wax off. Okay? And really a good car wash is not complete until that coat of wax gets on there. I find some similarity when it comes to confessing sin to God. You say, God, I need to be clean. I need to be washed. I want to be specific, God, not just any ordinary thing, not just generally be close to God. But I want you to take care of this and take care of this and take care of this. and wipe this off and take care of this. That's what David said. I want you to be that thorough. And then he still wasn't done. Created me a clean heart. I want you to put some wax on so that way when future mud, dirt, snow, whatever slosh gets on there, now I'm my car is going to be a little more protected. Now my heart is going to be a little more protected. That ought to be the sincere desire. of every believer here is to have that thorough of a cleansing of our hands so that we can be close to God. Is that something that you desire? Is that something that maybe you need? This morning, it may be you, you know the word for cleanse your your hands? Excuse me. It's the same Greek word used to describe the purification of a woman at childbirth, at a new birth. Kind of interesting, isn't it? James says, Christian, a newborn creature in God, someone who's been bought, a babe of Christ. that you need to cleanse your hands, you need to purify, you need to get back and realizing, hey, I've been bought with the price. I need to glorify God. And by body. Same word that's used. Second Corinthians five seventeen. Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. All things are become new. The Bible instructs us to live holy lives. You know, there's a verse that he says, live holy lives. Without holiness, no man can see God. Do you know what that that means? Well obviously we don't see God. Nobody has seen God and actually live. They would get obliterated. We were studying that in theology, weren't we, teaching? That uh you can't look on God. So what that's not what he's saying. He's saying you listen, you cannot see God actively working in your life. A dynamic, close walk with God without holiness, without stop pretending that your hands are clean. Stop putting them behind your back or in your pocket. Concealing that sort of thing. Um, not getting underneath the nitty-gritty of your fingers. Why don't you just do some business with God and say, God, I realize I want a close walk. I realize I also need a clean walk with him. I I want that cleansing. You know, you can even in your seat right now say, God, I'm crying out to you. I need this sort of thing. I want this. I want to be like Like you, 1 Peter 3. 12, the Lord sees hearts, uh, um, sees and hears the righteous, but his face is against them that do evil. 1 John 1. 6, if we say we have fellowship and walk in sin, or if we say we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. Maybe we need to just stop lying to ourselves, to God, maybe even to others. I know this is the harsh reality, but James is saying if you want a right walk with God, one of the fastest is you've got to be close. which brings likeness. You've got to be clean, which brings holiness. Similarity to God. Lastly, is consistency. So not only close, not only clean. But consistent. Walk with God. What do I mean by consistent? Look back at James 4, verse 8. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Amazing promise. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Here we go. Purify. And he moves to the heart. Ye double-minded. You've got to have a consistent walk That means your actions and the things your hands are doing, things that people see on the outside. Does that is that consistent with your heart? Or is there a bit of professional Christian acting? going on. And I'm not talking about an escit or something like that. I'm talking about we're putting up a front. Listen, I'm I'm not trying to beat you up unduly. I'm trying to admonish you if from this text that if maybe you have kind of built that sort of life up and haven't been dealing business, it's an easy thing to fall into. I'm I I think probably you you get the sense like we're judging you or perhaps that we're preaching hard on you. And maybe we peer right through you, but the truth of the matter is as a pastor, I think I've got one of the greatest struggles of that out of anybody in this room, to be something on the outside and not be something on the In fact I have to admit to you that I need this challenge just as much as anybody in this room. But I realize that if I'm not consistent on the inside what I'm portraying on the outside, I'm gonna have a problem. And that disparity in life is gonna drive me absolutely crazy. I spoke a little bit about double-mindedness the last time uh pastor was out of town But double-mindedness is a very serious offense, and it only appears in the book of James, and he's trying to ward Christians from this sort of living. Stop living double-minded, stop pretending, stop being professional Christian actors You know, you read through the entire gospel, and obviously we won't take time to uh go through uh some of these things, but do you realize the people that Jesus Christ was most obstinate with? The most that he butt heads with, you would think, naturally speaking, it would be the out and out cursing, the people with the tattoos and the people with the earrings lining and the people in debauched living and people murdering and stealing and taking advantage and Maybe even some that would follow him in the wilderness and stuff just trying to espy out what he was doing. You'd think it'd be kind of some of those knuckleheads that just didn't listen to anything he had to say and We're living out and now terrible lives. But actually the people, if you trace through the gospel, the people that Jesus Christ resisted the most, that was stiff on the most, it was the Pharisees and the religious crowd. Do you know why Because they pretended on the outside with their lips they honored him, but their heart was far from them. They were like whited sepulchres that looked beautiful, but inside they were full of dead man bones. They washed the outside, but the inside was what would needed cleaning. Are you like that? Are you like the Pharisees where you've developed in your life over a series of years Now, this inconsistent living and God's resisting you, you know it, but you just don't want to be honest enough. You're concerned what is going to come out now? How much of my life is going to have to change? Listen, that is all for the better. If you want a Right relationship with God. It's got to be close. It's got to be clean. It has to, has to be, James says, it's got to be consistent. Just purify your heart, you double-minded. Stop trying to live for this and live for this. Team, stop trying to give your heart to this boy or this girl and this form of living and trying to figure out this identity, but also call yourself a Christian on Sunday and on Wednesday That sort of disparity in your life does not work. It hasn't ever worked. It never will work. James is saying, you've got to be consistent in your walk with me. I'll illustrate it this way. On Wednesday, August seventh, nineteen seventy-four, a Frenchman named Philippe Petit did something that made him world famous. As a high wire artist, he had done a lot of tight uh rope stunts before, but none that topped his highwire walk. between the twin towers that once stood in downtown New York City with a custom-made 26-foot pole in the hand, weighing slightly over 50 pounds. Philippe Petit took his first step out. What's the big deal? One thousand four hundred feet in in the air. One mistake meant certain death for this man. Crowds began to gather in the streets below He was not able to focus on them because he was trying to do his best not to fall. But these towers were 200 feet apart from each other. With the wind blowing strong, there was an actual sway to skyscrapers way up in the air, his nerves racing as fast as can be. Birds literally flying around his head as he testifies, the noise of the streets and the hustle and bustle down below, all of this was a recipe for disaster. And um after forty five minutes Well let me say this that despite all these distractions, he managed to cross to the other side, not just once. He did this eight times. He even was fancy enough. To jump up in the air, leaving those onlookers absolutely spellbound and breathless. After 45 minutes, though The Lipet had to stop because it started raining. That's the only thing that stopped me. You say, what would possess a man? to do something as insane as that. You say that that that's that's probably not a good idea. But the truth is that a lot of us are doing the same thing. We're like Philippe Petit, and we're teeter-tottering in our Christian walk between a life for God. And a life lived for ourselves. This inconsistent walk for Philippe Petit would have been fatal. An inconsistent walk for us as believers is equally fatal to our spiritual walk with God. Maybe that's been you. You've been inconsistent with your walk. Let me encourage you again, just these three simple facets. It's not riveting, it's not uh earth-shattering, it's not new. This has been in here for a very long time. Longer than any of us. James says, listen, and by the way, I didn't mention this. James is also writing to believers under some very dire persecution. Don't believe me? James 1, verse 1, he says, greetings, brethren, my brethren which are scattered abroad. Why are they scattered abroad? Because he's writing to believers that You know what that tells me? That no matter whether the current administration in the White House, no matter who our family may be, no matter what our circumstances, no matter the hardship that we're going through, no matter what previous decisions we've made, no matter anything, we can still have this close, this clean and consistent walk if we're just willing to. Again, I ask you, how close is too close, folks? You are the one that sets that bar Maybe there's somebody in here this morning. I'm not naive to think enough, a crowd this size, that there may be somebody here that before you could get close with God, you got to Except Christ. I would encourage you to make that decision. Listen, you'll have a close walk, closer than any brother you can have here on earth. When you receive the free gift Jesus Christ offers. I'm so thankful Jesus Christ saved me and I can have this. At least it's possible And then for us as believers, knowing this is possible and knowing this is commanded, will you have a close, a clean, and a consistent walk. I'll close with this. You've done a great job listening. There's a man named Cleeland Boyd McCaffee He was a Christian man who lived from 1866 to 1944. He experienced a series of trials in his life. You can read some about it that were very terrible. But they culminated in the tragic death of two uh infant deaths in his family. He tried to find words to comfort others But he himself was void of comfort. For a series uh short period, he attempted to console himself and his friends. See, you can listen to this and his own testimony. Um and this provided distraction but no deliverance, as he said. He looked for help from his trials and tragedies and sin, but finally he turned at the last minute to prayer and scripture meditation before he decided to end it all. And he came across a Very familiar verse he memorized as a kid. Draw nigh to God. He'll draw nigh to you. So moved by this short promise, he penned these words. There is a place of quiet rest. near to the heart of God. A place where sin cannot molest near to the heart of God. O Jesus, blessed Redeemer, sent from the heart of God, hold us who wait before thee. near to the heart of God. Again, let me ask you, is Christian, are you walking close, clean, and conf Consistently. Maybe somebody here that doesn't know Jesus Christ personally, today is the day of salvation. I'd like to encourage you, close your eyes, put your head down for just a second. This is just between you and God. Let me ask. Question number one, I think, is the most important question. If you died today, do you know where you would go when you die? The Bible does say your soul will live on forever and ever. But one of two places. One is described as eternal death. One is described as the opposite, eternal life If I were to press you, I won't. Tonight, uh th this morning rather, do you know where you're gonna go? Would you have a Bible answer. If not, um and you say Pastor Brat, I'm I'm kind of concerned about that Would you do me the favor, yourself the favor as well? Would you just slip your hand up real quickly and quietly? I'm not going to embarrass you, I promise you. Uh uh I'm up here, we are here, uh believers are here, we're here only to help. Okay, so but if you'd say, Pastor Brett, I don't know Jesus as my own Savior, I can't answer affirmatively. with your first question, but that concerns me. Would you just raise your hand, put it back down so we can pray for you? Anybody like that? I didn't see any hands, and I assume that everybody in here knows Christ personally. Who would say, second question, Pastor Bret, I do know Jesus as my Savior, but I also know I have not been either walking uh having a clean walk, a close walk, or a consistent walk. Has God dealt with you about a particular area or maybe generally? If that's you, would you uh just slip your hand up? Good, all around the building. And I'd rather you be honest. If there's not necessarily a specific sense God dealt with you, there's no spiritual, seemingly spiritual reason or ratio. your hand but if God has spoken to you is there anybody else that say God has spoken to my heart and maybe even I want to do some business with God in the moment in the moment Great. I appreciate you folks being honest. Here's what I'm going to do. I'm going to pray, and then as Miss Jennifer plays, I'd encourage you to step out and put some feet to that action. All right. Let's everybody stand. Everybody stand together, please. We'll pray. And then I'd encourage you to respond. Father in heaven, I thank you for the hands that went up all around the room. Where you are speaking to individual lives. So I pray, as your saints make to get right with you, that you would meet them in a special way. After all, God, you said if we are willing to take this step, To draw nigh to you, to draw close. You are willing to draw nigh to us. You promise that. So we hold you to your word this morning. Meet us with us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right. If God spoke into your heart as missing.