Your Bibles turn with me to John chapter 8. How many folks here recognize the name Justin Bieber? Anyone recognize that name? Justin Bieber? You know, I am sick and tired of everybody picking on Justin Bieber. I wish they'd leave her alone. Did you get that, Robin? Yeah, good. John chapter eight. Sorry, I was that thing cra I heard that the other day. That just cracked me up. I've been telling it to my wife every day since Wednesday And uh she says, I don't see what's so funny about that. John chapter eight. I just want to read. It's really the middle of a an event that's recorded here in Scripture. And uh just a few verses. We've actually referenced this throughout our series that we've been preaching on Sunday night. And this is really, uh I may have another message or two on the series. I tend to doubt it. I think we're going to wind it up with this But just a section that we've referenced throughout this series in verse number seven of John chapter eight. So when they continued asking him He lifted up himself and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her. Now you know the context. They had brought this woman taken in adultery. They were demanding that the Lord Jesus Christ answer their question, should she or should she not be stoned And uh they were th their concern wasn't for what was right or wrong. They were trying to catch the Lord in his words and trying to make them look stupid. And uh but the Lord is a here's the neat thing. Our Lord is able to take the most contrary situation and turn it around and have a great lesson come out of that and be able to help people. And that's what he does here. Look what he says. He says, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast the stone at her And again he and again he stooped down and wrote on the ground. And they w and they w they which heard it, being look at this, convicted by their own conscience Went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last, and Jesus was left alone, uh, and the woman standing in the midst. We've been looking at sins We we've been trying asking the Holy Spirit to confront the sins that we have become very comfortable with in our own hearts and lives. And here's the thought. As society deteriorates, and sin becomes more and more blanket in society And and some of the most perverse things are celebrated. There's a danger for us as individual Christians to get so consumed With the sins of society that we overlook the sins that are creeping into our own heart and life And more than we just overlook them, we get comfortable with them. And that, I believe, is what happened with these Pharisees here Now, I'm not suggesting that we're on the same level as Pharisees. I would like to think we're a little bit more spiritual than the Pharisees were. I certainly would hope so. Nevertheless, the condition they got in we are vulnerable to. They could see the sin of adultery. Man, this was blanton, this was glaring, they they had no problem finding this other woman's sin. But the Lord forced them to confront themselves and confront their own sins. And of course, they were convicted. And rather than dealing with the sin and confessing it to the Lord and coming clean, they just walked away from it. And we don't want to do that. We want the Lord to search our hearts. And, you know, of course we'll preach against the sins of the world and, you know, abortion this morning and all that stuff. perversion, adultery, and all that. We're gonna preach against that. But at the same time, we need to make sure we've not become comfortable with s other sins that maybe aren't so blanton. And we looked at a number of those, uh about twelve of them I think. Ingratitude, discontentment, bitterness, so many things, gossip, um, worldliness. And these things creep in and we don't give them a second thought. We're just comfortable with their while we're screaming and hollering about these other sins out there. So here's my thought tonight. How do I get how do I become comfortable? With my sin. Maybe somebody's sitting here saying, you know, I've got sin. It really bothers me. How do I get where I'm comfortable with it? It doesn't bother me anymore. Oh, I'll help you tonight. How to become comfortable with your sin. So let's pray. Father in heaven, we do ask that you would help us. We really do not, Lord, want to become comfortable with our sin. I don't believe folks would be here on a Sunday night on Father's Day if uh they didn't care about their spiritual conditions. And I ask, Lord, that you would uh just Holy Spirit Like David prayed, Lord, we ask that you would search us and try us. And Lord, see if there's sins in our hearts and lives that we've just accepted, we justify sometimes. Don't let that be that way, Lord. Even in my own heart, God, I'm asking you to do the same for me as you have been through this series. And um fill me with your spirit, I pray, Lord. You be the preacher tonight, God, through me In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. Like I said, we're asking uh we're wanting to look into our own lives. for sins that we tend to overlook. Now I'm just curious and and I don't want to hear what it is. It's between you and God. But I'm just curious, throughout this series, the last two, three months we've been preaching this, three or four. How many how many would say, preacher During this series, God touched my heart about some areas. I maybe didn't really give it a whole lot of thought. I just didn't take it that seriously. But through this series, the Holy Spirit of God dealt with my heart about some area. How many would testify to that? Look at that. And I'm my hand is raised You think it's tough sitting there having the preacher do that? Try studying it while you're studying it getting convicted. And so that's what we're looking at. I want to give a list of actions That enable us to become comfortable with our sin. Some things we can do to make us so we're comfortable with sin it doesn't bother us like these Pharisees got. I encourage you to jot these down. I think they'll be helpful to you. Number one, if I want to become comfortable with sin. If I want sin in my life, it doesn't bother me First of all, I must become blind to my own sin. Become blind to my own sin. Sin has a tendency to blind people The study of sin has a tendency to blind the one that's committing it. Now when you think of blindness, I think of uh Samson in the Bible, the blindness of sin. And we know how the Philistines he deteriorated in his walk with God and his obedience to God to the point where finally the Pharisees or the not the Pharisees, the um uh Philistines Came and took him and what did they do to him? They bound him and what did they do? They put his eyes out. They blinded him. The fact of the matter is Samson was blind to what his own sin was doing to him long before they put his eyes out. He failed to see how his disobedience to God, how his self-will, how his seeking his own pleasure was stealing the presence and power of God out of his life until it got to the point where Delilah had had some men. If you read that carefully, Delilah did not cut his hair. She had some Philistines come in and cut his hair. And the Bible says he wished not that the power of God had departed from him. He was blind to what his sin was doing to him. And if I want to be com and he was comfortable with it, he had no problem uh living in disobedience to God. And if I want to be comfortable with my sin, let that sin blind me To what it's doing to my life. If someone is blind, what does that mean? They can't see. It means they're not aware. of the of reality around them. It means they're uh uh they cannot see what the what what they're maybe where they're heading to or or uh where uh what what their uh condition is perhaps Sin blinds us. Now here's the thing: Sin not only blinds us to the effects of sin, but sin blinds us to the fact that we're blind. You follow what I'm saying? Would you agree with me? A blind person knows they're blind. Physically blind person knows they're blind. I tell you, I appreciate Phil Sherman. He has he has more fun with his blindness than anybody I've ever met in my life. He said to me this morning, he's gone out, you know, and and mostly I think you know Phil, Phil, and and uh Carolyn back there, he's gone out He said, Brother Latam, he says, not only are you a good preacher, but from my perspective, you're a good looking preacher. I said, Phil, coming from you, that means a lot. A blind person generally is aware of the fact they're blind, but here's the problem with spiritual blindness. Spiritual blindness blinds us to the fact we're blind. We don't even realize that we don't realize what sin is doing to us. And these comfortable sins, if I'm going to be comfortable in sin with the sins that we've been discussing in particular, Well, then allow that sin to blind me to its effects on my life. Here's a tragic thing. A lot of times I, as an individual, do not realize what my sin is doing to me as quickly as people around me are aware of it. You follow what I'm saying? Most of the time, others see our spiritual condition clearer than we do. I don't know how many times over the years, and we've been doing this a long time. And I've had to, as a pastoral responsibility, sit down maybe with someone and say, hey, listen, I need to talk to you about some sin in your life. And you know, so often people say, Well, I don't see anything wrong with it. And you can come and you show right directly from scripture, and they're just blind to the fact that they're blind. To their disobedience to God. And when we get in that condition where we don't even see what my sin is and what it's doing to my life. We become very comfortable with it. I was reading in my devotions this week, 1 John chapter 2, and verse 11, it has this little phrase there. It's talking about people hating their uh uh another and and they're no better than a murderer And it makes this statement. Blindness hath or I'm sorry. Darkness hath blinded his eyes. Now you've heard the phrase blinded by the light. Reality is in the spiritual world, we're not blinded by the light, we're blinded by the darkness. The darkness of sin blinds us to that. And when we allow a sin in our heart and life and we don't deal with it, we'll deal with that in a minute, and we don't deal with it And we get it there, eventually that sin, though at first we may be very conscious of it, we're very concerned about it, but eventually that sin blinds us. To its presence and its destructive power. The darkness of that sin blinds us. And we don't see what it's doing. We don't see its, and suddenly we're comfortable. And you find Christians that are living in sin, and it doesn't bother them. They don't see what it's doing. And we become comfortable with it. We must approach, now this is kind of leading me into the next thought, but we must approach God's word as a mirror. Now you hope I hope you understand. I'm not addressing tonight people who are new Christians or are what I would call fringe church members. This is Father's Day. This is Sunday night. You're here in the house of God. You know, obviously you're here because you want God to be pleased with your life. You want to obey the Lord. I would assume that's the case. And so we know the Bible. A moment ago I had so how many folks wrote your Bible? Vast majority, overwhelming majority of people, you had your Bibles with you. But even as a Christian who's faithful to church, believes the Bible, knows the Bible to some extent, sin can creep in my heart and life, and I become blind. To that sin. And here's I guess what I'm trying to say. What I need to do is I need to approach the Bible as a mirror to show me what I am because I become blind to my spiritual condition and the Bible can show me what my spiritual condition is so that I can deal with it. Am I making any sense at all? Anybody follow what I'm saying? But if we're not careful, we'll study all about the Bible, but we'll never allow it to show us what we are. You can be a tremendous Bible scholar and be very carnal. You know all about it and never really see yourself. For your real condition. See myself as my real I can sit over there, study, sit in my office and sit in my study and study the Word of God and break it down, look up all the verses, look up all the cross-references, find illustrations, outline that thing And still harboring gratitude in my heart. It's kind of like I brought a mirror with me. In fact, turn with you if you would. Before we do that, go to James chapter 1. Would you turn over there with me? And verse number 23 is what I want to read. I want to read a few verses. I want to try and illustrate what I'm saying. James chapter 1, right after Hebrews. Verse 22 says, But be ye doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. Can you see the blindness there? Alright, you're you're uh hearing the word. Boy, you could quote scripture, you know the the memory verse of the month, and uh you know you've got your King James Bible and all those things and those are good and right. Well, I can still deceive myself, not let the Word of God address me, address my condition, and become blind to my condition, and the next thing you know, I'm comfortable with my sin. Look at verse 23 For if any man be a hearer of the word and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass. Now you could write in the Marjorie Bible that word glass is referencing a mirror. That was the old-time word for mirror, so glass. It says, beholding himself, uh uh, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face, his physical body, physical face. In a glass or a mirror. For he beholdeth himself and goeth away, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he is. But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, God's word, and continueth therein, in other words, letting what it says influence me, and in in in uh uh uh uh um uh di digesting it into my life, he being not a forgetful here, but a doer of the word, this man shall be blessed in his dee. This is what I think he's saying Let's this mirror represents the perfect law of liberty, the Word of God. It's a King James mirror. The only one I ever use. Amen? And so I've got my mirror here. It's the Bible verse there says it's like the Word of God. And I bring my mirror to church. Amen. Preacher says, How many people got your mirrors with you? Wave them around a little bit. I better not break this. My wife will kill me. And so we got our mirrors with us. Alright, we're gonna have mirror study. Everybody get your mirror out, alright. First thing I want you to notice is that mirror is framed in pine, I guess. I have no idea. Uh that is pine wood. Amen, brother. That is pine. That's good pine stuff. And uh there's engravings around it, and uh you'll notice that. And in my study I found that there's fancy designs all around the mirror And those designs contain roses and little weeds And nice little squares. And I took this mare apart this week and I found out this is glass that has silver painting on the back of it. And all God's people said And boy, I know everything about this mirror. It has cardboard holding in, little staples in the back there, it has a place to hang it up. And I know everything all about this mirror. Question, is that the purpose of the mirror? No. What's the purpose of the mirror? To look in that woo. Nice. I got dirt all over me. Uh the purpose of that mirror is to look and see what's out of place. I got hair growing out of my ear and um I need a haircut. The whole purpose, you get what I'm saying? The whole purpose of that mirror is to show me physically what my true condition really is. Women and men are different. Anybody notice that? Every uh now I could be wrong on this, but my experience has been every time a woman looks in the mirror, she doesn't like it Am I right? Oh good night, look at my nose. You know, and every time a woman looks in the mirror, she doesn't like what she sees. But every time a man looks in the mirror, I look in the mirror, I think, wow, I look better than I thought I did. Pretty good. I'm impressed when I look in the mirror But the point I'm trying to make is it's easy to get in our minds that we look one way, but the mirror doesn't lie, does it? And it tells me what I really am. And I can learn everything I want about the Bible. I can memorize the verses. I can know how many pages are in my old Schofield Bible. I can have verses underlined. I can have the meanings of verses written out in the side. I can got this thing outlined. I can do all that. But if I don't approach the Word of God With the attitude, God, I need you to show me what I really am, what my condition really is I can be blind to my own blindness. Does that make sense? So, how do Christians, how do you get somebody that's been faithful to church? They studied, maybe they taught Sunday school? And they get all out of sorts, and they get bitter, and they end up where all they can do is condemn others, and and and you do, we need to preach against that stuff. But they never see their own sin. It's because we become blind to our true condition. So the first thing I want you to write down how to become comfortable with my sin. is first of all become blind to it. Don't don't don't notice it. Don't see it. Number two How do I become comfortable? I said, number one, be blind become blind to my own sin. I can see everyone else's. But uh she's very nervous right now. But I had preached something. And uh she had said something to the effect uh that um Uh I was preaching about how we need to apply our own hearts and she was saying, Boy, it's a shame so-and-so wasn't here tonight. They would have really She was saying it facetiously. Do you remember that? Sort of. Just play along, okay, yeah. But aren't we that way? I think I should. I hope you will be able to do that. That was it. She goes, we want our race to pull it into us and not a pitchfork to pass it off on someone else. Very good. And um help me with the out rest of the outline here then too, seeing it. Number one, if you want to be comfortable with sin, just become blind to it. Don't don't deal with it don't face it. Number two, believe, I must believe that I'm more mature than I really am. I must believe that I'm a stronger Christian than what I really am. Christian maturity is more than simply having biblical knowledge. Christian maturity is more than just notching up attendance records. Christian maturity has to do with heart submission to the Lord. That's what Christian maturity is. It is possible for a person who has been saved maybe six months, who is just learning the principles of Scripture. To be more mature in their faith than someone that's been saved for 60 years. And has all this knowledge and has all this thing, but their heart is not submitted to the Lord. You follow what I'm saying? And when I if I'm not careful, I can confuse my Bible knowledge. I'll equate Bible knowledge with spiritual maturity. Now it's difficult to be real mature without Bible knowledge. I need to know what the Bible says. But that in and of itself doesn't make me a mature Christian. Christian maturity has to do with the condition of my heart. Has to do with my how I live my life. Not with how much how many facts I know. First Corinthians chapter eight verse one says, Knowledge puffeth up. Number one, be blind to my sin. Just don't see it. Don't even see what it's doing to me. Number two, convince myself, believe that I'm more mature than I really am. And I believe, can I be honest with you, and this is myself included, we have a very strong tendency to think we're better Christians than what we are. We really do. Number three, become careless with my personal devotions. Now we're wondering how do I get comfortable with sin? How do I how can some sin come in my life? It's not big blanton sodomy or abortion or murder, robbing banks, adultery, it's not some blanton big thing out there, as we would call it. It's an attitude, it's a little area of worldliness, whatever, and I'm comfortable with it. How do I get to that condition? Number one, be blind to its presence. Number two, convince myself I'm stronger than Christian and Mother William. And number three, become careless with my personal devotions. I am convinced after I got saved in 79. That's what, 34 years as a Christian. I am absolutely convinced that the most important aspect of the Christian life is my personal interaction with my Savior. And by interaction I mean God speaking to me through His Word and me speaking to God through prayer. And if I become careless, listen to me, please. If you don't get anything else out of this message, please get this. If I become careless in my personal interaction with my Lord. I can become very comfortable with sin. And by that I don't mean just going through the motions. But I mean in my daily time of spending some time with God, I come with a submissive attitude. I call it a submissive fellowship. With the Lord. Lord, speak to me, show me, direct me, challenge me, search me, give me wisdom, give me understanding. Lord, take out of my life that which ought not to be there. Lord, inject into my life that which I need. God, you know. And I come to God's word that way, anticipating God speaking to me and searching my heart. That must be guarded with all diligence. At personal time interacting with my Lord and Savior. If I become careless for that, I am a sitting duck. You can be the most faithful church member, and don't misunderstand. I'm not saying this is in place of church membership. God gave us the church, the body of Christ. It's necessary. But if I neglect my personal interaction with my Savior, I can become very, very comfortable with sin. When I talk with folks, and I don't do a lot of counseling, I try to help people and show what Scripture says. My idea is my best counseling comes from behind this pulpit. We can get people in and sit under the preaching. God can do a lot. Now that doesn't say there's not a place to sit down with folks to try to help them. But you know what I found? Or 20 years here as pastor and the eight years before that? I found that when folks are really struggling, have some area, one of the first things I like to ask them is this: how's your personal devotions? You know what I've found? 99 times out of a hundred, they'll say, you know, it's not what it ought to be. It's not what it ought to be. I had a fellow years ago to come into my office. Man, he was just telling me everything I was doing wrong and everyone thing everyone else was doing wrong and everything that everything was wrong. And I looked and I said, listen, I appreciate you and you know some of the stuff you said will help me. Uh no doubt there's areas there that I said, but let me ask you this, how's your personal devotions? He hung his head. Says it it isn't. It isn't. I'm telling you, that one area, just determining that I'm going to have personal interaction with my Lord will do more. To help us become uncomfortable with sin and have victory in our life. You want to be comfortable with sin? Then neglect. Your personal interaction with the Lord. Don't talk to Him. Don't open your Bible and let Him speak to your heart. Or if you do open your Bible, then just go through the motions. Just read it. Don't even give God a chance to speak to your heart. Successful Christian living begins with the condition of the heart. Did you notice in the bulletins? I think I have it in this week's, in the bulletins where I advertised our series, I put a heart there. With a band-aid on it. Anybody see that? Kind of dark background of heart with a band-aid on it. That is trying to illustrate When we become comfortable with sin, it hurts our hearts. And that is where Christian maturity, Christian victory begins in our heart. And our heart, our spiritual hearts must maintain interaction with our Lord if they're going to be strong and healthy And my challenge tonight throughout this, all of these is a challenge, but especially to guard our time alone with the Lord with an open Bible and an open heart in prayer. And letting God speak to our hearts. It is my interaction with the Lord that keeps my heart at you. Let me give you another one real quick. How to become comfortable with my sin, blind, become blind to my own sin, believe I'm more mature than I really am. Become careless with my personal devotions. Number four, abandon the Lord Jesus Christ. There is an epidemic of Christeless Christianity in our land, in our churches. We have a Christianity that is in love with itself, where it is me and what I want. And my pleasure, and my preferences, and me, mine, me, me, mine. You look look look at the titles of sermons. How to be happier at this, how to be uh uh more better at that, how to find fulfillment, how this, that, and the other. It's all man-centered. Paul said, we preach Christ and him crucified. That is the crux of the Christian life, is Jesus Christ. It is what makes me a victorious Christian is my relationship, my fellowship with Jesus Christ The churches uh and people mean well, so please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. Don't go out and say I'm saying something I'm not saying. But I get these advertisements for churches and it says something like a family-centered church. Now, don't misunderstand me. The family is incredibly important. Amen? But if a church is family-centered, it's not a biblical church. It should be Christ-centered. Jesus said, if a man doesn't hate his family, his wife, his children, his brother, his sister, yea, and his own life also. He cannot be my disciple. You know what he's saying? It needs to be Christ-centered. Christianity is Christ. And when we neglect, when we abandon the Lord Jesus Christ and our Christianity, simply becomes a form, simply becomes something we do, simply becomes uh, you know, we walk out of church and say, Boy, I I didn't get much out of that Listen, if the Bible's preached and Christ is honored and Christ was centered, uh then you're coming for the wrong reasons. We come to church not to make us. We weren't created by God. Somebody say, what's your purpose on earth? What's God's purpose for you on earth? Well, God's purpose for me is for me to be happy. No, it isn't. That's a side effect. That's a consequence. My purpose is to glorify the Lord. To love him supremely. And when I fulfill that purpose, then happiness comes as a byproduct. So, what is Jesus Christ to you? Personally, what is Jesus Christ to me? Is he anything to me? Or is my Christianity just something I go through and just something we say and do and all that? I'm afraid. I'm afraid. A lot of people just abandon Christ. He's just a name, just a word. I tell you what, when people got around Jesus Christ, things happened in their life. Right? Now either they either their life was changed or they walked away. And if I maintain if I refuse to abandon Jesus Christ, I'm going to live every day, every moment in the presence of Christ, in fellowship with the Lord My whole life, my mind is stayed on him. Well, I tell you, sin doesn't become isn't very comfortable. And it bothers me because the presence of Christ. An intense love for the Lord Jesus Christ defends my heart from loving the world. When I love Jesus Christ, when I know Jesus Christ, I love him with all my heart. Suddenly this world isn't nearly as appealing. Is it just me or is anybody else feeling more and more out of place in this old sinful world? I mean, I don't care. Liberal, conservative, all of that, I I feel like I don't fit in with any of them. The more we know Jesus Christ, the more we have a relationship with him, the more we fellowship with him, the more he is the center of our being. Well, less appealing this world is. And those sins, it's harder for them to creep in. Intense love for the Lord Jesus Christ defends my heart from pleasures of the flesh. You know what Satan's greatest ally is? Our sinful nature. Satan has an ally behind enemy lines. In our own being is our own sinful nature. If I'm going to have victory over my sinful nature, I've got to love Jesus Christ supremely and know him and live for him and be consumed with him. Then this flesh, suddenly it's not nearly as appealing. Like Paul said, oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? That's the way he viewed his sinful nature. I like Joseph, don't you? Number Uh story of Joseph and he was sold and Potiphar bought him and he put him in charge of his whole household and Potiphar's wife was not a good lady. And man, she set her eye on him and she's flirting with him and she wants him bad And finally she comes upon him and she grabs him, and the Bible says, Come lie with me. Now, here you have a young man. What is he, in his 20s, maybe? This is a wealthy woman, a high-powered woman, no doubt a very attractive woman. She says, come and lie with me. Well, you don't don't tell me the flesh wasn't involved in that. Well, what was Joseph's answer? He said, Your master, your husband, has entrusted me, I'm putting in my own words, with this whole place. He says, I can't sin against him. Then he says, This, and I cannot sin against you. God. Joseph was able to overcome sin because of his love for the Lord. His love for the Lord was greater than the desire for pleasure. And it gave him victory. So let's not abandon the Lord Jesus. You want to be comfortable with sin, then just push Jesus out of the picture. Just go through the motions. Learn the facts of the Bible. Don't let it speak to your heart. Refuse to acknowledge and look and see what sin actually is doing to your life. And you'll become very comfortable with sin. And the last one is this. It's five of them. Bridal, the conviction of the Holy Spirit. Bridle the conviction of the Holy Spirit. What does a bridle do in a horse? I'm not much of a horseman, but I know this. What does a bridle do in a horse? Controls it. That bridle, man, you can turn that big old horse right or left. Woo! And um how do you make them go forward with the bridle? What? Just give it slack. Oh you're man, you control that big old thing with that bridle. You know what we do as Christians? We try to bridle the conviction of the Holy Spirit Read our Bible or we come to church just another night, go to church. Man, preacher preaches, and the word of God has a powerful effect, and I'm under conviction. And man, he's dealing with stuff I never really gave thought about. And man, something down inside your heart starts dealing. And man, how many people know what I'm talking about? Conviction sets in. Anyone know what I'm talking about? And what do we want to do? We don't want to yield to that conviction. We don't want to give in to it or submit to it. We want to control that. Wait a minute, Lord. I want to be a Christian, but I don't want to go that far. I know my spiritual house needs some remodeling, but I don't want the whole thing tore up. And God, you can fix this and you can deal with that, but there's some sins that I'm just satisfied with, I'm just comfortable with, and we try and bridle the Holy Spirit. And you know what happens when we resist the spirit? He just backs off. He says, all right There's a verse in the Old Testament, I referenced it recently in Psalms. It says, God gave them the desires of their heart, but sent leanness to their soul. We become very comfortable with our sin and we can resist the Holy Spirit and resist the Holy Spirit and resist the Holy Spirit. Try and bridle him. Finally, we're just comfortable. Israel, you know what Israel's biggest problem was? Hebrews tells us. They hardened their hearts. And God would deal with them and convict them. And they refused to submit to it, and their heart got harder and harder and harder and harder. You know what the best thing to do is? When the Spirit of God uses the Word of God to show me that something in my heart and life is out of whack, you know what we need to do is respond immediately and say, Lord, you're right. This has to change. Lord, I confess this sin and I forsake it. And God says that person finds mercy. But we get comfortable. You know how we got comfortable with it? There was a day when the Spirit of God convicted us about that, and we bridled the Spirit. And then he dealt with us again, and we bridled the Spirit again, and he dealt with us again. We didn't go forward, we didn't deal with it, we didn't confess it or forsake it. We tried to justify it, we tried to excuse it, we bridled the Holy Spirit. And now we're comfortable. And we're okay living that way. And it's so far short of what God has. I put this down. Too often we underestimate the seriousness of our sin. You know what David did? David sought the conviction of God. He said, Search me, O God, and try me. Search my heart, see if there be any wicked way in me. You know what he was, you know, what was he asking God to do? Convict them. God show me I I'm I'm attended to remember he committed adultery in Bathsheba. How long did he go before he dealt with that? A year. He's comfortable with it. He got away with it. But boy, God wasn't comfortable with it. And finally, God broke his self-will, his hard heart. And Psalm 51, man, he broke. He said, God, search me and try me. See if there be any wicked way. God convict me. What a great prayer for a Christian to pray. Lord, as there are areas in my life I'm comfortable with, especially as we come to the Lord's Supper. Lord, search me and try me. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I pray that, Lord, I know you worked in my heart over in this series, God. And there's areas even now you still deal with. And Lord, we want to be right. God, we don't want to be comfortable with that that costs you so deeply. And I pray for my own self, as for this whole church, that you would search us and try us and see if there be any wicked way in me. God, like those Pharisees, God confront us. Help us to deal with the areas of our life that need to be dealt with. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, how many would join with me, say, preacher, I sincerely with all my heart as a Christian, I want God to search my heart. I want God to confront areas that I may be blind to, areas I become comfortable with. I know they're there. With all my heart, I want God to have his way. I want God to search me and convict me and challenge me. Help me go forward in my Christian life. Be everything he intends for me to be. Is there any like that by that thing? With all my heart, preacher, that's what I want. Why don't we just ask God tonight to do that? We could go on and just list sins for the rest of our lives. But at some point we just say, Lord, search me, try me. Father, bless our invitation, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand again.