Chapter fifteen if you would read verse number one with me together. Here we go. Ready? Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? I circled two words in that verse. Dwell. and uh uh the word abide and the word dwell. Let's pray together, ask the Lord to bless. I want to preach on how do I maintain Fellowship with the Lord. How do I maintain fellowship with the Lord? Let's pray. Father, I thank you for the good music this morning. Thank you for the good fellowship we've had and what a blessing it is to be around your people and your house on the Lord's Day. Thank you, Lord. We're grateful for visitors that have come. Some have driven a little ways. It's a blessing to have them with us. And I pray that all of us here, as we've assembled together in your name With our Bibles open before us, I ask that you would open our hearts and open our minds. And dear God, I pray you'd speak to us, that you would challenge us, encourage, and give us direction from your word I yield myself to you, Lord. I present my body anew, and I pray with all my heart that, Father, you would fill me with your Holy Spirit and that you would speak through me. Now we would leave here today a little encouraged, a little stronger in our faith, a little more bold in our witness, a little more confident in your will for our lives. And so please bless now I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Time of my message is how do I maintain fellowship with the Lord? There's a world of difference, and I hope you'll get this And this is probably a key part of the message this morning, is there's a significant difference between having a relationship with the Lord And being in fellowship with the Lord. It's one thing to have a relationship with the Lord It's something else to be in fellowship with the Lord. Now let me try and explain. My relationship with the Lord is established the moment I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. For me, I don't know if I've shared this with you, but for me it was May seventh, nineteen seventy-nine. Uh and you've heard the story a gazillion times. I gotta I got a a little text today from a family we know in Indianapolis and she texted me this week and she said, Preacher, I heard your testimony again on the CD Uh, they've been hearing it since nineteen eighty-seven when you were our youth pastor. And um so I s just take back, praise the Lord. And um But uh May 7, 1979, you know the story, I knelt by my bed, I accepted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. That split second, and instantaneously A relationship between Dennis Leatherman and God Almighty was established. I was literally born into the family of God, spiritually born into the family of God. At that point, God became my heavenly father, and I became his child. In John chapter 3, uh fellow came to Jesus by night. His name was Nicodemus And uh Jesus confronted him, he said, Nicodemus, he said to him, He says, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of of heaven. Uh and he repeated it chapter a few verses later. He said that you must be born again. Uh and Nicodemus, and I'm summarizing here in my own words, but Nicodemus was a bit confused. He's trying to grasp what the Lord was talking about. And he heard that term born again. And Nicodemus, his thought was exclusively on physical birth It's the only thing he related to. And he says, what? Do I have to go back into my mother's womb and be born again? Jesus says, no, no. That which is born of the flesh is flesh. In other words, when a person is born physically, they have physical life. But that which is born of the Spirit is spirit. And what he was saying to Nicodemus is, Nicodemus, you need to be born spiritually. You need to have f spiritual life. And then he goes on and explains in the rest of the verse here. John three sixteen, for God slowed the world, gave his only begotten Son, whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. And so by faith, when I accept Jesus Christ as my personal Savior I am born into the family of God. I am I am saved. If you're here this morning and you have never accepted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, listen very carefully. God is not your spiritual father. In a very in a spiritual sense, he is not your father. Jesus confronted some Pharisees very religious people who uh uh had rejected him, refused to believe on him as God's Messiah, as their Savior. And he said to them, Ye are of your father the devil. In other words, until a person accepts Jesus Christ as Savior, they have no relationship with God Almighty. They are not God's uh child. They are not in the family of God. But when I accept Jesus as my Savior, I am born. And that relationship is established That relationship is established. God becomes my father. I am uh literally the child of God, spiritually speaking. I am God's child. And there is a relationship there. Now, that relationship is unchanging. I'll illustrate here in a moment. Now, that's the relationship I have. When I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, I immediately become God's child. A relationship with God is established. A father child relationship. Uh if you're here this how many folks here this morning, you're saved and you know it. Say amen. Whenever you trust in Christ Christ the Savior, that moment you had a relationship established with God. He became your heavenly father. You became a child of God. Amen. Everybody on board with that? You see that? Now, what does it mean to have fellowship with God? Now that's another aspect. To have fellowship with God is the my fellowship with God is developed and it is maintained throughout my life. By my actions, by my behavior, how I live my life, that determines my fellowship with God Now, what is fellowship? Fellowship, this is my definition. I've just kind of put this together. Having fellowship with someone means I have unhindered communion with them. In other words, there's nothing between us. There's no issues between us. We're getting along real well. We have unhindered interaction with each other Like I said, there's no issues there. We're in fellowship with each other. We enjoy each other's presence. We enjoy each other's company. We're in fellowship with one another And so there's a difference between having a relationship with the Lord and being in fellowship with the Lord. It is possible. For a person to have a right relationship with the Lord, but be out of fellowship with the Lord. See what I'm saying? My relationship with the Lord is unchanging. I cannot, I'm gonna make a few statements here about this, and I'll get to our message. I cannot have fellowship with the Lord. Until I first had a right relationship with the Lord established. In other words, until I'm saved, until I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior, and I'm born spiritually into the family of God, I can't have fellowship with God It's impossible. I can't have unhindered communion with him because my sins have separated me from him. I'm outside the family of God. But once I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, now he's my heavenly father, I'm his child, now I can have fellowship with him. Now, it's possible, it's possible for a person to talk about the Lord, but not have a relationship with the Lord. Are you listening, young ladies? Are you listening? It's possible to have to talk about the Lord but not have a relationship with the Lord. I can sing songs about God and still God not be my father. You with me? I can study my Bible and yet still not know God as Jesus Christ, my Savior, still not have any kind of relationship with God I can uh say prayers. I can sing about the Lord. I can talk about the Lord. Hey, I can have a religious experience. And yet never know Jesus Christ as my Savior, have no relationship with God. My daddy grew up for many years in a good Christian home. And my daddy had what uh we would refer to, he had religion, but he had no relationship with God He was religious, but he was lost. And I tell you what's a real concern of mine, and it ought to be a burden on all our hearts, is that people uh who are members of churches who go through the motions are very religious but they've never been saved and that person dies in their sins and ends up in hell isn't that a tragedy So until I have a relationship with the Lord, until I'm trusting Christ as Savior, I'm born in the family of God, I can't have that fellowship with God. I might be very religious, I might talk all the talk and I might sing the songs and all of that, go through the motions, but until I trusted Jesus Christ's Savior and have a relationship, I cannot have fellowship with the Lord. I put this down. My relationship with God is unchanging But my fellowship with God often fluctuates. In other words, when I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm born into the family of God. God is my Father. I am his child. That relationship never changes. It is impossible to be unborn, to become deborn. Um to be you once you're born, you're born. My boys are my boys no matter what they do. They're never not going to be my boys. That relationship never changes. When I accept Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm born in the family of God. That cannot be undone by me or anyone else. God will not abandon me, God will not forsake his child. And so when I trust Jesus Christ as Savior, I am born in the family of God. That relationship is an unchanging, established relationship between myself and God. Now my fellowship with God, my communion with God, my enjoyment of the Lord, His blessings and working in my life, that may fluctuate throughout my life But my relationship never changes. How many parents do we have here? Folks are parents. How many folks, your kids are still your kids? How about that? I people often wish maybe you could do something different. No, I'm kidding. You can't change that. We can't undo that. They're our children. They will always be our children. That is a relationship that is unchanging, cannot be undone. But My fellowship with my kids isn't always everything it ought to be. Follow what I'm saying? I was born um May 6th. 1960, I'm 55, so put your calculators away. May 6, 1960, 2 o'clock in the mornings. I'm trying to remember the time, but I believe I was told it was 2 o'clock in the morning. Da-da-da! Dennis Lee Bellerman entered the world. And I became my father's child. For 55 years, that has unchanged. I will always be my father's child. Nothing's going to change that. I wish I could tell you that my fellowship with my father from May 6, 1960 till now has always been everything it ought to be. But I hate to tell you this. This is going to disappoint a lot of you. But there have been times where I didn't really do what my dad said. Shocking. I know. But my fellowship with dad wasn't always ought to be. And I'm my mind is being flooded with memories. But there have been times, even though it's my dad's child, there have been times where I behaved myself in ways that my dad and I didn't see eye to eye on. And I'll be honest with you, there have been times when I did some things that I really didn't want to be around Dad too much. Because I knew I did wrong, and I knew I disappointed, and I knew I hurt him And there have been times where I had to come and uh and there's been many very specific. I could give you a specific illustration where I had to come to my dad and say, Dad, listen, I did wrong. And I messed up. I want you to forgive me, and I'm sorry. And I wanted that fellowship to be reestablished. The relationship never changed. I was always his child. But our fellowship, our unhindered communion sometimes fluctuates, and that's what is true in the Christian life A week ago in Bible time, we had a number of young children and teenagers accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. Every one of those that meant business who sincerely called on the Lord to be their personal Savior, every one of those was born into the family of God. A week ago Friday night, we had our closing program. We had at least twelve adults who professed that they called on the Lord Jesus Christ to be their personal Savior. I have no reason to doubt the sincerity of any of those, and every one of them that called out the Lord to be their personal Savior, every one of those was born immediately, instantly they were born into the family of God. And a relationship with their heavenly father was established. They were born again and they became a child of God. That relationship will never, ever change. That cannot be lost, it cannot be broken. But my fellowship with God Experiencing his pleasure and his blessings on my life and being in communion with him. How I live my life, my behavior, the things I do or don't do. That affects my fellowship with God, but it does not affect my relationship with God. How many people say, all right, Brother Ledman, you beat that to death? We get it. Very good. I've accomplished my goal. My relationship with God will always be He's my Father, I'm His child. That will never change once I accepted Christ as Savior. But my fellowship with God, how I behave, the things I do or don't do. on a daily basis affect my uh that's my relationship, my fellowship is based upon uh my actions. Now we come to Psalm fifteen Psalm 15 is addressing our fellowship with God. David here is not, under the inspiration of God, he is not giving to us a plan of salvation. He's not saying, all right, this is how you're saved. This is how you get to heaven. This is how you establish a relationship with God. There's only one way to establish a relationship with God our Creator, that is through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It has always been that way, it will always be that way. Nobody is ever saved any other way than putting their faith in God's Messiah, whether in the Old Testament looking forward to the coming Savior or in Artiene looking back to the crucified risen Savior. It has always been by faith By grace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. So David here is not giving a plan of salvation. He's not saying, all right, this is how you get to heaven, this is how you're born in the family of God, this is how you establish a relationship with God. That's not what he is saying. When he says, who shall abide in thy tabernacle and who shall dwell in thy holy hill? He is talking about how do I live my life In a way that I keep fellowship with God, that nothing comes between God and me, and I have his blessings, and I have his presence in my life, and I have him leading and directing me, and he's not displeased with me How do I abide? How do I maintain that? How do I develop that and maintain that? He's dealing with the fellowship of God. Who shall abide in thy tabernacle? The tabernacle, and uh when he refers the holy hill here throughout scripture, that refers to the presence of God. He's saying, how can I, how can I, on a continual, ongoing basis, stay in good fellowship with God? Live my life in his presence and nothing between my soul and the Savior. Nothing between my God and me. And I know he's pleased and I'm doing what he wants and I'm living my life and God is And I'm in communion with God. I have his presence. I have his blessings on my life. I have him leading and directing me. He's providing for me as his child How do I do that? Just as an aside, my experience has been, and I think I can confirm this from scripture. is the most miserable people in the world. Are folks who have a relationship with God, but are not in fellowship with God. What I mean by that is folks who are saved, they've genuinely accepted Jesus Christ as Savior. They've been born again, God is their Father, they're saved by grace through faith in the Lord Jesus, and they have that relationship established. But They do not maintain fellowship with their Heavenly Father. And they're out there doing their thing, and they're out there and they don't really give much attention to whether how I'm living my life pleases God or not. They really don't give much attention whether I have God's presence and direction and leadership in my life. I'm just doing what I want, when I want, the way I want And a Christian out of fellowship with God, in my mind, is one of the most miserable people on planet Earth. I've seen it over and over and over again. To be a child of God and be out of fellowship with God is a miserable thing. One, they're under the chastisement of God, Hebrews chapter 12. Um our God, just a reminder to you, our God is a good daddy. And a good daddy takes care of his kids Hey, a good father does not just let his kids run wild. Right or wrong? And God Does not let his children run wild. Hebrews chapter 12 tells us that if I'm a child of God, if my claim to be a child of God is legitimate, then God will chasten me When I disobey him, when I get out of fellowshipship with him, when I uh don't live according to his principles and his will for my life, and I'm doing my thing God will chasten his children. God will discipline. Now, this for you folks from West Virginia. God takes us to the woodshed. I told you, Brother Groves, I pick one West Virginia folk. That was nice. You ought to hear it when it gets ugly. So God's a good daddy. When I trust Jesus Christ as my Savior, I'm born into the family of God. God becomes my heavenly father. I'm his child. God's a good daddy. He takes care of his children. He leads them. He directs them and he corrects them when they're wrong. And when I'm out of fellowship with God, God begins chastening. And I tell you, it can be pretty miserable to be under the chastening hand of God. I wish I could tell you I've never experienced it, but I can't say that. And I've learned firsthand that God does chasten his children, and it is not pleasant. So, Psalm 15, David says, Who shall abide in thy tabernacle? Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? How can I maintain fellowship with God? How can I live my life as a child of God in the presence of God? How do I do that? Let's look at this. First thing I notice, and I don't know that I'll get through this whole message. I'll just I'll I'll tell- I promise this, I will quit by 1. 30. I promise you that. Number one, first thing I notice the question concerning this consistent fellowship with Lord. Lord, who shall dwell in thy tabernacle? It's a question mark. Who shall dwell in thy holy hill? Question mark. David understands. Now get this David understands that it is the Lord that determines what is necessary for me to be in fellowship with God. Listen, it's not up to you and I. You and I do not have the luxury of deciding what is required of me to be in fellowship with God. God establishes that. God is holy, I am unholy. God is wise, I am foolish. God is all-knowing, I am very limited and very ignorant in my knowledge. And so David very wisely understands: hey, God, you are the one that has established the requirements for being in fellowship with you. You are God, I'm the creature, you are holy, I am fallen. And so I'm looking to you, I'm asking you, what is necessary for me to live a life as a child of God in fellowship with you. And you, if you and I were smart, we would come to God and say, God, I'm looking to you to show me what needs to be done. We live in a Christian mentality in many of our churches today where man is trying to establish what God expects from us and not listening to what God says he expects from us. Uh you've heard me say this many times, but it illustrates. Uh I had a a lady years and years ago, I had preached something, I don't remember what, she came up to me afterwards, something I said, I guess struck a nerve or something. She came up to me afterward and she said, Pastor Leatherman As long as we love God, it doesn't matter what we do. I said, you are mistaken. If I love God, then it certainly does matter what I do. Try that on your spouse. Well, sweetheart, as long as I love you, it doesn't matter if I'm running around carrying on or whatever. As long as I love you, it'd be fine. If I tried that, you'd all be visiting me in the hospital, I'll tell you that right now. And so, David, he questions, he comes to God. And I tell you, what I would recommend for all of us here this morning, whether we were saved recently or have been saved a long time, is come before God and say, God, I'm looking to you. To show me and tell me and from your word, what do you expect from me? What is required on my part To please you and live a Christian life. What is required, God, to live a Christian life that is pleasing you, that keeps my fellowship with you intact? Lord, I'm looking to you for that rather than man coming up with their own ideas. Well as long as this, well, I tell you, I just hear it all the time. Not not from our folks so much, but just out there All the time, well, you know, if God doesn't care about this, then you don't have to do that, and this isn't necessary. I agree, not to be saved, but if I want to be right with God as a Christian, there are some things that need to be in place And God has established them. So, Lord, who uh who can abide in thy tabernacle? Who can dwell in thy holy hill? So there's the question. Now God gives the qualifications. He's alright, I'm glad you asked. This is what is required. If you want to live in my presence, if you want to maintain fellowship with me as one of my children, here's what I require. Number one, and we'll go down through these as quick as I can. Look at verse 2. He that walketh uprightly. I put this down. I must be right in my walk. I must be right in my wall. Now a reminder, he's not saying this is what we do to be saved. We're saved by grace, accepting Jesus our Savior. But once I'm saved, If I want to live a life of God's blessing and God's leadership and direction of my life and fellowship with God, I must be right in my walk. Now that word walk is used throughout Scripture to refer to our lifestyle, to our behavior. And he says that our walk, he that walketh uprightly, in other words, he that lives the lifestyle, he that behaves himself uprightly. Now the term uprightly there has the idea of with integrity. It is used some other places in different wording, but the same word is used in other places to deal with when they would bring a sacrifice to God, a little lamb or whatever, it was to be brought without any blemish. There's supposed to be no sores, open wounds, no deficiencies or deformities in that land. It was to be upright. It was to be whole. It was to be without blemish And God says, if you want to live in fellowship with me as a Christian and you want my blessings, you want my leadership in my life, and you want the joy of the Lord to fill your soul, and you want fulfillment. As a child of God, then you and I must be right in our walk. We must be upright every area of our life. We must be concerned that we are doing what God instructs us to do. In other words, if I want to be in fellowship with God I my Christianity, my living for God, my behavior must be the same on Monday as it is on Sunday. Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday. None of this Sunday go-to-mourning Christianity. That's not going to maintain fellowship with God. I have got to walk uprightly. My life must be lived for God's glory every single day of the week, every hour of the day. He that walketh uprightly, he lives his life. Without blemish, without uh with integrity. That means every area of my life is important. You say, oh preacher, I understand. Going to church is important. And by the way, going to church is important. Listen, you can say amen. You're here, alright? So going to church is important, but I want to suggest to you Doing right on the job throughout the week is just as important as being in church on Sunday. If I want to be in fellowship with God, if I want to dwell on a Holy Hill, if I want to live in His presence and have fellowship with Him, I've got to do right through the week Hey, that means that means my speech and my behavior is just as pure at home as it is in the lobby of the church back there I'm telling you, I'm talking to some folks, the language you use at home you would never use in that lobby. There are some folks, the way you talk to your family members, you would never talk that way at church. And I'm telling you, you are not walking uprightly. Right or wrong? Listen to me. Say, oh, I want to be in fellowship with God. I want God's leadership. I want God's blessing. I want to be in fellowship with Him. Then you and I have got to walk uprightly. A Christian uh well I'm getting a little ahead of myself here. But walk uprightly. I I got this uh this word picture in my mind. He that walketh uprightly, I got this idea. Did you ever see a tight rope walker? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Those people are nuts. I've seen pictures where, listen, I've seen pictures where they'll take a rope, put it across skyscrapers. You ever see that Saw a video of that one guy put across the skyscrapers, New York, Chicago, somewhere. And big fanfare, and that guy gets out there and he walks across that thing. Listen to why would you do that? And he goes closer. But you know when they do that, watch the way they walk. Their back is straight. They are absolutely balanced in every way. Every step is with very careful consideration. Every movement is deliberate. Everything is perfect posture. And those guys go across there because their life is at stake. Now that's the picture I got when he says, he that walketh uprightly. I never have seen um I m I don't know if this ever happened. If it did happen th they didn't make it. But I've never seen a picture uh of uh or read about a guy going across a a tightrope and just slouches They don't do that. I never seen any with their pants half hanging, half down. Come on now. Nobody goes out on that tightrope and walks across there carelessly. You know what God's saying? He's saying you want to be in fellowship. You want my blessings. You want my hand upon you. You want my provision and my direction. Then don't you be careless how you live your life. You be very, very careful that every area of my life is pleasing God, is upright, is without blemish. The things I watch on television. Uh the thing the kind of music I listen to, uh the places I go. Just my whole life is very, very careful. Now listen, he's not saying if you don't walk uprightly, you're going to lose your salvation and die and go to hell. He's not saying that. But he will say this: you won't have fellowship with me. You won't have my blessings. You're still my child. But you're not going to have my presence and my blessings on your life. He that walketh uprightly. Um not sloppy, not slouchful, not lazy. I'm telling you, we're not care we are developing, particularly in America, we are developing a very lazy Christianity. A very careless Christianity. The things we do and the places we go and the entertainment we engage uh indulge ourselves in and how we dress and what we how we behave and how we talk in the home and We're losing the presence and fellowship with God. So how do I maintain? I want God's blessing. I know I'm saved. I've accepted Christ as Savior. My relationship is intact But I want fellowship. I need God's blessing. I want to be everything that God saved me to be. Alright? I've got to walk uprightly. Put this down. I noticed in verse number two, I must uh be right in my walk, but also I must be right in my work. Look at verse 2. He that walketh uprightly and worketh righteousness. Worketh righteousness. God has designed the Christian life. to be a life of active service. Charles Spurgeon said the Christian life ought to be a beehive of activity. Busy, busy, busy for the Lord. Busy serving God. He that worketh righteousness. I mean that word worketh there means busy about producing things, busy about serving God, busy about the Lord's business. Um Jesus' parents, uh his mother and his stepfather, they left him behind in Jerusalem. You know the story there in John and They went back looking for him. He made this statement. He says, uh, wished you not that I must be about my father's business? He said, I'm not just laying around down here. I wasn't just lounging around. I was busy. I was about my father's business. And that's the idea here. that God's people, we as Christians, ought to be busy serving God. Busy serving God. Um uh an idle hand, uh what's the thing? Um An idle mind, an idle hand, is the devil's workshop. I'll tell you what, a lot of Christians are hurting their Christian growth and their Christian development because they're not busy for the Lord. And they're running about here and there doing all this other stuff, temporary worldly things, and they're not involved in serving God, and it's hurting their Christian walk and it's hurting their fellowship. He that worketh righteousness is busy about the things of God. God gives each of his children various gifts and abilities. We're gonna study we're studying in in Sunday school, the adult Sunday school class. We are studying um uh we're studying First Corinthians, and we're gonna get down to about chapter uh 12 or so somewhere around there and we're going to notice that God has given to every believer, every person that's saved, God has given that believer certain abilities, certain gifts Certain talents. And those gifts are to be used, those abilities, those talents are to be used for the glory of God and for the advancement of the gospel. And so when God saves me, I become his child. God expects me, God looks to me, to get busy serving him, to be busy involved in getting the gospel out and serving the Lord and bringing glory to God. Busy, busy, busy for the Lord. Sometimes we had somebody just recently here, but sometimes folks will come through. How many people ever heard someone, a guest preacher from this pulpit, say something like this? This is the busiest church I've ever seen. Anybody ever hear that? Good. Night I get tired just reading your bulletin. And um but I I submit to you. That's a good thing. We ought to be busy for the Lord. If we're not busy for the Lord, we're doing something else. Huh? I believe part of God's blessings on Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is because Folks in this church have been busy serving God, active, going on. Brother Kenton Moyer joined last night. He says, Good night, it's always something. Get this thing done, boom, there's something else. Get this thing done, there's something else. You know what that's called? That's called working righteousness. Staying at it. Listen to me. This world has 7 billion people who are dying in their sins going to hell. We ought to be busy about getting the gospel to lost people. Amen or not. Listen, we got all eternity. We can kick back and relax and And uh serve the Lord, but the time is now to serve God. Listen, if you're saved, you've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, this is what I'm trying to say. God has something for you to do in the kingdom of God. God's got a job for you. God's got a place of service for you. He that worketh righteousness. And when I have an opportunity to serve the Lord and God gives me certain areas and abilities that I can use for the glory of God, And I neglect that and I ignore it and I'm over here doing my own thing. My fellowship with God suffers. Not my relationship, that's established. But I need to be busy about the Lord working for him. Any Christian who is not positively serving the Lord cannot say that I'm in fellowship with God. We ought to be busy. I put this down. Any lazy, negligent Christian cannot honestly say I'm in fellowship with God, because God has called us to be busy. And he saves us to serve him. So, number one, there must be a right walk. Number two, there must be a right work. I put this down real number three, real quick, there must be right words. Look with me if you would at uh verse number two, the last part, and speaketh the truth in his heart. Look at verse three. He that backbite biteth not with his tongue. Nor doeth evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor. Look down at verse 4. He that sweareth at the last part of verse 4, he that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. It's all talking about our words. The Bible says a lot about our words. The Bible says a lot about how we should talk and how we should not talk. The Bible says a lot about things we should say and things we should not say. I noticed in the last part of verse number two that we ought to be honest with ourselves. He says there, speaketh the truth in his heart. Somebody said, above all else, to thine own self be true. Dishonest words come from a dishonest heart. If a person says lying words, it's because they have a lying heart. And God says if you want your words to be right, you must have your heart to be right. It's foolish. See how many would agree with me on this? It is foolish to lie to God. Why is it foolish to lie to God? He knows everything. Duh, I want to suggest to you it is deadly to lie to yourself. Lie to yourself. I know folks that are such proficient liars, they believe their own lies. That's bad. When I believe my own lies, he says you better, if you want to have fellowship with God. You first of all be honest with yourself. Paul said we ought not to think more highly of ourselves than we ought. You know what he's saying? You need to be honest with yourself. Hey, if I'm not right with God, then be honest about it. If I'm not right with the Lord in some area, don't try and justify, excuse, whitewash it. Just Come clean, say be honest. That's what confessing sin is. It's being honest in my own heart. Lord, yes, I'm wrong. God, I didn't do that. Lord, I did that. And that's where fellowship is really established when I first of all become honest with myself and say, God, I'm honest, I'm not what I ought to be, I'm looking to you and I want what you have for me. So our words, we must be right in our words, being honest with ourselves. I put this down, being healthy in our speech. Look at verse 3. He backfighteth not with his tongue, nor doeth ill. evil to his neighbor, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbor. This all has to do with my words, my speaking to and about my people around me, my neighbor. What is, somebody talk to me now, what is the second greatest commandment? Love thy neighbor as thyself. Remember the fellow came to Jesus and said, What's the first greatest commandment? Jesus said, The greatest commandments love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, soul, mind, strength, body, and the second is like unto it, the second is like unto it, thou shalt Love thy neighbor as thyself. If that's the case, if that's the case Then that means that I want my neighbor to be thought of as highly as I want to be thought of. How many people here? Now be honest. Be honest. Speak the truth in your heart. How many people here, you would like, honestly, you would like people to think highly of you. You would like for people to respect you. How many people? Sure. There's nothing wrong with that. That's great. I want to have a good testimony. I want people to think highly. I mean, I want people to respect. If I love my neighbor as myself Then that same desire should be for people to think highly of my neighbor. My same desire ought to be people think highly of this person. Now how many people you would like for folks to think highly of you, even though in your heart you're not all they think you are? None of us. But I I don't want I don't want everybody to know what I really am in my heart. You right? You follow me and say I don't want everybody to know all my shortcomings. Y'all are looking at me awfully pious right now. You follow what I'm saying? You say, oh, but my neighbor, he's Yeah, but you're not everything either. But you would still want people to To respect you and and think respectfully of you, then we ought to have that same desire for our neighbors. And the way some of us talk about other people around us We are breaking our fellowship with God. Because God says if you want to be in fellowship with me, then you don't Tread your neighbor. You love them the way you love yourself. You want them to have the same respect and honor as you want for yourself. So I need to be healthy in my speech. I want my neighbor to be thought of as well as uh thought of well as much as I want to be thought well of. And then I need to hold up my words. Look at the last part of verse 4. He that sweareth to his own hurt and changeth not. In other words, I'm going to keep my word regardless of the cost. If I gave my word, we always hear this. The old timers say, hey, I remember when a man's word meant something. I want to suggest to you a Christian's word ought to always mean something. If we said something we stick to it. We do it. He said, yeah, but it's uh man, I messed up and I it's gonna cost me. What's it say even to his own what? Hurt. Alright, listen, I I gave you my word. It hurts, but I'm going to keep my word. Now listen, let me throw a disclaimer out here. I think there's other portions of scripture. If we promise to do something that's sinful, I do not believe we are obligated to keep a sinful promise. Remember Jepta? He promised that whatever came out his front door, if God gave him the victory, he'd offer up as a sacrifice, and his daughter came out. Remember that? Any of you read that in the Old Testament? Now this is Dennis Leathermanism. This is my opinion. That was a sinful promise. That was a simple process to offer a sacrifice, a human sacrifice for God's blessing. I do not personally believe he was obligated to keep that word. Suppose you had a suppose you have a couple that's raised in Catholicism and they make a promise to God, we're going to raise our children in Catholicism. We promise you God we will raise our children in Catholicism. Then later on they get saved. And they're going to a good Baptist church or whatever and they're studying the Bible and they realize that was a bad promise. Are they obligated to keep their word, to raise up that child in Catholicism? No, that was a sinful promise. That was an unscriptural promise. They're not obligated to keep that. You follow what I'm saying? So I want to put a word of caution out there, but God does expect us to keep our word And God does expect us, even if it hurts, if it's to our hurt, we keep our word. Here's my point. My fellowship with the Lord is very much dependent upon my attitude and my interaction with others. Let me boil it down to a few simple statements concerning our words. If I'm not right with my spouse I am not right with my God. If I'm not right, if I am not right with my parents, young person. If you're not right with your parents, you're not right with your Heavenly Father. If you're not right with co-workers, if you're not right with brothers or sisters in the church, if there is somebody that you're not right with, Or that I'm not right with, that I am not right with God. Now I want to show you a verse. I'm going to have to end here. I've got four more pages, but come with me if you would. To 1 John. I'll have to end with this. 1 John, I want you to see this. New Testament, towards the end of your New Testament. Chapter four and verse number twenty. Now you you can put some blanks here and change the names, and it all applies. 1 John, all the way towards the end, not the Gospel of John, the epistle, 1 John chapter 4. Look at verse 20. If a man say, I love God, And hateth his brother, he is a liar. Wow For he that loveth not his brother, whom he has seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen? And this commandment have we from him that he who loveth God love his brother also. My fellowship with God is very much dependent upon my fellowship with my fellow man. And the Lord is telling us in Psalm chapter 15 that part of maintaining my fellowship with God Is being respectful and gracious and right with my fellow man. Doesn't mean I agree with everything, doesn't mean I condone everything he does, but it does mean this. I deal with our differences in a scriptural, Christian, mature, spiritually mature way. We don't act like children. When we have disagreements. We don't act like the world when we have disagreements. We are children of Almighty God. And we're indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God, and we have the eternal word of God. Surely we can interact one with another in a scriptural, spiritual, mature way. And not revert to where the world does. Because when we do, our fellowship with God is broken. It's broken. And we lose that. Not my relationship. My relationship with the God never changes. Never ever changes. I'm his child. We can talk about our right witness, our right wealth. He talks, brings money in And so what are the consequences? In verse 15, I am with this. God gives us stability and security in our life. We're not up and down, on and off, in and out, hot and cold. There's a real stability because I'm in fellowship with God. I'm being very careful about my walk being right, my words being right, my uh my um what was the first one? Uh my walk being right, my work being right, my words being right. I want to be very, very careful. I'm living my life. As God instructs me, so that I have God's fellowship. You're familiar with the name David Livingston, right? Great, great pioneer missionary, amazing man. God's hand was on him. After 16 years in Africa, he returned to Scotland. He was addressing a university there. He had been, he had experienced 27 intense fevers. His body was just ravaged. Um his one arm hung useless at his side, the result of being mangled by a lion. So here's David Livingston. He's speaking to a large university. His body is battered. His arm is hanging limp. And this is what his message was. I will tell you what sustained me in the toil and the hardships and the loneliness. Of my missions in Africa. It was Christ's promise: lo, I am with you always, even unto the end. You know what he was saying? God got me through all of that because of the wonderful fellowship I've had with the Lord Jesus Christ. David Livingston, you read his life story, he was very, very careful to keep his walk right, keep his words right. He worked feverishly for the Lord. And God was with them, and the fellowship was unbroken. Now God's might no doubt I know he's not calling all of us to Africa or anywhere, but wherever we may be. We only determine, as a child of God, that I want to maintain my fellowship with God. I want my life to be right, my words to be right. I want to be actively serving God. And when we do that, We have the stability and the presence of God in our life. If you're here this morning and you don't know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven, you're on your way to heaven. The most important thing for you is to settle that and trust Jesus Christ, your personal Savior. Those of us that are saved, we ought to say, Lord, I want to be right. Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, I want to walk with you and please you with my life. Amen? Let's pray. Father.