Second Peter chapter one, I should say. Second Peter chapter one. I just want to look at uh I just want to give a few thoughts on verse number two, real quick, here this evening. Just uh if you would uh notice there. Um Grace 2 Peter 1-2, Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God and of Jesus Christ our Lord. Peter's writing to these believers scattered all around the area. This is the second letter. Second Peter is second one he's sending to them. It goes all through the region. And he says to them, he wants them to know and he wants them to experience the grace and the peace of God. But notice how he says it comes about. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you. So I want you to experience the grace of God. I want you to have the peace of God in your life. But look there at the verse how that comes. Grace be multiplied unto you what? Through the what? Knowledge of God and of Jesus Christ our Lord. I've entitled the message and just again just a few thoughts, How to Multiply Grace and Peace. How to multiply grace and peace. Let me ask this question. How many people you say, preacher, I could use a little more grace of God in my life? I could use both my hands are raised I wonder if some say, you might want, I don't know how this would be in your life, but maybe there's some would say, preacher, I could use some more peace of mind. I could use a little more peace in my heart. And he tells us how to have that right here in this verse, starting off the book. So let's pray together. Father, I ask that you would speak to our hearts, Lord, we do. want to know your grace in a very real practical way, a way that affects the way we think and the way we live Our frame of mind. Lord, we we want and need your peace in our hearts and minds and in our interaction with others. We want your peace. This world needs peace. This world needs grace. And so show us how that can be multiplied unto us according to this verse here. Fill me with your spirit. I yield my will to you and pray that you would just prepare us tonight for the coming week. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I don't believe we ever reach a point. in our Christian life where we do not need the grace of God. We never get to that point. You know, when I was a younger Christian You know, when you're young, when you're young, you anticipate how things are going to be down the road away, right or wrong. And a lot of times it doesn't pan out the way we anticipated. And sometimes as a young Christian or early in our Christian life we think, boy, I get I get to be 60, 65 years old, and I'll be I'll be on top of the world and the struggles will be over and all the battles will be past And I'll just have the old tiger by the tail. You know, I found out I'm I'm at that point now. I found out I still need God's grace as much as I did when I was 25 years old. And I still need the peace of God in my heart and life. Just as I did 25, 30, 40 years ago. I need the peace of God. So we never get to the point in our lives as a Christian where we don't need God's grace. We never get to the point in our lives where we don't need God's peace. We never outgrow that. The smallest child down here, little girls here on the front row and young people around, they need the grace of God. Amen. They need the peace of God in their lives. How many of us have said something like this, Oh, I fear for this coming generation we look at the world? Anybody have anybody said that Anybody think that? I'm here to tell you God's grace is sufficient for the coming generation. Whatever they face, whatever world that they grow up in, I'm telling you, God's grace is sufficient. God will see them through it. God will enable them. Don't you worry about God's end, but they need God's grace. The most senior citizen in the service here tonight, and we're not going to pick them out who that is, but the most senior citizen here tonight needs the grace of God just as much as these children do. And needs the peace of God just as much as these children do. We never outgrow this subject that Peter starts his letter off with. Grace and peace of God be multiplied unto you. The youngest child, the most senior citizen, needs that. We need God's grace to escape his judgment. It's the grace of God that saves our souls. It's the grace of God that brings forgiveness. It's the grace of God that makes eternal life possible. We need God's grace to escape his judgment on our sin. We need God's peace. to enable us to interact with one another. Anybody here, you ever get unsettled in your heart and mind, just the the peace isn't there, you get a little unsettled Anybody here when you get in that shape, do you get a little snippy with people around you? Anyone know? Yeah, two people are honest enough. Raise their hand But when our heart and mind is not as p at peace, we tend to be a little uh difficult to get along with, right or wrong And uh so he says, What do you got eaten at you? And uh when that peace is gone, and and by the way, uh you wonder why this world is so unsa you wonder why this world is so violent, fights, road raids, all that. I'll tell you why. They don't have the peace of God. They don't have the peace of God and they fly off on everything and they're mad all the time. Nobody can do anything right And just ready to snap at the slightest little thing, I need the peace of God. Grace and peace. John Newton Wrote Amazing Grace. You talk about somebody who knew a little bit about grace. You ought to read his biography. You ought to read his life story. He said this. He said, although my memory is fading Can I get a witness there? Anybody? He said, although my memory is fading, he said this late in his life, not long before he passed away, although my memory is fading, I remember two things very clearly Number one, I am a great sinner. And number two, Christ is a great Savior. You know what he was saying? He said, I need grace. Even here at the end of my life, I need grace. I'm a great sinner, but oh, I've got a great Savior. Needs peace. Three things, real quick. I'm going to give them to you. Super, super speedy. Number one, the definition of grace and peace. Now, if you've been around our church here very long, you've been around Bible preaching very much, you know what grace is Grace is God's undeserved favor. How many of you ever heard that definition? Yeah. God's undeserved favor. God doing something good for me. God doing something that's a blessing for me. I don't deserve it. But God doesn't. God's undeserved favor. God's undeserved blessings. We don't deserve the least of his blessing, but God blesses us. God's undeserved strength. God gives us strength. Now, this grace, this undeserved favor, these undeserved blessings God gives to us, they are not necessarily material blessings. Some of our some of these TV preachers, and I don't mean to be overly critical, but I'm telling you right now, a bunch of those are crackpots. Alright? You need to be very, very careful And some of these try and success, oh, God's blessings is having a mansion. Oh, God's blessing is getting a five million dollar yacht. God's blessing is driving, what was the car I said this morning? Lamborghini, having a fancy sports car. I tell you what God's blessings uh most of the time. Now it may include material blessings. Anybody here? God blessed you materially with a house Amen. You might have a tar tar paper shack, or you've got a roof over your house. You have a blessing from God. So it's not primarily material. God's blessings, for the most part, are primarily spiritual blessings. I guarantee you, there's folks driving fancy cars that would give that car up like that if they could have the peace of God in their heart and mind that some poor folks have. We talk I say this often down in I've been down in Dominican and St. Lucia and some of these places. I tell you, I could take you to the homes of some folks that you have more wealth in your bathroom possessions they have in their whole home. And I've been there and I've seen them. I talk to them. And you know what? They are as happy. Rejoicing in the Lord. You would ask them, has God blessed you? And they would say, Oh, God's blessed me. So it's not material. The blessings of God, we mistake, we get the we get a materialistic mindset. And we equate the blessings of God with material things that only last for a while. And they rust and fade away. God's blessings outlast anything material and are far superior than anything material God's blessings are spiritual blessings of fulfillment and acceptance by God. Think about this. God accepts me in the person of Christ. Man, God accepts me. And so the word the bless the great word grace here means God's undeserved favor. I mentioned this, I think I referenced this morning, uh 2 Corinthians 12, 9, where he says, My great grace is sufficient. Paul had asked God, uh, let me find it here real quick. I want to read it to you. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. And he says, um he says uh verse 9, 2 Corinthians, so he said, and he said unto me, My grace is sufficient for thee. He says, whatever your need is, I can take care of that need. Whatever your situation is, I can see you through that situation. God's grace is sufficient. It's sufficient. It's not necessarily something material. So grace is God's undeserved favor. Well now, what about this word peace? He says, grace and peace be multiplied unto you The word peace simply is referring to a state. Here's the dictionary definition. A state of tranquility. You say, oh, Pastor, that sounds beautiful. What in the world does it mean? It simply means this, an absence of enmity. Means I'm in harmony. The enmity is gone. There's no more tension there between me and whoever. There's no more enmity between me and another. It's peace. We're at peace with one another. It has the idea of security and safety. I don't have to fear for my well-being. I'm at peace. God's blessed America. We've been at peace. We've had wars, but I tell you, our wars have been overseas here on our homeland Uh I'm I I've never in my life worried about some foreign soldier coming up to my door and kicking my door in. We're peace in our land. There's peace there, security, safety And so Peter is writing to these believers, and he says, I want God's grace to be multiplied in your life. I want you to have peace that only God can give you. A peace of mind, a peace of heart. Not not so angry all the time and not on edge all the time and mad at everything all the time and snapping all the time. So I want you to be at peace. Once you feel secure, he says, I want it be multiplied unto you. That's the definition. Notice the chronology here, real quickly. Notice which word comes first. Which is it? Grace and peace. I don't think that's just haphazard. I think they're putting that order deliberately. Because grace has to precede peace. I need God to do something for me that I do not deserve before I'm ever going to have any peace in my life. Do you ever hear the world out there protesting in DC or Annapolis or somewhere in Chicago? They're marching down. No justice, no peace. Anybody ever hear that? No justice, no peace. I'll tell you what a more biblical statement is: no grace, no peace. Without the grace of God, we're never going to have peace. Take your Bible, if you would, real quickly. Turn with me to Romans chapter number 5. Romans chapter 5, we're using our Bibles tonight. If you're glad for that, say amen. How many people wish we never used our Bibles in church? I don't. I want to use my Bible. How about you, Ken? I want to use the Bible. Amen. Romans chapter 5. Look at verse 1. Therefore, being justified by faith, now for the sake of my message tonight, the context of the message, let's say he's talking about grace there. Being justified by faith. For by grace are you saved through faith. So that first part he's talking about saving grace. Put our faith in Christ, God's grace is applied. For by gr therefore being justified by faith, we have what? Peace. It's the grace of God that produces the peace of God. Come over to Philippians, if you would, real quickly with me, Philippians chapter 4. Derek already asked you this. If you're saved and you know it, say amen. It's God's grace that you're saved, and I'm saved. It's by God's grace we're not going to hell. It's by God's grace we have eternal life. It's nothing we do to work for. It's not the money we give. It's not the life we live. It's not our baptism, our church membership, our good name. It's the grace of God that saves us, forgives us, and saves us. Now look at Philippians chapter 4. Look what Paul says here in verse 6. Be careful for nothing. Don't be all worked up and worried. But in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known to God. Look at this. And the peace of God. Which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. See, he says there's peace. There's peace with God. When I come to the point, I recognize the fact that I'm a sinner and that God is holy. Because of my sin, and because God is a holy God, He cannot accept me. My sin separates me from a holy God. And to die in that condition is to be spent eternity in a horrific place Jesus described called hell, gave a horrific description of what hell is. He said, never escape. Eternal. I come and I see that Jesus Christ died and suffered that hell for me, innocent Jesus, a sinless Son of God, and He took responsibility for all my sin. And on that cross, God judged him in my place. He paid the price of hell for me. It's my substitute. Was buried, rose again. I come and put my faith and trust in Jesus Christ, accepting him as my personal Savior, what he did for me. And God's grace cleanses me of all my sin. The blood of Christ cleansed me. By God's grace, I'm forgiven, and I receive eternal life, and I have reserved place in heaven according to 1 Peter, and I have eternal life in heaven. How many people agree with me? That wonderful grace of God. Amazing grace of God. You know what that produces? That produces peace with God, but it produces the peace of God. Peace of God. So again, Peter's writing to these believers, scattered all over. They're being persecuted. Some are being killed. They're being beaten. It's horrible. Simply because of their disciple Jesus, and he writes to them, he said, I want God's grace and I want God's peace to be multiplied to you. And then he says, this is how it happens, and this is how I end my message. This is how it happens. Through the knowledge of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Look at that there. Through the knowledge of God and Jesus Christ our Lord. He says it's through this knowledge of God. The word through, we would use this word, conduit. We were building the building out there. Brother Mark was running some electric from the new building to the radio shed. We were rewiring the electric running into the radio tower and the uh the um uh the uh Not amplifier, the uh the um trans transmitters to the transmitter there. And uh Bohemark was running it and um he dug a trench there And he's putting a pipe down in there. Now this will tell you what a great builder I am. I thought, wait a minute, we're putting electric wire, not water. Why are you putting a pipe down? You know what he was doing? He was putting a conduit in And that wire would run down through that conduit. Am I right, Mark? I think I'm right. Yes, thank you. I've taught him everything he knows is And he run that wire down through that conduit and uh into the thing. And God says that this graze And this peace that Peter wants these believers to have, God wants you and I, it's through the knowledge of God and our Lord Jesus Christ. That's the conduit. The word knowledge means this. To know something truly, to know something accurately, to know something precisely. And this is what I'm getting at. I believe this is what Peter's saying here. You can have the grace of God in your life. Whatever situation you're dealing with. Whatever need you may have, whatever trial you're facing, God has grace available to enable us and strengthen us and see us through whatever situation and meet whatever need we may have. God's grace Is sufficient. And we can have peace in any circumstance, but it comes through us knowing God personally and knowing some things about Him. Here's the thing. All through history, the church has been plagued by false doctrines. And wrong understanding and knowledge about who and what God is. In fact, this whole 2 Peter, we mentioned this before, the whole 2 Peter, book of 2 Peter, he's confronting false teaching about God. And if we're going to have God's grace, if we're going to have God's peace, we got to know who God is and what he's like. Sometimes this false teaching or this inaccurate knowledge about God is just through ignorance. We get out, Pastor Matt and I get out visiting a lot, a lot of people in church, we get out visiting, talk to people, knock on their door, and just like to talk to people about the Lord. And I tell you, we get some of the craziest ideas about what God is like. Well, that's the way, preacher, that's the way I see God. He's this old man upstairs. Well, I'm here to tell you: if all God is to you is an old man upstairs, you're not getting much grace or much peace in your life. I'll tell you that right now. We have got to have an accurate understanding of who what God is if we're going to have any peace in our heart, if we're going to have any grace in our life. And sometimes it's just through ignorance. They don't mean to be smart. They don't mean to be just say blasphemous stuff almost sometimes. They just don't know. I'm telling you, there is a dearth of Bible knowledge in America today. There's a dearth of Bible knowledge being preached from pulpits in America today. Sometimes this false understanding of God is because of ignorance. Sometimes it's deliberate. Sometimes it's false prophets infiltrate into the church and bring a unscriptural doctrine into that church I'm telling you, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, and this is what a lot of 2 Peter is about, Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church must stand guard for accurate biblical teaching about God and Jesus Christ. We cannot allow false doctrine, false understandings of who and what God is. Anyone recognize the name John Lennon? Oh, brother, there's a great theologian for you. Or he was killed. Listen to what he said. He said, It seems to me that the only true Christians were Gnostics. Now, the Gnostic Christians, Galatians is written confronting Gnosticism And what they're saying was is through knowledge and self-awareness we can build ourselves up. Listen to what he said. He says are the Gnostics who believed in self-knowledge. In other words, becoming Christ themselves. Reaching for the Christ within all of us, the light is truth. Turn on the light And the better to see with my dear. I don't understand that last statement. But this is what he was saying. Every one of us within us has a Christ And if we can just develop our mind and reach deep within our soul, we can become Christ ourselves. I'm here to tell you, that's nonsense. Nobody's going to find the grace of God looking for some Christ spirit within me. It's not there. The only thing Paul said, within me, that is my flesh, there dwelleth no good thing. And so sometimes it's through false teaching, deliberate false teaching, that people have a misunderstanding of who and what God is, and therefore there's no peace, therefore there's no grace. Has anybody noticed the less Bible we have in America, the more violent America becomes? The less we understand of God, who God is and what he's like. The more frustrated we are, the more vain life becomes, more vexation of spirit there is. He says grace and peace comes through the true, accurate knowledge of who God is and what he's like. What he expects from us. The false knowledge of God will hinder the grace and peace of God. 1 Timothy 2, verse 4 and 5 says that there's one God and one mediator between God and man, the man Christ Jesus. It's only one way to God. It's through the Lord Jesus Christ. It's not through some inner knowledge. By the way, the way to God isn't through the baptistry. It's not through the offering plate. It's through a personal knowledge and relationship with Jesus Christ. Now here, I guess this is what I believe Peter is saying. This is what I'm trying to say. I need God's grace. And I want peace in my heart and mind. I believe our country needs the grace of God to produce the peace of God. Can I say this? I think our homes need the grace of God. Longer I'm doing this, the more I'm finding out, there's a lot of homes that have no peace. There's frustration, there's tension, in some cases, bitter hatred in the homes, and little children are growing up in that. Little children growing up in bitterness and hatred and frustration, unforgiveness and anger. We wonder why our world is like it is I tell you what we need. We need the grace of God. We need the peace of God. And it only comes through a correct relationship and understanding with God. Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God. Most important, this is what I'm saying, the most important issue in life is my knowledge of and my relationship with Jesus Christ. Do you know Jesus Christ? I mean in a personal way. I'm not asking you, do you know about him? I know about the President of the United States, but I don't know him in a personal way. I know some things about Jesus Christ. I'm glad all these years I know him in a personal way also. And that's where the grace comes in, that's where the peace is. Hey, let me say this: those of us that know Christ as Savior, what do you know about God? What's he like? What's he like to you? What does he mean? I found a lot of Christians don't know a whole lot about God. I've been preaching Sunday mornings, if you notice lately, about God, what he's like, what his characteristics are. Do you know do you know God what do you know uh what God expects of you? Have any idea Do you know how God responds? Do you know what he wants? Do you know what he likes? Do you know what he hates? And when we understand these things and we learn who God is and what he's like and what he's capable of. Then I experience grace in my life and I have peace in my life. Let me try and illustrate and I'll finish. In Acts chapter seven, and I was going to turn there, but we won't. Acts chapter seven At the end of the chapter, you have Stephen is being martyred for his faith. And the Pharisees and the scribes and all these religious leaders have these rocks, fist-size rocks. And they've gathered him up and Stephen is there in a field or uh or along a road somewhere, and they're so enraged at him because he's preaching the truth They begin to pelt him with these softball-sized rocks, or maybe even bigger. And they just rain down on him and he's beaten. And as he's being Martyred. As he's being stoned, he says, God, uh, uh, let me read it, because I'm not going to quote it right. Acts chapter 7. As these rocks are raining down on him, he makes a statement. He says, listen to what he says. And Steve, they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and he said, Lord, receive my spirit. And he kneeled down and cried with a loud voice, listen to this, Lord. Lay not this sin to their charge. And when he said this, he fell asleep. You know what that is? That's the peace of God. It wasn't panic, it wasn't screaming, it wasn't terror in his eyes and his voice. He's completely at peace, giving his life for the gospel. He said, Lord, receive my spirit. Lay not this sin to their charge. That's the peace of God. Stephen was somebody who knew God and knew what he was like and knew what his destiny was. I know some Christians live so much for this world, or so wrapped up and so rooted in this world, the thought of having to leave this world for eternity with Christ is terrifying. You know why? Because they really don't understand what eternal life is and what God has in store for us. Derek said something. I just thought of this. He s he he he said something really good a couple weeks ago. We were driving somewhere. And um I guess he had uh Cam in the car with him. There was a lightning storm. You remember telling me this? And um there was a thunderstorm and it was lightning and Cam got scared. And Derek said to her, what are you scared of? And uh she said, the lightning He said, why are you scared of the lightning? She said, because if it strikes you, you'll die. He says, well, if that happens, we'll go to heaven. And then this is what struck me. He said, what if the lightning would strike you, and when when it struck you, you ended up in Disney World in Florida? She said, that would be awesome. That would be great. He says, heaven's a whole lot better than Disney World. Think about that. Oh, we're terrified and we don't realize. Hey, wait a minute. There was a fella came to a river and he had gotten information that the river was froze over and the ice was very thin. And he came down there. He had to get to the other side, and he saw the ice, and he was told the information he had, the knowledge he had, was the white bite uh ice was very thin. So in fear He laid down on the ice flat and he just kind of scooched scooched? What? Scooted and scotched himself across there And uh he got halfway out, terrified. I mean he's trembling, so scared that ice is going to break and he's gonna go through. And he heard a noise behind him and he looked, and here came a big horses with a wagon load of logs. And came barreling down the hillside there and ran out on the ice across the ice and up the other side and just kept right on going He realized he had some bad knowledge. His knowledge about the ice was wrong and he was terrified. These guys with the log load of logs, they knew how thick the ice was. They knew it was safe. Boom! They just ran right across it. Now here we got a lot of Christians going through life, oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, they What are we gonna do? Oh no, what's gonna happen? They have no peace. They're defeated by sins that God can give us victory over. Why? Because we don't understand who God is and how powerful He is, what He's capable of. Did this make any sense at all tonight? He says, you need to get to know God. You need to know him personally. You need to know some things about him, and you'll find some peace in your life. You'll find some grace to go through whatever God's putting you through. Let's pray. Father in heaven, Lord, I spent longer than I wanted to. I just pray That you'd help us to commit ourselves to get to know you. Reveal yourself to us, Lord, in your word. Help us to apply ourselves to know you and what you're like and what you're capable of and how you operate. Teach us, Lord. How many people would say, Preacher, I need to know God better? I need to know the Lord better. God bless you, hands all around. Paul said that I may know him. The power of his resurrection. Paul longed to know more of God. And he's there in his word. It's there. Father, bless our imitation, I ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's keep