1 Peter chapter 3, verse number 8 and 9, we spent uh quite a bit of time dissecting verse number 8 of 1 Peter chapter 3. What I want to do tonight is move on to verse number nine, which is closely connected, as I think you'll see here in just a bit. 1 Peter 3, verse 8, the Bible says this: Finally, be ye all of one mind. Having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous. Then he goes on in verse 9. That's where we ended, as we took that statement by statement we went through Then verse 90 says this, not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrary wise, blessing, knowing that ye are thereunto called. That ye should inherit a blessing. I've entitled the message tonight, How to Inherit a Blessing. How many people want God's blessing on your life? Anyone here? You'd like to say, boy, preacher, I'd like to have a blessing from God Well, he tells us right here how we can inherit a blessing, how we can get a blessing. Let's pray, and we'll look at this. Father in heaven, so grateful for such a good day, and what a blessing to be at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. What a joy I'm so grateful for your presence in our ministries, your hand upon our efforts to serve you. And I ask now that you would use this passage to challenge us to go forward in our Christian life. Lord, I pray that you would help me and all of us to incorporate this instruction into our living, our thinking, and that we could become more like Christ and less like ourselves. So fill me with your spirit as my prayer. I yield my will to you. Present my body. Just pray you'd speak through me as we always speak Pray and ask you to do that, Lord. Again, I ask it tonight. In Jesus' name. Amen. As I said, we spent uh quite a bit of time, about five weeks, if I added correctly, dissecting verse number eight. And we noted in verse number eight five graces, I'm calling them five graces, that should characterize our lives as Christians. Peter's writing to these believers under intense persecution. And he says, these five things need to characterize your life or to be a part of your life as a Christian. And I'm calling them graces tonight, and I wish that a Brought come up with that a little earlier because really to do these, to make these part of my life, it requires the grace of God to be able to incorporate these. And I'm going to say this right up front What we're preaching on tonight, what God is going to speak to us tonight about from his word, is a whole lot easier for me to stand up here and preach it. than it is for any of us to incorporate it into our lives. Anybody ever read through the Bible, you read something and say, man, I really need to do that. Then you go and try and do it, you say, man, that's tough. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Uh what he's going to instruct us to do tonight is tough. And my my guess is I've got a sneaking suspicion that in the next five, six, seven days, many, if not all of us, are going to be challenged by the devil and by the flesh Uh in this area that God's going to speak to our hearts about tonight. So we might as well just prepare for it. And uh just understand, listen, what God's telling me here and what my response to it, it's it's it's not easy. It's not easy. These five graces. He says, be of one mind. Have compassion one of another. Love is brethren. Be pitiful. Last week we looked at that last one. Be courteous. And if you remember, we said that's a whole lot more than just being polite, saying thank you, and you're welcome. Holding a door for people. It's dying to self. It's committing to the well-being of others. Now we come to verse number nine, and he expands on that Sometimes I'll admonish Christians, and sometimes I have to admonish myself more often than I wished I'd have to admit. Something like this. I've had different times where Christians have a little fuss with each other, a little falling out. And I'll say something like this: listen, you guys need to resolve this, and I'll put it this way: let's just be Christian about this. Anybody hear a statement like that? Just be Christian about it. Now, what do I mean when I tell somebody, listen, let's be Christian about this? I think what Peter is saying in verse number 8 and 9 Is what I mean when I say, let's be Christian about this. Let's not let the flesh get in this. Let's not operate by the world's standards and world's practices. Let's operate the way we as Christians, God has instructed us as Christians to operate. And so let's be Christian about it. I think verse 8 and 9, as I said, describes what I mean by that. And he says, tells us in verse 9 there, if we'll do that We'll follow his instructions here. It's not easy. If we'll just commit ourselves and put that effort into it to do that, he says blessings will follow. Blessings will follow. We're studying the life of John the Baptist in Sunday school in the mornings, and I pointed out this morning that the priesthood at the time John the Baptist came into the world or especially when he came into his ministry, the priesthood was incredibly corrupt. And what their spiritual life as Jewish priests had deteriorated into nothing than an outward show. Keep your place here if you would, and I want to show you something, and I'm I'm going to show you how what how I want to tie this into our passage, but go to Matthew chapter number 23. And I said, we uh looked at this a little bit in our Sunday school study But Matthew chapter 23 and beginning in verse 23 of chapter 23, he is rebuking the Pharisees sharply. And he makes some very, very strong statements to the Pharisees. If you notice, Matthew 23. Everybody find it there? Matthew 23. Come down to verse 23. And just think about what he's saying here to these, not to the disciples, to the Pharisees. He says, woe unto you. Now, when Jesus says, woe unto you, you better wake up. He's serious. He's not, Jesus isn't horsing around. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees. What's that next word? Hypocrites. Boy, what a terrible word that is, isn't it? That's an ugly word. That's an ugly thought to be a hypocrite. He says, woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! And there's an exclamation point there. He means business. For ye pay tithe of min and anas and cumin, and have omitted the what Weightier matters, the more important matters. Oh, you're tithing on every little grain and every little herb that you harvest, you're putting tenth in there, but you're missing the bigger picture. You have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, faith. These ye ought to have done, and not leave the other undone He goes on in verse 24, ye blind guides, you strain at a gnat, and you swallow a camel. He goes on down through there, and we could take the time. We won't. He says you're just like cuts. The outside, you've got the outside of that cup all cleaned up real nice, but inside it's nasty and dirty He said, you're just like the graveyard. That tombstone's own sh that c that marble tombstone is shined and buffed up, looks good. That grass is trimmed and green. There's some nice flowers trimmed around there. But inside, dead man's bones, corruption, rot, stink, offense And he says, You Pharisees, you're hypocrites, you've got the outward rituals perfected. But what you are, your character, the attributes, are missing. Now, I think there's a warning in there for you and I as believers. Now, I'd like to think we're not like the scribes and Pharisees, at least surely not to that degree, that obvious hypocrites. But I think there's a danger for you and I. We can perfect, we can get very, very good at looking the look. I don't know if I'm saying what if you're catching what I mean here. I mean we can carry that big back big black Bible Boy, we can sing those songs. We can say amen at just the right time. And I'm all for carrying big black Bibles, and I'm all for singing, and I'm all for saying amen at the right times. There we go. You guys need a word on that. But um Brother, you know the Romans road. You can lead a person to Christ. Can teach a perfect Sunday school, can sing, and don't misunderstand, it is beautiful tonight, but man, you can sing to such skills that the angels are envious But yet you're angry all the time. Yet you can say the harshest, meanest things if somebody doesn't live up To your expectation. You can snap, accuse, find fault, and condemn, judge. But yet outwardly we've got all that in place And I noticed here Peter writing to these Christians, he doesn't say, make sure you got all that outward right and you'll get a blessing. You know what he's talking about? He's talking about the inward graces. He's talking about the weightier things. That's not mean the other is unimportant. He says to them, don't leave that undone, he said when he was talking about tithing. Listen, don't quit carrying your King James Bible. Don't quit singing. Don't quit saying amen. Don't quit giving the Romans road out. Don't quit serving But he says there are some things that are vitally important in the Christian life that cannot be neglected. And they are the inner man. They're the characteristics that define me as to not so much what I do, but what I am. What I am. And so these two verses he's saying, listen, this is how a Christian behaves. This is how a Christian interacts. I think in verse number 8, if you would come back here, in verse number 8, this is how he's instructing the believers here, how we as believers should interact with each other. We should have one mind as believers. We should have compassion one of another. We should love as brethren. We should be pitiful. We should be courteous. But in verse number 9, I think there's a subtle shift that takes place in his application. I think verse 8 is brothers, among us as brothers and sisters in Christ. Then verse number eight he talks about those who rail on you. And uh uh then he says uh not rendering evil for evil. Those who treat you evil and those who rail on you. And how we respond to them. Now, I don't think I'm stretching it here at all when I suggest that Maybe verse number nine is talking about the unsaves, my interaction with the unsaved My interaction with those that don't see things the way I do and respond in a different way, and they rail on me and they treat me evil, how do I respond to them as a Christian? How do I respond to them? As a spiritually mature believer, a disciple of Christ. So verse number nine is a is it within the same Context, but it's a little different application. I want us to notice first of all, and I believe I'm going to be brief tonight. I want us to notice, first of all, in verse number nine, the prohibition. The prohibition. Now, if we say something is prohibited, what do we mean by that? We mean what? It's not allowed. You just don't do that. It's prohibited. And I want to suggest to you and I that in spite of what maybe contemporary and modern Christianity wants to convince People of. The fact of the matter is, there are some things that Christians ought not to do. There are some things in the Christian life that are prohibited. We say, yeah, preacher, liquor is prohibited, and fornication is prohibited, and lying. I say amen to all of that. But he gives a whole nother level. Of prohibition here. Notice the things that are prohibited. And this is a simple word. We just read it. We don't give it much thought. But that very first word, not rendering evil for evil. I that caught my attention. Not. And I looked it up and I found that's a very strong word. I understand in my study of that word what it comes from is a very, very strong Strong word. And it has this idea, and the definitions I came up with, and how it's used is this absolutely forbidden. Under no circumstances is the following to take place for you and I as a believer. So this is a very strong prohibition on the Lord's part. Now, what is it that we're prohibited from doing? What is it that we are absolutely forbidden To behave this way. Look what he says. Not rendering evil for evil Or railing for railing. Now that word render there means to pay or reward. In other words, somebody Treats me evil, somebody rails on me, I'm not to pay them or reward them for that behavior. With the same behavior back again. Follow what I'm saying? Very simple, but we miss it. And by the way, I want to say again, what I'm preaching is a whole lot easier to preach than it is to practice. I'll be the first to stand up and say, guilty. Guilty. Not rendering evil for evil. Alright, so what does he mean when he says evil? What do you mean evil? Well, it means simply this: mistreatment. Somebody mistreats you. Has the idea of injury. Somebody hurts you. Somebody treats you bad, bad treatment. So he says, under no circumstances whatsoever, absolutely forbidden, somebody mistreats me to mistreat them back. Somebody injures me, I'm gonna injure them back. Somebody Treats me bad, I'm gonna treat them bad back. God says, you're a child of God, you do not do that No circumstances, absolutely forbidden. Not even a consideration. Then he says Evil for evil or railing for railing. So I thought, railing? You know, somebody puts a fence rail up, don't put another fence rail up back. What's he talking about? Railing Well, he doesn't mean fence railing. It means to insult or to speak hatefully to. Or to use mean words. You say, that person insulted me. They they spoke hatefully to me. They were mean. They said mean things. He says, under no circumstances whatsoever at all, it is absolutely forbidden to you speak mean back to them. To speak hatefully back to them, to use mean words back to them. But that's how they treated me. He says, you're a child of God. You don't treat them the same way back. How many people agree with me? That's a lot easier to stand up and preach than it is to put into practice. You know what the problem is? We react before we even think about it, then we realize, wait a minute, I wasn't supposed to do that So the prohibition here is not to respond in kind. Fact of the matter is, I mean there may be some circumstances in the world where you fight fire with fire But in the spiritual world, you don't fight fire with fire. You don't treat evil with evil. You don't treat railing with railing. They talk to me that way, I'm talking that way to them. God says, no, you don't. No, you don't. You say, yeah, but no, yeah, but Railing for railing. Responding to evil with evil has no place in the Christian life. Period. Responding to insults and rudeness with insults and rudeness has no place in the Christian life. Period. I feel agree with me. Preacher, that's tough. Yeah. Yeah. Believe me. Somebody said, when you sling mud, you lose ground. That's true, right? I added another one to it. That sling mud wasn't original with me. You sling bling sling mud, you lose ground. That's true. I modified it a little bit for myself When you sling mud, you also get muddy. Right? Um, we had, I've used this, I've mentioned this before, but shortly after we moved here, I think it was the Thanksgiving after we moved here. Thanksgiving 1993. Say, man, you got a great memory. Well, not that great, but this stands out. We had a When I think it was a Wednesday night or something service around Thanksgiving. And we were going home. Oh, I know what it was. It was the Sunday night after Thanksgiving. We had a big turkey dinner And we put the turkey bones and the turkey leftovers and stuff in the trash and the trash we keep right inside our garage, right in the corner inside the garage. So if you ever want to break in and get our trash, you know right exactly where it's at. And we came home from church that night, it was late, you know, everybody's going, it's dark, and I pull up, and guess what was pacing back and forth right by the trash in front of our garage door? A stunk I wished it was a bear. And that stunk made me mad. It was in our way and I wanted to get in the garage and I couldn't open the garage door because it would go in and that would be And man, I was mad at that skunk. But you know what I did? Nothing. I let it alone. Because you know what? I could have got in that fight with that skunk and I could have won the fight. I mean, I could have whooped that skunk. I'm telling you right now But I'd have walked away stinking just as much as the skunk stinks. You know what the best thing to do when you get in a situation like that? Just walk away. And I think that's what God's telling us. Listen, somebody rails on you, somebody treats you evil, and you respond in kind and you treat them evil and you rail on them, guess what? You stink As bad as they do. Right? It's nothing different. You're just on the same level they are. You're just acting just like the world You're acting just like the worldlies. You're acting just like the children of the devil. That's what they do. He says, You're not a child of the devil. You're a child of God. You're indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. When you swing mud, you get muddy. So number one, I notice the prohibition. Not rendering evil for evil, nor railing for railing. Second thing I notice here is the petition. He makes a petition to us, is the term I'm using. Look again, not rendering evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrary-wise, blessing. Knowing that ye are there unto what? Called He's saying this. God has called us. Listen. God has called us to a higher level than what the world lives by. He's petitioning us. He's saying, listen, I'm calling you not to respond the same way the world does and act the same way the world does and react the same way the world does. I'm calling you to something higher. I'm calling you to something purer. I'm calling you to something Uh uh better than that The petition. We're called to that. How many folks here you're saved and you know it? Say amen. God has called every one of us to a higher standard. You follow what I'm saying? A higher level of integrity and character and compassion and discipline For thereunto ye called. It's a petition of the Lord. God has called us to a higher level of behavior and a treatment of others. And he says, contrary-wise, in other words, the very opposite way you've been treated. Behavior that is contrary to the world's behavior. Behavior that is contrary to natural man's behavior. The world says retaliate. God says, display mercy. Not railing for railing. Not evil for evil. But mercy. Contra. Exact opposite of that. Exact opposite of that. Somebody suggested there's three levels of behavior. Let's see. I'm going to pick on so I was going to pick on Pastor Matt. Brother Zach, would you come on up here? Zach's very pickable Let's see if this works. I don't know. Somebody suggested there's three levels of behavior. One is Zach is let's see, I'll make you the good guy. Zach is the Christian, and I'm not Alright, here's one level of behavior. I don't know if I'll be able to convey this to one. Zach, uh just you're being very good to me, so show a very happy smate. You're offering blessings to me. How are you doing today? Ah, you stupid jerk and try and be a blessing to me. I was just trying to Ah you stink. Good night, you're nasty. He was treating me good and I treated him how Bad or evil to use our term here. I railed on him. When someone treats when someone is treated good and they respond with evil I want to suggest to you that's satanic. That's how Satan behaves. God was awfully good to the devil, right, before he fell. And Satan responded back with evil. So if somebody's being good, somebody's being a blessing to try and encourage me and be a blessing and compliment and just kind of lift me up, and I respond with evil. I'm being Satan-like. Alright? So let's do this again. And uh this time you say something mean to me Yeah, you're a Let me see what Oh yeah, well you're a skunk Say something mean back. Um not not crude, just mean. Where's your hair? Oh, oh yeah. Well look at your furry top So this isn't playing out exactly the way I So he's mean to me and I was what? I was mean back So I'm responding in kind. The first one, he's nice to me and I'm mean to him, that's Satan-like. That's devil-like. To be mean and hateful and rail and evil to somebody that's good and kind and being gracious. He's mean to me and I'm mean back. He's railing on me, I'm railing back. He's being evil to me, I'm being evil back. I want to suggest to you that's world-like That's what the world does, right? You cut me off, well, I'll run you into the ditch. I'll respond back. They say, call you a name, you call them a name right back. So one way to respond, evil to good is devil-like. Evil for evil is world-like This time, uh let's see, I'll be mean to you and then you'll be nice back to me. Brother, you just really get on my nerves. Oh yeah. Well you're you're not a blessing to me. You make my life miserable. You make me happy, brother. Thanks, brother. So what was that? That was responding good for evil, right? And that's this is what that is. That's Christ like That's Christ like. Now where do we fit in on that? Have you ever been somebody's been nice to you and you're grouchy and you're a bad mood and Whatever, and you snap at them, you say hateful stuff to them, and they're just trying to be nice and be a blessing. I hate to say it when we do that We're being devil like. What the devil does. Ever anybody here ever somebody's Says something hateful, does something mean or unkind to you, and man, you just snap back and you throw the same thing back at him. Are we have we ever done that? You know what we're doing? We're worldlike Just like the world. But if we can get to the point that Peter's and I can die to self And I can have enough spiritual discipline. Somebody says something, throws an accusation, or makes some mean statement, and I can respond in kindness. And in grace, and I can bless those that curse me, and I can do good to them that despitefully use me, and I can pray for those that rail on me. And I'm Christ like. Then I'm Christ like. One of the most difficult aspects of the Christian life Would you take your Bible real quickly and I'm winding down here? Come back to Matthew, would you? And come to Matthew chapter number five. And verse number eleven, Jesus says this Blessed are ye when all men shall revile you and persecute you. Look at this. And say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. How are we supposed to respond? Look what he says: rejoice and be exceeding glad For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now that leads me to my third point tonight, and final point was this: the promise. He says that contrary-wise, blessing, that ye may inherit a blessing God tells us in Peter, and again here in Matthew, he says, listen, if you won't respond in kind, but you respond with kindness, In fact, come over here. Let me show you another verse. In Matthew, come over to chapter number five and look at verse number 43. Real quick over there. We'll finish up. You've heard that it's been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. Alright, that's railing for railing, evil for evil. But I say unto you, here's the Christ-likeness. Love your enemies. Look at this. Bless them that what? Do good to them that hate you. Pray for them which despitefully use you. That's evil. That's railing. And persecute you. Here's what he's telling us. This is what Peter's telling us. If we will operate in a contrary way to what the devil in the world operates And we will not respond, render, we will not render evil for evil or railing for railing, but contrary wise, we seek to be a blessing. Knowing that there and here called that ye should inherit a blessing. That word blessing means this, the praise of God. I don't know about you, but it is almost beyond my ability to imagine that God would praise me. A blessing. The praise of God. I just can't, it just cannot even register in my mind. I can't grasp it. How do they say today, wrap my um head around it? That God would praise me. But there's something I can do that God says that I will inherit a blessing. I will inherit His praise, and that is this, if I don't render Railing for Railing, or evil for evil. But contrary rise, blessing. He says, I'll praise you for that. And it also has the idea of reward, spiritual prosperity. Mistreatment brings a, when we respond Christ-like spiritually to mistreatment, we respond biblically to mistreatment, we get a reward in glory. I just read that in Matthew 5 But also strengthens our faith now. When I do that, I die to self, I refuse to operate by the world's standards, I refuse to function the way Satan does I say, Lord, fill me with your spirit. I died as hell. I want to be Christ-like in my response. You know what happens? My faith grows And I become stronger. I become stronger. How I respond to other people's evil and their railing. Can either damage my spiritual health or develop my spiritual strength. I'll be the first to stand up here and tell you, I study this I preach this, I believe this. But I'm telling you, it is not easy. It is not easy. And it takes a level of spiritual strength. It takes a level of faith And I'll be honest with you, I believe it requires the filling of the Holy Spirit of God to be able to mortify my flesh and not respond. But to react the way of the Lord. Now he's talking about the world treating us this way. But I think it applies across the board. I don't know if you found this out yet. Sometimes Christians can be mean Sometimes brothers and sisters in Christ can be awfully unkind, awfully judgmental, condemning, fault-finding. Oh yeah, well you're no better than I am. No no no no. Forbidden. You want God's blessing, you want God's praise, you want to grow in your faith, you die to self and try to be a blessing. Everybody get that? Say, oh good, that'll be easy. I'll go do that this week. You better pray. You better ask God to fill you with His Holy Spirit. Ask God to Help you mortify the flesh because it ain't easy. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, as we consider your instructions to us here, that your Holy Spirit would challenge us Lord, I pray your Holy Spirit will put a desire in every one of our hearts to do that and to be Christ-like at home Work in the community on the roads, the neighborhood, in church. Lord, we need you to help us. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher, I've got room to grow in this category. I got room to grow. Any of you like that? Sure. You think you've arrived here, you've fooled yourself, I guarantee you that So let's pray tonight. Let's ask the Lord that this coming next seven days, we finish out the Lord, say, maybe an old altar. Say, Lord, here I am. Take me and fill me. Enable me to carry out your instructions here. I believe God will help us. I really do. And we'll grow. There's sin in our life, there's something there that's not right. Let's confess it, forsake it before we go to the Lord's Supper. We're out of sorts with someone. Let's go make that right for the Lord's Supper. Let's come tonight to the Lord humble, clean. Submissive. Let God fill us and use us. Father, bless our invitation. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jane plays the invitation. How about it? Maybe find a place before we go to