Verse 22 and the book of Jude, and I'd like for us to read this verse together. Just a short little verse in a small little book at the end of the Bible But it has a tremendous truth for us, and I trust God will use this to help us this morning. Look at verse 22. Everybody have it there. Let's read it together, all together. Ready? And of some have compassion, making a difference. I want to speak this morning on how to make a difference. How to make a difference. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. And Lord, I acknowledge once again this morning that in and of myself, I have little or nothing to offer of any spiritual or eternal value. So Lord, we have to hear from you today. This is your word. And Lord, this verse here, this statement comes to us from you, from your heart, your mind. And so I pray that your Holy Spirit would challenge us and instruct us and direct us in this matter of making a difference in the world that we live. And how to do that. Lord, I yield my will to you, and again this morning I present my body, and I ask with all my heart, dear Lord, that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and you speak through me And help us make a difference, Lord, in this world. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think probably most of us are familiar with the name John McCain, Senator John McCain He was a Vietnam veteran. He was a naval pilot. And in October of 1967, Senator John McCain, he wasn't Senator then, John McCain was shot down. From the skies of Vietnam over the city of Hanoi. He crashed, he survived the crash, and he was taken captive. He became a prisoner of war. That was in October of 1967. He was a prisoner in the what at the time was a very famous prison, uh military prison there. They called it Hanoi Hilton. Anybody remember any older folks remember that in the news? Hanoi Hilton. That's where he was. Notorious. A very violent uh um uh dangerous uh prison He was there from October of 1967 until he was released in 1973, five and a half years. During his five and a half years as a prisoner of war in Vietnam, he was tortured, and he accounts this, this is recorded pretty thoroughly. He was bound and beaten repeatedly. They would go to any length to inflict pain upon him in order to get him to turn against his country. And though he struggled, and um he said even at one point in one of his biographies, uh in one of the books, it said that um at one point he was contemplating suicide, he could not go on anymore, he was going to take his life He said, but during that period of time, there was one North Mittmese guard that was different than all the others And he said one day he'd come in, he said he would be bound in the most painful way in his prison there for days and days and weeks on end. And he said this guard would come in, and the first time he came in there, he went to John McCain and he did this very, very quietly. He went like this. Made sure no one else was looking. And he reached behind him and he loosened the ropes that bound him to relieve the pain. And then he went about his duties as the guard. And uh John said that he was there, and oh boy, that was wonderful. When that guard's Shift was up. He came back and he tied him back up tight again for the next guard coming in. And he did that. He said there was another occasion, and uh if I remember correctly, I think he said it was on Christmas Day. That same guard came in, and again he did his little shhh. And in this in the dirt on the floor of that prison He said that God took his foot and he traced in the dirt, in the dust, he traced a cross. And he made sure John saw the cross, and then he took his foot and he raced it and covered it up so nobody would see it. And he brought him and untied him completely and let him free for about ten minutes. And then he had to, before the other guards got there, they brought him back, tied him up, and put him back as he was. John McCain said, those acts of compassion in the midst of a unthinkably horrific and inhumane place. Enabled him, he attributed those acts of compassion to his ability to not break and endure that and eventually survive his time there. Compassion. In a place you would never think of, and in a place you would never imagine, somebody showing compassion. We live in a very sinful world. I hate to say it. It's a beautiful world. There's some wonderful people in this world. But you and I cannot deny, we cannot escape the fact that we live in a fallen world. In fact, Jude here uh references that quite uh elegantly, elegantly uh in his wording. Did you notice there in verse sixteen, Pastor Matt read, um Look at verse uh fourteen. He says, And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousand of his saints. And then look at how he describes the world. To execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds, which they have ungodly committed. And all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him, these are, look at this, murmurers, complainers. Walking after their own lusts, their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons and in admiration because of advantage He's describing mankind, and he's describing society, particularly in the days just preceding the return of the Lord Jesus Christ. And we know from experience we can look around us. It doesn't take a rocket scientist to look around us and see that we live in a very sinful world. We live in a very angry world. We live in a very bitter world. People are angry everywhere, all the time. Angry, angry. You can't hardly go to a gas station without somebody going off on somebody else. Road rage is epidemic. We live in a bitter world, dissatisfied. He mentions murmuring there and dissatisfaction. We live in a very selfish world. And one thing I found, and I think we know this to be true, one thing I found is where there is sin and where there's bitterness. And where there's anger, and where there's unforgiveness, where you find that, you're also going to find this: hurting people. People who are hurting. You'll find people who are empty. I've never yet met a person who is simultaneously bitter and happy at the same time. I never found yet have found a person harboring unforgiveness and malice towards someone else, and yet at the same time experiencing the joy and the peace and the presence of the Lord in their life. Sin by its very nature produces emptiness. Sin by its very nature produces uh sorrow and sadness Sin, by its very nature, produces death. And the midst of this world, much like John McCain's experience in that Hanoi Hilton and one man just showed a little glimmer of compassion to him and the impact that that had upon him and how that influenced him to hang in there and not give up. How you and I, in the world that we live in, can show a little bit of compassion and make a profound difference. In somebody's life. I put this down, the missing ingredient in our world today is compassion. Compassion. The missing ingredient in Oakland, Maryland, and surrounding areas, the missing ingredient is compassion I think we live in a pretty friendly area. Would you agree with me? This past December, uh my father who li uh we grew up in Philly, just north of Philadelphia and My dad never lived farther than 10, 15, maybe 20 miles from the place he was born. For 80 years. He never lived, you could almost throw a rock to the place he was born. He never lived farther than that And last September uh year ago now he called me up and said um he uh he he calls me Denny. He said, Danny. Said, yeah, hey dad, what's up? He says, I made a decision. I said, okay. My mind's racing. Said I talked to my sisters, your sisters. And uh I decided I'm moving down there where you're at. My wife brought smelling salts over and I said, seriously? And he says, yep, I'm going to do it. I want to spend the last years of my life down there with you. Of course I was thrilled. And of course you all know in December he moved down here, he joined our church. He said, I hope I can find a good church down here somewhere. He's back in Philly now. He had some doctor's appointment. I took him up Mondays up for a couple weeks visiting family and some doctor appointments. But I said all that to say this. He told me numerous times the last several months, he said this to me. He goes, I just love it down here. He says, this is the best decision. He said this is one of the best decisions I've ever made in my life Wearing me out, but he's having a good time. But he made this statement. He said, your church and everybody down here are so friendly. He said, everywhere I go, total strangers, say hi. There's a lady down the road from where he lives, every time he goes out, she's out, she'll wave to him, and you don't know who she is. Now you gotta understand he grew up in ph he's from Philly. When you drive by, they don't wave with their whole hand at you, they just And when they talk here, it's not the same Even though we live in a very, I think, very friendly community, and I trust we have a very friendly church, I like to believe that. We try to work hard at it. Yet we still need compassion, don't we? There are people in our community who are hurting, much of it because of sin. Much of it because of decisions they made and the consequences of those decisions brought hurt and emptiness and sadness to their life And they just need somebody to show compassion. And when compassion is shown to someone that is hurting, it has a profound impact. Our community needs compassion. Our churches need compassion. As a pastor, sometimes you have a little Your awareness of maybe things that are not on the surface, not visible, and you know a little bit of some things that are going on. Sometimes as pastor, you have no clue what's going on. And I know this, that even in the best of churches, and I think we got a good one, even in the best of churches, there are people who are hurting. There are people who are struggling. There are people who have issues that are hidden to the rest of the world. But yet in their heart and life, they're struggling. They're sad and lonely. Even in our good churches. And you know what they need? They need somebody that has compassion on them Compassion. Let me take it a step farther. Let me bring it a little closer. I'm going to suggest to you our homes could use a little bit of compassion. You say, oh, our home is such a mess, my marriage is so ugly. Our home is Anointed with anger and discord? I want to suggest to you just one member of a family in the home that shows compassion. Could make a profound difference in that home The way we make a difference in a house, in a marriage, in a home, in a child's life, in a community, in a church, in a nation, the way you make a difference is having compassion. Ash. You see, our society's got it backwards. Our society is dead wrong when they think the way to change, the way to improve things, the way to make things better, is to riot and burn down buildings and Threaten and violence. And you know what all that does? Just makes it worse. And God says the way to make a difference in a community, in a neighborhood, in a church, in a home, in a city, the way to make a difference is somebody has some compassion on others. That's the missing ingredient in all of this. Compassion in a church, a church that has compassion will have a profound impact on the community in the world where that church is. That's Bible. A Christian that has compassion and learns compassion. Will have a profound impact on the people they come in contact with and the folks they live with and the community they interact in. Compassion, compassion. Speaking with one of the ladies here before the service and she says she goes out walking and she said there's another pastor that comes up and they talk a little bit and they greet there and And she says, you know, for every time that we've crossed paths and we've talked, he's never spoken a word to me about the Lord. Never expressed any concern at all whatsoever about my spiritual well-being or my relationship with the Lord. A pastor. I tell you, and I'm I need to be careful because there's been many times where I've failed, interacting with people, and didn't show that compassion and concern that I ought to have. But what I'm trying to say is this. One individual Christian, one individual pastor, one individual Sunday school teacher, one individual teenager, regardless of my own circumstances, regardless of my own situation. That one shows compassion to others makes a profound difference. And some, having compassion, make a difference. Making a difference. I believe the missing ingredient in our world today, in many ways, is compassion. Now, just a few thoughts by way of introduction. Got thinking about this matter of compassion. I believe that compassion will produce leadership. And somebody gets to the point where they genuinely care. About the a circumstance. They genuinely care about somebody's well-being. They genuinely care about the salvation of someone's souls or somebody's spiritual well-being. They get compassion for that one, that will prompt them to action, to do what needs to be done to meet that need and help them. And that's leadership. We have a misconstrued idea, I believe, of what leadership is. We think the leadership, the world, and many of us sometimes we think of leadership as having position And having power and I can control things. That is not biblical compassion. That is not biblical leadership, I'm sorry Biblical leadership, genuine, true leadership, is caring about another and then doing what needs to be done to make sure those needs are met in that person's life I tell you, we could use some compassion in our politicians, political world. Not seeking wealth, not seeking fame, not seeking attention Not seeking power. I want to rule over you. I'll tell you what you can and cannot do, what you should and should not do. That's not compassion at all. Compassion is I care deeply about that. So I believe compassion produces leadership. Somebody gets concerned, genuinely concerned. About a situation, and they step out and they do what needs to be done. They take action. I put this down. I got thinking about compassion. I believe compassion produces kindness. Kindness. I found where there's little compassion, there's very little kindness. I tell you, kindness is a very rare commodity in much of our world today. Am I right or wrong? Kindness. If I care about someone, I'll be kind. I'll be kind. And I put this down, compassion produces Joy in the heart of the one that has it. I found that cold, dead churches have little or no compassion. I've mentioned this a number of times over the years, but when I was younger, I was traveling as a youth evangelist with Neighborhood Bible Time, and there was a church down in Tennessee, western Tennessee, and if I remember correctly, it was in Memphis. And that church was doctrinally straight. I mean, they were fundamental to the T. Their fundamental T's were crossed, their fundamental I's were dotted. I mean, they were fundamental They had their standards right, their convictions, their doctrinal statement was right. And I'd see that and I'd say, Amen, Amen, Amen. I agree with everything they believe, I agree with their position I'll tell you this, that church was as cold and dead as last week's Leaves. I don't know. I don't know. But you follow what I'm saying? We can have our doctrine right. We can have our standards right, and we should We can have our standards right, we can have our convictions right, but what I'm trying to say is if if we don't have any compassion, we don't have any life. There's no life there. Nobody got saved at that church, nobody's lives were changed Nobody came to know the Lord. Why? No compassion. No compassion. I believe, and by the way, there was no joy there. In fact The experience, interaction I had with them, that I'm my experience was most of their time was spent in fussing and worrying about whether somebody was fundamentally straight or not. Now, I'm all for that. Don't misunderstand. But I'm saying there needs to be some compassion. There needs to be some concern for others. And there was no joy, no joy. We took the juniors yesterday for the picnic with the pastor. At Cooper's Rock. How many people were fasting and praying for Pastor that he would survive that? Thank you very much. We survived. I'm telling you we had a great time. We got up there and we got hiking around and uh I mean these kids are a blast. I just love 'em so much. They're uh hanging on me. Uh I got in the bus. We were left here. I got in the bus and little Landon uh sat right behind me and I'm telling you from nine o'clock till when we left until th two o'clock we got back He talked nonstop the whole time. Just every I know I learned everything about Andy and Vicky. I never knew And we got up there and we started hiking those trails. Have you ever been up there? It's an amazing place, just beautiful in the overlook. And we got down one and it had this sign, Rattlesnake Trail. Oh brother, that got the kids going. Rattlesnakes. And so I played on that. I said, oh yeah. I said we gotta watch out. They're in trees. They're everywhere These kids are terrifying rattlesnakes and so it was very effective. It kept them all together with us. And we come up and we're we're kind of stretched out on this trail. There's about twenty of us or so. We're stretched out on this trail And I hear the screaming and hollering carrying on. We come up. And here they have walked, just about all the kids had walked over top of a yellow jacket's nest. I mean they are everywhere, up the shirts, up the kids' shirts. They're screaming and crying and hollering and we're trying to get these yellow jackets off 'em finally got away and we voted and we decided we're gonna rename the trail, not rattlesnake trail, we're gonna rename it Yellow Jacket Trail So that has nothing to do with the message, but I like that story. I want to tell you about it. We got roasted hot dogs and I gave the devotional. And I told them about a fella I met down in St. Lucia a couple times on mission trips we were down there. Seal is his name. Seow. I don't know how you spell it, that's how you pronounce it. Seow was a drunk. He was a thief. He would climb into the the palm uh the farms there they'd raise they have uh coconuts and he would go in it of the evenings and and steal coconuts and he would sell them in town, then he'd use the money to buy drugs and dry buy whiskey. Be cussed, I mean filthy, filthy mouth, thief, drunk, drug addict. hateful to his wife, roughed her up. I've been to his house. He lives in a and he still does now, he lives in a little house probably the size, not even the size of the platform here out this section right here. Just plywood and pressboard, old t old tin, corrugated tin that he'd find laying around, he'd bring it home, it'd wash up, and he'd put it together on his house. Thief, drunk, drug addict, hateful, filthy mouth. But a guy and his wife from Canada. God touched their hearts and called them to go to St. Lucia, Wes, and Faith Ann Bartley. And they came down there in the little town of Dennery, where Seow lives, they began knocking on doors. And they came by this little shed right by the water. I mean, you could just toss underhand a rock and it lands right in the Caribbean Sea there. And uh this little thing, and they knocked on the door See how came to the door. He was rough. It was obvious that, you know, that he wasn't all that he ought to be. And old Wes Bartley, here's what I'm getting at. Old Wes Bartley looked beyond the filthy mouth He looked beyond the drunkenness. He looked beyond the violence, the dishonesty, he looked beyond all of that. And you know what Wes Bartley saw? He saw an empty heart. He saw a lost sinner that if he died in this condition, he'd end up in hell for all eternity. And Wes said, See how, can I show you from the Bible how God can give you a new life? God can forgive you, save you. Seattle said, I would like that more than anything else in the world. West showed Seattle in the Bible how to be saved. See how he bowed his head and trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. He was baptized a little later in the Caribbean Sea, just down from where he lived. Now he's a member of the Denery Baptist Church, Pastor Wes Bartley. I've been to Seattle's house a number of times. This last time we were down there, after I was preaching at the invitation, he came over and he said, Pastor Leatherman, would you pray with me? He had some issues going on. He's burdened for some family members, and we prayed together. Brother Wes Bartley is probably one of the happiest people I've ever met. You know why? Because his heart is filled with what? Compassion. Cared about this guy. Nobody in the world give him two minutes. Nobody in the world give him a second thought. Just some old lying thief drunk living down by the water. Somebody showed compassion and it completely changed that man's life with the gospel of Jesus Christ. What I'm trying to say is the missing ingredient in much of our communities and our churches, our homes, our world is compassion. Compassion. I think perhaps maybe the greatest need in your home might be a mother or a father, a son or a daughter with compassion. I wonder if the great need in our church, right here, us, might not be some members that have real compassion on others. Our community. I enjoy our community. Like I said, I think there's a lot of good people. But I try to think, how different would our community be? There was a church or churches that had real genuine compassion for the people who lived in our community, their spiritual well-being. Wonder how different it would be. The missing ingredient is compassion. The way to make a difference in our world and people's lives is compassion. I want you to think with me about our Savior's compassion. There never was a person walk this earth as compassionate as the Lord Jesus Christ. Never has been, never will be. Well, if you would, take your Bible real quickly, and I don't want to be long. If you would, turn over to Matthew chapter number nine. We get a little glimpse of our Lord's compassion. Matthew chapter nine. And I want to begin reading in verse number thirty-six, Matthew nine, verse thirty-six. Well, let me start in verse 35. Jesus went about all the cities and villages teaching in their synagogues and preaching the gospel of the kingdom. And healing every sickness and every disease among the people. Now look at verse 36. And when he saw the multitudes, He was moved with what? Compassion on them, because they were fainted, and they were scattered abroad as sheep, having no shepherd Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore, the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth laborers into his harvest. Can I suggest to you, the Lord was asking the disciples to pray that God would raise up and send forth laborers that have hearts of compassion That see the multitudes the way he sees them, and cares for others the way the Lord Jesus Christ cares for others. And had a heart for others the way Jesus Christ had a heart for others He looked on the multitudes. He was moved with compassion. And he said, pray that God would raise up laborers. The word compassion, the very strict definition of it simply means this: kindness or sympathy. But there's more to it. There's more to that word compassion. And when Lord Jesus Christ was moved with compassion, It's a whole lot more to it than just being kind to somebody, opening a door, and this is part of it. Opening a door, saying thank you or please, being polite. There's a whole lot more to compassion than that, although it would certainly include that. It's a whole lot more to compassion than simply feeling sorry for someone else. Oh, I'm so sad. I'm sorry for your loss. I'm so sad that happened. And now, compassion would certainly include that. But it doesn't end there. Compassion is much deeper than simply being kind to somebody or simply being sympathetic to somebody. Compassion has the idea of stepping down into their world, into their heartache, into their emptiness, and sharing that with them and giving of myself to relieve that. heartache, to help with that need, to fill that vacuum. Jesus Christ was moved with compassion And he's prayed, he said, pray that God would raise up labor, folks that share my compassion. True compassion cares deeply for another's condition, cares deeply for the need of another. Jesus had compassion on sinners. We could good grief the Gospels are filled with illustrations where Jesus would eat with publicans and he'd interact with harlots and he'd speak with drunkards and he interacted with the sinners and he took a lot of heat for that. And the self-righteous Pharisees condemned him and judged him for walking around with wine biblers and Do you know what kind of woman she is? Do you know what kind of people they are? Oh, he knew, he knew. He had compassion on sinners. I tell you, Romans 5:8 is a tremendous verse. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners Christ died for us. Jesus didn't die for righteous, self-righteous people. He died for sinners. You and me. He had compassion on us as a sinner. I can't help but think back to when I got saved, and what a, and you don't understand what a horrible, degenerate young man I was, 19 years old. Nobody in the world loves somebody like that. There was somebody not of this world that loved a sinner like me. Jesus had compassion on sinners. Listen, we don't condone sin and we'll never justify it. We'll never excuse it. Not in ourselves or anyone else. And I tell you, one thing we must do is be able to look beyond that sin and see the heart and life that is being destroyed by that sin. It's being devastated by it. We go to the store somewhere in the market or the gas station convenience store and we see somebody there and we see obvious, we see the obvious effects of a life of sin and wickedness. And if we're not careful, our own self-righteousness, our own pride, we get repulsed by that. As a good church, respectable church member, repulsed by that. Well, we ought to be repulsed by sin, and by the way, we ought to be repulsed by our own self-righteousness But we ought to see somebody that's in desperate need of the Lord Jesus Christ have compassion. Compassion. I thought of the maniac of Gadera. Did you ever read that story in the Gospels? Man possessed of devils. He lives up in the cemetery. Everybody rejected him. They tried chaining him up and he'd break the chains. The guy was a demon-possessed maniac. The Lord Jesus Christ cared about him. The old boy got saved and his life was changed. Jesus has compassion on sinners. Jesus has compassion on the sick. You read through the Gospels, and he's healing the blind, and he's healing the lame, and he's healing the deaf and the handicapped and the halt and the maimed. And he cared deeply for him. Cared deeply for him. In Matthew chapter 25, we don't have time. But he's mentioning, he's referencing the judgment of the nations there, when the nations of the world will be judged. And he makes this statement. He says, I and he's he's commending some nations, he's commending these people, and he's praising them. And he says, when I was sick, you visited me. You showed compassion. He said, when they said, Lord, when did we Were you sick and we visited you? When were you ill and in need and we showed compassion? When did we ever do that? He says, In that you did it unto the least of these, you did it unto me. Jesus cares about the sick. Jesus cares about the ill. He cares deeply. Now it this is a whole nother message. We don't can't address it. It's not always his will to heal the sick. It's not always his will to relieve somebody of some pain or suffering. Sometimes that's part of his plan and his the his development of us. And though he may choose in his wisdom and his and his his uh uh uh plan for my life he may choose not to heal me of something but Don't misunderstand that that he doesn't care. That he doesn't have compassion. He does deeply. Compassion is what makes a difference. Compassion is what changes people's lives. Compassion is how we affect a community and a home and a and a world we live in. Compassion. And we look to our Lord and Savior and we see the perfect example of compassion, His loving compassion for sinners, for the sick. And Jesus had compassion on the said and sorrowing. The thief on the cross. What an amazing event. Jesus crucified between two thieves. They're both railing on him to begin with. But the one thief kind of gets thinking while he's hanging there dying in excruciating pain. And he thinks, you know, I deserve this. I have sinned against God Would you agree with me? That old boy was probably pretty scared. You agree? He's about to go out into eternity. Knowing that he's unforgiving, having no hope of escaping hell. I mean, any moment now, his life is going to leave his body and he's going to be in hell And he looks over to the Lord Jesus Christ. He said, Lord, remember me when you come into your kingdom. That's a cry for mercy. It's a cry for compassion. Lord Jesus Christ said, Today you'll be with me in paradise. Here's a man that's hopelessly lost, a man that's hopelessly, a hopeless sinner. He's going to die any moment now, a horrible death. And God shows him compassion. And you know where that old boy is right now? Watch sitting here. He is in the very presence of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You say, would God forgive somebody on their very deathbed? Oh, yes. Person that sincerely and in their heart turns and trusts Christ, God will forgive every sin. Compassion on the sad, on the sorrowing. The one thing that makes a difference in this whole world is compassion. And we can look and consider our Savior's compassion, and we see his compassion on sinners and on the sick. And the sad and sorrowing. But then I step back a bit and I think, let's consider for a moment scriptural examples in the Bible of people that showed compassion. Man, the Bible's full of it. It seems like in almost every age, in almost every circumstance, God had somebody In almost every circumstance through the Bible, God had somebody in the midst of that circumstance that cared That really cared about other people, somebody that had some compassion. Just about every circumstance you read through the Bible I got thinking, and there's so many, let me just point out a couple. I got thinking about now you have to know a little bit of your Old Testament history here, but anybody re recognize the name Naaman Naaman was a captain of the Syrian army, pagans, ungodly, violent, inhumane. And they had conquered much of Israel and they had taken prisoners and they grabbed young ladies and uh like these girls say they would take them back and they would sell them for Various purposes. They take young men and use them as slaves. And Naaman had somehow gotten possession of a young Jewish maid. Probably the age of these girls sitting down here. And this little girl, this little girl knew the Lord. She had faith in God. Now her family's probably dead. She's taken kidnapped, living in a foreign, perverse, strange land under a very military hard man. Imagine what her heart and mind was like. But she believed in God. She trusted in God. And one day word came to her that her master, Naaman, I come down with leprosy. Incurable. He's gonna die. You know what she might have said? Huh. Good for him. He killed my mother, he killed my father, I don't know where my siblings are, taken me as a slave, kidnapped me in this strange land, all that he's done to hurt me None of that. Little Naaman, his maid, his little maid, said, Oh, you just knew the God of Israel If you could go back there, Prophet, he could tell you, and our God could make you well. Heal you of your leprosy. Now I don't know about you, but that sounds pretty far-fetched. God would heal your God can heal me of leprosy? Can you imagine what Naaman would have thought? Yeah, right. This little kid This little kid telling me. But there was something about that little maid that had earned Naaman's respect. And he listened to her. And he believed that she had enough credibility in his mind that he actually contacted the king of Israel and made the trip over only upon the word of a little maid. You know what that's called? Compassion. She cared about him enough to speak up and say a word. Oh, we could go through, we could talk about the Good Samaritan. Would you agree with me? Here's a man that showed compassion. We're familiar with that story. And we could go all through the Bible, David and others through Scripture, that showed, gave us examples of someone who cared and they spoke up and they Took action and they made a difference. And by the way, let me back up to old Naaman. Not only did he get healed of his leprosy, he came to trust Jehovah as his Savior. He's a saved man Because a little maid cared enough to say something. I wonder how many people are on their way to heaven today because somebody cared enough to say, hey, here's a little gospel track. I thought about that couple from Ohio that won the trip to New Jersey and went to church last Wednesday night, heard the gospel and trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. All because somebody cared enough to say, you know, if I throw a gospel track in that open window, they might read that and they might get saved. Compassion. Compassion. Let me end with this. My last thought is this. Salvation produces compassion. The moment a person accepts Jesus Christ as their personal Savior, that very moment the Holy Spirit of God indwells their body. The Bible clearly teaches that. Did you know that one of the titles that Jesus gave of the Holy Spirit was Comforter? What do comforters do? What do builders do, they? What do farmers do, they? What do deacons do? Deek. What do comforters do? They comfort. Comfort is an aspect of compassion. And when you and I accept the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior, the moment we do it, for me it was May 7, 1979, 10:30 at night. The moment we accept Christ, the Holy Spirit of God moves within us. The comforter And dwells our bodies. And he places within us, I believe, a compassion for others. Compassion for others. If somebody claims to be saved and has no compassion, no concern for others, now I'm not going to say they're unsaved, but I'll say this: something's seriously wrong. Something's seriously wrong. We can quench the spirit. We can greed the spirit. When I got saved, I was I'm still far from where I ought to be, trust me. When I first got saved, God put something in my heart. I wanted to see other people saved. I wanted to see my mom saved. I wanted to see my sister saved. I wanted to see my co-workers saved. And I started speaking up. You know what that is? God put something in our hearts. I think salvation, which salvation comes is Compassion. Now I can act on that, I can grieve it and quench it, or I can yield to the Holy Spirit and let him love others than me. The Bible says in Romans, the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts. Compassion. Let me ask you a question. On a scale of one to ten, now you judge yourself Scale one to ten, how compassionate are you? I'm afraid. I'm including myself now. Here hear me I'm afraid we're way more selfish than what we really realize I read about a fellow in the eighteen, I think it was the eighteen sixties, in China. A fellow's name was, and I'm not sure I'm pronouncing this name right, it's an Asian name, Lo Fu. I think is how you pronounce his name. But back then in China they had this system, and now it's a derogatory term, but then they used it to describe a class of people. They were called coolies And what the coolies were in the 1840s, 50s, and 60s were folks that found themselves in some sorts of situation where they were sold as slaves. call it today. Now sometimes it was because they were criminals or whatever and uh they would be taken as uh as a coolie, they would be taken as a slave, and then they would send them off to different parts of the world and work these horrendous jobs in in gold mines down in South Africa and different places like that. And the circumstances were horrific and inhumane Some were sent off as coulies to uh uh because they were criminals. Others were uh simply kidnapped. And taken and kidnapped and stolen and sent off to make their owners a lot of money in these different places around the world. And some were debtors. And they could simply sign an agreement, and I'll work five years in this horrific circumstance, and whatever money they make, that will go towards my debt and relieve me of my debt. The history books tell us the tragic part of that was usually the owners did not honor that five-year limit, and they just kept them by force and never let them go. Some would sign up freely of themselves and say, I will become a coolie And I'll work five years or whatever, and I'll make this money, and I'll make you money, and in return you give this. And they would do it voluntarily, hoping to make something better of themselves. And very rarely, if ever, did that work out because of the cruelty and inhumanity of those that owned these coolies. Well, there's a very wealthy Christian man, this guy uh Fokt, Lo Facht, is a very wealthy man, and Very, very wealthy in China, and somebody introduced him to the gospel of Jesus Christ, and the old boy got saved. And as he began to grow in the Lord and he understood the love of God, and he became known as a very compassionate man, and his attention was brought to these coolies. That were suffering and in humane conditions and being so mistreated. God stirred his heart And he abandoned his fortunes, and to the dismay of his family and friends, he signed up as a cooleie. volunteered. And they shipped them off to South Africa to the gold mines down there. And he got in there and began working with his fellow Chinese folks in these unbelievable circumstances, unbelievable living circumstances. Violence and hatred and abuse. And he began sharing the gospel with his fellow coolies. He only lived a few years. He wasn't prepared physically for that. He only lived a few years and died in some foreign land, unknown, unheard of. But they say before he died, in that short period of time, that he served as a coolie He had won over 200 fellow Chinese men to the Lord Jesus Christ. He made a difference. In 200 people's lives. Because he had compassion. Compassion. Some making a difference Have compassion. You say if I show compassion, everybody, they'll all get saved, their lives will be changed. No. Some will Some will. Some. You show them compassion. It'll make a world of difference in their life. Listen, you've argued, you've fought, you've yelled, you've called names, you've cussed. You've done everything you can think of in the flesh to impact that person or impact that child or impact that home or impact that co-worker. You've done everything I want to suggest to you, how about you try compassion? Compassion. That's what makes a difference. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. And Lord, I'm challenged by this this morning. You live in a cold, hard world in many ways. A lot of times your love is clouded out. Your love is unseen by this whole world because of a lack of compassion, a part of your people. I pray you'd stir our hearts. Stir my heart. I pray as I do every day, Lord, that you would give me compassion. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, I'm saved? I know I'm saved. I trust in Christ. There's no doubt about it, my sins forgiven on my way to heaven. I've got that settled the Bible way. I sure could use a good dose of God's compassion in my home. My workplace and my community, my family, my friends. You'd say, preacher, pray with me That God would make me a compassionate Christian. Give me that compassion. Any like that by the uplifted hand, preacher, that's what I want. That's what I want. I need that compassion. God bless you, hands all around. Thank God for people with compassion. They're the ones that make the difference. I wonder if there's some here today that say, preacher, I'm thinking of someone in particular. I know they're hurting. Their name is in my mind. I can see their face and they're hurting and maybe they're unsaved, they're struggling. You'd say, preacher, God's brought them to my mind because He wants me to be compassionate with them How many like that preacher? I'm thinking of someone. God's brought somebody right to my mind. God bless you. My hands raised. Maybe you'd want to pray. Lord, show me how to express that compassion. Lord help me. Fill me with your spirit Love them through me. Help them through me. God will do it. There's some here this morning to say, preacher, I don't know for sure. I'm going to heaven when I die. You don't want to go to hell. You don't want to go to hell. God loves you and He'll forgive you and save you if you'll turn from your sin and trust Him. He'll give you eternal life Change your life here and now. Any like that, preacher, pray for me. I'm not sure. My sins are forgiven. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know for sure I'm saved. Anybody that uplifted hand. How about it? All across here. Anybody this morning, preacher, pray for me. I need to be saved. Father in heaven, I ask now you bless our invitation. A lot of hands raised. You know our needs. You know what our heart wants. We want to be compassionate. So help us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed.