2 Samuel chapter number 7, I want to begin reading in verse number 18. If you remember the context here, what we're looking at Is uh David is in a time of prosperity and peace there in the city. He's unified the nation of Israel. All twelve tribes are together on board. David's their king They all recognize that, they all respect that, and um he has won them over. Uh they've defeated the enemies, at least for the time being, around them, so they're at peace with neighboring nations Which isn't always the case in the history of Israel, but right now it is. And uh David's built had a house built, uh neighboring king, um Hiram, had a house of cedars built And David looks out over the city of Jerusalem. He sees the tabernacle there, which they finally successfully brought into the city, and he gets an idea that it would be a good idea to build a temple for the Lord. So the Lord's not in this tent type structure, the tabernacle, and more of a permanent um uh structure for uh the the furniture of the tabernacle will be in there, the Ark of the Covenant and all the others, the labors and uh and uh table showbread all of that initially if you remember uh nathan the prophet said yeah it's a great idea go do it god's with you but god confronted stepped in right away and god said hold on And God says, No, David's not going to build me that temple. The Lord had his reasons, one of them being David was a very bloody man. He had killed a lot of people in war and fighting, and he's going to continue to fight And so God says no to David. Says no. And this is what we're picking up here now. And this is what the lesson is tonight, and I hope this will be helpful to us. And how David responded when God said no to something he wanted to do. Nothing wrong was a good thing. In fact, later on, Solomon's going to actually do what David wanted to But God said, no, you're not the man, and this is not the time. So here's my question, and then I'll read our passage. How do we respond when God says no? Notice here David's response, verse 18. Then went King David in He just got word that God said, No, you're not building this temple. Then went David, King David in, and sat before the Lord, and he said Look at this. Who am I, O Lord God? And what is my house that thou hast brought me hitherto? And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord God, but thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come. Now what he's referencing there is back, if we remember, when God said no, God took a good bit of time to explain What God had done for David and what God was going to do for him. He's going to establish the kingdom on his the throne, use David to establish the throne that Jesus is going to be on. He gives us He ends up giving this Davidic covenant that is significant in the history of Israel. And so David's, that's what David's referencing there. O Lord, thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come. And is this the manner of man, O Lord God? And what can David say more unto thee? For thou, Lord God, knowest thy servant. For thy word's sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou done all these great things to make thy servant know them. Wherefore thou art great, O Lord God. For there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears. And what one nation in the earth is like thy is like thy people, even like Israel I put in the margin of my Bible there, there's no nation like Israel. Boy, that's a true. Uh whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, and to make him a name, and to do for you, and to do for you great things and terrible for thy land, before thy people, which thou redeemest to thee from Egypt, from the nations and their gods. For thou hast confirmed to thyself, thy people, Israel, to be a people unto thee for how long? Forever. Israel is God's people, forever. Don't forget that. And thou, Lord, art become their God. And now, O Lord God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant and concerning his house, establish it forever. And do as thou hast said, and let thy name be magnified forever, saying, The Lord of hosts is the God over Israel. And let the house of thy servant David be established before thee. For thou, O Lord of hosts, God of Israel, hast revealed to thy servant, saying I will build thee in house, and therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer unto thee. And now, O Lord God, thou art that God, and thy words be true. And thou hast promised Hit this goodness unto thy servant. Therefore now let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue forever before thee. For thou, O Lord God, hast spoken it And with thy blessing, let the house of thy servant be blessed forever. What a response to God saying no to David. Now I believe in studying this, I'm pretty convinced David's heart was set on building this temple. This was a good idea, this was right, it was for God's glory Everything about this was right, his heart was set on it, Nathan, the prophet, confirmed to David to do it, then God steps in and says, No. Now here's the question: as I said a moment ago, how do we respond? When God says to you and I, no, that's not happening. Let's pray, and we'll give that some consideration tonight. Father in heaven, I thank you, Lord, that you've recorded here David's response to your denial of his plans. And it's helped me in preparing for this. And I pray you would teach us as Christians as your people to follow David's example here and um and help us, Lord, to uh go forward even in times of denial or Detour. And so fill me with your spirit, I ask. I yield my will again. Present my body anew. I ask with all my heart you fill me with your Holy Spirit. Speak through me, Lord. And help us grow in our faith. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. How we respond to denials We have some sort of denial, whether it's from God or just in life in general. Anybody here ever have something you plan to do and it just it wasn't going to happen? Anybody know what I'm talking about? And we see God, God just God made sure that was not going to happen. I can think of two things in my life, uh looking back over my life, significant uh crossroads where God says, nope, that that ain't happening, you're not going that way. How we respond to those denials by God is a key indicator as to the strength of our character. The strength of our faith in God. If God says no, God gives a denial to a request or a plan that we have or an idea or the way we think something ought to be. And God says, no, it's not going to be that way. My character is revealed by how I respond to that. And I think it's true also for delays. Does anybody here like to have a delay? You got something, then you have to wait. Anybody here? I don't. The delays of life, man, they can be frustrating. And uh, you know, we can get worked up sometimes But that reveals to us the strength of our character, the strength of our faith in God. Detours Reveal are indicators as to the strength of our character and our faith. As I was thinking about this, how we respond to God saying no I got thinking through scripture, and it's interesting to note that three of what I would consider God's greatest Men of God in Scripture. Now, you may think of some others, but I think these are without doubt three of the greatest, if not the three greatest. Men of God in all the scripture. One of them is Moses, tremendous man of God. Twice Moses was denied uh of God, something that he wanted to see happen, something he wanted to take place. The first time, remember When Moses saw the fiery bush, the burning bush, it wasn't consumed, he went over, and God confronted Moses and told him that he was going to be the one leading Israel out of Egypt And what was Moses' immediate response? Yes, I can do this. Is that how he responded? No. How did Moses respond? What did he say? He says, I can't do this. Who am I? What I can't do this. And God says, oh no, you can't. And he did. They're not going to listen to me God says, oh yes, they will. And he did the rod. Remember, he threw his rod down, turned the snake, and picked it up. That was an act of faith picking that snake up, I'll tell you right there. And then what did he say? He says, I can't talk And God says, all right, I'll have Aaron speak for you. God, Moses wanted out. Moses says, I'll keep taking care of these sheep. I'm satisfied. I'm content where I am. That was his intention. That was his desire to not do what God was going to do. And God denied him what he wanted and says, Nope, you're going. There's a second time where God denied Moses something. Anybody thinking of what I'm thinking of? The second time God said, no. You're not going into the promised land. And there's no doubt in my mind, Moses wanted to go in that promised land. He had invested 40 plus years of his life. He had been through all kinds of things to lead God's people into the mo into the promised land But he lost his coal, struck the rock twice, and God said, You are not going in. So I thought it was interesting. Even one of the greatest men of God in all of Scripture Sometimes God says no. No. You're not going to stay here in the desert, here in the wilderness with the sheep, and you're not going in the promised land. The second one, I think, of the three greatest men throughout Scripture that God said no to, and there's no doubt there was others, but the second one is David. Here, when God said no about building the temple, and then we referenced last week if you remember when David's child was sick And David prayed and fasted that God would spare his child and and uh and uh and not let him die. And God said, No, he's gonna die. And God gave a denial To David's prayer that his child would live. And then the third one, I got Moses, the three greatest men in all of Scripture, in my mind anyway, Moses. David, can you anybody want to try and guess who I think is the third one? The Apostle Paul. What a man of God. What a man of faith. And if you'll study 2 Corinthians chapter 12 very carefully, you're going to find out that Paul had some sort of physical malady that was very, very painful. The term he uses is he had a what? Thorn in the flesh. Now I think it's interesting the terminology uses. Commentators say all kinds of things about that. But uh to me, I'm simple-minded. I figure the Bible means what it says and says what it means And so if it's a thorn in the flesh, he may be speaking a bit figuratively there, but that tells me it was probably something physical, the thorn in his flesh. And uh being a thorn, it would probably be what? Painful. It'd be a painful thing. Um I had a fellow in Indianapolis one time got mad at me. I don't know what I I don't know why he got mad at me, I'm just nice And um he got mad at me. He says, You're a thorn in my flesh. I said, Well. But um, so but Mo Paul had this thorn in his flesh, and the Bible says he sought the Lord three times to take this from him. And the Lord said, what? No. Denied. He made his petition, take this from me, and the Lord denied. And then Paul said, therefore I'll glory in my infirmities, for when I am weak, then am I strong. The Lord strengthens me. So you get these three men, all three of them used of God in tremendous ways, and every one of them had points in their life Where God said, no, no, you're not doing that. Oh, by the way, there was another one with Paul in the book of Acts when he was going to go uh over to um Asia Minor somewhere and then uh God said no and the Holy Spirit redirected him to Macedonia He had his plans and it was good. He was going into untouched, unreached areas with the gospel. God said, nope, I got other plans. And so Moses, David, and Paul, all three of them, good men, men of faith, men of God, men desiring to do right and serve the Lord, and God said, No. No, no, no. But the interesting thing to notice is not one of them got angry about it. Isn't that something? They didn't get angry, they didn't get bitter. I've read it, none of them got mad and threw their stuff down and stormed off. I ain't never coming back here again None of them acted that way. None of them quit and walked away. Every one of them, Moses, David, and Paul, every one of them recognized the truth of Isaiah chapter 55, verse 8 and 9. Would you turn there with me? Isaiah chapter 55. Now keep your place here because we're going to look at a few things. But come back to Isaiah. You're working your way through your Old Testament, you get the Psalms, Proverbs, you'll run into Isaiah. And towards the end of the book of Isaiah, there's a tremendous statement here. God is speaking. And he reveals something about himself that is important for you and I to understand, and it will help us deal with The denials of God or the detours or the delays that God sends in our life. It'll help us understand and accept them. Isaiah chapter 55, look with me at verse number 8 Make sure everybody finds it there, because I want you to see this, and I r highly recommend you underscore this in your Bible or highlight it in one way or another that it stands out so you can see it. Notice it says, for my thoughts, this is God speaking, my thoughts are not your thoughts. Now, the word thoughts there has this idea: my plans and my purposes are not the plans and purposes you have. My thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my ways Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. And then he expounds on them in verse 9. For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts, plans, purposes, than your thoughts. It's interesting, he uses creation to illustrate that the way God's plans and God's purposes for my life and your life and our church Are not necessarily the same as ours. In fact, his are way above ours. And I think Moses and I think David And I think Paul, all three, understood that when they got an idea and they think something should be done this way, and they think it ought to be this, and they believe this ought to happen, and God says, No They said, wait a minute. God's ways are better higher than my ways. God's plans are higher than my plans. God's thoughts are higher than my thoughts. And I'm going to trust them. I'm going to trust them. And so None of them got angry, none of them got bitter, none of them quit and threw stuff around and stormed out. They understood that God's ways are higher than our ways. Selfishness gets angry when it doesn't get its way. True or false? How many people saw that in kids? In fact, part of parenthood is getting that selfishness out of the head of the heart and mind of that child, right? Selfishness gets angry if it doesn't get its way. Immaturity gets angry if it doesn't get its way. I put this, shallow faith gets angry and quits if it doesn't get its way. Now we think of children, we think of selfish and immature and getting mad if you don't get your way. Anybody here ever been in Walmart? Some kid wants a thing Wants something and the parent doesn't get them and the kid freaks out. Right. Um I was uh there the other day and uh the Um just last week I was doing some grocery shopping, the guy there and something his summer I mean the boy's he's only up to his daddy's belly and he's screaming at him, hitting him in the belly Now we think about children acting that way if they don't get their way. We think about uh spoiled brats acting that way if they don't get their way. But I tell you, I've seen some spoiled brat Christians Adults act that way over the years. They don't get it my way. If it doesn't happen the way I want, boy, you get angry, get uh uh quit, storm out So how we respond to God's denials indicates, as a key indicator, as the strength of our character, the maturity of our faith. How we respond to God's no. Take your Bible, if you would, now. Go to 1 Kings. I want to give an illustration of how an immature, selfish person responds. To something they when they can't get their way. First Kings chapter number twenty-one The Bible has so many records of instances and events in people's lives to illustrate to us spiritual truths. Particularly throughout the Old Testament. In 1 Kings chapter number 21, I hope you're there. And I'd like for you to notice verse number one. Here we have a King Ahab. What do we know about King Ahab? Good or bad? Thumbs up or thumbs down? Every time I read, I say this all the time, every time I bot read about King Ahab, I get aggravated, I get mad, I don't like King Ahab. Now maybe we get to heaven, I might change my attitude a little bit. But the guy was a mess. And in chapter 21 of 1 Kings, he had a neighbor named Naboth. Who had a vineyard. Now here's Ahab. He's the king. He's probably as wealthy, if not wealthier, than everybody else in the nation. And Naboth lives next door and he has a vineyard and Ahab gets looking at that vineyard and he decides he wants it. Now look at the event here. Look what how this transpires. Verse 1. And it came to pass after these things that Naboth, the Jezreelite, had a vineyard. Which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. And Ahab spake unto Naboth, saying, I underlined the next two words. Boy, this is immaturity at its Worst, give me thy vineyard. Anybody agree with me? That's awfully brash. Give me thy vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs, because it is near unto my house. I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it, or if it seemed good to thee, I'll give thee the worth of it in money And Naboth said to Ahab, The Lord forbid it me that I should give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee. Naboth had a good argument. This is part of our family heritage. In fact Uh Israel was set up so that property would remain within the family. So Nabos' response is not insensitive or selfish in any way, shape, or form. This was his family's heritage. He would be hurting his his future generations. And look how Naboth responded. Or I'm sorry, how Ahab responded. Verse 4. And Ahab came into his house, heavy and displeased. Because the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him, for he had said, I will not give thee the inheritance of my fathers. Now look how Ahab responds. And he laid him down on his bed and turned away his face and would eat no bread. I put in the margin of my Bible, how childish You talk about a spoiled brat. He's got probably ten times more possessions than what Naboth has. And he doesn't get his way, and he goes, curls up in his bed, sucks his thumb, and I'm not eating till I get what I want. Pity party, exactly So, how do we respond when we get a denial? How do you respond? How do I respond? If I have something that maybe I think is good, I think is best, I've got a plan, this is how it'll work out. And the answer comes back, no. Do we get mad? Do we storm out? Do we fume? Do we say hateful things about that person that denied us? I think we can learn a lot from David. I took note how David responded to God's denial. If you would come back here to Samuel and let me give you these to you real quick. How to respond when God says no, based on David's response. Number one, I put this down, respond with humility. Respond with humility. Look with me if you would at verse 18, 2 Samuel chapter 7. Then went King David in, this is God said no, and sat before the Lord. And he said, Who am I, O Lord God? And what is my house that thou hast brought me hitherto? Now God said, No, you're not building the temple. And David went in. And it's interesting, it says he sat before the Lord. Now I don't know what the what the setting was where he went if he went down to the tabernacle and sat outside of the holy area there. Maybe he went back into his bedroom. Maybe he had a study or somewhere in his house, a private area, and he just went and he just sat before the Lord and he thought. And he approached God. He came to God in prayer. And then notice what he says here. Oh, by the way, him coming in there sitting before the Lord. To me, in my mind, that just gave me a a picture of like a child coming to their father. The father just said, no, you're not doing that. And the child comes in and sits And then he says in the second part of verse 18: Who am I, O Lord God, and what is my house that thou hast brought me to? You know what he's saying there? He's saying this. Alright, I can't build a temple, but God, you've already been better to me than I deserve. You've already been better to me than I deserve. Who am I? That I would be king of Israel. Who am I? That I would be blessed, though all that you have. You know, I've said this Sunday, and I find myself saying it more and more all the time. We've got it pretty good here in the United States of America We're Christians, we know the Lord, we have eternal life, we have a home in heaven, we've been forgiven. God's given us an eternal purpose for life, and then we have all of that in a country where we're free And we have resources available. And we have some little thing that God denies us, some thing that we can't do And rather than focusing on how good God has been to us, and rather than focusing on how much God has already blessed us We get all worked up over that one thing that God says no. And I tell him, I see a tremendous character on the part of King David, when he stops and says, Lord, you've already been better to me than I deserve. Who am I that you have blessed me like this? David humbly acknowledged to God that God's will is greater than David's will. And I tell you, when you and I can get to that point, when I can get to the point where I recognize that God's will is far better than any will I come up with, I'm on the way to growing spiritually. God's will is greater than David's will. Acknowledge that God's wisdom is greater than David's wisdom. Hey, I got some news for you. God knows more about stuff than we do. Amen. God knows more. Sometimes it's the most obvious things we forget. God has far more wisdom than I do. Well, this is the way it has to be, and God says, uh no-do-do. Well, God, you're a little bit smarter than I am. Would you agree with me? It's a pretty sharp kid that says, Daddy, you know more than I do. Pretty smart kid. And it's a pretty smart Christian. It's a pretty smart man or woman that says, God, you know more about things than I do. And that's what David is saying. Lord, you've been better to me than I deserve. David is humbly acknowledging that getting God's blessing, listen to this statement, getting God's blessing is more important than getting my way. There's a statement in the Psalms, and I photo this Sunday Monday night in Bible Institute. And I didn't look it up, and I wished I had. But it says this, talking about Israel, they wanted foodie, and God said he sent them the desires of their heart He gave them the desires of their heart, but he sent leanness to their soul. Do you get that? Oh, they got what they wanted, but they lost God's blessing. They lost God's blessing. David said, wait a minute. Your will, having your will be accomplished, is more important than me getting my way, and having your blessing is more important to me than me getting my way. The greatest enemy to our Christian life and service is pride. The greatest enemy to my spiritual growth is self-will. And God said no to David. And David didn't say, oh yeah. Well, I know what I want, and I'm going to get what I want. No, he didn't say any of that. He humbled himself. He responded with humility. He sat before the Lord. He said, Lord, you have already done far more for me than I ever deserved. So number one, we need to respond with humility. Number two, I noticed this, he responded with submission. Now humility and submission go hand in hand. I think it's possible to submit without being humble Right? It's possible. I can give in. Uh and kicking and screaming and fighting the whole way. I can give in It's possible to submit without humility, but I don't believe it's possible to humble myself without submitting So when David humbled himself, the following response was the natural result of humbling himself, and that was submission. So when God says no, we should respond with submission. Look with me if you would. Beginning in verse 19, all the way through verse 29, I want to highlight something for you. Verse 19, he says this, and this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord God But thou hast spoken also of thy, what's the word? Servant. I circled the word servant Now come up to verse number 20. Go to the last part of verse 20. For thou, Lord God, knowest thy what? Servant. I circled it again. At the end of verse number 21, hast thou done all these great things to make thy servant know them? I circled it again. And you come down through there, and ten times David refers to himself as God's servant. A servant, the chief characteristic of a good servant is their submissive to their master And David doesn't look at himself as somebody who has any right whatsoever to demand anything from God or to tell God how it's supposed to be done or what's going to be done. He goes, I'm your servant. You don't want me to build it? You say no? Hey, I'm thy servant. I'm thy servant. Ten times. He come down through there. Verse 25. Thou hast spoken concerning thy servant. Verse 26. And let the house of thy servant, verse 27, hast revealed to thy servant. Again in verse 27. Therefore Hath thy servant found in his heart. Verse twenty-eight, the last phrase, unto thy servant. Verse twenty-nine, the middle of the verse, thy servant, servant, servant, servant, servant, servant. Ten times I circled em all in red ink When God says no, I need to number one, humble myself, sit before the Lord, understand how good God has already been to me. He's done more for me than I ever deserve Number two, I'm his servant. I submit to him. If you would, notice that the last part of verse 25, he makes a very important statement It says, Now, O Lord God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant and concerning his house, establish it forever. And look at the last phrase. And do as thou hast said. You know what that is? That's submission. Well, if you and I can get to the point where we can bow before God and say, God, you just do what you said I'll cooperate with you. I'll trust you. I'll follow you. You do what you said. Submission. He responded with submission. Submission to the will of God is one of the most Christ-like things that we can possibly do. Now think about that with me. Submission to the will of God is one of the most Christ-like things I can do. In the Garden of Gethsemane in Luke chapter number 22, the Lord is asking God to remove this cup from him. And the cup, of course, was what? The cross, the judgment of God upon Jesus Christ for all mankind's sin. He said, Lord, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me. And then the Lord, in humility and submission, God the Son, in humility and submission to God the Father, said, nevertheless, what? Not my will, but thy will be done. Isn't that something? Submission. One of the most Christ-like things you and I can do is to be submissive to God. It's what Jesus was. In fact, the whole salvation, our whole salvation Was predicated upon Jesus Christ being submissive to God the Father. Take your Bible with me. Now stay here because I got another observation I want to make here, but go with me to the New Testament book of Philippians. And chapter number two, Philippians all the way back in the New Testament. Chapter number two, and I want to begin reading in verse five. A couple months ago, we, or I guess it was last year, we memorized verse four, but I want to begin reading in verse five. Speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, Paul's writing in the church at Philippi, Philippians chapter 2, look at verse 5. He says, let this mind, this way of thinking, this attitude, be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Alright, he's God. It's not robbery for him to claim deity Or even to exercise the attributes of deity. But, verse 7, made himself of no reputation And took upon him the form of a servant. There it is. And was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he what? Oh, there's that humility. And became obedient at submission, obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. I'm telling you, when you and I submit to the will of God, when we humble ourselves and submit to the will of God, there's You can't hardly think of anything more Christ-like than submission to the will of God. That's exactly what Jesus Christ did. We studied that in Peter, 1 Peter. Where Jesus Peter was using Jesus as an illustration on our instruction to submit to authorities. He says, even like Christ submitted to God. shed his blood and provided salvation because of his submission to God the Father. So when God says no, we humble ourselves and so we submit to the will of God. Submission to God's will is one of the most Christ-like things we can possibly do. Then a third, come back here if you would, to uh 2 Samuel chapter number Seven, I see another way that David responded to God's denial. Number one, he responded with humility. Number two, he responded with submission. Number three, he responded with worship. If you would notice with me verse number 22, 2 Samuel 7, notice what he says. Wherefore, thou art great, O Lord God, for there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside thee. According to all that we have heard with our ears. You know what that is? That's an act of worship. That's a statement of worship. He's declaring to God how great God is. There are no other gods like thee. You're the only God. And David is worshiping God. Several years ago, I did a study on biblical worship. So a lot of stuff goes on in Christianity, quote unquote, that's called worship. And if you study the Bible, you're hard-pressed to find a biblical basis of a lot of stuff that goes on in the name of worship. And so I did this study. I looked at what the Bible says, and I think I preached a message 20 plus years ago. But out of that study, I came up with my definition of what worship is, biblical worship. I looked at how it was Practice in scripture. I look at terms where it said they worship God. I looked at what the circumstances were, at the definition, the root definition of the word, and this is what I came up with Worship is recognizing God's supreme authority over me and submitting to that authority By humbly trusting and obeying God. Now let me say that again. I think that's a significant definition. It's recognizing God's authority over my life. Now, just stopping there, that's not worship. The devils recognize God's authority. So recognizing God's authority of life, but if I'm going to worship, it must also include not just recognizing his authority But I humbly submit to that authority by trusting what God says and following his instructions You say, where in the world do you find that in the Bible? I'll tell you where I find it in the Bible. When God told Abraham to take his son Isaac, his only son, whom he loved. And take him up on the mount and offer him up as a sacrifice. And while they're going up there Abraham said to his son, Come let us worship. Worship. You know what he was doing? He was recognizing God had the authority to make this request. And he was humbling himself and he was trusting that God Hebrews tells us that Abraham trusted God enough that if he went through with this, God would raise up his son because that was through the promise was through And so he trusted God and said, all right, God, this seems bizarre. He doesn't say this, but I imagine he's thinking this is crazy. But God, you're the supreme authority. I humbly trust you, and I'm going to do what you say. And that was described as worship. How about that? And I also get it from Job. When God took his family and all his possessions, let Satan destroy all of that And he said, the Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. And it says, Job worshiped God. In other words, Job said, God has the authority to, he gave it to me, he has the authority to give it to me, he has the authority to take it away. And I submit to that. And I'm just going to trust him. I'm just going to follow his instructions. That's worship. Worship isn't walking into church and crossing your heart and hope to die. Going through some ritualistic service. If you'll notice, I very seldom, if ever, have I called our services worship services. Now, should we worship? Yeah, we ought to recognize God's supreme authority over us. We ought to humble ourselves and trust Him and follow His instructions. But that ought not to be limited to a church service. It ought to be a life. It ought to my frame of mind, the middle of the night, the middle of the day, morning, noon, night, all the time. When God speaks to me and God shows me something, or God says no, I say, all right, Lord, you have authority And I you're you're the supreme, you're the great God, there's no other gods. I humbly submit that. I'll do what you say, I'll trust you. Worship. David worshiped God. He worshiped God I think that's a powerful challenge for you and I when things don't go our way, when we don't get what we want. Is the ability to stop when God takes everything I have from me and my spouse turns against me to be able to come before God and say, You're the great God. You're the supreme authority, and I'm going to humble myself and I'm going to trust you in this, God, and I'll follow whatever instructions you give me. That's a challenge in life. And so I believe Da David worshipped God. So number one, he responded to God's no with humility. Number two, he re Responded to God's no with submission. Number three, he responded to God's no with worship. And last of all, number four, I put this down. He responded to God's no with persistence. Now, I don't mean he went ahead and built the temple anyway. We know he didn't do that. That wouldn't be submissive. That wouldn't be humbling himself. But neither did he quit. And I think this is interesting, and maybe you think, well, that's pretty obvious, but I'm telling you, it happens. I've been in the ministry long enough, it happens. Well, if it can't do it my way, then I ain't doing nothing. My way or the what? Highway. And I've seen it. I'm thinking of years ago. A couple in particular that they want to do something. They say, what can we do around here for the Lord? And so we said, well, we need this, that, and the other. Next thing I knew, they left the church. I said, what in the world? They said, well uh there's no place we can serve the Lord there. I said, what are you talking about? So come to find out it was they wanted to do a certain thing and I I didn't I didn't know that My way or the way. David wasn't that way. That's not how you respond when God says no. Well, if I can't do what I want, then I ain't doing nothing. No, David persisted David says, all right, if I can't do that, I'm going to go ahead and do what I can do. And we're not going to take time. I was going to go through and uh make a message out of this. But let me give you just a list of things of what David did when God said no. By the way, did you notice he didn't go into his bedroom, curl up, face the wall, and not eat So his wife came in. Do you notice there isn't any throne named after Ahab? David went and purchased land so that there would be a place to build the temple. He couldn't build it. God said no. He says, all right, well, I'll get the land so that my son Solomon, when he builds it, he'll have land He negotiated and supplied materials with neighboring countries. He negotiated, got the materials So that everything stacked up there, just like our building is sitting back there waiting to be built. David got all the stuff together. He drew up temple plans. He financed much of the building. He put money up towards it. He planned out the services and the workmen. Then he gave more money out of his own pocket to this, got the people to give some. And think about this. Even with all that David did, he got the land, he got the materials, he negotiated everything. He put the blueprints together. He got finances involved in that thing. And you know it still took Solomon seven years to build that temple? How long would it have taken Solomon to build it if David had not did all that? So he contributed. He didn't get mad and quit and walked away. He says, All right, if I can't do that, then I'm going to do what I can. I'm going to do what I can. He raised money to build it. He listed the aids of allies. What? Now think with me. Now I don't know. This is total speculation. I'm going to end with this. What would the temple have looked like if David had built it? It took him the rest of his life to get the materials for it And even with all that, it took Solomon seven years to build with everything in place. Did you know much of David's reign as king was spent fighting the enemies of God? How do you build it? And then by the time Solomon got there, the nation was at peace. He could focus on that. My suggestion, and this is from a human standpoint, God knows. But from a human standpoint, I don't think that temple would have been a tenth as glorious as what it was if David had built it as it was with Solomon building it. I don't know how he could have put the attention to it, the resources. He's fighting battles, he's fighting wars And so he put everything to place. And what I'm trying to say is this, when God says no to one thing, that doesn't mean he says no to everything. There's a whole heap of other stuff we can do for God. There's a whole heap of other options and scenarios. When God says no, let's humble ourselves and say, Lord, I don't even deserve what you've already done for me. And Lord, I'm just your servant. I submit to you. Whatever your will is, you do it. Your word, you do it. And Lord, we said, I'm going to worship you. You have every authority to say yes and no. You have every authority to do it the way, your way. And Lord, I'm not going to quit. If you don't let me do this, I'm going to do something for you. I'm going to do something for you. Would to God every Christian would say, well, I might not can do this, I might not can do that, but there's something I can do for the kingdom of God. And what we can do, we ought to do Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to the denials, the delays, the detours of life. I pray you'd help us just to humble ourselves, worship you, submit, and then go on and do what we can. And I ask you to stir our hearts. I wonder if there's some here tonight say, preacher, I have a tendency to be a little bit selfish. Now maybe you don't throw hymn books across the auditorium when you don't get your way. But you say, I know down in my heart that boy that stirs up and I know that ought not to be there. I I need God to help me. Is there any like that? If I don't get my way, I tend to to to bucket that and bristle. Yeah, it's an old sinful nature. But we can overcome that by the grace of God. And if we ask the Lord to help us, just be humble and submissive, worship Him, and then do what we can. I believe God could use us in great, great ways. Father, bless now our invitation I ask. In Jesus' name, amen. Let's stand together, heads are bowed, eyes are closed