Most if not all of us are familiar with Romans ten thirteen. How many people say, Preacher, I know about Romans ten thirteen, I'm familiar with that verse. Anybody here? Anybody? For whosoever shall what Call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Boy, what a verse. And uh that verse is where I got assurance of my salvation. Shortly after I was saved, probably a month or so, I just really didn't give a whole lot of thought about you know, going to heaven or whatever, or security uh the assurance and security of my salvation. And I was reading a sermon by Dr. John R. Rice in the page of the sword of the Lord and uh on uh Romans it was on John uh 1 John 5, 12. And in that he made a reference to Romans 10. 13. I read that, and boy, God settled it for me in my mind. I knew that on May 7, 1979, I trusted Jesus Christ Savior. I called on the name of the Lord. I knew that was a fact. There is no doubt about it. And Romans 10, 13 promises that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be what? Shall be saved. So my reasoning was this: if I called on the name of the Lord sincerely and earnestly, and I did. And I wasn't saved, that would mean one thing, that God lied to me. Right? If I sincere if somebody sincerely, genuinely calls on the name of the Lord, whoever calls on the name of the Lord for salvation, trusting Him as their personal Savior, and they're not saved, then That verse isn't true in God's light, but I know this. God does not lie. In fact, he cannot lie. The devil's a liar. He's the father of lies But God Almighty is the truth, and he does not and cannot lie. And he promised that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Boy, what a verse. What a verse. So we're familiar with that, but verse number 13 ties into the previous verse 12, and it also carries through the statement, the truth that's being presented there. carries through into verse number 14. Now what I would like for us to do is read verse number 14 together in unison. Romans chapter 10 And verse number 14, ready? You have it there? Read it with me. Ready? Here. How then shall they call on him whom they have not believed? And how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? He asks a series of questions. And the answer to every one of them is the same. What's the answer? What's the answer? How shall they call on him whom they have not believed? What's the answer to that question? They can't. If they haven't believed on him, they're not going to put their faith and trust in him. Look at the next question. How shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? They can't. I can't believe in somebody I don't even know exists. I don't know anything about them. And whom and how shall they hear without a preacher? And they can't hear if somebody doesn't tell them. Then verse 15, and how shall they preach except they be sent. So I want to speak this morning. If you would, uh uh listen carefully, I want to speak. On this subject, how shall they hear? That's the theme of our missions conference this year. How shall they hear? Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our time in your word. Lord, the singing's been a blessing to me. It stirred my heart. The fellowship is uh is just a joy. I thank God for the family of God, the uh the body here that we can be a part of. And I ask now, with our Bibles open before us, that your Holy Spirit would be present in a mighty way. I ask God that you would speak to our hearts. My prayer this morning, Lord, is that people would not hear me talking about you. But Lord, my prayer is that they would hear you speaking to each and every individual heart and mind. It would not be me speaking, but God, it would be you speaking to our hearts. And I ask you to fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will, present my body anew at this hour. Pray you'd have your way. In Jesus' name I ask. Amen. Now, this next statement is going to be very familiar to all of us, but God has given to our church a great commission. How many people understand that? God has given to us a great commission. Now, a commission is a challenge, an instruction, a command almost. He's given to our church a great commission. He's given to every genuine church. If it's a genuine, legitimate church, that church has the same commission That you and I have, that Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church has, and that is this, to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. That is the commission. That we as a body of believers here at Mountain Lake at 1005 Broadford Road, where we assemble together, the commission that the creator of this universe, the God of eternity, has given to us. Is that we are to go into all the world and preach the gospel to every creature. Now, I want to say this: this is God's plan. This isn't something some preacher came up with. This isn't something a denomination somewhere came up with. This is God's instruction to us. How many people are familiar with John chapter 3 and verse 16? For God so what loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son. I like this next statement. That whosoever believeth in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. That verse sounds awfully familiar to Romans 10:13. Whosoever, particularly last phrase, whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. John 3. 16, along with many, many other verses, tells me this. It makes it very, very clear, at least in my mind That God's heart, the heart of God, is to have people be saved from their sins and from hell. The people that everybody on this planet, everybody that God has created, everybody that God has given life to, that they know how to be saved. God wants every little child in Thailand to know how to be saved. We went um Friday night, we went up to Biddinger. They had a They had a baked potato dinner on Friday night, and um I got there too early. Chester paid for everybody, but I got there before Chester got there, so it was a little disappointing. But um Other than that, it was really good. And uh um I'm trying to think why I'm talking about baked potatoes. But uh we got there and um we were having a good time. They had baked taste of delicious meal and we were eating and they had ice cream so um uh Charlie and uh Randy Schweitzer and I went up and got some ice cream We ate that and then we went up and got some more. And um we ate that. Then uh Randy went back and got three. And But we had a wonderful time. But while I was sitting there, I don't know why this thought entered my mind. We were talking and laughing and carrying on. And uh the thought entered my mind, I'll bet you there's some little village, some little town the size of Biddinger Over in some outback area of Russia, where there's people get together and have dinners together, very similar to what we do. And those people are people that God loves just as much as us. Those are people that God wants them to know how to be saved. And God wants them to be saved. Every single person in this world. God's heart is that they know how to be saved. They know what the gospel is. And that they believe it and they call on the Lord and trust Him and be saved. For God so loved the world. That's every person in Kenya, in Uganda, every person down in in New Zealand, over in Kazakhstan. All these nations that we support missionaries and all the other 220, whatever number of nations there are, and every little village, every little town, every big city. My heart was stirred last week when Brother Ring was with us talking about that great city down there in southern Brazil. 4. And one or two gospel witnesses in that whole city. God's heart is that they would be saved. And God has given to you and I, God has given to Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church this great commission That we are to preach the gospel to every creature throughout this whole world, this whole planet, that every man, every woman, every child Would have an opportunity to hear how to be saved, and then the opportunity to respond to that information by faith Calling the Lord, trusting Him as our Savior, and finding forgiveness of sins, salvation from hell, and eternal life, a home in heaven. That's what God, that's the responsibility, that's the commission God has given to us. Now we look at our passage here, Brother Matt read, and we read portions of it here a little bit ago. And here we have this to me is a almost harsh Logical presentation of our responsibility of getting the gospel to the lost. He goes down step by step by step why it is imperative That preachers, missionaries, Christians be sent out into all the world so that people can hear the gospel and people can Believe the gospel and people can call on the Lord Jesus Christ, because whosoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be what? Saved. What a logical Paul just gives it step by step, unrelenting. This is true, this is true, this is true, this is true. These things must take place If the gospel is going to be sent into all the world, if the Great Commission is going to be fulfilled and we're going to obey our Lord in this matter. The Great Commission is not simply a list. The Great Commission is not simply one thing on a list of things that our church is to be doing. Now, there's a lot of things a church should be doing. We should be teaching the Word of God. We should be discipling believers. We should be, there's various aspects that we do. But the Great Commission is not just one of this list of things. The Great Commission is the very core responsibility of our existence. Everything else we do is uh is uh revolves around this responsibility of getting the gospel into all the world. You say, well aren't we supposed to teach children the Word of God? Yes, absolutely. We Invest a lot of time and effort and energy into teaching children about Jesus and pointing them to the Savior. We have master clubs on Wednesday nights and we disciple these children, train them how to live for God. But the whole thrust behind all of it. That God would use them then to take the gospel out in the next generation. That God would perhaps call many of them and we'd send them forth out that they could Preach and people would hear and they would believe and they would call on the Lord and be saved. So everything revolves around that. The Great Commission is the major thrust of our church. The Great Commission is the major thrust of our lives. If you would, come back one chapter to Romans chapter number nine. And notice with me, if you would, verse number one and two. Paul understood what I'm trying to say here In in the beginning portion of this message. Look at verse 1 of Romans 9. I say the truth in Christ. I lie not. My conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost. It seems like Paul is building up saying they're not going to believe what I'm about to say. I want to emphasize the fact that what I'm saying is absolute truth before God, because when I say it They're not going to believe it. What is the statement that he's emphasizing is the truth? That I have a great heaviness, verse 2 And a continual sorrow in my heart. For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ. That I was cut off from Christ, that I was unsaved, that I was accursed from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen, according to the flesh. What is Paul saying? Paul is saying, if me forfeiting my own salvation, if me forfeiting my own relationship with the Lord Jesus Christ, dying in my sins for all eternity, separated from God, if that Would bring my my uh fellow kinsmen. If that would bring others to Christ, I'd be willing to do that. What a burden on the heart of Paul And a lie. You talk about how many people agree with me? That's an incomprehensible sacrifice he's willing to make. I'm willing to go to hell for all eternity if that brings others to Christ. Goodness. I wonder what our burden is. I wonder what we're willing to do to carry out this great commission. Paul understood that the heart of the Lord Jesus Christ, Paul understood that the heart of our God Was to give every single person opportunity to be saved. And he says, I would pay the ultimate price to be able to carry that out. Look at verse 1 of chapter 10. Come back to our chapter that our text is in. Brethren, my heart's desire and my prayer to God for Israel is that they what? Might be saved, might be saved. Paul understood that the very core responsibility, the very heart of our God, the very core of our being is the carry out the Great Commission. Um I've had this little I asked Brother Mark he if he had a bicycle wheel and lo and behold he had one and all the kids were worried sick about why this bicycle wheel was up here And uh one one said, is that a unicorn? Are you going to ride that around? No. But I want to use this to illustrate something. The very center of this bicycle wheel, there's a hub and a lot of grease. And you notice all the spokes. Now, this is nothing profound. We understand the how a bicycle wheel functions. These spokes come out and they support This is the work part of the wheel, right? This is where the rubber meets the road, literally. So this is all the function of the wheel. The spokes are the support of what the wheel functions, but the hub is what everything revolves around. Now I want you to think of this wheel as our church. These are all the things we do, master club, bus ministry, radio station. These are all the people and everybody that supports and all the finances that go in. for our church to function and do what the rubber meets the road, all that. But the very core, the very core is the Great Commission. Great commission. What I'm trying to say is this. Everything we do as a church revolves around this great, great responsibility that God has given to us to take the gospel into all the world. We run buses. Why? So that boys and girls can, and anybody really can have an opportunity to hear the gospel and be saved. And then we keep bringing them in so that they can be trained And discipled in the things of the Lord, in the Word of God, and then they can go out and be a witness and take the gospel into all the world. Am I making sense? radio station, all of that. So listen, I believe and and please don't misunderstand, I'm not trying to be I'm not I'm not making any judgment on other churches. I goodness we each and every one of us stand or fall before the Lord. We we live into ourselves And we're responsible to the Lord is what I'm trying to say. So please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. But my observation in 35 plus years in the ministry Is that there are a lot of churches that have lost sight of the very purpose for their existence Doing everything in the world, doing everything and good stuff, don't misunderstand, good stuff, helpful things. But God's commission to us, our responsibility is not to build buildings. Now thank God and we need buildings and we're trying to get more so we have more room to breathe. But our responsibility is not to build buildings. Our responsibility is not a lot of stuff. Our responsibility is to get the gospel to every single person on this planet. So that they have opportunity. They hear the gospel and they have opportunity to call on the Lord and trust Him as their Savior You say, well, aren't we supposed to feed the poor? Uh feed the hungry? Yeah, if there's somebody hungry, we ought to do. I found uh my thinking is if a person's hungry, they'll listen to me a whole lot more if they're not hungry than if they are hungry. Is that you follow up? Did I say that right? And so if they're hungry, yeah we want to feed them, but our purpose is to point them to Christ. What good does it do to put food in a person's belly but they never hear the gospel and they die and go to hell? And so that's the b that's where that's the bottom line. That's the core. If you're here this morning and you're not saved, you don't know for sure your sins are going on your way to heaven, I plead with you, that's the biggest issue in your life right now. is getting the matter of your salvation settled and knowing for sure your sins are forgiven. You go to heaven, that you do not die in your sins. That's not a Baptist truth. That's not a uh brethren truth that's not any denomination. That's a Bible truth. You must be born again. You must be saved. And so the the gospel the Great Commission is the hub of our purpose. And I've got Greece all over my hands. I want us to notice three things real quick. I got a few minutes. Let me show a few things. Number one, I notice in verses number 12 and 13 the promise of missions. The promise of missions. Look at verse number 12 with me. Now we didn't read this earlier, but let's look at it now. For there is what? No difference. Key word, key phrase. For there is no difference between the Jew and Greek and the Greek. For the same Lord over all Is rich unto all that call upon him. Now look at verse thirteen. For what? Whosoever Shall call upon the name of the Lord, shall be saved. Verse 12 says, No difference as rich unto all. Verse 13, Whosoever No difference. All. Whosoever. Are we saying? No one is left out from the opportunity to be saved. Nobody's left out. Smallest little child in Cambodia. We were uh uh yesterday we were given out tracks and uh we stopped at McDonald's And um guy in front of us, uh, Dale got talking to that fella. And uh where was he? Was he in Cambodia Yeah. And it was a secret. They weren't supposed to be there, so don't tell anyone. But um back in Vietnam and they got talking about that. And uh, you know, every little child in Cambodia Any and every one of them, if they would call in the name of the Lord Jesus to be their Savior, God would save them. That's something. Uh the highest politician in the in Moscow, in the Kremlin, the most powerful. Putnam, any of those Ones we never heard of that have tremendous power. You know, if they would humble themselves and call on the Lord Jesus Christ, they could be saved. Whosoever. All. No difference. Anybody, everybody, anywhere, regardless of their wealth, regardless of their status, in India they have caste system. Donna or Andrea can tell you about that. They have this caste system and people impoverished and wealth and all of that. Doesn't matter what caste they're in, in God's eyes, there's only one person. That's a sinner in need of a savior. No difference. Whosoever. Anybody. I tell you, this idea that God only chooses certain people to be saved and other he chooses to go hell, uh I don't buy that at all, not for one minute My Bible says whosoever, no difference. All can call in the name of the Lord. All. And so what a promise, what a promise. My question is this. If there are no limitations to who can be saved, there are no limitations to missions, there's no exclusions from missions. Why would we invest our lives? Thank you. This reminds me of Mortho and Jesus washing his feet This is an ointment of Spike Nard though. Thank you. God said that that'll be a memorial for her. For wherever the gospel's preached, he'll be heard about. Let me ask you this question. If not anybody can be saved, let's uh let's just say for sake of illustration, and I'm just throwing this out there, but let's say For sake of illustration, the people in Indonesia can't be saved. Let's just say that that that group of people, God said, they can't be saved. Why wouldn't we invest our time and money and give our lives to reach people that can't ever be saved? Why would we do that? What if the people of Brazil, God said the people of Brazil can't be saved? Little kids, teenagers, elderly. They can't be saved. They're not part of it. They can't call on me. Why would we send time and money? Why would we have Brother Ring down there and Brother Seth Seth Lundy and Sean Lundy and Brother Ingram? Why would we be sending missionaries and working so hard? No. The Bible is very, very clear. This promise of missions is that anybody and everybody in the whole world can call and believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. That means no mission field is vain. That means Central Air in Central Asia, where there are so few missionaries, Kazakhstan Over seventeen million, coming up to eighteen million people in that nation, one or two independent Baptist missionaries there, every single person in that nation Young and old, rich and poor, poverty, farmers, businessmen, every aspect of life, every single one of them, if they would hear the gospel, if somebody would come and tell them how to be saved, that person could call on the name of the Lord and be saved. And people believe that's true. Sure that's true. What a promise. What a promise. Well, I don't know why you send some missionaries to that country. I'll tell you why we send missionaries that country, because whosoever in that country calls the name of the Lord shall be saved You can't you can't name one group people group, you can't name one village, one group of people, doesn't matter the color of their eyes, the color of their hair, the color of their skin, the color of their toenails That person can call on the name of the Lord and be saved. And so we have this tremendous promise of God that whosoever Whosoever, no difference, all calling the name of the Lord can be saved. I was reading about a missionary this week years ago. He was down in Guatemala. And there was a tribe there in that country, that nation, there was a tribe that spoke very, very broken Spanish. They had their own language. Very few people knew their language. They had learned Spanish a little bit. And there wasn't one word, at that time, there was not one word of God's word, the Bible, translated into their language. And this missionary was trying to reach them, trying to figure out some way that he could get the message of the gospel to them. And he had a Spanish Bible and he gave it to one of the leaders of this very large tribe. He gave it to one of the leaders and he took and he read a little bit. He wasn't real good at Spanish And in broken Spanish, he said this to the missionary. And I'll tell you, this is a tough question. He said, if your God is so great. Why can he not speak my language? Good question. Can God speak his language? Sure he can. Sure he can. There's no language. God is the author of language. In fact, Jesus is the Word. You know what? God has given to you and I, in his providence, and his wisdom and his plan, he has given to you and I the responsibility. Of getting his word to all people into all languages. And I tell you, that so stirred the heart of that missionary, he went and began a ministry of translating scriptures into languages. And it's become a very large ministry for years now. They've been translating scriptures into languages throughout the world. And he made this statement. He says, God is great, and God does speak that language, and he has given us the responsibility. To get his word into that language. Why? Because every single one of them can call on the name of the Lord. God would save them. Whoever calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. Am I making sense? The great promise. Yes, it is worth the time. Yes, it is worth the effort. Yes, it is worth the investment. Yes, it is worth giving our own lives. Because every single one of those people can be saved from sin in hell. Can have eternal life. What a promise. What a promise I like what Byron Fox says all the time. Last year I spent three weeks with him down in Australia and then in New Zealand. And he said this everywhere he went, every message just about, he made this statement. He said, first of all, there's only one way to be saved. And that's true. There is only one way to be saved. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. John 14, 6, Jesus said unto them, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father what but by me. Every single person on this whole planet, there's only one way to be saved, and only one way to heaven, and that's through the Lord Jesus Christ. There's only one door to heaven, that's the Lord Jesus Christ I told this before, but um uh when I was uh first shortly after I was saved, I went down to a little Bible college in Philly, Philadelphia College of the Bible, uh C. I. Schofield uh started that school many, many years ago. And I was home, I forget it was break or maybe it was summer, but I was out back behind the house washing the car, and there was a little alleyway behind where we were living. I was living with my dad, and I was back there watching my car and this guy came up the alleyway and uh got reached in the car, got a gospel track as he went by, said here's a little gospel track, tell you I can know for sure you're going to heaven when you die Well he stopped and says, well, you know, we got talking, if I remember correctly, he said he was Jewish. We got talking a little bit, but different things about being saved, and he made this statement. He says, Well, let me tell you how it is. He said, all right. He goes, going to heaven is kind of like going to Philadelphia. He says you can go down Route 309, you can go down the School Kill Expressway, you can come across the uh Pennsylvania Turnpike 76, you can go down You can come up this road, you can come in that road, there's all different many ways to get to Philadelphia He says, You can go to heaven the Jewish way, you can go to heaven the Catholic way, you can go to heaven the Baptist way, you can go to heaven the brethren way, you can go to he You can go to heaven the Buddhist way, you can go to heaven the Confucius way, and he listed all these things. And I said, But Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. You see, the fact of the matter is Philly, Philadelphia is not heaven. Trust me. If it's anything never mind. Um Philadelphia is not heaven, Atlanta is not heaven, Chicago is not heaven. These are cities on a planet, and you can get to them any number of ways But heaven is heaven. Heaven is unique, and there's only one road to heaven. There's only one way, pathway to heaven, that's Jesus Christ. There's only one door into heaven, that is Jesus Christ. So there's only one way to be saved. The second thing Byron Fox said often on this trip, and you'll hear him every now and then when you're around him, he'll say this, and that is this: everyone needs to be saved. There's only one way to be saved. That's through Jesus Christ. Everybody needs to be saved. Everybody in the whole world needs to be saved. And then he says, thirdly, he says, whoever calls on the name of the Lord will be saved. Anybody and everybody can be saved if they'll call in the name of the Lord. And to me, that is the great promise of missions. As we send money out, as we as this week in our missions conference, and I hope I hope you'll bring your young people out. I hope you'll bring the children out. I want them to see our missionaries. I want them to hear their stories. I want them to interact with them and get to know them. I'm telling you there is a purpose in life. There is a purpose in life that is bigger than becoming a millionaire There is a purpose in life that is bigger and better than being successful in any particular area, and that is giving my life for the eternal gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ and seeing people saved from eternity in hell. And so the great promise is that we invest our time and send our youth and give ourselves to get the gospel to everyone in the world. The great promise is this: anybody in any part of the world that calls the Lord Can and will be saved. What a promise. What a promise. Let me give you number two, and a little bit of time I have left. Let me give you the process of missions. And we have this here in verse 14 in the first part of verse 15 And the interesting thing is, and we don't have time, but if we could study this in depth, if you'll look at it, Paul actually begins at the end of the process. He begins with the conclusion. He begins with the end result, calling on the name of the Lord. Then he goes backwards in a logical procession of steps, backwards to the very beginning of what missions is all about. Notice what he says here, and we already kind of touched on it, but he says, How then shall they call on him of whom they have not believed? Calling on the Lord is the end result of missions. That's what we want people all around the world to do. Call on the Lord. And he begins with that and he comes backwards. So the goal of missions is to see people call on the Lord all around the world, be saved from sin and hell, have eternal life Then the next step, coming backwards, is then uh and how shall they believe in him, uh how then shall they call on him whom they have not believed? And how say they believe in him of whom they have not heard? So here's the end result, a mi uh uh uh a young man in Norway. Where the Hollands are going, Russell Holland and his wife comes, hears a witness, Russell visits him, he hears the gospel He calls on the Lord Jesus Christ as Savior. So Paul says if that's the end result, he's going to call on the name of the Lord. How can that happen if he doesn't, first of all Believe on the Lord. Believe that who that Jesus is who he claims to be. Believe that salvation is what the Bible says it is. How can he believe? How can he call on him if he doesn't believe That tells me it's simply believing the gospel isn't enough to save a soul. You say, what do you mean, preacher? What I mean by that is this, there's a lot of people die and go to hell that believe Jesus died on the cross and rose again, but they've never put their personal trust in him. So we've got to give them the information so they can believe that information is true. And once they believe that information is true, they make a conscious decision. Yes. I'm going to call the Lord and trust Jesus Christ. So the end result is calling the Lord, trusting Jesus Christ, Savior. The previous step is they've got to, first of all, believe that these this the gospel is true, that the facts of the gospel are true Then he says this, he comes back another one. And he says, How shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? That's an obvious question. The obvious answer. I can't believe something's true that I haven't heard about. And then he comes back and he says, How how shall they uh hear without a preacher? There's nobody there to tell them. They can't hear about it. If they don't hear about it, they can't believe it. If they can't believe it, then they'll never call on the Lord and be saved. And how shall they pre how shall they uh how shall they hear without a preacher? And then the first step is this, and this is where you and I come in. And how shall they preach except they be what? That's the first step. God reaches down and touches hearts of individuals. Say, I I uh it's my will for you to go to Norway. Preach the gospel. Bram Forbes, it's my will for you to go to Great Britain, preach the gospel to those people. Mickey Scruncher uh Great Britain now over in Papua New Guinea. You preach the gospel to those people. Uh Dan DeLong, uh my will for you is go to Papua New Guinea in Australia. and preach the gospel. West Bartley, uh, St. Lucia, my will for you to go down there and preach the gospel to those people And then the church, the very first step is the church says, all right, we're going to send them. God called them, now we're going to send them. Read Acts chapter 13. We're going to send them. We're going to send them. And that's the process of missions. That's where Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church comes in this week These missionaries are going to be here that God touched and called to the mission field. Now, our responsibility in this logical step-by-step process of getting people saved all around the world, our responsibility is to send them. Get them out. Get them going. I was thinking Nathan Ring. What a blessing he was. I keep mentioning him, but he he blessed my heart. All those kids. There's something in the water down there. I don't know what it is And all these kids. And uh that big city, four point some million people Five years ago, loss, no light. God touched his heart. Apparently he grew up down in another part of that province. God touched this heart. I want you to go here. Be a missionary, be a light, be a preacher, so they can hear how to be saved. And they can believe that what you the Bible says is true and they can call on the Lord and find eternal life He comes back here and we send them. We have a part in sending them down there. Now, five years later. Do you see those pictures? It's a church of believers there, a group of believers. You know what he told me? That little church is now sending missionaries out. Out of that little church. That's the process. That's the process. And last of all, I am with this the pleasure Look at verse 15. How shall they preach except they be sent? Look at this. As it is written, how beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace and bring glad tidings of good things Now I see I don't want to see your feet. All right. This is in the eyes of God And God says, I'll tell you what's beautiful to me. I'll tell you what is pleasurable to me. is when people take this great commission seriously and they preach the gospel to folks all around the world, all around the world. I don't know about you, but I sure would look I I think my feet are pretty good looking, but um I want God to think. That I have beautiful feet. I want God to find pleasure in my involvement, my commitment to getting the gospel of all the world. In um the summer of 1985, I traveled neighborhood Bible time as a Bible college student. I got back and I got to school early and they hired me on to cut grass around the campus I was cutting grass in one house and this this young lady walked out of the house and brought me some iced tea. I thought that gal is beautiful. So I married her. But when I saw her it was like it was like I would like for God to look at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church and say, how beautiful. A beautiful church. They're sending people out all around the world, boys and girls, senior citizens, middle-aged in Brazil, in uh in Chile, in uh Argentine, and Greenland. Are hearing the gospel of Jesus Christ and being saved. What a beautiful church. What a beautiful church. How shall they hear without a preacher? The answer is what It can't. Let me end with this. There was a fellow in prison years ago, and I got his name here, John Courier. 1949, he was found guilty of murder, sentenced to life in prison down in Tennessee. He was assigned to a farm, a prison farm in near Nashville. For whatever reason, in 1968, that was 1949, in 1968, for whatever reason, the governor terminated his sentence. He had a life sentence, the governor terminated, pardoned him. He wrote they wrote a letter up, official of off of official um uh Thor authoritative anyway his official letter that uh he was free. His sentence was terminated, he's free to go. Typed it up, they sent it out And uh it's incomprehensible to me that this happened. But history tells us, for whatever reason, he never received that letter. The message never got to him that he was forgiven. It was terminated. His punishment was erased. And he kept doing in prison, working on that hard prison farm, year after year after year. Ten years went by. A state parole officer somehow came across this information that never got to him, and he found them and he says, listen, your sentence was terminated. You're a free man. Let me ask you a question. Would it matter to you if somebody had a message that you were free from prison? And it never got to you. Would that matter to you? Sure. The gospel is a message from the creator of mankind, the giver of life. That we can be forgiven, that anybody, everyone, whosoever, no difference, can be forgiven and be free from the judgment of sin. But they have to hear that. They have to hear that. How many people go out into eternity who could have been saved? Somebody would have just told them. Just told them. What I'm trying to say is this. What we're going to do this week is incredibly important. It's the very core of our being. It's our very responsibility to get the gospel to everybody. I hope you'll pray with me. That God would use us and we, when it's all said and done, would be a beautiful church in the eyes of God. Now, if you're here and you're not saved, I'm telling you, you need to get saved today. Don't mess around. We'll show you from the Bible how to trust Christ calling the Lord, how you can be forgiven, go your way to heaven. It's not us. The Lord does it. We'll show you how we'll do it Those of us that are saved, let's take this very, very seriously and say, all right, what we're about to deal with this week is what this church is all about. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask the Lord, do you would stir our hearts? I pray that we would be a beautiful church, and as individuals, we'd be beautiful in your eyes as we give ourselves preaching the gospel of peace. To all the world, every single person around the world, and sending out preachers so that folks can hear and believe and call on you. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, preacher, I'm glad God saved me. I'm glad God saved me. I thank God that He was merciful to me and saved me from sin and hell And you would pray along with me, you would say along with me, preacher, I want God to use me in some capacity to take that message to others. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, I want to have a part in this. I want my feet to be beautiful. Maybe some would say, Preacher, I'm willing to go if God would God would lead me. God would direct me. I'm willing to go wherever it would be and give my life to take the gospel of the lost in some part of this world. Let the Lord have his way. Begin today to pray. Lord, lead me and direct me and show me how I can be a part of this great commission at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. Is there someone here this morning said, preacher, I'm not sure that my sins are forgiven. I'm on my way to heaven. Listen, you don't want to go to hell. I know you don't God loves you and He died, suffered hell for you, and rose again. He'll save you. You say, preacher, pray for me that God would help me get that settled. I could know that that's taken care of. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I could know that my sins are forgiven on my way to heaven. I'd have that settled. Any at all? Any at all? Now, I know many of us know folks that are unsaved. We have a responsibility to be a witness here. Maybe you come and pray this morning for an individual that's lost that needs help Father, bless now our invitation time I ask in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together heads of