Luke eighteen, verse number one, altogether. And he spake a parable unto them to this end that men ought always to pray and not to faint I want to speak this morning, and I've preached on this pat uh on this topic uh many times. I preached on this passage over the years, uh, but I want to come back to it and uh hopefully it's a fresh message for us this morning But I want to speak on the subject, how to pray. How to pray. Jesus said, he said that men ought always to pray and not to faint. So how do we do that? How should we pray? Let's pray now and ask the Lord to help us in this. Father, we bow again before you this morning with our Bibles open before us. And we believe with our heart this is your word. And you've given it to us individually. I pray you'd speak our hearts and challenge us. Lord, I believe if you could help me and all of us just get a hold of this matter of prayer, how different things would be, how better things would be. So I pray, Lord, that you would teach us how to pray, that you would. I yield my will to you. I present my body, Lord, as just a vessel. In your hands for you to speak through me, your word. And Lord, if some of us don't, if some of us have little or no inclination to pray, I ask you to change that. And put a desire in our heart to be a prayer, prayer warriors. And those of us that are trying and want to be pray faithful in prayer, help us, Lord, to grow in that and be stronger. And more effective in our prayer life. And so I ask these things now. In the name of Jesus, I ask these things. Amen Two of my great desires as a Christian. Let me begin this way. How many folks here you're saying to know it? Say amen. Amen. My desire as a saved man, as a Christian, a child of God, whatever terms you want to use, I have two, I guess I have two desires as a Christian, as a saved man. Number one is I really want to be an effective soul winner. That's one of the great desires of my life, in my heart, is that I could uh I want God to use me to bring other people to Jesus Christ. I went when my life is said and done, when it's all said and done, I would like to believe there are people that are going to heaven and not to hell because of my witness. Anybody here feel that way? Wouldn't it be awful? I was thinking this week. I was praying about the message and how what God would have me preach on. I got thinking this week. How awful would it be To stand before the judgment seat of Christ and have nobody that I've influenced for the Lord Jesus Christ there. There's a song we sing sometimes. Must I go and empty-handed? Must I, my Savior, meet? Not one soul with which to greet him, not one trophy at his feet. I want to be a witness. I want God to use me to bring other people to the Lord Jesus Christ here in our community. My family, around the world, I'd like to be a, I want to be a part of the worldwide witness of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Supporting missionaries. In uh Proverbs chapter eleven, verse thirty, it says, He, the fruit of the righteous is the tree of life, and he that winneth souls is what? Wise. I want to be wise. I want to be a soul and I want to be a witness. I I try to carry tracts with me all the time, hand them out to folks Uh anybody here ever ever feel like, boy, I ought to give that person a gospel tract. Just something down in your heart and soul. I ought to hand that person a gospel tract. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Any Christians You know what that is? That's the Holy Spirit of God wanting to use us to be a witness to that person. Now I think we ought to give them out whether we have that feeling or not. And um you never know. I was uh up at um uh Walmart uh this is a number of years ago, and I was going through the line, there was a young man there behind the counter And uh I got to him and I I reached in my pocket and said, uh I was finished paying, I said, here's a little gospel track I'd like to leave with you. It tells you how you can know for sure that when you die, you go to heaven, not to hell I said, I'd like to leave that with you. I think it'd be a blessing to you. He goes, Okay, he took it, thank you, and he says, But I'm already saved, Pastor Leatherman I said, well good. When did you get saved? At Bible time last summer. I said, Well where are you going to church? He goes, Well, he's had some church he's going to and um he's involved there doing it And uh I tell you, you never know. You never know. But I sincerely, and I think most of you feel the same way I do, I want my life to count for souls being saved That people are on their way to heaven. And the second desire in my Christian life, number one, be an effective soul winner. Number two, I want to be an effective prayer warrior. To be a witness and to be a prayer warrior, to be able to pray. I believe, and I've been telling my wife this the last several months. I believe in the last ten months that I have seen more clear, direct answers to prayer. Than perhaps in the last two years of my Christian life. Now, I can't explain it. I don't know that I'm doing anything different, more or less, either way. But for whatever reason, since last summer, the end of last summer, there have been things been praying, and God has, I mean, in amazing ways on my trip down on New Zealand back early in the year Answer, clear, direct answers to prayer. Now I don't know the answer to that. I know this. I'm no prayer guru I'm no super prayer warrior any more than anybody else. I'd like to think I'm a student of prayer. I believe in prayer, but I know this: God is awfully gracious and merciful to answer our prayers. I've had people the last several weeks come to me and say, preacher, here's a direct answer of prayer. I was praying. Oh, show me a picture or something. Here's something I was praying for. God answered that prayer. I want to be a prayer warrior. I want God to help me be more consistent and more effective in my prayer life. Now, I'd like to believe that we've got a church full of folks. I'd like to believe we've got a church full of folks that feel like I do, and you want to be a good witness. Am I on target here? Sure. I'd like to believe that we've got a church full of folks that want to be effective prayer warriors. And see God, and see God do things that only God can do. And send revival and save souls and change lives. Answer prayer. Prayer is one of the most basic activities in the Christian life. In Acts chapter 9 and verse number 11, Paul just got saved. And um, well, let's turn there, if you would. Take your Bible, turn there with me to Acts chapter 9. Paul's on the way to Damascus, and God intervenes and confronts him, and Paul miraculously gets saved. And immediately God is concerned that Paul is disciple, that he follows the Lord in baptism and he gets discipled. By the way, when a person gets saved, I believe the most important step after a person gets saved, they ought to get baptized. I believe that's following the Lord, setting a precedence of submitting to the Lord, trusting Him, coming out and out for Christ. And so God is concerned that uh Paul get baptized and begin disciple uh be discipled. And in verse number 10, the Bible says there was a certain disciple at Damascus named Ananias And to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias, and he said, Behold, I am here, Lord. Now look at this. And the Lord said unto him, Arise. Go into the street which is called straight and inquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul of Tarsus. Now Saul just got saved. He's blinded at this point. And it says, Saul Tarsus. Now look at this last statement that the Lord makes about Saul. For behold, he what? He prayeth. I think one of the first outward indications of Saul's salvation was the fact that he became a prayer warrior. In fact, I want to suggest to you that one of the most basic activities in the Christian life is that of prayer. I tell you what, I wouldn't give you a wooden nickel for a Christian that doesn't pray. In fact, Saul got saved, and one of the characteristics, one of the identifying characteristics of Saul is that he prayed. He was a man of prayer. Let me ask you a question: Are you a person of prayer? Do you pray? Do you pray much at all? Is it a part of your life? Is it a part of your schedule? How big of a factor in your relationship with the Lord and your fellowship with God is your prayer life? It's one of the most basic activities in the Christian life is that of prayer In fact, Jesus said, he referred to the temple. He says, My father's house is to be a house of what? Prayer. And in rebuking the money changers, he said, You've made it a den of thieves. It's supposed to be a house of prayer. Chief characteristic, one of the chief characteristics of a Christian ought to be that they pray. One of the chief characteristics of a Bible-preaching church, a Bible-believing church, is that church prays. Praise. One of the most basic activities in the Christian life is that of prayer. One of the most important activities in the Christian life is that of prayer. Not everybody is called to be a preacher. Not everybody can be a preacher. Sometimes those you think are the least likely to be a preacher, they end up being preachers. And um uh but not everybody not everybody uh can be a preacher. God doesn't call everybody to be a preacher. Uh not everybody can be an evangelist. I thank God for evangelists. Different ones have come through here. I've been going back through my mind. The different evangelists have been through here. I miss old Bill Barrens. I don't know. I've been thinking about him. And uh Brother Williams has been a blessing all these many years. And so, but not everybody can be a preacher, not everybody's an evangelist, not everybody's a Sunday school teacher. Some are. I think we have some tremendous Sunday school teachers, but not everybody's a Sunday school teacher Not everybody's a missionary. God calls people to be a missionary. I thank God for this week, the young people, several young people that uh surrendered to missions if that's God's will for their life. Thank God for it. But not everybody can be a missionary, not everybody's a Sunday school teacher, not everybody's a song leader. Doesn't Mark do a good job up here? I'm so grateful for Brother Mark. But not everybody can do that. Some people can't carry a tune in a bucket. And uh probably me, but I don't care. I just sing anyway, amen? Whether you're a song leader or not, just let her rip, sing it out! And you guys at home on the video, sing out loud, nobody hears you, and so you can just let her rip. God hears you. Not everybody is a preacher, not everybody's an evangelist, not everybody's a missionary. Not everybody's a Sunday school teacher, not everybody's a song leader, but I tell you this, every Christian should be a prayer warrior. He can pray. He said, Preacher, I'm not that gifted. Oh, you can still pray Say preacher, I'm just not that intelligent. You can still pray. Some people are too smart to pray they think. So not a uh not everybody can be all these things, but every believer can pray. Every believer needs to pray. Now, if you would come back to Luke chapter 11. I kept saying Luke 11. I want to get to it now. Come back to Luke chapter 11. And notice with me verse number 1. Luke chapter 11, verse number 1. It came to pass, Luke 11, verse 1, it came to pass that as he, who's the he there? Jesus. Came to pass that as he, Jesus, was doing what? He was praying. I circled that. As he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray. As John also taught his disciples. This is the way I imagine it in my mind. Jesus is there in a certain place. And he's praying. And this disciple is standing off a little bit, and um maybe they're all had their heads bowed, I don't know, how whatever the The posture was there, but maybe this uh disciple, Jesus praying, and he's got one eye open, and he's watching the Lord pray. Anybody here ever do that? Somebody's praying, you're looking around. Yeah. Invitation time. I see some of y'all up there looking around. Well, that's what this disciple maybe was doing. And he's watching Jesus, and he sees the earnestness. And he sees the humility, and he sees the reality of Jesus praying to God, and his heart is stirred. And he thinks, man, I'd like to be able to pray like that. And when the Lord's finished praying, he comes over to him and he says, The Lord, and I'm putting my own words, he says You know, I've been thinking, John the Baptist taught his disciples how to pray. I've been watching you pray, and there's something about your prayers. They're powerful and real. Lord, would you teach us to do that? You teach us how to pray. Maybe he felt like what he'd been doing wasn't much prayer, wasn't much of prayer. Maybe he felt like he'd just been going through the motions and just kind of reciting ritualistic prayers. I don't know what his always thinking was, I know this. When the Lord was done praying, he wanted to pray, like the Lord did. Now it's kind of interesting. You go through the gospels and the disciples saw Jesus preach a lot of sermons, powerful sermons. They saw him stand in front of multitudes, thousands of people, and preach the word of God and thunder out sermons. But I don't see anywhere where the disciples came to the Lord Jesus and said, Lord, would you teach us how to preach? I don't see anywhere where they ask him that. Ah, Jesus taught sometimes profound spiritual truths. Some of the greatest spiritual truths you'll find anywhere in Scripture came from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ as he taught his disciples and taught his followers. But I don't see anywhere where the disciples came to Jesus and said, Lord, would you teach us how to teach? I don't see it anywhere The disciples saw Jesus perform some powerful miracles He stood in the little ship there out in Galilee with the storm, and the disciples are convinced they're going to perish and drown. And they saw Jesus cry out to the storm, Peace, be still, and they saw the effect of that. Powerful miracles of the Lord. But I don't find anywhere where the disciples came and said, Lord, would you teach us how to do miracles? They saw him heal the sick, make lame to walk. I don't see anywhere they came and said, Lord, teach us how to do miracles. Teach us how to heal the sick. Lord, teach us how to cast out devils. They saw it, and God used them to do many of those things later on. But their desire was that he would teach them to do what? Pray. Something about the prayer life of the Lord Jesus Christ stirred their hearts and they said, we want to be prayer warriors. I spent um I in uh I I crammed a four year degree, Bible degree, into six years when I was in Bible college. And um uh I had classes on all kinds of stuff, changed my major a couple times and sat out a semester, so it was kind of drug out. And uh I took a lot of classes. We had I took a slew of classes on teaching When I was in Bible college, I was planning on being, I wanted to be an elementary school teacher. I wanted to teach first grade. I felt like that was about my IQ level. I could probably handle that. I wanted to be a so I took education classes all through, up through my senior year. I took, in fact, I graduated with a degree in education. I wanted to be a teacher. Boy, they had classes on teaching. Oh, they taught us how to teach. And then uh I took some classes on preaching. I was doing a lot of preaching at the same time. God ultimately called me to preach, but uh So I took classes on preaching, homiletics and public speaking. I took these classes. I got studying this and I saw what the disciples' desire was when they were with the Lord I got thinking back, you know, I never had one class. I had classes on how to preach, I had classes on how to teach, tons of them, but I never had one class on how to pray How to pray. The disciples saw the Lord Jesus Christ. They heard him pray and saw him pray and their hearts were stirred. They saw, Lord, teach us to pray. Teach us to pray. I wonder if we shouldn't have more preaching on prayer. I wonder if we shouldn't have more teaching on prayer. In fact, when I was this week I was working on this, I got thinking I wonder if we ought to have some sort of class on prayer here in our church. I don't know, during Sunday school, something, I don't know. Teach us to pray. Teach us to pray Say preacher, how do we pray? How how how should we pray like Jesus did? Well, I got three suggestions this morning, and it's not comprehensive. You know, you could just there's so many things you could say about how to pray. But I just want to touch on three. Maybe it would help us be a little more effective in our prayers. Now we come back to Luke 18. Now come back there with me. And the first thing I would suggest, and again, I'm not an expert on this, I'm a student at best of prayer. But the first thing I would suggest, as I look at this and my experience, is number one, start where you're at. Start where you're at. Say, preacher, how do I pray? Well, first thing is just start praying. How many people here can ride a bike? All right, if you can't, just raise your hand anyway. What's the best way to uh I found the best way to ride a bike. I've been ri I've been riding a bike since I was a little kid And uh, you know I found out watching YouTube videos on how to ride a bike doesn't help you. You're not going to learn how to ride a bike watching YouTube videos on riding a bike. In fact, they didn't even have YouTube videos when I was writing bike. Anyhow, I have television when I started writing bike You don't learn how to ride a bike by watching videos on it. You don't learn how to ride a bike to by reading books about it. You're never going to learn how to ride a bike until you do what? Get on the stupid thing and ride it. And I say the same thing's true with praying. I've got more books on prayer than probably any other subject other than Bible commentaries in my library. And we sing about prayer, we read about prayer, we preach about prayer, but we're not going to have many prayers prayed until we start doing what? Just start praying. Start where you're at. Say, preacher, I'm a new Christian. Can I pray? Yeah, Paul was saved a couple hours, maybe a day And he's he's behold, he prayeth. Um uh preacher, I've been Christian a long time. I don't need to pray anymore. You've only fooling yourself. Wherever you're at, say, preacher, I'm not a very good Christian. I'm pretty backslidden. You know one of the best things a backslidden Christian can do? Start praying. I had people tell me, I think I mentioned this recently, I had people tell me, preacher, I can't go to church, I'm backslidden. Well, that's stupid. If you're backslidden, you ought to go to church. If you're backslidden, you ought to pray. Just start where you're at. Just start where you're at. Come here. Notice here in chapter 18. This is Jesus instructing them about prayer. He spake a parable unto them. This end, men ought always to pray and not to faint. saying. And then he goes through and he illustrates here about how we should pray. And he says about this little lady, this widow lady. She was in a city. There was in a city a judge. This judge was not a believer. He feared not God, neither regarded men. He didn't care about any of that. There was a widow in that city, and she came saying, Avenge me of my adversary. Somebody was giving this gal a hard time. I tell you what, uh I don't I have zero respect for somebody that gives a dear widow a hard time I don't know what the situation was, what the circumstance was, but brother, uh brother, you better lay off the widows. Or you want God all over you. You better be careful. So this guy's giving this dear widow a hard time. And she comes to the judge, verse 3, avenge me on mine adversary. So what's she doing to the judge? She's praying. To the judge. She's making a request. Prayer is asking, making a request. So she's coming to the judge, and she makes a request. Avenge me of mine adversary. Now the Lord's illustrating how we should pray. And look at verse four. And he would not for a while, but afterward He said within himself, though I fear not God, nor regard man, yet because this widow troubleth me, I'll avenge her, lest by her continual coming. Now come back up there. In verse number three, it says, She came to him This whole process of her being avenged of her adversary by this judge began when she just started, approached him, when she just went to him. One of the biggest reasons for unanswered prayer is unprayed prayers. I found that God doesn't answer a prayer that I don't pray. How many people are glad you came to church, found that out? That's profound. God never answered my prayers. How much do you pray? Ask them for it. So just start where you're at. Just get praying. She came to him. She had a need, and she went to the one who could meet it Men ought always to prayer in every circumstance. Every situation. Doesn't matter what your circumstance is. Doesn't matter what your situation is Maybe you're here this morning, you're unsaved. Maybe you're listening online and you're in your sins. You know you're lost. You're under the judgment of God. Maybe God's been bringing conviction to your heart. You know what the most important thing for you to do as a lost sinner under the judgment and conviction of God? The most important thing to do is get on your knees, pray to God, call on Him, trust Him as your Savior. Just start where you're at and just start praying. Now I thought it was interesting. He never mentions the posture in prayer. About what posture. Say, preacher, when I pray, how should I pray? You know, should I cross my heart? Do I hold my hands? I say, you just come where you are. You're sitting at a traffic light and you see some car battling towards you. You don't got to get out and get on your knees, say, God, please protect me from that car. Just pray. There's no word about posture on how we pray. Now, it's interesting, just a little aside, I got looking in the Bible how the posture they were when they prayed, and I found that sometimes, in fact many times, in the Bible they would bow before God when they prayed, particularly in the Old Testament. They would bow before the Lord. I think that's a good thing. Here's a question. I asked myself this When's the last time I bowed before the Lord in prayer, got on that posture? Say, do I have to do that to pray? No. You can be standing in line somewhere and pray. You can pray in the shower. You can pray out working in the garden. You can pray driving down the road. But sometimes in the Bible, they would bow before the Lord. I think that's a good thing. I think maybe we've gotten away from that a little bit. Just getting alone and bowing before God in prayer. Sometimes in the Bible they would bow before the Lord. Sometimes they would kneel before the Lord. Now, not totally bow, but get down on their knees. Paul did that in the book of Acts a number of times. He would get on their knees and they would pray. They would kneel before God in prayer. I don't always do that, but sometimes. I think personally that's my favorite posture to pray. And I'm I'm not again I'm not some prayer guru or anything, but I just like to get on my knees when we pray. We have men's prayer meetings. Um sometimes guys sit on the chairs and sometimes though uh just around, but I like to kneel. I like to kneel at an old altar. Before God. My wife and I have prayer every night before we go to bed, devotions. I like to get on my knees and pray. And um So sometimes they would bow before the Lord, sometimes they would kneel before the Lord. Sometimes in the Bible, when they prayed, they would fall prostrate before the Lord, just lie on their face. And pray. I wonder if have you ever done that? A lot of times that's when the heart is broken. A lot of times that's when just desperate for God to do something. Over these years, almost 27 years now, in another month or two, and I'll tell you, there's been many times I laid on my face here at the front of this church and just begged God. Save somebody dear to me or send revival. God help us. You know what I think might help us in our country right now? A bunch of Christians humble ourselves and fall before God on our faces and say, God have mercy on us. We've been complaining, we've been griping, we've been talking about conspiracy theories and condemning the other political parties. Maybe what might help a whole lot more is us just falling on our faces before God, saying, God, have mercy on our nation. So the posture, he doesn't say anything about posture. Sometimes in the Bible they would bow, sometimes they kneel, sometimes they'd fall prostrate, sometimes they would stand before the Lord and they'd lift their hands and pray. Paul in writing to Timothy, we're talking about Timothy in Sunday school, writing to Timothy, he says, Men lifting holy hands up to the Lord in prayer. He said, oh, preacher, that's getting kind of carried away, isn't it? No, no, no. That's Bible. That's Bible. You say, what would you do, preacher, if when we're praying, somebody in church lift their hands up to God? I'd say, God bless them. That's scriptural. Nothing wrong with that at all. Solomon. Sometimes when they pray, you say you should bow your head and close your eyes. You know, sometimes when they prayed, they'd look up to heaven. While they're praying. Jesus did. He lift his eyes to heaven and gave thanks. Might do us a heap of good. Get outside sometime. Get out there. Look up at that night sky. Lift our eyes up to heaven And just pray and talk to God. Maybe in our little quiet devotional time, just look up and say, God, I'm looking to you. Pour your heart out to him. Standing, uh arms raised, lifting their eyes up to the Lord, uh uh lifting their hands, and um I lost my glasses. There they are. And um uh lifting their eyes up to heaven. Uh uh but there's no right or wrong posture. Here's what I I said all that to say this If we're going to pray like God wants us to pray, we've got to just start where we're at and just start praying. Whether you're on your knees or on your face or looking up or down, just start praying Not going to have any prayers answered until we start praying. Just pray. The greatest reason there's no answer to prayer is because of prayerlessness. The first thing we need to learn about prayer is I've got to do it for it to be effective. I put this down: a prayerless Christian, number one, is a defeated Christian. There's no prayer, there's no victory. There's no prayer, there's no power. There's no prayer, there's no effectiveness. Go through the motions, but we need to pray. We need to pray. A prayerless Christian is a defeated Christian. A prayerless Christian is a deceived Christian. Say, what do you mean by that? I mean this. You and I are only defooling ourselves if we think we can get by without God's help. You know what prayerlessness in the life of a Christian communicates? You know what it's saying? God, I really don't need you. Do you ever have working on something? Somebody comes by and says, hey, you need a hand, I'll help you out, and you say, no, I got this. Anybody ever say that? No, I got this. I don't got this When we don't pray, you know what we're saying to God? Oh God, I got this. I tell you, we're only fooling ourselves If we think we uh we can get by without God. I'll tell you, I don't know how this old world deals with uh the issues of life without the Lord. In fact, I do know how they deal with it. They're a mess. They get drunk. They're angry. They're frustrated. They fight. They cuss. They carry on. That's all evidences of godlessness. But prayer says, God, I need you. I see reality. I see the truth of the fact. I need your help. We get mad at home and cuss and yell and throw things. You know what we're saying is? God, I'm dealing with this, not you. We stop and humble ourselves and say, Lord, I need you. I need your help. We deceive ourselves when we don't pray. We are defeated when we don't pray. And here's another one. This is a strong statement. But we're disobedient to God when we don't pray. It's an amazing thing to me that God has to command us to pray. You know, he says, call unto me, I'll answer thee. Show thee great and mighty things which thou knowest not. Over and over, ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you for everyone that. asketh, receive it. And then he that seeketh, findeth. He that knocketh, it's opened unto him. Hey, we have all these prayer promises, and yet we struggle so much with prayer. And prayer, God has to come along and say, listen, pray without ceasing. Pray! We don't pray, we're disobeying God. Samuel, I just read in my devotions a couple days ago, several days ago, where Israel's wanting a king. And Samuel makes this statement. Let me give you the reference. We won't turn there. But 1 Samuel chapter 12, he says, God forbid That I should sin against God in ceasing to pray for you. Samuel considered it sin against God. He didn't pray for God's people if he didn't pray. So how should we pray? Number one, just start where you're at. Just start praying. Just start praying. Are you backslidden? Pray. Are you discouraged? Pray. Are you fearful? Pray. Are you needy? Pray. Are you sick? Pray. You struggling in your faith? Pray. You have doubts? Pray. Just start where you're at. Just start where you're at. Number two, I put this down. Number one, start where you're at. Number two, be specific. In your prayers. Come with me there, chapter 18. Look at verse number 3. And look at the last part. There was a widow in that city. She came to him, the judge, saying, Oh, just help me in general ways. Dear Judge, oh I just want you to um, oh, whatever you feel like you could do, but I don't deserve anything. Oh, just bless me, Judge. No The judge would be, did you ever go to a restaurant with somebody I had somebody I used to go to a restaurant with, and the the waitress come and say, Would you like something to drink? And they would say, Oh, just whatever you have, just whatever you bring me will be fine You know what happened every time that uh waitress would get mad? Well what do you want? Oh, I don't care, it doesn't matter Well, do you want a Coke? Oh, just uh yeah, uh whatever you think. Tell me what you want And I wonder, and I don't mean to be disrespectful, but I wonder sometimes we come and say, Oh God just bless everybody. Ah God just uh uh bless me. And I wonder if no no I don't know it do I know it doesn't go this way, but I kind of picture it, God's up in heaven. Woo! Tell me what you want She came and said, Avenge me of my adversary. Over and over and over, all through the Bible. God tells us, ask. Let your request be made known unto God. How many folks here have uh at least when I ask this question, something's going to come to your mind. You have something You're wanting God to do for it. Very specific. It comes to mind immediately. You right now know I got my hand raised. I don't even have to hesitate. God says, all right, that's what you pray for. Bring that to me. Oh Lord, just whatever you think is best. Now I'm glad we're submissive. We ought to be submissive. Not my will, but thy will be done. But he wants us to tell us. You know what? He wants us to tell him what we want specifically. You know what I found out Specific prayer requests get specific answers. Ask specifically for something. I had um, this sounds silly, but I'm telling you, it was profound for me I was traveling uh to go down with Brother Lewis and and to preach on this last mission trip. Uh the they over this back then, this was this was back in uh when things were normal. But um uh those planes were packed. They would overbook those panes every time. And so uh I I get in and then about halfway through loading they say Oh, uh only one carry-on. They tell you ahead of time you can have two carry-ons. Then when you get there, they say, Oh, we don't have room. Uh only one, and you need to check on your carry-on. And I get uh uh I didn't get angry. I just got very concerned about it. I'd be in line there. I said, they t why'd they tell me I can have two if they knew there was overbooked and wasn't room? So I got this on this trip. I said, I'm not turning it in I'm not going to do it. I don't care. I'm not doing it. And so I'd be I would pray when we're waiting in line to board the plane. I would pray, God, please let there be one slot just for my thing. And I was on eight different flights, and you know what? Every single God, I said, God, I just want to care. I don't want to turn it in. I want to keep it. And I'm telling you, every single flight, right above my seat, there was an open slot. It was like parting the waters of Moses, parting the luggage. And I'm I'm telling you the truth. I'm not making this up. If I tell you true things, I'll point it out. This is a And I'd sit down and I think God answered my prayer There's no way. All these people, I'm like the the last one. I always get the lowest budget ticket. I'm like the last one on. That thing is jam-packed. I'm walking down the aisles. It's jam-packed. I'm walking down the aisles. Here's my seat. Oh, it's open Real quick, throw it in there. You know what, that's the way God wants us to pray, specific I was uh uh I was in another town, there was a donut shop, and I said, Lord, if you want me to get a donut, let there be Let there be an open parking spot right in front of the donut shop. And after the fifteenth time around, there was an empty spot right there Be specific. Be specific. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn with me to Matthew chapter number seven. Keep uh here's what I guess I'm trying to say. Keep your prayers simple and to the point. They don't have to be complicated and all. Just tell God what we want. Look at Matthew chapter 7. I have these verses underlined and highlighted in my Bible. Matthew chapter 7, look at verse 7. Ask and it shall be given unto you. That sounds pretty specific to me. Seek, you shall find. What are you looking for? Knock and it shall be open unto you. Everyone that asketh receiveth. Everyone that seeketh findeth. To him that knocketh, it shall be open. Now look at verse 9. For what man is there of you whom if his son ask what? Bread, pretty specific. Will he give him a stone? If he asks, what? Fish, pretty specific. Will he give him a serpent? Now look at this. If ye then, being evil, know how to give good things unto your children, how much more shall your Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask them You know what this whole verse, you know what that whole passage is saying? Be specific. Ask God specifically. Some have filed away from God. Going to be asking God, bring them back, turn their heart back to the Lord. Some have a debt, maybe a credit card debt It's hanging over you. It's a weight around your neck. Why don't you come and ask God? Say, God, help me get that thing taken care of. Lord, I want that debt. I'm asking that debt be paid off. Somebody saved. Oh, God saved the lost. Alright, who do you got in mind? Well, all of them. Alright, but who specifically? You got somebody unsaved? Pray by name for that person to be saved. Pray for that debt to be paid, that bill to be paid. Be specific. God instructs us to pray specifically. Ephesians 4:6. Let your requests be made known unto God. James 4:2 You have not because you ask not. Specific prayers get specific answers. What would you like to drink, sir? Oh, just whatever you happen to have is fine. I don't care. Others she'll mash that plate right over your head. Tell me what you want And I think God in heaven looks down and says, listen, tell me what you want. Ask. Donna Rice said, prayer is asking and receiving. Coming to God, specifically God, this is what I would like. There's people all across this auditorium. We could stand up and give testimony for hours about God answering specific prayers. Am I right or wrong? God answered, I asked for this and God gave it. Now, God doesn't always give us specifically what we want, but he wants us to request. Specifically, what we want. Let me give you the last one here real quick. Number one, to start where you're at. Just start praying. Start today Praying on a regular scheduled basis. Pray. Number two, be specific. And number three, I put this down, pray in faith Pray in faith. Hebrews 11:6 says, He that cometh to God must believe that he is, and he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. When I come in prayer, I have got to believe that God hears me and that God is able to meet this need and grant this request. Um, take look here in Luke chapter 18, look at verse number five. Come back here to Luke This woman, she's comes to the judge. Avenge me of mine adversaries very specific, no question, what she's wanting. She makes it very, very clear. Verse 4, this judge, this man, this human, he doesn't fear God or man, he don't care about anything. And he would not for a while, but afterward he said within himself, though I fear not God, nor regard man, Yet this woman troubleth me, I will avenge her of her, I will avenge her lest by her what? Continual coming, she weary me. This judge says, this woman is driving me nuts Avenge me on an adversary. Every day I show up at the office and she's standing outside the office door. Judge, avenge me on an adversary. I don't care about that. Boom. Uh phone rings. Hello? Judge, this is the widow. Aven me up. Boom, I don't care about that. He goes out for lunch. She's sitting in the restaurant. Judge, hey, avenge me. Would you shut up or and after a while, he says, This woman's driving me nuts? Alright, I'll avenge you of your adversary. Alright! And he gives it to her. Why? Because her continual coming, she drove him crazy. Now, we can't drive dog crazy, I'll tell you that right now. But God says, in that same way that this woman was convinced if she pressed it and pressed it and pressed it, this judge that didn't fear God or man, he'd come through and grant her a request. God says, you come and pray to me that way. Don't you? You believe, you trust me, you come and bread. In fact, he says down earlier, he says, I'll answer you speedily. But you just come in faith. You don't give up. Faith does not quit. I believe God can do this. I believe God's able to. I've compared it to Scripture. I believe it's in His will. I'm not going to quit praying until God answers this, because I believe up and pray and pray and pray. I'm talking to some folks, you've been praying for something so important to you for a long, long time. I'm saying this, don't you quit. You trust God. You keep praying. You keep praying. Faith refuses to quit. Faithless prayers are unanswered prayers. Well, I'll pray, but God wouldn't never do that. That's dumb. God has promised to answer our prayers. We need to come in faith, believing. If thou believest with all thine heart, the Bible says, claim God's promise, cling to God's promises Night I got saved, May 7, 1979, I knelt by that bed. There was no doubt in my mind that Jesus Christ calling on him, that he would hear me And he would save my soul. I had read in my Bible over and over and over that whosoever calling the name of the Lord finally came to the point and said, All right, God, I'll do it. There was no doubt in my mind Jesus saved my soul. That's the way we come in salvation and that's the way we come in prayer. God, I believe you'll meet my need. I'm trusting you to serve me. I'm trusting you to save my wife, my husband. I'm trusting you to meet this need. You promised Hold God to it. Hold God to his word. Now he might have to work in us. He might have to do some changes, get us lined up But God will not fail. We can trust Him. We can trust Him. For salvation, faith in Jesus for salvation. Give us victory over life. We're defeated by some sin. Some besetting sin is killing me. I come and say, God, I need you to help me. I can tell you, I know folks struggled with cigarettes. By the way, smoking is still sin. Struggle with cigarettes. Oh, I can't lick, I can't beat this thing, I can't beat this thing. Finally say, God, I need you, I need you to help me. I can't do it. You need to. God gives victory. God gives victory. I've seen it so often. Liquor, other sins. Come in faith. Pray in faith, believing. Faith in Jesus Christ bringing answers to prayer saves my soul. I was reading about um uh Paul Harvey, not our Paul Harvey, but the how many how many people remember Paul Harvey on the radio? Oh, young kids these days they don't remember anything Oh, the rest of the story. He told about a little nine-year-old, a little uh three-year-old boy He went to the grocery store with his mother, and before they went in the store, she said to the little boy, now you're not going to get any chocolate chip cookies, so don't even ask. That's what mom said to the boy. You're not getting any, so don't even ask. Put him in the cart, they're going down the little thing. Child sat in the little cart seat, went down the aisles, he was doing fine. Then they came across the cookie section He saw the chocolate chip cookies and he stood up in the seat and says, Mama, can I get some chocolate chip cookies? He said, no, I told you don't even ask. You're not going to get any at all. So he sat back down. He went down the aisle, and um she forgot something. She had to come back down the cookie aisle They got past the chocolate chip cookies, and the boy said, Mom, can I please have some chocolate chip cookies? She says, Now I already told you you can't have any. Sit down and be quiet. Finally they were getting to the checkout line. The little boys thought, this is my last chance. They had some chocolate chip cookies by the checkout And so just before they got to the line, he stood up in the seat and shouted in the loudest voice he had: In the name of Jesus, can I have some chocolate chip cookies? Everyone looked around and laughed, some applauded, according to Paul Harvey, due to the Generous generosity of the other shoppers, the little boy and his mother left with twenty-three boxes of chocolate chip cookies. We need to have the tenacity of that little boy. I'm not going to quit. I am not going to let go until God changes my desire or God grants my request. Now, there's a whole lot more you could say about how to pray. The Bible teaches us how to pray, but those are three things to get us started. Number one, start praying. Number two, pray in faith and don't quit. And don't quit. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless us. Teach us to pray, Lord. Lord, I just believe that we are in a situation in our world where we need prayer more than anything. Our church needs prayer. I need prayer. Our homes Teach us to pray, Lord. Teach us to pray. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say, preacher, I've got a burden. I have a request on my heart. And I really, really I really need God to answer. Is there any like that? Uplifted hand. How about let's just start this morning. We're going to determine. I am going to pray for that. I'm going to trust God. I'm going to be specific. I want God to teach me to pray. I wonder if there's some here to say, preacher, I got someone unsaved. I can't stand the thought of them not knowing Christ. Say, preacher, I'm praying for an unsaved friend, loved one. Anyone like that? Let's pray specifically, by name, that they be saved. God does what he needs to do to bring them to Christ. And a whole list of finances, marriage, jobs, you name it. Power of God. Let's ask God for it. Let's ask God for it. You're not saved. What you need to pray is call on the Lord for forgiveness and salvation through Jesus Christ. And God will hear that and God will save you. Bless our invitation I ask now, Lord, in Jesus' name.