I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to the book of Mark, chapter thirteen. I remember when I first met your preacher, we was in that meeting in Seneca, Pennsylvania. Now I'd heard about this Dennis Leatherman, and I was asked a number of times if I knew him. I said, well, I've heard about him, but I've never met him. Of course, I knew John Leatherman, and then the next question was, is John Leatherman and Dennis Leatherman brothers? And uh I said, no, they're not. Uh they're not related except through the blood of Jesus. And then I had the privilege of meeting your preacher, and uh we immediately headed off. And he invited me to, I think the first time that I was ever here at Mountain Lake was in the month of December And it was the mission's emphasis Sunday that he'd invited me to preach that day, and we've been working together ever since. I remember telling the fellas down at Beacon that we do not do assemblies in the North in January. or February, and we'll try not to do them in March either. Then your preacher calls. He said, we'd like to have an assembly. And I believe it was in the month of February. And I said, okay. Chip looked at me, my son looked at me, the other guys looked at me and said, I thought we weren't doing any assemblies in the north in that time frame. I said, well, it'll it'll be okay. I'm sure things will go well and it it it will be fine. And we come in. Thirty-seven inches of snow overnight Snowed in for several days. Couldn't get out of here till Sunday afternoon. I mean you talk about snow. There was so much snow that I didn't know there was that much snow in the world. The Swiss Alps didn't have anything over what Mountain Lake had that weekend. We haven't been back here in February since And don't get any ideas. All right. The book of Mark, chapter thirteen I want you to look at verse number 34 through verse number 37. For the Son of Man is as a man taking a fark journey. Who left his house and gave authority to his servants and to every man his work, and commanded the porter to watch. Watch ye therefore, for ye know not when the master of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cock crowing, or in the morning. Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what I say unto you, I say unto all, watch I want to use this portion of Scripture and bring a message that I've entitled, How Will Jesus Find You When He Comes? We know that he's coming. But how will he find us when he does come? Father, we thank you for thy precious word and pray that you would speak to each of our hearts this evening May the Holy Spirit help us in every way, Lord, to uplift the precious, sweet, lovely name of our Savior, the Lord Jesus. I pray, Father, that you would bless our meeting tonight. May you work in each of our hearts and lives and accomplish what you've purposed to do. We'll thank you for what you do because we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. If you know anything about Mark chapter 13, you know that our Lord is speaking to his disciples, and it's commonly called the Olivet Discourse And the reason it's called the Olivet Discourse is because he was on the Mount of Olives and he was discoursing with his disciples. And so it's referred to as the Olivet Discourse. The theme of the Olivet discourse is the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, let me ask you a question tonight. Is there a difference between the second coming of the Lord and the rapture of the church? Yes or no? There's a separation of at least seven years that we know of. Once the rapture occurs, we go into the tribulation, and then at the end of the tribulation, we are confronted with the second coming of the Lord. Does the second coming of Jesus apply to you and to me? No. Unless you're lost And then you're going to go into the tribulation if it happened tonight. The signs of the Bible always refer to the second coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want you to notice in this passage of Scripture, verse number 37, what I say unto you, I say unto all. Watch. Do you consider yourself as being part of the all? Absolutely. The Lord is addressing and He's assigning assignment and He's telling us something to do. And he says, I'm warning you and I'm telling you to watch and pray and make sure that you all observe what I'm telling you to do. In the Olive discourse, he talks about the temple. In the Olivet Discourse, he talks about the tribulation. And he calls upon his disciples to watch and to pray. And to keep up the guard. And I believe there's a good reason for you and I to be very, very watchful and mindful of what the Lord is saying in this passage of Scripture because of verse number 34. He says, For the Son of Man is as a man taking a far journey, who left his house and gave authority to his servants and to every man His work. It's important that you and I heed what is being said here because we've been given an assignment. We've been given a work to do. And every man, every woman, every boy, every girl that knows the Lord as their personal Savior is to fulfill the responsibility that God has given and assigned. To his people. Can you say amen to that? We know that Jesus is coming. That's the promise that He's made to us. In my father's house are many mansions, if it were not so, I would have told you I go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you I will come again and receive you unto myself, that where I am there ye may be also. So we know the Lord is coming. Just like that passage of Scripture says, the Son of Man is like a man that took a journey, went to his house And he gave assignment to his people, and he's going to come again. So we know the Lord is coming. The Bible tells us in the book of Acts, chapter 1, and beginning at verse number 10. And while they looked steadfastly, this was after the resurrection. Jesus was ready to be caught up to the heavens, and the angel declared, This same Jesus, which ye see being taken up from you, shall so come. in like manner. So the book of Mark is reminding us to take heed You've been given an assignment, and you'd better sit up and take note of it and take heed to what he once done. In the book of Mark, chapter 13, verse number 5, the Bible says, and Jesus, answering them, began to say, Take heed. In verse number nine, the Bible says, but take heed to yourself. In verse number twenty-three, The Bible says, but take heed, take ye heed. In verse number 33, the Bible says, take ye heed, watch and pray, for ye know not when the time is. So there's a warning here. There's a very clear warning. We better pay attention to what the Lord is telling us in this passage of Scripture. Mark also reminds us to watch, not only to take heed, but be watchful. There's no doubt in my mind as I read my Bible that we're living in the last days. I think we're closer to the coming of the Lord than we've ever been before. And so the Lord tells us in light of that. You better be watching. Verse number 37. And what I say unto you, I say unto all Watch. That little word watch means you better keep wide awake as to what's happening around you. You better be watching and clearly seeing what I've said in my word. Don't be deceived and hoodwinked into believing the devil's lies. Pay attention to the word of God. Follow the word of God. And whatever you do, don't quit. And bow out of the assignment that's been given to you. That's what it means to watch. The rapture could occur at any moment. At any day, even, morning, noon, night, he's coming. And we've been commanded to watch, we've been commanded to take heed. But my question tonight is: how will he find us when he comes? We all agree that he's coming. We know that he's coming. He's promised to come. The declaration of Scripture is: He's coming. But how is he going to find us when he comes? Are we going to be faithful? Will he find us faithful? Or will he find us fearful? Will the Lord, when he comes, find us fretting, disturbed, distressed, confused? How's he going to find us when he comes again? If it were to happen tonight, how would he find you? Would he be ready to say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant? When you accepted the Lord as your personal Savior, you were drafted immediately into spiritual warfare. Gonna run that by you again. I'm not sure you caught that. The day that you got saved, you were drafted. You were drafted into spiritual warfare. into conflict with the world, into conflict with the flesh, into conflict with the devil. Spiritual warfare. There's a lot of casualties in that war. Not because that's what the Lord wanted, or he wasn't powerful enough to protect us. It's because we didn't heed what he said in his word. And we've reneged on our responsibility. So we need to ask ourselves the question: if he were to come tonight, how would he find us? I've really given that some thought and I've come to the conclusion the first thing that I want him to find me doing when he comes is serving. I want to be serving the Lord. I don't want to be playing on the playgrounds of the world. I want to be faithfully serving the Lord. busy about his work, involved in what he wants us to be involved in. We've been given an assignment, we've been given a work, we've been given a duty, a responsibility, and I I I want to be found serving him and fulfilling that And be faithful to that when he comes again, serving him. The Bible tells us in verse number 34: every man has been given his work. He's been commanded to do his work. What's your work? What's your job? What responsibility has he placed on you? What is he really requiring of you? Every man has been given an assignment No one has been excluded from it. We're called upon in the Word of God to live for Him. Would you agree with that? We're to live for Him. Our lives are to be sold out and surrendered and living to honor him and please him, so that I I I don't want when he comes, I don't want to be found negligent when it comes to living for him So that means that every moment of my living life, I want to make sure that I'm surrendered and serving him and living for him to honor and to please him The Bible says that Jesus died for us all so that we might live for him. 2 Corinthians chapter 5 and verse number 15. We've been called to live for him. We've been called to labor for him. The Bible says in Ephesians chapter 2 and verse number 10, we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto Good works. The result of being saved by the grace of God, works are going to follow that. We don't work to get saved, we work because we are saved. You know that. You understand that. Every man has been given a work to do. And when Jesus comes again, I want him to find me faithful in doing what he's asked me to do. So How do we do that? Well, 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and verse number 58 tells us that we're to be abounding in the work of the Lord. When he talks about abounding and being steadfast and unmovable and always abounding in the work of the Lord, he means for you and I to be firmed and fixed and surrendered We're not playing tiddlywinks with the things of the Lord. We're to get involved and work and labor and give our all to Him. We're to be firm in that and fixed in that That's what it means to be steadfast. We're not here today and gone tomorrow. Put our hand to the plow and we don't turn back. When he says about being unmovable, that simply means that you and I are not going to be shaken by the events of life That we've thrown in the towel and quit and not served the Lord. I want him to find me when he comes again faithfully serving him. He talks about abounding. He means overwhelmed with what you're doing and giving yourself to it and going further than what is really required of you. We're called upon to live for him. We're called upon to labor for him. And I want you to notice that we're also called upon to look for him. Looking for that blessed hope and glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. But I want you to notice the source of that assignment. In verse number 34, the Bible says, for the Son of Man, do you know who told us to do what we're doing? The Lord Himself. He's the one that issued that go into all the world and preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. He said, I want my message of repentance and faith toward God to be known by everybody. Why is it that over half of the world has yet to hear that message? Because we haven't been obedient. Multitudes of God's people have been disobedient. And they're not faithfully serving the Lord and abounding in the work of the Lord. They're here today and gone tomorrow, thinking nothing of the source of their assignment. The Lord Himself. Do you see the subjects that are assigned here? Every man. I I can look across this congregation and I I see some young people. You've been assigned. I see some middle-aged people, you've been assigned. I I see some older folks, you've been assigned. You've been assigned. And the source of that assignment is the Lord Himself. I don't see anywhere, Brother Schofield, where the Lord says, okay, you can sit along the sidelines and do nothing now. You're old. He and I were talking before this, yeah, he is old. We were talking before the the service tonight and I said, you know, I'm just having a real difficult time accepting the fact that I can't do what I used to do. I just really struggle with that My mind says you can do it. My body says, no, you won't. There's an argument every day between what I think and what my body says And I and you know the Bible says that I I I I I'm to buffet my body, not buffet my body, buffet my body And bring it into subjection. I get those two words mixed up sometimes and as I look at you and I heard a little while ago that you all eat well at the assemblies when you come together for fingerprint ministry. I'm going to find out. I'm going to show up. But what I'm saying is simply this. The assignment has come from the Lord. All are to be involved in the fulfillment of that assignment. You've been given a work to do. How's he going to find us when he comes again? Faithfully doing what he told us to do. It's the way I want the Lord to find me. This is a serious assignment that we've been given. And that's why he issues the command. Watch. And pray, keep your eyes wide open, what you're doing is of utmost importance. How will he find us? I hope he finds me serving. Serving. I also want him to find me standing. Standing on the truth and the authority of the Word of God. If you take your Bibles and you go to the book of Ephesians, chapter 6, the warfare chapter of the Bible, where Paul is reminding us that we're to put on the whole armor of God. Because we're in combat with the devil that goes about as a roaring lion, seeking whom he may devour. And he said, Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God. that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand. When Jesus comes again, I want him to find me faithfully serving him, and I want him to find me standing for what is right Standing on the authority and the principles of the Word of God. Every one of us are engaged in spiritual conflict It's a real battle. It's a vicious battle. It's a serious battle. There's casualties in this battle. There's wounds and hurts in this battle But I want to stand, regardless of what might come my way. The battle is inevitable. It's not a matter of we might face the devil. We do face the devil. And I found out this: the more involved I become in the Bible ministry, the more I'm very much aware of how much the devil hates the Bible. He hates it. I just uh was at a church in northern Pennsylvania, and I said, I just want you to understand your involvement and your continuance in the Bible ministry. is inviting the serious, significant attack of the devil upon this church. You better stand, and having done all, to stand. This battle is intense We're fighting for the souls of men and women and boys and girls. We're fighting for their eternal destiny. We need to be found faithful when he comes, and we need to be found standing in this battle that we are in. In the book of 1 Timothy, chapter 1, Paul reminded young Timothy that there is spiritual casualties in this war. This is what he said: This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that by them ye might war a good warfare. Holding faith and a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith, have made shipwreck. Brother Leatherman. I don't want to be a spiritual casualty and make shipwreck on this last leg of the journey. I don't want that to happen in my life. When I look at this passage of scripture and realize it can happen. I take seriously the command the Lord gave, take heed, watch, pray. Every servant of God is duty bound. Carry out the ministry that God has given to you. How are you doing? How you really doing? There's no room for slackers. There's absolutely no room for indiff in indifference. There is no room for complacency. There's absolutely no room for neglect or divided priorities. There is no room for that. Because of the seriousness of this assignment that we've been given. So we need to ask ourselves the question: how can I prevent spiritual shipwreck in my life? Number one, keep a clear conscience. Keep a clear conscience. You know the conscience is a God-given device embredd within every one of us that speaks to us. When we do good, it gives us feelings of peace and joy and contentment. You do wrong, and your conscience will bring guilt, shame. conviction into your life. Don't neglect your conscience. You can sear your conscience to the point that it it no longer speaks It no longer has an influence on you. It no longer will deal with you. So we need to keep a clear conscience. Second thing that I would say to you, if we're going to prevent spiritual casualty in our life, follow the Word of God. James 1 and 21, the Bible says, receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls. And I don't think he's talking about eternal life there. You follow the word of God, and it will prevent casualty in your life. It'll prevent heartache in your life. It'll prevent disappointment in your life. You follow the Word of God and it will keep you away from the devices of destruction that are so prevalent in this day in which we live. I seen a man the other day stumbling down the street, drunk as could be. Drunk as could be, and I couldn't help but think he's been caught by the devices of this world. I was reading the other day the number of casualties that we are having because of the drug culture that we have prevalent in our country. It's amazing to me, absolutely amazing to me, that Iran or Russia or that madman in North Korea can't move a single vessel in their country without us knowing about it. And we can't detect the drug traffic in our own country. It only says to me that it Apparently must be the involvement of those that could do something about it, their involvement in the drug culture. People are hooked on devices today. And if you you want to prevent a spiritual casualty, and believe me, not one of us are above Any of these devices. We could get hooked on drink, we could get hooked on drugs, we could be hooked on the loving of this world, and we're going to be a spiritual casualty if we do so. Follow the Bible. Follow the Bible. Another thing that I would say to you to prevent becoming a spiritual casual is focus on pleasing the Lord. Ask him, will this please you Lord? And let's let's let's just really make it practical. I think June the ten, what's the next date? June what? It's in the bulletin. 27th. June 27th. If the Lord carries his coming. Between now and June the 27th. Ask yourself when the 27th rolls around. Lord, would it please you if I go and help put those scriptures together? Will that please you Well would you be pleased with that, Lord? Well, I uh you can't go during the day. I I'm working, you do it at night too, don't you? So you you have two sessions. We have one in the morning and then you eat. You do it all day long. So you do it either in the morning, you do it in the afternoon, you do it in the evening. Lord, would it please you if I went to one of those sessions? How how many retired people do we have in the in the church? Well that's enough to get an assembly done right there. How many have a job? How many have to go to work in the morning? How many have the evening free? Oh boy, the the hands didn't go up quite as quick as they did on the other part, you know. Ask the Lord June 27th, Lord, would it please you if I give some time to put scriptures together? Would that please you? If you want to become a spiritual casualty, neglect that. Just don't ask the Lord that. Don't bother praying to him and seeking his will on that. If you want to prevent it, seek to please him. I sure wouldn't want to do something that displeases the Lord, would you? So I asked him, Would this please you Lord? If he gives you the green light to go ahead, you better show up on the twenty-seventh, or you will be a disobedient child of God. Amen, preacher. That's really cutting the mustard. That's getting down in the in the in the briar patch and and making life difficult. That's picking in people's peapads. That's husking their corn. That's making them on cup. Praise the Lord, preacher You don't do the amen and I will. And don't give me that that uh sorry, sick excuse, we're northerners. We just don't believe in that stuff. Do you know that shouting and praising the Lord is going to take place in heaven? So you might as well get used to it. Because Brother Leatherman and I are going to go there and we're going to, I mean we're going to kick up a patch like you've never seen before. The dust is going to fly. Make up your mind. Do I want to be a spiritual casualty? I don't. I want the Lord to find me standing when he comes again So I need to keep a clear conscience. I need to follow the word. I need to make sure that what I do is pleasing to him. Then I'd say this to you. Pray over every decision that you make. Decisions are important. They have consequences. There's not a decision that you make that does not have a consequence to it. I like apple dumplings. And when Dee makes them, I make a decision. I'm gonna eat 'em. The only thing that I have a problem with is that she usually makes them when I'm going out of town. And we have grandchildren And she'll call me and tell me I made apple dumplings. I said, well save me one. She'll say, okay, then I will. I'll save you one Boy, I just think about that apple dumpling the whole time I'm gone. I think about coming into the house and getting the bowl out of the out of the out of the car out of the what do they call them? Cabinets Getting that bowl down and taking it over by the refrigerator and putting that apple dumpling in there and pouring milk over it, you know. Uh some people like 'em warm. I like 'em cold. And uh I usually y you know that that brown sugar base that goes along with it, I usually scrape a little bit more of that out and get them on there, you know. And uh then I'll take it over to the table and I'll sit down and I will just enjoy every bite I think. She makes the best effort So I'm thinking about that apple dumpling. I come storming through the door right to the refrigerator and I look. I don't see my apple dumpling. Dee! Where's my apple dumpling? Oh, um one of the grandchildren was by and asked me if I had any apple dumplings. And I said, I only have one. They ate it. I didn't have to pray about making a decision that day. I wanted to find that grandchild and extract that apple dumpling from him and enjoy my delightful time with my apple dumplings. I'm just saying to you, you better pray over every decision that you make, because it has a consequence The other thing that I would say to you, if you want to prevent becoming a spiritual casualty, wait on the Lord. When things come your way, just wait on the Lord. Let Him work things out. He's able to do that That's not an easy thing to do. One of the hardest things I have to do is wait. I want it yesterday. Do you? I I want it to happen yesterday. I don't like waiting, but the Lord says wait. And I've had to discipline myself and train myself to just simply wait on the Lord. So when he comes, how's he going to find us? Serving? Standing. And then let me say this to you. I want him to find me separated. 1 Thessalonians 5. 22, abstain from all appearance of evil. If it doesn't look right, stay away from it. If it has the slightest look of being improper, forget it. It's not worth it. It's not worth it I think the Lord is really clear about our behavior, and he says abstain. That means to avoid it, to stay away from it, don't take part of it. Separation is not a choice, but a command that has been issued to every one of us. We're to be separated from this world and the things of this world. The Bible is quite clear that we're to refrain from loving the world. The Bible is quite clear that we're to refuse to be conformed to this world. Fashioned and molded. Romans 12, 1 and 2. Don't be fashioned about this world. Don't let it choose your lifestyle for you. You choose the lifestyle of the Bible You and I are to resolve to be unspotted by this world A spot is something that seems to be so insignificant that it has no consequence to it whatsoever. I I send my my grandchildren a uh a little devotional every morning. I I get up early in the morning, uh I I have a verse that I want to share with them, and I write a few comments about it. And I send it to every one of my grandchildren. I I want them to know that their grandfather stands on the principles of the Word of God And I want them to know that there's danger in this world, and they need to avoid those dangerous spots of this world. And if you start down that road, just a little spot has the potential of making you a spiritual casualty. That's why the Bible says don't be spotted by the world. It might look insignificant, it might seem so small and uh unnecessary, but just one little spot. Can bring ruination. Ruination. So keep your guard up. Be careful about the things that you do and the places that you go. And then I would say this. If you're going to be separated, then you need to reject fellowship with any work of darkness. Any work of darkness. The music of this world, cut it off. The hell holes and pits of this world, cut it out. Cut it out. Don't allow those things to spot you and ruin you. I I I found this out to be true Any fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness will weaken your resolve to do right. It weakens you. And not only will it weaken you, but it will blur your understanding and distinction between what's right and wrong. Just blurs it all up. Makes it hard to determine. And probably the most dangerous thing is it will deaden your sensitivity to the Holy Spirit of God. Don't fellowship with those and make your friends the people of this world. Jesus is coming. How's he going to find us? Serving? Serving? Standing? Separated? How's he gonna find us? I hope he finds us all Faithfully serving, standing for the truth, and resolved from the bottom of our hearts to be separate from the things of this world. All God's people said, Amen. Let's stand together in prayer. Every head is bad and every eye is closed and I want you to ask the Lord. You're not asking your preacher. You're not asking your mate or your parents. You're asking the Lord. Are you pleased, Lord, with my service? Do you? Ask him that. Ask him if he's pleased with the way you're standing. This great spiritual conflict that we are in. And ask him, are you pleased with my life of separation? Or am I drifting over into areas that I ought not to have anything to do with? I think the invitation tonight is obvious if there's any area of our life that is not where it ought to be. We need to make a decision here and now. Jesus is coming. The assignment has been given And he's warned us to watch, keep up our guard How will he find you? How will he find me? Father I pray that you would search all of our hearts tonight. My heart. Every heart. There's areas of weakness and areas of vulnerability, areas that need to be shored up and strengthened Service that needs to be rendered, stands that need to be taken, separation that needs to occur. Lord, help us to make those decisions tonight Do a work in our midst that would please you and honor you, Lord. While our heads are bound and our eyes are closed as the Dennis is playing. God speak into your heart