Psalm one, uh 1 Peter chapter 3, verse number 10, and then uh Psalms chapter 34. 1 Peter 3, 10. For he that will love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile Let him eschew evil and do good. Let him seek peace and ensue it. For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open to their prayers. But the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. Now if you would, now we're just going to be here in Peter, but I want you to notice in Psalm. Chapter 34. I just want us to read it together, and we'll come back to Peter, and that's where we'll be for a little bit. Psalm 34, look with me at verse 12. Now think about what we just read. What man is he that desireth life and loveth many days that he may see good? Sound familiar? It's almost verbatim, verse 10. Keep thy tongue from evil and thy lips from speaking guile. Depart from evil and do good. Seek peace and pursue it. The eyes of the Lord are upon the righteous, and his ears are open to their cry. The face of the Lord is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth. Peter is quoting in his letter to these Persecuted Christians that are scattered all through Asia Minor there. They've lost their jobs. Their family has rejected them. Many of them have been in prison Some of their close associates and fellow church members have been martyred for their faith. And so they are under intense persecution, something that you and I have never experienced even remotely. And he quotes Psalm 34 there to him, and he's addressing this subject, how to love your life. How to love life. Let's pray. I want to share you a few thoughts here from this passage. Father, sure been a good day. Just this evening's been a blessing to see the report, hear testimonies, sing And now, as we finish out the service and finish out the day in your word, I pray you'd speak to us. Lord, I ask that you would challenge us in our lives as Christians Help us examine ourselves in light of this passage. I ask with all my heart, Lord, that you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit and you speak through me to each of our hearts and lives and help us to respond in faith. trusting you and obeying your instructions. And so bless now in the few moments we have left. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. God puts within the heart and soul of every person What I'm calling an instinctive desire to live. We have instinctive, God has put in us certain drives. Certain desires, strong, intense desires, and probably the strongest drive that is hardwired into human beings is the desire to live. Would you agree with me? Anybody agree with me on that? I mean you read of things people do extraordinary things to survive And uh in uh different circumstances they find themselves. I'm thinking uh a number of years ago there's a fellow, I think he was out in Wyoming or Colorado, I believe he was skiing or hiking, he fell down a crevice And he got pinned, and his arm, if I remember correctly, his arm was pinned into these rocks, and he'd been there a number of days. And if he didn't get out, he was going to die. Nobody was going to find him. And anybody remember that story? And he somehow severed his arm and got it out of there so that he could live. So that he could live. And there's stories all through history of that. Peter's writing here under the inspiration of God, he says, they that will love life For he that will love life, one of the most powerful instincts within us is to live One of the most powerful drives within us is to live. And when that desire to live When that drive is missing, and that desire is removed from a person's life, a desire to live, something is seriously wrong. When that desire is gone. Now what would cause? What would disconnect? What would sort out That hardwired drive to stay alive. What would take that out? Well, there could be any number of things. I'm thinking from spiritual aspect, what would do that? I put one down, I thought this, sin. Sin Would be something that would could potentially take away that desire to live. Romans 3. 23 says, For the wages of sin is death. Death. You watch some of these people that are, you know, these musicians that live such wicked lives And they're so celebrated by the world. And they're literally worshipped in many cases. And at least I don't know what it is today, I don't listen to that stuff. But back when I was young, I was listening to that garbage. Almost all their songs were misery, I want to die, I have nothing to live for. And yet everybody wanted to be like them. So sin, I think sin is something is something that could sap away that desire to live. Somebody living in sin, somebody living in debauchery and wickedness. And takes away that love for life, that love of living, and saps that away. I thought something else, I put something else down that might take that away, and it's this. Self. Self. In Ecclesiastes, and again I wanted to look at this, but we don't have time. Ecclesiastes chapter 2, verse 17, Solomon. Has been living for himself. He's put God away and he's completely consumed with himself. And he said, I despaired even of life. I didn't even want to live. I didn't even want to live. He lost his love for life. Because he was consumed with himself. You know what I found? Most miserable people on earth are people that are wrapped up in themselves. All about me. And that love of life and that vitality. Drains away. So sin self, and I put one, a third one down. Anybody want to take a guess about Satan? Satan. Bible says in John chapter 8 and verse 44 that he is a murderer from the beginning. John chapter 10 and verse 10, Jesus said, The thief, speaking of the devil, the thief cometh not, but for to steal and to kill and to destroy. Satan's objective, one of Satan's objective, is to kill God's people. I'm convinced of that. Kill as many people as he can. If he can kill us before we get saved, then we're doomed in hell for eternity. If he can kill us after we get saved, then we're influence in the sinful world is limited. In fact, if you'll study very carefully, every time Satan interacts with mankind, it is some effort at killing them. What about Job? What do you think Satan would have done to Job if God would have said, you can do anything you want, even kill him? He'd have killed Job like that No doubt in my mind. Little boy, we referenced a little boy this morning there when Jesus came off the Mount of Transfiguration. A little boy possessed of a devil And what'd that devil do? Tried to throw him what? In the fire. Tried to kill him. Kill him. Kill him. Listen to me. Don't ever mess with the devil. Don't ever dance with the devil. He is out to kill you. I wish that message would get out to the world today that there is a devil And he's out to destroy each and every life he possibly can and snuff that life out. Jesus said, I am come that you might have life. That you might have it more abundantly. God hardwires into our heart and soul and mind a desire to live and not just live, but look what he says here: he that will love life and see good days. Not only does God put us a desire to live, but also to see good days. And I think what he means by that is this: to live a pleasant life To live a life that is fulfilling and joyful and happy. That see good days, that word good is actually translated some other places honorable. I think down in the heart and soul of every person is a desire to be an honorable person. Now sin gets in and the world influences people and we become awfully corrupt and we become awfully dishonorable and become a mess. But something inside, listen, something inside, even the worst degenerate, down deep, I believe there's a desire to be a better person. To be something better. So God wants us to live. God puts a desire in us to live and to live good, see, good days. Live a pleasant, happy life. Now God wants us to be holy. Amen. Some of these TV preachers and their wives going out, God just wants you to be happy. Well, God wants us to be holy, first and foremost. But I'd be quick to add, He wants us to be happy. I'm come that you might have life and that you might have it more abundantly. God wants us to live vivaciously, fulfilled, and joyful. You read the Bible, the Bible talks about the joy of the Lord over and over and over. There's joy in the presence of our God. Joy unspeakable and full of glory. God doesn't want us just to survive. God doesn't want us just to hang on and keep our nose above. No. He wants us to be fulfilled and get up in the morning and loving my life and serving God. With the joy of the Lord. And he writes to these persecuted Christians. And he says, He that would love life and see good days. And then he tells them three things they got to do. He that would love life and see good days. He tells them three things to do, three actions to take. If we're going to love life and see good days. Let me say this. I read about a college young man, college-age young man down in Tennessee And he got saved and he was serving the Lord and he got talking to his pastor and he said this. He said, Pastor, I want to be a Christian, uh I wanna Uh let me let me quote it the way he said it here. He said, I want my Christian life to be like an orange. The preacher said, Well what do you mean you want your Christian life to be like an orange? He said I want my life, I want God to squeeze all the juice out of my life for his glory. I don't know that stirred me up more than it stirred you up when I read that. That's what I want. I want every bit of my life to be squeezed out for God and God to use me for His will. I tell you what, that's loving light. And seeing good days. My life has lived for the glory of God. My life has purpose. My life has the presence of God. He says, all right, if you want that, it's a couple things you got to do. And if you'll notice here, before we give them to I'm going to give them as quickly as I can, but before we do, notice none of these have to do with the condition I find myself in. Loving life and seeing good days has nothing to do with whether I'm popular or unpopular. Has nothing to do with whether I'm rich or poor. Has nothing to do with the color of my skin or my financial status or my level of education Let's look what these three things are real quickly. Let me give them to you. Number one, he says this. Look at verse 10. For he that will love life and see good days, then he says, Let him, and he gives three things, he lists three things, let him restrain his tongue from evil And his lips that they speak no guile. I put it this way, discipline my tongue. You say, oh preacher, you had to bring that up, huh? Restrain his look at the words, look how he says it, refrain his tongue from evil and his lips that they speak no guile. Discipline my tongue. Alright, how many folks would say, alright, we got a problem already? Good night I looked up that word refrain. Refrain his lips, his tongue from evil. Refrain his tongue from evil. The word refrain means this: to make to cease Or to quit. And it's interesting, the word that that word refrain comes to is the word that our word pause comes from. Let him pause his lips, his tongue from evil. In other words, stop talking that way. The word evil has the idea of what you think it would, bad. Refrain his tongue from evil, from bad things. Hey, happy Christians don't use bad words. I don't know, Brother Heinball, when I was preparing this, I thought, I don't need to say that. Then I thought about it, yeah, I do Happy Christians don't use bad words. You find a Christian using bad words, I'll tell you right now, you found an unhappy Christian Refrain his tongue from evil, bad things. Just stop it. Pause it. You're gonna say a bad word? Uh uh pause. You ever have a show you're watching? Hit the pause button, everything freezes. That's what he's saying. Bad means wicked. Here's one. That word evil there means bad, means wicked. Hey, it means hurtful things He's saying, listen, you want to love life and see good days, refrain your tongue from saying things that hurt people. Gossip. Hateful things. Responding back. Anger. Destructive. One definition for that word evil said things that are of no benefit Perhaps the one thing that brings more grief and unhappiness into our lives is our uncontrolled tongues, is our undisciplined tongues. I think one of the things that discourages a Christian the most, and that we hurt ourselves the most, we steal our own joy, we sap the vitality out of our life. It's when our lips speak evil things, our tongue says evil things. Then the guilt and the shame, remorse of what I said and did Just saps away. And then he says this: he says, refrain his tongue from evil and his lips that they speak no guile. The word guile means dishonesty or trickiness. That's my word. In other words, it's the attempt to manipulate people with words. The attempt to manipulate people with words. Now I wanted to go to James chapter number 3, verses 2 through 10. Would you jot that down? And I want to challenge. I don't know how many of y'all actually do this But I want to challenge you next day or so, maybe tonight before you go to bed, read James chapter 3 and verse number 2 through 10. And if you're not convicted, call me up and tell me. Because every time I read that, I get convicted. James chapter 3, 10 through 12. Now don't look at it now. You guys are cheating. Alright? Wait till you go home, look at it, and read it. Refrain. Just discipline the tongue. We'd be a whole lot happier if we could control this thing right here Right? Be a whole lot more peace in our lives. You know how many people are I I I don't know I could make up a statistic. I wonder how many people are in an ICU tonight with broken bones and beat up because they couldn't control their tongue and they got in a fuss and somebody beat the devil out of them. Pause that thing. I wonder how many marriages would be happier if we just get this thing under control. Amen. Let me give you a little cross stick. Write this down. This will help you a lot. It'll help me. Think before you speak. Think. T-H-I-N-K. Ready? Ready? Write these down. T. Ask yourself, is it true? What I'm about to say, is it true? I tell you, well I read it on Facebook, it has to be true. They got fact checkers. Right? It has to be true. If it's not, they would check it. Is it true? Hey, by the way, let me give you the next one. Just because it's true doesn't mean I necessarily have to say it. I know a lot of true things. I'm a pastor. It's not necessary to say them all. Number one, letter T, is it true? Letter H, is it helpful? If what I'm going to say, when I open my mouth and this tongue goes into gear, Is what's coming out of it, what's coming off of it, is going to help the person that I'm talking to or talking about, is it going to help them in any way Let your speech be always seasoned with grace and season with salt. In other words, make it helpful Help the person. The Bible talks about the tongue of the wise being healthful, healthy, promoting health. So number t uh letter T, is it true? Letter H, is it helpful? Letter I, is it inspiring? Does it lift someone up or does it knock them down? I've always felt, and I've failed this miserably, but prayed for years, Lord, help when people are around me. I would like for whenever they leave my presence, their faith is stronger than whenever they came into my presence. The things I say, inspire them and help them to trust the Lord and be a better Christian and be stronger. Is it true? Is it helpful? Is it inspiring? And is it necessary? Does that really need to be said? Do you really have to say that? Might be better, just leave it unsaid. In fact, I want to suggest to you 99% of the time, it would be a whole lot better just leave it unsaid. Amen or not? Now you can say amen. We're not trying to discourage you. And then last of all, K. Anybody want to guess what K is? Is it kind? They're kind. I tell you, unkind words do more damage than any bullet coming out of a gun has ever done. Unkind. There's not one person walking this planet that you and I as a Christian have any right to be unkind to. You say, well, if you knew them, no, it doesn't matter. It's not about them. It's about me being what God wants me to be. So Peter's writing to these people are being persecuted, cussed out, stoned, driven from their homes, thrown in prison, tortured. And he says, listen, you want to love life and see good days? You want the joy of the Lord? You want your life to be full even in that setting? Learn to discipline your tongue. Now I've got to give these next two very, very quickly. Number two, I notice in the second part of verse part of verse 11, do what is right Let him eschew evil and do good. The word eschew means turn away from, keep away from, shun. If something is evil, shun it. Now, our Amish friends, I don't know if they still do this anymore, they used to, at least when I grew up in the kind of an old order Mennonite when I was little, we were conservative Mennonite, and they had a practice of shunning. Anybody with that? And if somebody was doing wrong, you didn't talk to them. I remember one situation young growing up where people in the grocery store turned their backs to somebody Because they weren't something they were supposed to be. That's not what he's talking about. My Bible says that we ought to be kind to everybody. We don't run with them. We don't have to hang out with them. We don't indulge their sin. But we're kind to them So when he says ishu evil, he's talking about the deeds and acts of that word evil, there's the same word we saw back in verse 10. Bad stuff, sinful stuff, wicked stuff. Stay away from it. Here's a simple little thing. You want to be happy in your Christian life? You want to see good days? Just stay away from sin. It's not that complicated. Is it bad? Then shun it. Eschew it. Get away from it. Walk away. Whether it's on the TV or the computer or the radio, C D or I don't even know what they we used to have eight-track tapes when Then they had cassettes, then they had CDs. I don't even know what they have now. It's like microwave something. I don't know what it is. They're walking down the through the airport just talking away. I don't I don't see anybody around. I don't know what's happening. Eschew evil. And do good. I like this. That word do good means be pleasant. Be a benefit. One definition was this. Be a gift to people. Now don't walk up to somebody and say, I'm your gift. I'm a gift to you. It's not what he means. It means by my actions, the things I do, doing right, it helps people. It benefits. I'm a help to others. A blessing to others. The idea here is bring joy and happiness to other people. Be a servant to other people. Let me suggest this. You want to be happy, love life, and see good days, instead of trying to be blessed, seek to be a blessing. Instead of trying to gain happiness, try and give happiness. Bring happiness to the situation. Instead of f trying to find joy, deliver joy. You know what I found people who are miserable in their life and And do not see good days are people who are always looking for others to make me happy. Looking for others to be a blessing to me. They walk in church and they say Bless me if you can. That's an unhappy person right there. But I found that people that are happy are folks that just give. The best way to find happiness is to try and bring happiness to others. The best way to receive a blessing is go and be a blessing. I learned that early in the ministry. I go visit Brother Charlie Ross. I've talked about him a bunch. He's getting his legs amputated. I just talked about this not long ago. He's getting his legs amputated down at Bethesda. And I thought that poor man's getting both his legs amputated I want to try and be a blessing to him. And I stopped outside the hospital room for a wind and I said, Lord, I don't know what to say. Give me a verse. Help me to say or do something that'll encourage them. I stepped around that corner into the room. He saw me, Preacher! You thought we were having a birthday party or something I spent about an hour in there with him. Finally the doctors came and I walked out of there. I was on cloud nine. I was about the happiest Christian in the world. I just wanted to try and be a blessing to him. That guy poured it onto me You want to love life and see good days? Do right. Do right. Eschew evil and do good. Jesus, the Bible says Jesus went about doing good. What if he stolen if every member of Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church the next seven days just went around doing good? Being a blessing, saying positive things, controlling our tongue, just uh uh and just doing good. What a powerful witness that would be Last of all, let me end with this. Number one, he said, you want to love life, see good days? Number one, discipline your tongue. Keep that thing under control Number two, do what's right. Seek to be a blessing, not get one. And last of all, determine to make peace. Look at the last part of verse 11. Let them seek peace and ensue it. Sikh means to just pursue after, chase it. Has the one definition said it has the idea of an old hound dog on a rabbit trail. Man, he's just after that rabbit. He says, you try and find peace, you go after it. Eschew, uh, the word peace means harmony, absence of hostility. And then he says, ensue it. That means press earnestly, chase it down. He's writing to people who are being persecuted. He's writing to people who are being cussed out because they have faith in God. He's writing to people that are being hounded and beaten. Some faces killed. And he says, You do everything you can to be at peace with them. You try and win them to Christ. You be a blessing to those that are trying to kill you. You do what's right, you control that tongue when they're being so hateful, unjustly hateful to you. He says, you'll love life and you'll see good days You'll love life and see good days. By the way, I'm not to seek or demand this from others. It takes two people to make peace, right? My my opinion is Israel is trying to have peace, Hamas is not. The Netanyahu said, he said their objective is to kill all the Jews. The objective of the Jews is just to stay alive. He said, how do you compromise? What's the compromise? Listen, we live in a world, listen, we live in a world that is becoming increasingly hostile to your Savior and my Savior. That is becoming increasingly hostile to the things that we hold dear, increasingly hostile to what we preach from this pulpit and teach down in children's church and Sunday school classes. You say, well, we got to go to war with this world. No, we seek peace. We don't respond in kind. My Bible says, as much as is possible, live peaceably with who? All men. All men. So it might be one-sided. Maybe that person that has hostilities towards you is not interested in peace. But I want God's blessing on my life, and I want to love life, and I want to see good days. So I'm going to do everything I possibly can to be at peace with that person who is at hostility with me As much as is possible. Jesus said in Matthew chapter 5, in the Beatitudes, he said, Blessed are the peacemakers. Blessed, happy, joyful are the peacemakers. We're not at war with this world. There's spiritual warfare going on, but I'm not at war with The liquor store. I'm at war with liquor. I'm not at war with the guy. You follow what I'm saying You know the best way to make you best you know the best way to get rid of your enemy I'm gonna tell you how to get rid of your enemy See, I'd like to get that guy's my enemy, I'd like to get rid of 'em. I'll tell you how. Make them your friend. They're not your enemy anymore. Be kind, be gracious, be a peacemaker. I read this article, a little article about a fellow back in the 1500s. 1555, Nicholas Ridley. He was scheduled to be burned at the stake because of his witness for Christ. Listen to this. The Catholic Church is going to burn him at the stake because of his witness for Christ. The night before his execution, the next morning he's going to be tied to a stake. They're going to be put wood all around it. They're going to tear up his Bibles. They're going to lay it all around the bottom of it. They're going to bore some kind of uh oil or something on there. They're going to lake that thing and they're going to burn him alive until he's dead. And people agree that's an awful way to die The night before, he's in his chamber, where they're prison chamber, and his brother comes by And his brother offers to spend the night with him. I'll stay here in this prison chamber with you. It's your last night alive. You're going to die a horrible death tomorrow. I want to stay here with you. And Nicholas Ridley declined his brother's offer. And this is what he said. Listen to this. Nicholas declined the offer and replied that he meant to go to bed early because he wanted to get a good night's rest. before he goes to meet his Savior tomorrow. I don't know about you, but the last thing I'd worry about is getting a good night's rest, I think. You know what? He had perfect peace. Ah, I'm gonna go to You're gonna be burned alive at the stake tomorrow. Yeah, I'm gonna better get to bed, get a good night's rest Wouldn't it be wonderful to be able to live through life with that peace and that confidence in my relationship with my God? Knowing that and yet, uh, just getting a good night's rest. That's loving life and seeing good days. And I want to live like that. Amen. And this world needs to see Christians who have that kind of faith that controls its tongue. Does what is good and is a blessing. Tries to lift others up and help others. Let's pray, Father. We ask you'd help us to take Peter's admonition. None of us are suffering like these dear readers were that he's writing to. We've got it awfully good. So help us, Lord, not take that for granted. Help us to follow these three clear instructions And apply them to our lives. I wonder, it's bowed eyes closed tonight, how many would say, preacher, I want that kind of life? A loving life and good days in spite of what's happening And you like that uplifted hand, my hand's raised. That's what I want. Now listen, it doesn't just happen. We've got to follow the Lord's instructions. If you want to love life, see good days, then let and follow these three things. So let's kneel at an altar tonight and say, Lord, help me, fill me with your spirit, enable me. The Father with this, Father bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name, Amen. Let's stand together, heads abound, eyes are closed