And uh I want to begin reading in verse number six down through ten. We're not going to preach on all of these verses tonight. I'm trying to break them down a little bit, but I it's One thought here, I think. This is the context, these verses here. He says in verse six, James chapter four, but he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the Humble, very important that we stay humble before the Lord. Submit yourselves therefore. That word therefore as we pointed out is very important. Because God resists the proud, because he gives grace to the humble, the following things should be true in our lives. The following actions should take place. Submit yourselves therefore To God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. We looked at that. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts Ye double-minded. Wow, strong language there. Be afflicted and mourn. Weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to heaviness Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. How to get close to God. Did you notice that there in verse 8? Draw nigh to God, and he will what Draw nigh to you. And so let's pray. Father, bless our time in your word this evening. I pray again tonight, Lord. I ask you that you would please fill me with your spirit. And that you would use these thoughts to challenge us and help us grow as we go into these winter months now and days get shorter and colder and I pray that our hearts would stay warm, stay on fire for you. And so maybe use a thought tonight to stir us up and strengthen us, I pray, in Jesus' name Amen. How to get close to God. We pointed out last week, if you'll remember, that uh uh man and sin tends to draw us away from the Lord And God created us to be in fellowship with Him. And one of the reasons so many people are so frustrated and so angry and their lives are so empty and they're so confused. is because they're not near the Lord. They're separated from the very purpose they were created. And so God's wanting us to draw close to him. And if you'll remember, I'm going to try and get right to the point tonight, but if you remember, we pointed out in verse number eight there. that there has to be a conscious decision made on our part. Look at verse 8. Draw nigh unto God, and he will draw nigh unto you. In fact, all of these actions here is something are are things that I need to decide. I need to make a conscious decision. Now I want to come on and look at the next one. The second part of verse number eight, we said, number one There must be a conscious decision. Draw an eye to God, he will draw an eye to you. Then the second point, look at the last part of verse 8. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify ye hearts, ye double-minded. I put this down, number two There must be a cleansing in my heart and life. If I'm going to get close to the Lord in my relationship with him, if I'm going to be, if you remember, we said tight with the Lord I'm going to be close to the Lord. We're going to be uh our hearts are going to be knit. One, I've got to make some conscious decision. It's not just going to happen. I've got to take do my part. I've got to be active I need to make it conscious. The second thing I need to do, as I just said, I need to cleanse my heart and life. Do you see what he says there? Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. It is impossible to be close to God. And to be living in dirty sin. Our God is a holy God. And I'm telling you, we live in a world that doesn't want to hear that. We we have a Christianity anymore. That pushes that whole concept aside. But God is first and foremost a holy God. Do you remember in Isaiah chapter 6 when I the key the year that King Isaiah died? And Isaiah said he saw the Lord high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. Anybody remember reading that? And what did the uh what did uh uh the seraphim and angels uh uh uh shout out for around the throne. They cried out one word three times. What was it? Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. God first and foremost wants us to understand that He is a holy God. And it is impossible for me to be unholy and to be in fellowship with a holy God. And so he says here, and he uses, as I pointed out, some very strong language. He says, uh cleanse your hand, ye sinners. Goodness. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. You can almost hear the bite in it as you read that. And he's being very, very strong here. It is impossible to be in fellowship with God close to the Lord if my hands have dirty sin on them. And so take your Bibles if you will. We're going to look at a few verses. Come to Luke chapter 22 with me. Here we have a perfect example of somebody who got away from God And the terrible consequences of that. A good man, a man that God used in great, great ways. In Luke chapter 22 And I want to begin reading in verse 54, towards the end of the Gospel of Luke, chapter 22, towards the end of the chapter. Verse 54. I'm going to be reading here, and you're going to see where I'm going with this as soon as I begin reading, most likely. And they took him, Jesus, and led him and brought him into the high priest's house. Look at that last statement. And Peter followed what? Afar off. Was he close to the Lord? No. Not only was he close to the Lord physically, but he's away from God spiritually. And he follows the Lord afar off. And notice what begins to happen here. And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were set down together, Peter sat down among them. This is a wrong crowd he's with. But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire and earnestly looked upon him. I mean she's just staring. Do you ever sit somewhere you ever been in a public place and there's a little kid across there and they're just staring at you? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Anybody here, does that make you uncomfortable? It's like what do you do? I just go That's what this maid is doing. I mean she's look do you see what it says? She's earnestly looking on him. I can just see old Peter squirming. This is not his crowd. For three and a half years he's been walking close to the Lord. Now he's in a completely different crowd. He's already uncomfortable, no doubt about it. And said, this man was also with him. Uh-oh. And he what? Denied him. Ah, those hands are getting dirty, aren't they? He's falling afar off, he's not close to the Lord. And now he's lying. Oh no, uh I wasn't with him. That's a flat-out lie. He'd been with the Lord for three and a half years. Look what it says. I know him not. Peter, you're lying. And after a little while, another saw him and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not. He lies again. And about the space of one hour after, another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth, this fellow was with him, for he is in Galilee. And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately while he yet spake the cock crew, look at this. This just tears me up. And the Lord turned and looked upon Peter. Can you feel a little bit how Peter must have felt? And Peter remembered the word of the Lord and how he had said unto him, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice, and Peter went out and wept bitterly. Did you catch in verse number 9 of James chapter 4? Weep, turn your laughter to mourning. You know what's happening? Peter played around with sin. He got his hands dirty. He was lying. He was with the wrong crowd. And God approached them about it and it brought tears to his eyes. He suddenly took his relationship with the Lord very, very seriously What I'm trying to say is this. If we're going to be close to God, if we're going to be tight with our Savior, if we're going to walk close to the Lord and have that relationship that God wants us to have, He created us to have We're going to have to keep our hands clean. As we approach our revival, I was thinking about a revival as I was preparing us this this week. In a week from today, Brother Williams, week from right now, Brother Williams, to be preaching And we're going to be into our 23rd annual fall revival with Dr. Williams. I got thinking, wouldn't this week be a good week? Stop and do some hand washing. When I was I was in a church when I was little, we were in a denomination, they would periodically have foot washings. Anybody ever hear that? Some churches have foot washings. It's interesting, the night before, it was all scheduled, you all knew way ahead of time. The night before, mom would trim our toenails and scrub our feet. They were so clean, she soaked them in bleach. And um not really The last thing our feet needed that morning was washing. I'm not talking about that, but I'm talking about maybe God's searching our heart and those things in our life that we know are not right. Let's not wait till next week to deal with it. How about let's tonight, before we leave here, just come clean with God. Wouldn't that be a great way to go into the revival, Brother Williams? A week before coming in with our spiritual hands clean, sin is dealt with. We know it's there. We talked about it this morning. We deal with it. And he says, cleanse your hands. He said, wouldn't it be great if we just judge ourselves tonight that we be not judged? Say, Lord, prepare my heart for this revival. God show me those areas of my life that need cleaning up and uh going into that revival. I think we could see God do great things I notice here in James chapter 4, I put two things down under this matter of cleansing our heart and life. First of all, we need sanitized hands. He says, cleanse your hands. That word cleanse means exactly what you imagine it means. It means to make clean, to remove the dirt. How am I going to do that? If I'm going to clean my hands, first of all, I gotta look at them and examine them. Jerry out working in the yard or in the garden, maybe some of you fellas working on the mechanics and And you walk in, you never really paid attention, your hands didn't think about it, your wife says, Ah, look at your hands. Yeah And we need to be aware of it. And one of the parts of cleansing our hands is just stopping and looking at them and saying, Good night. I didn't realize my hands are that dirty. Before we sit down to eat, I got to go wash my hands And uh that's what he's saying here. I think maybe before we go into revival, and I'm trying to tie this into our revival, before we go into this, maybe some of us just need to stop and say, Lord, search me and try me. Show me where that dirt is. God, show me where those areas are in my life that need to be addressed. And so there needs to be an examination, but then there needs to be an effort. When God does bring those things to attention, when God does show us the dirt that's under our spirit, the spiritual dirt that's under our spiritual fingernails. Nobody else sees it, but the Lord does. We know it's there. When God does show that to us, then let's do something about it and clean it up. Did I ever tell you I used to work in a hospital? I worked in the surgery department. Yo, this is old, forget it. But anyway I like that story. That's why I like preaching out other churches. I can tell them that and they're all amazed. You guys already know the end But um anyway I worked out uh there in the hospital and some of you ladies uh some of you folks that worked in there, some of you ladies worked in in the in the back part, you get in the OR before we could even go into the operating room We had to stop. Every operating room had a huge sink right beside the door where you go in. And they had all these different types of sponges and brushes and all had had sanitation type things on it And before we could go in, and we went through some thorough training to do this just on cleaning our hands. And if I remember correctly, it was like a three-minute routine. That water had to be hot, and you got in there, you went through one stage, and then you got this, and you scrubbed the whole thing down, you had to rub it certain ways, and then you had this thing and you brushed. Very, very carefully. Why? Because they knew dirty hands Were dangerous in a hospital. They understood that those germs, and there had to be a very thorough, diligent effort put in to make sure those hands are clean And I tell you what, if we would give as much attention to making sure our lives and our our our walk with God is clean and pure as we do to make sure the uh things are safe and healthy in the hospital, I think we might see revival We might see revival. Here's one of the dangers of focusing so much on abortion and sodomy and all those types of things that we get all worked up on that. We see those horrendous things and suddenly the little sins in our life don't seem that bad. And his little dirty hands, and just that little sin here, and that little dishonesty there, and that little indulgence in something forbidden over here. Little bit of this there. It doesn't seem so bad. I mean good night. I'm not involved in a homosexual marriage for Pete's sake. No, but it's still dirty. Huh? Still dirty. So we've got to put some effort into it. And we've got to scrub and we've got to clean. I like 1 John 1. 9. This message ties in with the morning's message. If we confess our sins He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins. What's the next word? And cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Say, preacher, I know there's something in my life. I know there's a little dirt, a little spiritual dirt under my spiritual finger, and I know it's there. And God's been pointing it out. What should I do? I'll tell you what to do. Confess it. Agree with God, God, you're right, that's wrong that should not be in my life. You'll be amazed what that one act does So confess it. Confession is part of cleansing. Then Ephesians chapter 5, verse 25, 26, 27 tells folks about the cleansing of the word. I'll tell you, one of the great things about reading our Bibles every single day helps keep our heart and soul clean. You say, preacher, I read my Bible every day. I didn't get a stinking thing out of it. You know what? You've heard this before. If you take a s you say it just goes through me like a sib. I don't even I just read it. It just goes in one ear and out the other. Well, the thing is it's cleaning everything as it's going through You pour water through a sieve, you say it don't hold nothing. No, but you got you a clean sieve. Right? I like what Lester Rolfe said. He said, people accuse us of brainwashing, folks. Well they need their brains need washing And that's what reading the Bible will do and help keep us clean and help us deal with that sin. So I uh some people come in sometimes, they'll mess up and talk to me and say, Preacher, I need to talk. We'll do so go over some things. One of the first things I ask you, when I said this all, one of the first things I asked, how's your daily Bible reading? You know I found out the majority of the time, almost I want to say a hundred percent of the time, but I I won't go to that, but the overwhelming majority of the time people say something like this, Preacher, you know what? I kind of let it slide. And I've been reading my Bible like I should. You know what? Your hands got dirty, didn't they? The hands got dirty. And so he says, Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. That's sanitized hands. But then he makes another statement: purify your heart. So not only do we need sanitized hands, we need a singular heart I like that word purify. I was looking at purify your heart. And I thought, I can't do that. That's something God has to do. What does he mean? Purify my heart. And I got looking at this, and that word purify is an interesting word. It has the idea of removing impurities. It has the idea of removing the dross from a gold or silver. If you go to the jewelry store and you buy a ring that is pure gold, what does that mean? It's nothing but gold. There's no other elements in it. Let me put it this way, it is singular. There's nothing else. When he says purify your heart, then he goes on, ye double uh purify your hearts, ye double-minded. The idea here is he's talking about not, he's talking about getting our affection set on one thing The idea is not being wavering in my love and commitment to the Lord. I need my heart purified. I need it to be focused on one thing and one thing alone: the Lord Jesus Christ. I need my love to be grounded on one thing and one thing alone, Jesus Christ. And that's what he's talking about here, not being double-minded. Let's look at a couple verses. If you would come with me to Matthew chapter 6. If I'm going to get close to the Lord, first of all I need to make a conscious decision. Alright, I'm going to draw an eye to God. I'm not going to just let things go. I'm not just going to float through my Christian life. I'm going to make a conscious decision, go forward with God. Then I need to uh cleanse my heart and life. Get that sin, cleanse my hands, get sanitized hands, get the sin out. Now I need a singular heart. Look at Matthew chapter 6 and Verse number 19. Let me get over here. I was talking away. Matthew chapter 6. Look at verse 19. Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth. Where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where And where thieves do not break through nor steal. For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also. The light of the body is the eye. If therefore thine eye be single The whole body shall be full of light. But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness? Now look, he explains, I think, in verse 24, what he's getting at No man can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will hold to the one. and despise the other. You cannot serve God in mammon. What's he talking about? He's talking about, I believe, the same thing James is talking about when he says, purify your hearts, you double-minded. He's saying get singular-minded Get your focus, your commitment, your love, your devotion to one thing. Quit trying to hold on to the Lord and to the world. And if I'm going to be close to God, if I'm going to have that walk with God, I need to have uh supposed to have, I need to let go of the world. That's the problem with so much in contemporary Christianity. We're trying to be friends with God and friends with the world. We ought not to be concerned at all whether we're friends with the world. Our concern ought to be our devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. And he says, purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Get very singular-minded. On social media, and there's different types of social media, and more and more people are getting on it all the time. And uh if you'll notice on there, sometimes people will put things on uh Facebook or Twitter or on any of these, they'll put something on there. One day they'll have Bible verses and pretty little pictures and quotes and Christian things And an hour later, or the next day, they'll have the most vile stuff and some nasty statement and some dirty joke or some filthy language. And it goes back and forth, one or the other, one or the other. And that's what he's talking about. Listen, either you're out and out for Christ or don't put on a show that you're for him. And just me personally, I see something like that. They get one shot. They put something like that. Boom! I hit delete. And they're going, I don't need that. I try very, very hard. Try very, very hard to have a singular message going out, the Lord Jesus Christ. And I don't want that not just on my social media. I want that in my life, the one message that goes out, this is devotion to the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's what he's talking about. He wants our testimony to be crystal clear. We're in love with the Lord Jesus Christ. I thought about, so I was studying this passage, I thought about Dr. Lee Robertson. Now some of y'all uh know of him, some of you have heard him preach. I was able to be under him for a number of years down at Highland Park I have never known of a man as focused as Dr. Lee Robertson was. I mean 24-7. It was Jesus Christ, the gospel of Jesus Christ, living for God. Nothing changed, no difference, no wavering. He had so many things. I just finished reading one of his biographies some time ago. And a lot of this I knew, a lot of it I didn't. And uh he had so many things he was so careful about, things he would not do for the singular purpose I don't want people to question my testimony and my love for the Lord Jesus Christ. Uh one of the things that comes to my mind I was reading that uh he would not and I think this is good advice, but he would not, if he was driving somewhere and there was a lady walking, he would not pick her up and give her a ride. Even if it was one of the church ladies. Just testimony's sake. You want to be crystal clear. And in fact, they said in there one time, one statement was if his daughter was walking down the road, he would not stop and pick her up because He was concerned that somebody would misconstrue, not know it was his daughter, and harm his testimony. Now, some people might think that's a little extreme, but what I'm saying is this, he is focused. He wants to be single-hearted. He wants to be pure and not double-minded. And if we're going to be close to God, we need to come out and we need to purify our hearts. I am Jesus Christ. No questions, no doubts whatsoever. My heart is set on the Lord Jesus Christ. So we have number one, there needs to be a conscious decision. I'm going to do something. I'm going to live for God. I'm going to get close to God. Number two, there needs to be cleansing of heart and life. And let me last of all give you real quickly, verse number nine, a concern over our condition. Now I'll be honest with you, verse number nine, I struggled over this. I thought, what in the world is he saying? Come back there to James chapter 4. Notice he says, be afflicted and mourn, and weep, that your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness. What is he talking about here? Listen, I can tell you this. There is nothing in the world wrong with joy and laughter. In fact, the Bible says in Proverbs 17 verse 22, a merry heart doeth good like menacing. How many people here you like to chuckle and laugh? Anybody here? How many of you here have ever picked up your pastor likes to laugh and horse around? Uh yeah, to a fault probably. And uh there's nothing in the world wrong with this. In the Gospel of John, Jesus says, My joy I give unto you. He wants us to be happy. He wants us to have joy, genuine, godly, pure joy. He wants us to have that. So what's he talking about here? He says, be afflicted and mourn. Are we supposed to walk around, wear black suits, big black Bibles, and walk around, oh, I'm just miserable? No, that's not what he's saying at all. I think what he's telling us here that there are aspects of our life That we need to need to take very, very seriously. There are some aspects of life that are not a laughing matter There are some issues in life that ought to humble us, that ought to make us very, very sober. In fact, there are some issues in life that ought to bring us down and really we are mourn over it that things are not what they ought to be. Now I'm all for joy and having a good time and all that. There's nothing wrong with that. But my spiritual well-being ought to be taken very, very seriously Me not being right with God is something that I ought to mourn over and not just treat lightly and not just treat like it's some kind of joke. You hear the way some people talk about the things of God, it makes me tremble. There are some things. Our relation with God, our spiritual well-being ought to be taken very, very seriously. Hey, a person's eternal destiny ought not to be joked about. I like to tell jokes, I like to horse around, I like to laugh and chuckle, I like to make people laugh. But you'll be hard-pressed to hear me tell jokes about hell. I don't think hell's a laughing matter. I don't think a person being lost for all eternity, separated from God in a lake of fire. I don't think that's something to horse around about. That's something we mourn over. That's something that we weep over, that not something we horse around. There are certain aspects of the Christian life, our eternal destiny, our spiritual well-being, our relationship with God. That ought not to be a joking matter. That's why um uh I don't say as much as I used to, maybe I should, but that's why when the Word of God is being preached, it bothers me when people are horsing around and going on It bothers me walking in and out and just disregarding the preaching of the word of God. Listen, we're talking about eternal things. We're talking about the things of God, eternal destiny, a person's relationship with their creator. That's something that ought to be taken very, very seriously. Now we're preaching, we joke, and we laugh and we chuckle, but all has a purpose to bring us to the Lord and bring us to a point where we make decisions that we're growing. And so there are aspects of life he's telling us here. We're talking about getting close to God, draw nigh to God. And that that issue of my relationship with God and being right with God is something I ought to be very, very concerned over. I ought to take very, very seriously. Have you ever been somewhere in a situation and it's a very serious thing and there's somebody there just horsing around? Maybe it's uh maybe it's a ball game or something and they're gonna sing the national anthem and they're gonna pledge the flag. Did you never notice when that happens kind of people take that seriously a little bit And inevitably, if I've been somewhere, inevitably there's somebody over here and they're just horsing around carrying on. How many folks that bothers you a little bit? Sure. And other, maybe it's uh, and sometimes they don't do this on purpose. Maybe you're somewhere there's a banquet or whatever. All right, we're gonna have prayer, we're gonna say grace. Everybody gets together and somebody they don't hear it or whatever and they're just talking and laughing and carrying on and you're trying to have prayer. Anybody ever hear something like that? That bothers me. That's something that needs to be taken very seriously. We try to emphasize, we take Lord's Supper, 1 Corinthians 11 is very, very clear. God takes that extremely seriously And we've had occasion over the years where we're taking Lord's Supper, they'll be usually it's a young person or something, and uh they're just horsing around or talking and just being trivial. And we're taking Lord's Supper, and I try to do it discreetly, I try and do it respectfully, but something like that, I think that's a time to call things down and say, wait a minute, this is not a time to be horsing around. And we need to take that very seriously. And that's what he's saying. This my matter of my relationship with God needs to be taken very, very seriously. In fact Depending on the condition, I may be afflicted over it. It may require mourning and weeping. My laughter needs to be turned to mourning. And say, you know, I'm not right with God, and things are not what they ought to be. And we take that very seriously The greatest obstacle in my walk with God, get this. My greatest obstacle in my walk with God is not the liberals in Washington, D. C. My greatest obstacle in my walk with God is not my neighbor. It's not even another church member. My greatest obstacle in my walk with God is the indifference in my own heart. Where I just don't take it seriously. I just don't take seriously my relationship with my God and Savior. And when I get to the point where that is important and that sobers me when I think about that, then I'm on the road to drawing nigh to God. I'm not saying walk around with a long face and be morbid and everything's terrible. No, no, no. I'm saying this, and I believe this is what he's teaching. I take very, very seriously. My relationship with God, my creator. And it's not to be trifled with. Um God is not looking for great talents. God is not looking for people with high IQs. That's where I say, praise the Lord, right there. Amen. It's not what he's looking for. You know what he's looking for? God is looking for hearts who are serious about their devotion to him. God is looking for people who are serious about their love for Jesus Christ. When I take that seriously And I clean my hands and I get my heart settled on the Lord Jesus Christ, and I make that commitment, I'm going to draw nigh to God, then God draws nigh to me, and he takes that step, and we can be close. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us, Lord. Take this matter very seriously. Help us, Lord, to examine ourselves as we go into this revival week next Sunday. I pray your spirit would be moving and preparing us, and we could start out Sunday morning with hearts of fire for you, hearts that are pure, hands that are clean. And we could D see you send a real, genuine revival to our church, to my heart, Lord. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder how many Christians here, members of Mount Lake, would say, Preacher This coming week, I really want to stop on a daily basis and ask the Lord to try me and help me and test me and draw me close to Him That as this revival hits, I'll be close to God and I'll see God do some great things. Anybody here say, preacher, this coming week, I'm really going to take it seriously, preparing my heart and life for what God has for me. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. Let's try and be a little specific tonight. I wonder if there was some tonight say, preacher, you know you're preaching about those clean hands. The Spirit of God spoke to my heart. There's some areas in my life that I really need to clean up. There's some areas in my life that really need attention, some scrubbing. Some confession and some cleansing of the word. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. When you were preaching, there's definitely some here. God bless you. A number of hands around. Sure. So some here tonight say, Preacher, you know, I know sometimes my heart gets double. I want this, and I want the Lord, and I want a little of the world, I want a little Lord. And tonight you say, preacher, as we finish out the Lord's day, go into this week before our revival I need the Lord to help me get single-minded. And my heart would just be devoted to Jesus Christ and not divided in any way. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I know I need that. God bless you. A bunch of hands around And God will hear us and He'll help us. And maybe there's some and I don't know. This would be between you and God. But maybe tonight you'd say, Preacher, I haven't really taken my walk with God as seriously as I should Just kind of go through the motions a little bit indifferent. But God's grace tonight, I want to take it seriously. My relationship with my God, my walk with my Lord. I really need to take that more seriously. Would there happen to be anybody tonight, preacher, pray for me? I really do. God bless you. A number of hands I believe God will help us. I really believe He will. If we'll humble ourselves and address these issues and let Him have His way. Father, bless our invitation, I ask now, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together head