Maybe, maybe not. Ah, yes You've got to turn the right buttons every once in a while, you know. Now, I don't know if you all heard about the preacher. I I just put a lozenger in my mouth. I heard about a preacher that got to preach and what he did every Sunday, he'd reach in his pocket, grab a lozenger, put it in his mouth. When the lozenger was gone then he'd quit preaching. Well one morning he reached in his pocket and he put the lozenger in his mouth and come twelve o'clock he's still preaching. Come one o'clock he's still preaching. Come and found out he stuck a button in his mouth that wasn't going anywhere. My wife will tell you that's probably the truth, but that I I promise I will not do that this morning, okay? But uh That's good. Take your Bibles while we're getting ready and turn to First Kings. First Kings chapter number eighteen Still can't get unwired here. I'm all wired up, huh? Okay, we're getting there. Well it's good to be here. I'll give you a little update real quick on what's going on at Beacon since we weren't here. Over the last couple months. But uh we are in a process right now. We just printed I shouldn't say that. There are two truckloads of paper sitting in our building right now. They're supposed to start printing on Monday. We are starting a new project for Northern Africa, which is going to be done in four languages. It's going to be done in Swahili, English, Arabic. And something else. Can't remember what the Hey now I tell you what, every brother Dan and I both have been announcing this, and every time we do it, one of us forget. One of the languages. I'm not sure what she is. But we're doing it in four different languages in that area. They're wanting to cover as much of northern Africa as they can And we are going to start with Swahili uh very soon here. We're gonna finish up the Puerto Rican project we've been starting on in the next three weeks. It's gonna be two hundred and seventy thousand Subscriptions being sent to Puerto Rico to a couple different churches over there. They should be starting to be shipped out in two weeks. We're going to do them in in four skins at a time as they go out. So they'll be going out shortly And then we have the the Swahili project that we're going to start, and then the English, and and that all suppl is supposed to go out by the end of uh September So we'll get that out. We're also in the process of getting we're supposed to get two thousand ten thousand more of the uh New Testaments to go to uh Burma. So we're we're staying they're staying busy down there. Now, Brother Schofield. The skinny uh uh the the the uh the dumpster is gone. Okay, just wanted to make sure you didn't know that, you know. But I I understand he went down there and made a mess and left. That's what they told me. He just came down there, he tore walls down, left all the debris to lay, and he left. But uh they're just about done with all the project down there. They have a few more ceiling tiles replaced. Most of the machines are wired where they're supposed to go now. Uh just had some carpet put in last week and uh Everything's kind of getting back to a place where it's very usable down there in in South Carolina. We were down there all week and and just got back on on yesterday morning real early. And then uh over here today. It's a blessing to be here. We have we are you praying for us. We have three assemblies. One starts today in Duncansville, Pennsylvania. Then we go to Smithfield, Virginia, and Barolithia, Virginia, all those in the next couple weeks. So you'll be praying for that. We'll do about 70,000 scriptures in those three assemblies. So I know the one we start tomorrow is 30,000. And uh that will be done by noon on Tuesday if I know anything about what takes place there. So uh you be praying about all that as we go that God gets the glory in it. And we're I don't have any of the letters. We have got a couple more um results back from the field. I know one came back from um Uh somewhere in the Caribbean that they that there were several that gotten saved over the scriptures that were printed and sent down there. And so uh you'd be praying about how how God's working in the lives of of many people around the world Take your Bibles as I said and turn to 1 Kings chapter number 18. 1 Kings chapter number 18. You're all there and I'm not 1 Kings 18, and we're going to start in verse number 17 this morning. And it came to pass when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he? that troubleth Israel. Well I'll tell you what, doesn't that isn't that what it sounds like? Whenever you go in the job place or when you go somewhere and they know you're a Christian, isn't that what it sounds like? Are you the guy that's causing all this trouble around here? It's all because you're a Christian. You keep bringing things up and people are getting mad because you're a Christian. I mean, I you hear it sometimes. You go in and you know, you start witnessing one time, the next thing you know, someone's saying, Well, you're you're you're the troublemaker around here. Think about it As soon as Ahab saw Elijah, he said, Art thou the man that's troubled? Are you the guy? You're the one that's caused this trouble. But you know, before we get into that, take your Bibles if you would and turn back to chapter number 16. 1 Kings chapter number 16. And look at verse number 30. And it says, And Ahab, the son of Omri, did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him. Ahab was an evil king. You go down and you read about it. Ahab's the one that built some of the some of the groves of the prophets. Ahab's the one that built a temple for Baal in Samaria. Ahab's the one that did all those things. He did that which was was great and evil in the sight of the Lord. He he did more to to against God than anybody else. And then when he messaged Mary Jezebel, that even made it even worse. And here he comes over here in chapter number 18, and he sees Ahab and he says, Are you the guy that caused all the trouble? Art thou he that troubleth Israel? Verse number 18. And he answered, I have not troubled Israel, but thou In thy father's house, in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the Lord, and thou hast followed Balaam. Now therefore send and gather to me all Israel into Mount Carmel. And the prophets of the Baal four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at Jezebel's table So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel and gathered the prophets together unto Mount Carmel, and Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long halt ye between two opinions If the Lord be God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him, and the people answer him, not a word. You know, when you think about it, as I already mentioned. People are always looking at you saying, because you're the Christian, you're the problem. I mean you think about it when you go to work, people do they now they know who to come to if they want they want somebody to pray about something If you've been a true witness at work, they're going to come and they'll say, Hey, would you pray for with me about so and so? But at the same time, because you say, you know, they they start talking about their parties they had over the weekend, you say something, hey, you know, I I I I don't want to hear that Well yeah, who do you think you are? You think you're better than everybody else? They know who you are, they know what's coming, they know what's going on. Oh you know what, but it's the same way in your family too. If you've got lost family members and you start witnessing to them Well who do you think you're better than the rest of us? What's going on? I I've too told the story many times about my grandfather, that my grandfather Was adamantly against God in everything he did. My grandfather was just, I mean, he he never went to church, wouldn't go to church. At the age of 78, my grandfather finally got saved. My grandfather would walk by the house uh or the dining room table and they lived they lived with my mom and dad for years and and and they would be a tie check the mom and dad put it on the table and they just put it they'd write the tie check out and put it on the table. My grandfather would come by and You're going to send us all the poor for them. I can't believe you're giving that much money to the church. What are you giving it to them for? We need money around here too. I mean it's constant. Till the day he got saved. The day he got saved, he gave everything he had to the church. He read his Bible through three times a year. And I mean just constant. He wanted it. It was a change in his life But you know what? For years he was antagonistic, saying, What are you your people you're driving me crazy? What is this about church? You know, he never missed the service after he got af after after he gotten saved. Until the I mean a matter of fact He came home from church one night and it had launches on his face. That was Sunday night. Went to the doctors on Monday, got put in the hospital Monday night. And Tuesday night he said a prayer that my grandmother said was the best prayer she ever heard him pray, went to sleep and never woke up the next morning. You know, uh what a change. You know, the same thing goes with even church members. There are some of those that'll You come to church and you'll get excited. You want to go soul winning. Someone will say, ah, you walk, get a wear-off. Yeah, they won't be as excited. You know why they're not excited? Because you're not excited. You know why it wears off? Because they don't see it in people that keeps on getting excited. We ought to be excited about going out and knocking on doors every time we go. I didn't say you aren't not fearful about going out I don't like anytime I go out. I don't like knocking on that door to get the unknown, but we ought to be excited about being able to do God's work. We ought to want to go. But there's the antagonistic people within the church who say, oh look at that. They just get they just volunteer for everything. Because that one that's anti antagonistic won't volunteer for anything. But I want you to think about this as we come down and we look at these verses and we see that there's so much going on here. And Elijah said to the people, he said, how long halt ye between two opinions? Well that hits the church pretty hard. How long halt ye between two opinions? If God be God, serve him. And if Bell be God, serve him How long? Halt yeah. I'm going to ask you that question this morning. How long halt ye between two opinions? Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you, Lord, that we can be in your house. What a blessing it is that we can come and we can Enjoy the company of others. Fellowship one with another. But Lord, now I pray at this time as we're here that Lord will you quiet our hearts and allow us, Lord, to Take time to look at your word. Lord, I pray you'll speak through me this morning and only let me say the things you want me to say. Lord, as we go forth from here that we know we've met with you, we ask now, Lord, that you'll guide and direct all that's done and said in Jesus' name Amen. I want you to think about this little word halt. It says, how long halt you between two opinions? Now we think we have an idea we know what halt means, and it's used in many times wrong as far as definition goes, but we think the word halt means stop. But that's not what it means. The word halt means, as you read in the New Testament, it talks about the halt and the lame, or those that couldn't walk well. Couldn't get up and move well. Or it also means the idea talks about a bird and the definition is kind of that little bird that you watch in the summertime and you've got that bird feeder out there and he'll land at the bird feeder and he will sit there for about ten seconds and he'll move over here. He doesn't like any limb he sits on because it's just not quite right. It doesn't suit him. And he he bounces around from place to place That is the true definition of what halt is. Here's the Christian. This is what this is what Elijah was saying. How long halt ye or de Can't make a decision. How long halt ye between two opinions And that's what Elijah said to the people. I mean, here's a people, and many of these people were around before Ahab was around. A lot of these people had been brought up under a good ruler and heard what it was to know what God who God was and how they were supposed to worship, many weren't But their families were teaching them, and here comes Ahab in with all his baal worship and everything else, and he's brought that all into the country. And Elijah stands it for them and says, How long haunt ye. How long are you going to be indecisive of whether you're going to serve God or whether you're going to serve Baal? We can go back and we can read in in chapter number sixteen and and earlier in chapter number eighteen as far as that That Obadiah had hid hundreds of prophets. They weren't around. They were out of the area. They weren't saying a thing for God right now because they were trying to save their lives. Because Ahab said he was going to kill them all. And he had killed as many as he'd get his hands on. Elijah says, how long you get a halt between two opinions? We read about it in. We think about this word halt and we see what's going on and we think about, well, these people, children of Israel, they just need to make a decision. Well, I mean, look at this. They're not serving God. They're not doing anything. Hang on one minute. Don't be too critical of them. Where would you have been? Where would you have been? Children of Israel, they were looking at a lot of things happening in their lives. Where would you have done it? But I want you to think and look at verse number 21 here, real quick again. It says, And Elijah came unto all the people and said, How long halt yeah? Between two opinions. If the Lord be God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word. They didn't say anything. When he asked the question about serving God or serving Baal, they didn't say a word. They stood there. Can you imagine If God be God, serve him, or Baal be God serve him. It was quiet. No one said anything. You know, isn't that the way it is a lot of times in church? We announced a special meeting going on, and well, maybe I'll show up. I don't know. That's wash day. I don't know if I can come that day or not. Well that's grocery day. I don't know if I can make it on grocery day. You know, I have a set time whenever I is God or Baal. Who are you going to serve? God or Baal? Don't be so hard on these people. Think about the children of Israel. They were facing death if they said, I'm going to serve God. They were they they were here here's what was wrong. If you serve God, if you say I'm gonna follow God, I'm gonna live for God, I'm gonna follow and go after God, and then Ahab sitt here going, Well, there's another one of them, take them out and kill them. Is anybody threatening you with your life to serve the if you don't see if you serve God? Is anybody coming to you saying, hey, if you're going to sell out to God and give him 100% of your life, your life's going to be required of you. But yet, Christians today have too many things that are more important than serving God. I could list a whole litany of things that are more important sometimes. You think about it. What is it that keeps you from church? What is it that keeps you from soul winning? What is it that keeps you from volunteering to work that bus route? To be in that Sunday school class. What is it that keeps you from serving God the way God would have you to serve? No one standing there saying, Your life's required of you. What keeps you from serving God? These people, these people were standing there, they didn't say anything, but think about it. They had if they would have spoken up, Elijah would have might have, or Ahab may have had them killed right there on the spot. They were afraid. They were afraid. What are you afraid of? When it comes down to salvation. And if there's one here that doesn't know Christ as their Savior this morning, let me ask this question. Who are you going to serve? God? Or baby? God or the devil? Which are you going to serve? God or yourself? Who are you going to serve? You've heard messages preached, I'm sure. You've heard about God before and the fact that Christ came, He died for us. For us. I can't believe that. That He came and He died for us. Each one of us. That we could have a home in heaven. You don't know Christ, your personal Savior. Today's the day of making that decision. Do I serve God? Do I serve Baal? Christian, I'm going to ask you this question. If someone's watching your life to make a decision to serve God or Baal, who are they going to follow after watching you? God or Baal? Who is it? See, these people were told, they were asked the question, how long halt ye between two opinions? God or Baal, God or man, God or serving self, God the devil. I don't care who you put in there. If you're not going to serve God, you're serving the devil. No doubt about that. The Bible's clear about that. You're going to serve God, or you're going to serve the devil. What is it that keeps you from serving God? You know, if we look back again in chapter verse 1 Kings chapter 7-16, I want you to read a couple things there. 1 Kings chapter number 16. They remember what it was like. They remember under the rule of Baal for they've been under the rule of Baal for some time. Things have changed around there. Look at verse number 31. It said it came to pass as if I had been a First Kings chapter 16 and verse number uh thirty-one. And it came to pass as if it had been a little thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam, the sons of Nabab, that he took the to wife Jezebel, the daughter of Ethel, king of the Sidians, and went and served Baal and worshipped him. And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria, and Ahab made a grove and Ahab did more to provoke the Lord God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before him He did more to provoke them all the kings. There wasn't even one that was a little bit worse. And these people had lived under this reign and this rule for so long, that was the norm for them. And here's Elijah saying, Who are you going to serve? God or Baal? You know, we think about these. Look at the number of prophets in verse number 19. Come back here in chapter, I'm sorry, chapter 18, and verse number two, and it says Elijah went to show himself unto Ahab, and there was and there was a sore famine in Samaria And Ahab called Obadiah, which was the governor of the house. Now Obadiah feared the Lord greatly, and it was so when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the Lord That Obadiah took a hundred prophets and hid them by fifty in a cave and fed them with bread and water. He took it, he's taking care of God's people. Obadiah was saying, Hey, I'm going to help these guys, but I don't want the king to kill them I don't want the queen to kill them. I'm going to protect them. He hid them and then he fed them. And then he worked for Ahab. Well, what a combination that was. But he got the kings, he got some beat from the king. He went and he hid them. He took care of them. He had made a choice already what he was going to do. But as these people gathered together, they had a hard choice to make that day. Who are they going to serve? Who are they going to serve? They were afraid of losing friends or family? Are you afraid of losing friends and family if you serve God? You know, I have to say this, and it is a fact, and my wife would say the same thing. But you know, my church family is more family than my family is. I'll be honest with you. The pe the people that I go to church with, the people that I have fellowship with, they're more family than me. I spend more time with them than I do with my own family, my own family. My my family's saved But you know what? They're not going the direction I'm going. They can say they know they have a home in heaven, but they don't don't just kind of live the way I'd like them to live. They do things I wish they wouldn't do I'm not closer than I am my church family. I'm closer to my church family than I am my home, my own family. We ought not be afraid of losing those families. You know, our testimony is what's going to draw them. We ought to be willing to give of ourselves a hundred percent to God. But these people had not said a word. They hadn't said one word. Just in case Elijah didn't win the battle. Think about this. Eliza gets up here on this mountain, and he there's going to be a battle going on. They weren't sure what was going on yet, but they were afraid to say, I want to serve God. Because they weren't sure what was going to happen. And if Elijah was going to win this battle. They weren't sure what was going to take place. They didn't have a clue. If God didn't answer the prayer that Elijah brought down, you think about it, look on down there in verse number 20 23. 22 and 23, and Elijah said unto the people, I, even I only remain a prophet of the Lord. But Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men. Let them therefore give us two bullocks, and let them choose one bullock for themselves and cut it in pieces and lay it on a wood. And put no fire under, and I will dress the other bullock and lay it on wood and put no fire under, and call ye on the name of your gods, and I will call on the name of the Lord. And the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and said, It is well spoken. Oh, now they said something. Now they said something. When Elijah said, who's it going to be, God or Baal? They they they wouldn't say a word. They wouldn't know where to go. But Elijah said, put them to the test now and said, we're going to have a little contest here. You go ahead and build your altar, I'm going to build mine. You go ahead and put your wood on your altar, I'll put the wood on my altar. You put the bullock on your altar, I'll put the bullock on my altar. You don't put any fire under it now. And you start praying to your God. And whichever God brings down fire, it's the one we're going to serve And the people said it's well spoken. Now they had it now now what what they're looking at now is, you know what? If the fire comes down On whichever side. They wanted to see something great happen. They wanted to see what was taking place. But they also they took a little bit of the fear away. If I say I'm going to serve God now, they have may kill me. If I say I'm going to serve God now, the rest of the people may turn their backs on me. If I say I'm going to serve God, now what are we afraid of serving God? Have you ever thought about that? If we said I'm going to serve God, what are you afraid of? Why are you afraid of it? And this is one of my favorite stories in the Bible. As the prophets of Baal. Started to dance around their altar, calling to their God, taking and cutting themselves with knives and shedding blood all over that altar. Their blood, wrong blood. Shedding blood all over it as they cut themselves prying their God. And here's Elijah over in the corner laughing at them. Hey, uh, maybe your God's sleeping yell a little letter. The whole time the people were standing there watching this. Well, what in the world? Nothing's happening. And then Elijah goes and he has them dig a trench around it. And he has them haul water up so that water overflowed that trench. Overflowed the whole altar. Therefore, if they ever thought there was fire down in there, it was gone. And he prayed a prayer. And the fire came out of heaven and licked up the altar, the sacrifice, the wood, and all the water. I want you to see what happened when all that happened. When that took place. Come down here in verse number 29 it says that it came to pass when midday was past, and the prophesying until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there was neither voice, nor any answer, nor any that regardeth and Elijah said unto the people, come near unto me. And all the people came near unto him, and he repaired the altar of the Lord, and was broken down. And you go on down and you see all that. And verse number twenty six it says it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice that Elijah the prophet came near And said, Lord God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word. Hear me, O Lord, hear me, that this people may know that thou art the Lord God, and that thou hast turned their heart back again Then the fire fell the Then the fire of the Lord fell and consumed the burnt sacrifice and the wood and the stones and the dust and licked up the water that was in the mu in the trench And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces and they said, The Lord, he is the Lord, the Lord, he is God. You see, when it first was approached to them, and they came out the very first thing, and they they were asked the question: how long halt you between two opinions? If God be God, serve him, if they'll be God, they didn't say a word. They didn't say nothing. They were just as they were as they were dumb standing there because they were afraid of what could take place Elijah then puts it all together and tells him the contest that's going to take place, and he says, Whoever, whichever God brings down the fire, you'll serve him. And they said it's well spoken. Didn't say much. It's well spoken. Okay, we'll do that. They were in agreement because there was nothing, nothing now that they they had a fear of because either either God was going to be be reared up and he was going to show that he was truly in power, or Baal wasn't, so they didn't have a big choice to make. But over here as it came down and the fire from God fell And everything was licked up. The people fell on their faces and they cried out, The Lord, He is God. They said, Boy, I've seen it. I understand it I know what's going on. The Lord, he is God. You know, the problem in our Christian in our our lives today is we aren't willing to say God He is the God. He is God. He's the one I'm going to serve, and only the one I'm going to serve. You know, we have too many other things we serve. We serve God. I'll tell you what, a lot of people serve jobs today. And I understand we have to work, but the job comes first. We'll work even when we don't have to, and we'll miss church. We'll we we'll we'll put family in front of it. You know, when's that my my family at least we've gotten to the place they've moved their family reunions to Saturday. Used to be on Sunday. But they found out that a bunch of people wouldn't go if it was on Sunday. So they moved them. You know, the more people say, I'm not going, it's easier to move it then. They'll say, Well, you know, we want those people to be here. And if they don't want you to be there, don't worry about it. Be in church anyway. You probably didn't miss anything. Think about it. What is it to me? Are you willing to say God is God? I'm going to serve you. I would have served him. He's going to be the one I serve. That's what happened here. You know, the story didn't end. Because if we're going to be Christians, they're going to serve God and we're going to live for God in all that we do, we have to take care of the next part. Elijah said, Don't let one of those prophets escape. Not a one They were the ones that were stirring up the pro the the problems of the in the in the country. Here's Jezebel has them sitting at her table eating. Here they are, they have temples all over the place. 450 prophets of the Baal, four hundred and fifty prophets of the grove. Here they are, they're all there, and Elijah said, Don't let anybody leave. Bring them all over here. You know what? And they all died. Now, I don't I know I can get off on a tangent here about Defending yourself and gun control and everything else, but I'll tell you what, right here it doesn't matter. What God said is cut the sin out. If there's sin in your life, and that sin is what's keeping you from serving God, cut it out. Here's what happened. He took the problems of Baal, the leaders of the church of Baal, the leaders that were dragging the people down. He says, We're going to get rid of all of them. We're not going to let them leave the top of the mountain. We're going to get rid of them right here. What sin is it in your life that is is causing you to stay away from God? Why don't you take care of it? Get it out. It doesn't matter what it is. You say it's just a little thing. You know, little things grow into big things. Little things just keep going. You know, a little wound that you have that's not taken care of but grows into a big one. Those little children that you have, you know, I'm gonna tell you right now, they're gonna turn into big ones. Nothing stays little. Keeps getting bigger. I'll tell you what, if there's a little sin, if there's a big sin in your life and you know what it is, and I'll tell you what, we all know what it is. We all know what things are that draw us away from God or keep us from reading our Bible or keep us from serving God keep us from knocking on doors volunteering to be in Sunday school volunteering to be on the bus route volunteering to to to make sure you're out when time goes soul winning Coming to special meetings, you have meetings starting in a couple weeks. What's going to keep you from being in those meetings? Think about it You got meetings coming out. They're going to be from Sunday to Friday, I believe it is. I think Friday or Wednesday, I'm not sure what it was. But as I was reading that, and what's going to keep you from being in that meeting? Every night. So well, you don't understand. I have this planned. You know about it. Change your plans. What's going to keep you from being in God's house when the doors of God's house are open? Bible's very clear. It says, Forsake not the assembling of yourselves together. The Bible's clear about serving God The Bible's clear about us having a a um an attitude of prayer and wanting to see things go on for God. What is it? These people would have said, We're gonna do that. He's God. We're gonna serve him. We're gonna do that. But you know, so many people were afraid of making changes. I'm afraid of change. If you were to ask my wife, she's afraid of change too. That's why we've moved 19 times in 34 years of marriage I tell her anything we haven't moved you unpacked since the last time goes in the dumpster this time. You know, I mean that's just an easy way to keep things thinned out. But you know, people in in in general just don't like change. Don't like change. You know, change is good stuff. These people needed a change in their life. These people we just read about, they needed a change. They had the prophets of the grove and the prophets of Baal over the place. They needed a change. They weren't sure what to do about it. They when Elijah came in, they weren't sure really what he was saying, and and they knew who he was because remember he was the loudmouth of just just a few years previous to that and said there wasn't going to be any rain. That's what they were looking for was the rain. He's the guy that was causing them the grief, they thought. But they realized when they came here that it was God. God was holding back the rain because they wouldn't serve him. What's God holding back in your life? Maybe there you say, Well, God's just about answer my prayers. Well, maybe there's some things you need to get taken care of first for God to answer those prayers I read in Psalms regularly as David cried out, Incline your ear unto me, God. Hear me, God. I want to make sure I'm in the right relationship so our communication stays clear. Maybe there's something in between there that God's unable to answer that prayer. Maybe you need a change. Maybe you need some things taken care of. Maybe there's some sin there as we already talked about. You need to get that sin cut out of there so that communication is open, so you can find out what it is that God wants you to do. What is it that you need to do? God Needs to be the ruler, the king, supreme in our lives. What is it that keeps you From serving God. They needed to change. They needed to make they need to get bailed out and put God back in his rightful place. We need to do the same thing. We must not be afraid of the change that God wants to make in our lives We have this attitude sometimes, is I don't want to do it that way. We've never done it that way before. Well, just because you haven't done it that way before doesn't mean it won't work that way. You know, a preacher comes up and he makes a statement about, we're going to try something new, and you go, oh no, not something new. Maybe it's not new. Maybe it's just a new way of you doing things. You know, something new is not bad when it's done for God We need it we need to be willing to embrace some things sometimes. Now I I I understand that the Bible said there's nothing new under the sun. I understand that. But you know what? Sometimes we need a change. in our lives. We need to change some things and if it and if there's sin there, we need to get it taken care of. We we make the statement many times, well, you know, I go to the we hear and I've heard this from many people. I only go to that church because that's where my grandparents live and they're buried in the cemetery. Well so what? If grandma and grandpa were still alive, those people would probably they they they would ask you to move them from that cemetery to a better one, okay? I mean they don't want to be part of that church either if they're not serving God We I I've talked to people when it when we've been knocking on doors that well they're they're stuck in such and such a church because that's where the family was at, and that's where the family roots are. The family would have left. But you know what we have in our in our fundamental churches, we have people saying, Well, you know, I've just not gotten involved in teaching a Sunday school class before, so I just don't think that's for me. Why not? We need to get involved. You want do you want to see this area reach for Christ? You must be part of it. If you want to see this area reach for Christ, you're gonna have to change some of the things that you do If you want to see this area reach for Christ, you're going to have to say, okay, God, what else? What more? What's the next thing you want me to do? Are we willing to take a step and do something new? Are we willing to make a step this morning if I were to ask you this question again? How long halt ye between two opinions? Serve God, serve Baal. Get involved or stay or not. Just sit there. So well, I've just been sitting here for years. Well, about time you move. I said to someone this morning when we sat down in a chair, I said, Whose seat am I sitting in? I said, Are they going to get upset? I said they'll have to get over it because I'm not going to move now. Okay. But there are some people that really get upset if you're sitting in your seat. Well, you know what? And if you said something to them because you want them to move, then you're wrong because you know well that person might it needs Christ. And you kept them from hearing the gospel because all they're thinking about now is the rotten attitude you had that you wanted them to get out of your seat Are you willing to make changes to serve God? Or you're willing to be involved in a class? Are you willing to be involved in that bus route? How long halt you between two opinions? Are you going to get involved or not? Are you going to are you going to go soul winning? Or not? Are you going to teach a Sunday school class or not? Are you willing to work on a bus route or not? Are you willing to go on the next missions trip or not? Are you willing to get involved in whatever it is that God impresses upon your heart or not? How long halt ye between two opinions? Serve God, not serve God Serve God, not serve God. You talk about it, and I don't understand this part. I'm going to close with this, but I don't understand this part as Elijah was on the high on top of that mountain. It says there that he ran and he beat the chariot to the bottom. And you go on to the very next chapter, and Elijah, oh woe was me. Is he had to go and he but he'll tell you what, he had to go to a place where God was able to get a hold of him. Maybe that's where you need to be, is in that place where God can get a hold of you. And God says, hey. You're not alone. You're not the only one around. You're not the one that's doing this by yourself. But I have a job for you to do. What job are you doing? How long halt you between two opinions? That one that may be here this morning that has never accepted Christ her personal savior. how long halts you between two opinions. Are you gonna are you gonna give in? I mean God's been willing you for a while most likely. You came to church this morning, God's been saying, Hey, you know, you need to you need to come and come and Bow your heart before me. You need to come and say, I'm willing to get saved. I need I I I need Christ as my Savior. How long are you going to wait? Gonna wait today? Tomorrow? Next week? No. God said now. Today is today. Today is the day How long halt ye between two opinions? You got an app you you got an appointment. We all have appointments. We all don't like to cancel appointments. We have an appointment. How long halt ye Between two opinions. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you this morning, Lord, for your word. And Lord, your word is Elijah talked to the people. He asked them how long halt ye between two opinions. And Lord, we asked that of the people this morning, how long halt you between two opinions, serving you and not serving you. And and Lord, I know how you've worked in my heart and you've you've directed in me is a fact of the things that I don't do many times. How long halt you between two opinions? Lord, I pray this morning that you'll work in the hearts of those that are here. Lord, I believe there's some here that have have some decisions to be made. They have some decisions that they need to serve you more than they are. And Lord, I pray that you'll work in those hearts and lives. Lord, we pray for that one that may be unsafe here this morning, that they may Take this time, as Elijah told the people, if God be God, serve him. Lord, I pray that you'll work in their hearts. Lord, they may come. Let someone take the Bible and show them what it means to be saved. With your head bowed and eye closed, we ask questions. Is there anyone here that would say, I don't know Christ as my personal Savior. I've never accepted him. But I'd like you to pray for me. I'm not going to call you out. Is there anyone like that that you want me to pray for you? I'll just pray for you and ask God to work in your heart. Alright, Christian, I'm gonna ask you this. Is there some things that are keeping you from serving God? How long halt ye between those two opinions Serving God? Not serving God. That's what it came down to with these people. You're gonna serve God or not? Is there anyone here that says there are some things I need to do? I need to serve God more. Just put your hand up and put it back down. I see those hands and those hands. Hands all over the room. Now the question I have for you is this you're gonna say that or you're gonna take care of it You can say it. You can put your hand up and say, there's some things I need to change. There's some things I need to do. But are you going to do it? You're going to do something about it. You see, Elijah did something about it. He took care of the prophets of Baal. They were no more. Are you are you willing to come down and bow your your knee before God and If someone needs to deal with you, deal with you about the problems you have or the sins you have, or just get along with God about how God needs to worry you more. Volunteer to do the things that you can do We're going to have an invitation just a little bit. If you need to come, why don't you come get it right? Get it taken care of. Our Heavenly Father, we thank you this morning, Lord, for your word. Or I thank you for Elijah who was willing to stand up. Even I I know that Elijah had to be fearful. But he did it. And Lord, we may stand here this morning saying, well, there's some changes I need to make. It's tough. Are you willing to do it? Are you willing to make a change? And serve God. Lord, I pray that we'll be willing to do those things and we'll be willing to do what it is that you want us to do. Lord, be with this invitation time. Lord, give us the wisdom and the ability to come as you want us to come. Come this morning. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. As the music plays and you stand to your feet, you need to come, why don't you come, brother? There's several coming. What about you? What's keeping you from serving God? What's keeping you from coming? You know that I I don't want to make a change in my life. What's keeping you from making that change? Are you willing to come? What if it were the last chance you had? Are you willing to come? Um we all need Family Father, we Thank you for uh speaking to our hearts today, Laura. Thank you for this uh powerful message uh Brother Struct brought this morning, Lord. We just pray, uh Lord, that uh You uh let us uh let this message work in our hearts, Lord, that we might apply it to our daily lives. Thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, you may be seated. The uh ushers are gonna take them up this morning and Take up her offering for us this morning