After number sixteen and our text verse this morning we read this passage, but our text verse this morning is verse number twenty And I would like, if you would, let's read this verse together, verse 20. Read this together in unison, beginning in verse number 20. Ready? Let's read it together. And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen. The God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. I was reading this in my devotions, it's been some time ago, and that phrase caught my attention. And I underscored that phrase, the God of peace shall brew Satan under your feet. I got thinking about that. I got studying on that. And I want to speak this morning on how to bruise Satan. How many folks would like to bruise the old devil? Amen. Let's see what the Bible says about that. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless. Now, as we look into your word for a few moments, particularly on this subject of bruising Satan, I pray that your Holy Spirit would be moving among us in our hearts. God, I ask that you would guard my thinking as I'm preaching. God, I pray that you would not let me say anything that I ought not to say or anything contrary to the Word of God. Lord, I pray that you would guide my thinking as I'm speaking and preaching, that I would say exactly what you would have me to say in line with the Word of God. I ask, Lord, that you would take me as I present my body anew and pray you'd fill me with your Spirit, and that what I do say would be set in the power of the Holy Spirit of God. And that you would take these truths and apply them to our hearts and minds as you see fit. Lord, I ask all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. There's no doubt as you study the New Testament that the Apostle Paul was the most influential man in the early years of the church God used Paul to pen 14 of the 27 New Testament books. Now we understand, we say Paul penned them. The fact is God is the author. And we look in the Bible, we're reading the Word of God, but he used men to record this. Paul started, as far as we can tell, he started at least 14 different churches on three missionary journeys he took. He would go out from a church there at Antioch and he would go up through Central Asia and he was working his way up towards Europe And he would go just from town to town, city to city. He'd go in there and he'd preach the gospel of Jesus Christ. If they had a synagogue, he'd go in the synagogue and he'd preach to the Jews Usually he got kicked out of that after about a week or so. Then he would go out in the marketplaces and along river or maybe in someone's home and people would gather by the thousands And he started probably upwards to 20 churches. We're pretty confident. So Paul is used of God in such tremendous ways. And you and I today, as we read our New Testament As I said, 14 books of the New Testament, God used Paul to pen down for us, and we have them today. We're still influenced by them. The book of Romans is one of those books that Paul was used of God to pen. The Romans often said, if I was stuck on an island and I could only have one book with me. I would choose a book on how to build boats so I could get off the island and go back to where I thought that was funnier than y'all If I could have a book on how to build boats, I could only have one book. And if I could only have one book of the Bible, I would choose the book of Romans. The book of Romans is a profound book. Again, pen by Paul, inspired by God, given to us, authored by God. The book of Romans, just a little background on this book, the book of Romans is very personal in its concern. There are twenty-six different people referenced by name by the Apostle Paul. Verse 16, the whole first chapter 16, the first 16 verses. He recognizes one person after another. He makes tremendous statements about them. He highly compliments some of them. And it was a very personal concern. Now the interesting thing is Paul had never been to Rome. It's a very real possibility that most, in fact it's very likely, that most of these people he's recognizing by name here Personally. They knew of each other through correspondence and people talking about what God was doing and down in Jerusalem and in surrounding areas and and how God was using Paul and he had heard about what was happening up in Rome, people getting saved and lives being changed And so he didn't know them personally, but he knew them by name and he recognized them. So the book of Romans has a very personal uh uh uh atmosphere to it, as he recognized this these people. The book of Romans is very powerful in its doctrine. Chapters 1 through 11 has what I would consider the most thorough doctrine on the gospel of Jesus Christ than any other book of the Bible. He goes through there at great length and great detail going back into the Old Testament and pulling out references and illustrations from the Old Testament pointing out that Jesus Christ is indeed the only Savior of the world. The only way you and I can be made just before God. The only way we can be made acceptable to God is through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And he takes 11 chapters to teach that and expand on that. Tremendous teaching. The first eleven chapters of the book of Romans. From chapter 12 on, he gets very, very practical. He says in verse 1 of chapter 12, he says, I beseech you therefore, brethren by the mercies of God. In other words, he says, because of all that Christ has done for us, because of this wonderful truth, that we can be saved. We can know our sins are forgiven. We can know we have a home in heaven. We're accepted by God. We can have a new life in Christ. Because of all of that, I beseech you then by the mercy of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice Just give yourself to the Lord. Dedicate your life to Christ because all he's done for you. And then he goes on chapter 12, 13, 14, 15, into 16. And he tells us, all right, here's how we ought to live Here's things we ought to do and not do. Not to be saved and not to stay saved, but because we are saved We ought to live this way. So Romans, uh again, one of my favorite books of the Bible, just a tremendous, tremendous book And with practical application. Now we come to chapter 16 here, and the passage we read, verse 17 through verse 20, the first part of this here. He's giving some final instructions to these believers up in Rome. Paul is down in uh in the Middle East and he's writing up to these believers in Rome. And he gives them instructions. Look what he says in verse 17. He says, Now I beseech you, brethren. Now look at this Mark them which cause divisions and offenses contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned. And then he says, avoid them. Now why would he say that? If you'll pay attention, if you'll read through the New Testament and you pay very, very careful attention to what's being said, you'll find every single book. Of the New Testament warns against false teachers and people who infiltrate the church. And sometimes come up from within the church and they'll start teaching false doctrine. They will use the influence that they gain in the church to cause people to doubt God and doubt the word of God. They will introduce sinful living in the church. And here in this case, he's warning them up there about folks that have come in the church and were causing divisions. They were dividing people within the church against one another. They would say hateful things about this person or they would uh that I'm not talking to that person and I'm gonna turn my back, I'm not gonna pay any attention to that person. And he says you need to be very, very careful. There are people that will infiltrate the church or come up within the church And they will cause divisions. And they will teach things and do things that are contrary to way we're taught in Scripture. And he makes this statement right at the end of the book, as he's closing things out, and he tells us how we should treat people like that. How the church should respond to people that are hateful to other people in the church. How the church should respond to people who come in and teach things that are contrary to scripture and false doctrine. And he says very, very clearly, look at verse 17 with me there. He tells what we're to do. Two things. Number one, he says, now I beseech you, he says, I'm pleading with you, please take this seriously. He says, I beseech you, what's the very first word there? I beseech you, brethren, what? Mark them which cause what? Divisions, separation, breaking fellowship, not getting along. Mark then. Mark them. Now I got looking at that word mark. I thought, what does he mean by that? What is that word mark? The word mark means keep an eye on him. Watch out for them. Mark them. Identify them. The ones that are causing problems, causing division, mark them. Keep an eye on them. It has the idea of a keep a close watch on that person. Then he comes down farther, he says, uh uh which cause divisions and offen uh offenses contrary to the doctrine They're teaching things that are offensive to the Word of God, contrary, go against the Bible teaching. And he says, which ye have learned, and notice the last phrase, what are we to do? Avoid them. Avoid them. It means keep away. Keep your distance. Now, I want us to pay close attention here, what he does not say. He does not say be unkind to them. Right? I can't find anywhere in Scripture where God's people are instructed to be unkind to anybody Come on now, help me. Amen or not. We're to be ye kind one to another. Tenderhearted. What? What's the next word? Forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven us. In fact, Jesus taught us on the Sermon of the Mount: if people say hateful things about us, we're supposed to bless them. He says, love those that hate you. Be kind to those who revile you So two things we need to keep in mind. Number one, I need to make sure I am not a person that is causing division and hurting people and saying and doing unkind, rude things in the church. Amen or not? And if and when, and the Bible's clear, it happens, Jesus says it is impossible, but that offenses will come. People are, hey, people are going to say stupid stuff. Amen. People are going to do stupid things. And he's saying, Listen, and and by the way, you and I is people. You find you with me? We say stupid stuff. We do things sometimes that hurt people. And he says, listen, if that's coming into the church, you need to pay attention to that. Mark it. You need don't let that thing spread. Stay away. Don't let them influence. Avoid that. Stay away from that. Now don't be unkind. Don't be hateful. Don't do the same thing they're doing to them. And here's the thing. And we find this all through the New Testament. Every single book of the Bible addresses this. Every single one. Jude, the whole book is about that. 2 Peter chapter 2, the whole chapter is dealing with what Paul's talking about here. And here's the thing: the great danger to the church is not from outside. The great threat to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church, the great threat isn't the liberals in government. Isn't the conservatives in government. Great threat to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church isn't the bad seminaries and the liberal uh seminaries out there. The greatest threat to our church is from within. Jesus said, if a nation is divided against itself, it cannot what? Stand. So Paul saw these believers up in Rome, and he writes this tremendous letter unto them, profound doctrines, powerful doctrine. Then he's very, very practical, and you read chapter 12 through 17 and or 16 and man you just see how this is how I'm supposed to live. This is what I should and shouldn't do because I'm a believer, because I'm saved. And he winds it down and he gives this caution to the church, do not allow divisions to come up within the church. It's happening identified. Because that is what will do the most harm, the most harm. And so he ends this with this caution. Markham And avoid them. Look at verse 19. He goes on. He says, Your obedience has come abroad to all men. Y'all are doing good. We all hearing about how you're living for God and serving Him and you're reaching the lost and you're loving the brethren And he says, I am glad therefore on your behalf, but yet I would have you to be wise concerning that which is good. The word wise there means skill, be an expert. God's people ought to be experts on that which is good. We ought to be experts on the Word of God. We ought to be experts on loving people and being kind and uh showing compassion on people and helping people and Forgiving people, we ought to be experts on sharing the gospel with unsaved people, amen or not So he says, be wise, be an expert on that which is good. And then he flips the other side of the coin. He says, and simple concerning what? Evil, that which is sinful, that which is bad. The word simple there means be innocent, be pure. Listen, we don't have to know the latest sin that's going on out in society to know that it's wrong. You don't have to study wickedness to know it's wicked Be simple. I would just as soon not know anything about what's going on in the rock and roll, uh unwicked, ungodly, rap Uh country and Western um uh what other kind of music is there? Uh um rap rappers, candy rap and um Listen, listen, we don't need to know all about that. I want to know what pleases God. I want to be expert on what pleases God, not on what is simple. And that's what he's telling them here Then he comes down to verse 20. And he makes this profound statement. And he says, the God of peace shall bruise who? Satan under your feet. You know what he's suggesting, I think? That Satan is behind all of this He says, those that he marked, they're causing divisions, they're being hateful. Mark them. Satan's behind that. Those that are bringing false teaching in And they're contrary to the Word of God, avoid them. Satan's behind that. That which is evil, Satan's behind that. Satan is behind all of it. Paul told Timothy that false doctrine comes from the devil. He calls it doctrines of devils. And he says that God will bruise Satan. I'm glad to know that Satan can be bruised. Not only that, I'm glad to know Satan will be bruised. The word bruised means broken, it means crushed. The whole idea of bruising Satan has this idea of getting him to the point where he is ineffective on what he does. He has lost his influence. His ability to divide and distort the truth and divide God's people and infiltrate with wickedness, his ability to do that is bruised, it's limited, he becomes ineffective. He says, God will bruise Satan under your feet shortly. Now here was my by the way, Satan is the enemy of God. He's the enemy of God. And because he's the enemy of God, he's the enemy of the believer. How many people here this morning? Talk to me. How many people this morning you're saved and you know it. Say amen. Amen. And uh how many people are glad you're saved? If you're saved and you know oh we just did said amen. If you're happy and you know it, say amen. I'm just trying to get you to say amen one way or another If that's the case, if I'm genuinely saved, if I know Jesus Christ, my personal savior, been born again by faith in Christ, if that's true, and Satan is the enemy of God, that by default Make Satan my enemy. Because the enemy of God is the enemy of the people of God. Satan's real. He is our enemy. He's God's enemy. Now, how do we bruise him? How do we bruise him? I put three things down. I'm going to race through these as quick as I can. You might want to jot these down. I think these will be helpful. Number one, if I'm going to bruise Satan, I have to have assurance. Now explain what I mean. I need assurance. I need assurance, I believe, of three areas. Three things I need to be sure of. I need to be confident of I need to have settled in my heart and mind if I'm going to bruise my enemy Satan. Number one, I need to have assurance of my personal salvation. If you would, keep your place here and come with me to 1 John, back towards the end of the New Testament. You get the revelation, you've gone too far, excuse me, and back up a little bit. 1 John You have 1 John, 2 John, 3 John. 2nd and 3 John are very short books. 1 John has five chapters. And if you'll come to the last chapter of 1 John, 1 John chapter 5 And notice with me verse twelve and thirteen. First John five, twelve and thirteen. I have these verses underscored in my Bible. These are profound verses. Notice it says, oh well, let's start in verse 11. And this is the record that God hath given to us eternal life. And this life is in his son. I put in the margin of my Bible there: eternal life is a gift. God gives it to us in His Son Jesus Christ. It's a gift. Let me ask you a question. If you pay for something, is it a gift? No, it's a purchase. If I work for something, is it a gift? No, it's a payment I'm getting for my work. A gift is something that is received free of charge, free of works. I just receive it, and when I do, it becomes mine. And he says, God has given to us as a gift, eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Look at verse 12. He that hath the Son hath life. And he that hath not the Son of God hath not life. These things have I written unto you. What are these things I've written unto you? It's the Bible Scripture. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God. Look at this. That ye may Know that ye have eternal life. Have. You have it. Possess it. Present tense And that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. John is telling us here under the inspiration of God, and I hope you get this. If you don't have this already, uh assurance, if you don't have this settled already, I pray you'll just take God at His Word. And God says if we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, we can know that we have eternal life. I talk to people all the time. I get out every single week of the year and knock on doors all through our community, the surrounding area I talk to people, I introduce myself, I talk to them, and I'll ask them this question. I ask it uh uh tens of thousands of times I have in the last thirty-two years I ask him, do you know for sure that when you die your sins are forgiven and you're going to hell heaven and not to hell? Does anybody want to guess what the number one answer I get when I ask that question is? I hope so. I hope so. Sometimes people will say this. They'll say, I think so A lot of times I get this answer. I don't know. I think every one of those answers when People give me that response. Do you know for sure that when you die, your sins are forgiven, you go to heaven, not to hell? I think every one of those answers I just gave you, I think they are absolutely sincere when they say that to me I think they genuinely hope that they go to heaven and not to hell. I think some people sincerely think that they're going to heaven and not to hell. And I think people say, I don't know. I think they genuinely don't know whether they're going to go to heaven or hell. Now here's the rub. The Bible says we can know that we're going to heaven, not to hell. I don't have to hope That heaven's my home. I don't have to hope that I'm not going to hell. I don't have to hope that maybe someday, somewhere, somehow, God will forgive my sins, accept me into heaven. I can know that. Now he that hath the Son hath everlasting life. And when I can get that settled When I have that assurance that God accepts me, not because I'm some great person, not because how good I am or how wonderful I am. I'm a sorry sinner that deserves to go to hell just like everybody else. But God accepts me when I trust Jesus, my Savior, I'm accepted in Christ. Jesus Christ did for me what needed to be done for my sins to be forgiven and accepted to God so I can know that I'm going to heaven. I don't have to hope so. Amen or not. Now that's what the Bible teaches. That's not Baptist doctrine, it's Bible doctrine. It is Baptist doctrine because it's Bible doctrine. We didn't come up with that. I can know that my sins are going all my way to heaven. Jesus said in John 10, verse 28, he says, and I give unto them eternal life. If something's eternal, how long does it last? Forever. And he says, I give it. It's a gift. You accept it and receive it, it becomes yours, and you say, no, thank you. I'm not interested, and you don't have it. I give unto them eternal life, life that lasts forever. Listen to this next statement. And they shall never perish. Perish means die and go to hell. So the people that God gives eternal. . And I w we could do a week-long series on this The people that God gives eternal life to, those that admit to him, acknowledge to him they're a sinner, and by faith receive what Jesus Christ did for their sins on the cross, was buried, raised again, they that receive him. God says, I give them eternal life, and that person will never perish. They can know that they're going to heaven. What kind of God? Listen, what kind of God Would wait until you can't do anything about it before he tells you whether you're going to heaven or not. That would be awful He says, listen, I've already paid the price for your sins. I've done everything that needs to be done for you to be accepted in heaven. All you need to do is by faith receive it. And when you do that, your sins are forgiven, and you have a home in heaven. Praise God for that. Amen. I'm glad I can lay my head on my pillow tonight and not worry about whether God's forgiven me or not, or whether I'm going to heaven or hell That was all settled May 7, 1979, when I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. It's like this. We took the, Brother Dave took the evangelists, our Bible time evangelists, up to Pittsburgh yesterday, and they flew down to El Paso. I don't know where they flew into, but they ended up in El Paso. They get there to the gate. They're standing at the gate. There's the plane. I got their ticket. It's all been paid for. They don't have to pay anything. They just they were given the ticket, they received it, they get to the gate, they give that ticket, and they get on that plane. Once they sit on that plane, what do they have to do to get to El Paso? Once they're sitting on the plane, what do they have to do? Nothing. They just sit there Because who's getting them to El Paso? The plane and the pilot is getting them there. They're not getting themselves down there. They're just letting the plane and letting the pilot fly them down there They are trusting that machine and that man behind the wheel, or not wheel, uh stick, whatever it is. What is it? The yoke. Um and so they're trusting all that. They just simply get on and letting them fly. That's exactly how salvation is. I come and I see I'm a sinner. I'm on my way to hell because of my sin. I'm under the judgment of God. But I see that Jesus died for my sin, suffered hell for me, was buried, rose again. And I believe that And by faith I say, Lord, I accept what you've done for me. I'm depending, I'm trusting you what you did for me. I'm putting my hope and my trust in you. And Jesus Christ gets me to heaven. Not me getting me to heaven. Are you with me? I know I'm beating this a little bit, but this is the most profound truth in all the world That I can be accepted by God simply by faith and have assurance that God has accepted me. I have a home in heaven. Praise God. That'll make a Baptist shout right there. How am I going to bruise Satan? Number one, have personal assurance that God has forgiven me. If you're here this morning, you don't have that assurance. If you're still in the hope-so-think-so, maybe so, maybe I don't know so If that's where you are, you're a sittin' duck for the devil. If a person dies in their sins unforgiven, they are separated from God for all eternity, a horrific place called hell. That is exactly what the devil wants. to happen to every single person. So it's up to you and I. Understand what Christ did for us. By faith I trusted. I put my faith and confidence. And I accept it, and God forgives me. I'm secure in heaven, and the devil's head has been bruised. And I have personal assurance. I put another one down. I'm not going to have time to get a third through this. Unless you want to stay till 3 o'clock. No, you don't. Number two, I put down, have calm have assurance in my personal salvation. Number two, in the power of Scripture. Power scripture. I'm telling you, this book is like no other book that has ever been written. This whole King James Bible is the Word of God. Hebrews chapter 4 verse 12 says that the word of God is quick. That means it's alive. It is quick. And it's powerful and it's sharper than any two-edged sword. The Word of God is the most powerful book that has ever been written. The truths in this book absolutely transformed my life. Homes have been transformed by the power of this book. Drunkards have become sober Prostitutes have become pure. Liars have become honest because of the power of the truth of the gospel given in this book right here. Ephesians 6. 17 says that we're to take the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Sharper than any two-edged sword. Psalms 119, 11 says, Thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. I'm telling you, the Word of God is able to h able to keep us from sinning. You say, Preacher, I got a besetting sin, I got this sin, it just just uh controls me. I'm here to tell you the word of God can deliver you from that sin. I there's people all across this auditorium could stand up and testify. I believed the Bible. I trusted Jesus. And God gave me victory over sins that were destroyed me. Am I right or wrong? Now I'm not saying we're sinless, but I am saying we have a weapon against Satan in this matter. In Matthew chapter 4, and again we don't have time to go there. I wish we did. But Jesus was baptized. He went out in the wilderness. And he was tempted of the devil. Anybody know how many days? 40 days. He fasted 40 days. He came back. He was tempted of the devil. And it's interesting, the devil came at him three times. And every temptation the devil gave, and again I wish we had time to look at it, we don't, but every temptation the devil gave, Jesus responded not with a quote from a great king, not with some philosopher's ideas. But Jesus responded back to the devil with the word of God. He made this little statement. Looking at the devil, he says, It is written. And he would quote Scripture. The devil came at him again. Jesus says, It is written. The devil comes at him a third time. He says, It is written. In the last verse it says, and the devil departed from them. I'm telling you, how do we bruise Satan? We just simply take this book for what it says. I'm convinced, and I said this in Sunday school, I've been hounding this lately, and I believe it with all my heart. Every Christian ought to spend some time every day reading the Bible. Don't have to read chapter. Just something. Let God give you something from His Word. So you have something to stand against the wiles of the devil. It'll strengthen you, it'll help you, it'll clear your thinking, it'll comfort you when you're brokenhearted, it'll instruct you when you don't know what to do. How do we bruise the devil, number one? Have assurance of my personal salvation. Have assurance of the power of the Word of God, close to Scripture. Oh, by the way, I'm not going to have time to get this, so I'll throw it in here. The devil knows the Bible. He knows it better than you and I do. So we need to learn this book. We need to take it for what it says. That's why we memorize verses around here all the time. All the time. Every morning I go over eight memory verses. Every single morning of the year, I go over them, go trying to memorize them. Read the Bible, memorize it. It's how we brew Satan. And then I put this down, number three, and I'm going to quit with this one. But positive submission Positive submission. Take your Bible if you would. If you're still in John, you're not far away. Come over to the book of James. Now, if you're in John, you're going to be coming back to the front of your Bible, a few pages. James chapter number four. Everybody with me? Everybody doing alright? Our kids are out back on the splash there having a bounce house back there. All the kids They're getting preaching too, but they're having a bounce house and they have a w a water bounce house. How many people would rather be sitting here dry than in a water bounce house? Alright, James, are you there? Chapter four. Look with me at verse six. But he, God, giveth more grace. Now look at this. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the what? But giveth grace unto the Look at verse 7. That first word is so important. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will what? Flee from you. You know what the word resist means? It means say no. No! So um the picture I have of that word resist is kind of like a football player and he gets the ball, it's handed off to him, and he's running up through the line, and he's got that ball tucked in. And he's got his other stiff hand stiff armed out there, and he's just plowing his way through the defense. He's resisting. He's pushing them. He's keeping them out. God's telling us here that we submit to God, say, yes, God, your will, yes, Lord. And I stiff arm the devil and I say, no. You know, no. I'm telling you, there's a lot of people would still be alive this morning if they'd have simply said no to the devil. Say no to that bottle of beer. Say no to that drinking party. Say no to that fornication. Say no to that adultery. Say no to that pornography. No. It's resisting the devil. I submit to God. Yes, Lord. What should I do? Alright, I'm going to do right. No, I'm not doing that. And he says, resist the devil and he will flee from you. You know what you're doing? Boom. Bruising his head. No, no, no, no. How do we bruise the devil? I need to have assurance. I need to know that I've been saved. I need that settled Number two, I've got to come to the power of Scripture. Have assurance. This book has the answers for my life. This book can give me, direct me, and lead me how to live in this old fallen world. It's powerful. And then positive submission, I submit to the Lord. One last verse, if you would, come to the last book of the Bible. Revelation chapter 12. So a lot of people wouldn't be in the hospitals today if they just said no to the devil. Amen or not. Now I'm not saying everybody's in the that's in the hospital is there because the devil But a lot of that wouldn't have to be. A lot of homes would still be together. A lot of marriages would be happy. A lot of children would be secure. We just learn to resist the devil. Submit to God and resist the devil. I'm not talking that way. No, I'm not acting that way, devil! I'm not going to treat them that way, devil! No. Look at Revelation chapter number 10. Or I'm sorry, chapter 12, and verse number 10. It says, and the temple verse 10, and I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, now is come salvation and strength and the kingdom of our God. This is a future event. And the power of his Christ, look at this. For the accuser of our brethren is cast down. He's been bruised, rendered ineffective Who's the accuser of the brethren? It's the devil, it's Satan, his greatest ministry. Is to accuse people, accuse people, accuse people. He stands before God And he accuses God of everything you and I say and do is wrong. The slightest little thing, he's there before God. Oh God, did you see Leatherman? Did you see how he spoke to his wife? Oh, do you see Leatherman? He's wasting Do you see what Leatherman's doing? And what what's my defense? I I I have uh y he's right. I come up short, I sin, I fail. But praise God, I've got an advocate. His name is Jesus, and he steps in when Satan accuses us, he steps in and says, Father, I paid for those sins. They're all dealt with. I've already been judged for them, Father. I take responsibility for Leatherman's shortcomings, Leatherman's failures. I take responsibility. He's the accuser of the brethren. It's his greatest work, Satan's greatest work is accusing them. By the way, it's probably his most popular work. But you know what happens? People start doing what the devil does. And we start accusing each other. She didn't do this, she didn't treat me this way. He said that. He didn't do this. You're doing exactly what Satan does. Read the book of Acts. Every time the word accuse is used, it's the enemies of God's people accusing. It's never the God's people doing it. That's the work of the devil. Going around accusing each other, this and that, and that he didn't do this, he said, she said that, he did this, he didn't do that, he didn't treat me right, she didn't do that. Now look what goes on here. He says, For the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night. Now this is what I'm getting at. And they, God's people, overcame him, the accuser, Satan. Look at this. By the blood of the Lamb. You know what that is? That's my personal salvation. They trusted the blood that was shed. They got saved. Their sins are forgiven. They're accepted by God. They overcame them by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony. You know what that was? They were living by this old book. They were following the instructions. And it says, and they love not their lives unto death. That was submission to God. Not my will, but your will be done. No to the devil, some God. And you find those three actions, positive assurance, the power of scripture. And the positive submission, and Satan is cast down. He's the fear. Amen? Now I wanted to talk about Satan himself, what he is, but I don't like to. And we're out of time. But the fact of the matter is, if you come back to Romans and he says, God Shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. Here's the thing: God does it all. I submit to him, I trust him, I believe him, I follow what he says, and God through us bruises The devil. And that's how you breathe the devil. The night I got saved, May 7, 1979, our church knows this story by heart. And I don't say a lot about this aspect of the night I got saved. Because it's I think it can be misinterpreted, misunderstood. But I had been struggling. God had been convicting me. I knew I needed to be saved. I did not want to be the man I'd become. I was praying God to help me. God, please help me be what I ought to be. And I couldn't change. That night, May 7, 97, I came in. We were out partying all day with my friend. His name was Denny. I got in about 9:30, 10 o'clock Went up in my room. I got my Bible. I was reading Bible. God help me. God you God help me. I don't want to live this way. I crawled in bed. Now this is, I hope you bear with me. But it wasn't an audible voice, but it was as real as if it was. And I'm telling you, it was And he said, Dennis, you will never get saved. You will never change. You are doomed. I'm telling you, it was as real in my ears as if he was sitting on my bed talking to And I sense, and again, this is ho hope you bear with me, but I sense a presence there so evil It scared me. I got on my knees and I said, God, I trust you. I accept you. I don't want. And God heard my prayer. And God saved me and a peace came over me. And I got in bed. There was no lights. There was no angels showed up. Nothing, nothing. But that presence was gone. I slept like a baby. I got up the next morning, I was a new man. When my mom comes to visit, I wish you'd talk to her and ask her. She will tell you You know what I'm convinced took place that night? I am convinced that Satan was fighting for my soul. He was doing everything he could to keep me from trusting Christ as Savior. By God's grace and with the help of the Holy Spirit, I said yes to Jesus Christ, and Satan's head was bruised. He was crushed. He lost my soul. And Jesus Christ saved my soul and gave me eternal life. And what he did for me, he'll do to any old sinner in this whole world. You'll just come say yes to Jesus, I accept you. Father, I pray that you would help us To get assurance of our salvation if it's not there. Lord, I pray we would believe in the power of the Word of God and let it lead us and direct us. And God help us to positively submit to you and let you have your way in our life and let you use us as we say no to wrong and say yes to right. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know there's areas in my life that are not what they ought to be. And I don't want the devil to get his way on my life. And as a Christian, I want that to be right. I don't want any part of my being to be on the on Satan's In his territory. I want God to have all of me. All of me. And God to be- Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless your hands all around. What Christian wouldn't want that? And maybe there's some area of your life that's not right. Maybe there's some area of your life and the Lord's dealing with you saying, you know, you need to make this right. You need to go to that person and make things right. You need to get this out of your house and And off the computer or whatever, I don't know. But say yes to God, no to the devil. If you're here, you don't have assurance, sin forgiven, sins forgiven on your way to heaven. You don't know for sure At heaven's your home, Lord wants you to settle that. How many people would say, Preacher, I I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die I'm concerned about that. I'd like to have that settled. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray with me. I'm not sure. I need to have that settled. Any at all? Any at all? How many folks say, preacher, I know someone that's unsaved? I want to be a good witness, a good testimony. Any like that? Sure. Father, I ask you to bless now our invitation. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together heads