Here in great crowd here today, and uh I'm glad that you're here this morning. I hope that you're expecting a blessing, because if you are, I'll guarantee you God will give you one. Amen. And I don't know about you, but I'm excited I I'm just excited about what's going on in our country. A lot of people say, well, it just seems like there's so many bad things going on. Hey, you know what? We have a tremendous amount to be thankful for Because we saw a miracle occur on November the 8th. I don't know about you, but uh I told my wife we were invited by the RNC to go down to the election watch there in Washington. uh at the W Hotel, not even a block away from the White House. I mean I was so close to the White House I could see the curtains in the windows. And it was all open towards the White House. There was no windows on the top floor and every time another state fell and and uh basically went to Trump and Pence, the whole place just erupted, hundreds of people screamed, hollered, yelled. And I knew that uh President Obama could hear that over in the White House. And I tweet I tweeted out. Yes I do tweet. Okay. I do tweet and uh I tweeted out on social media. I said, hey, uh I don't think the uh mood, the uh the attitude is real good over at the White House tonight. What do you think? And uh of course it wasn't Because of uh you know they uh I'm just so glad I told my wife I said look if Trump and Pence wins, as I I believe they will I want you to put the ladder up next against the house because when I come home, I'm going to climb the ladder and I'm going to dance on the roof for a while. And at 3 30 in the morning I called her. I said, Is the ladder up against the roof? And she said, Honey, I don't really think you should do that. It's kind of steep, you know, and who knows, someone might be coming by with a camera. It wouldn't be good. Our brethren wouldn't understand it Um but uh she was the voice of reason. But that's what I felt like and every day since then really truly has been like Christmas because I I just shuddered to think about the alternative. Uh where we have Hillary Clinton say, we need to change these people of faith. You know, change their belief system. No, no, we we don't need our belief system changed. They need their belief system changed. Towards the truth. It's not our belief system, by the way. It's the Lord's. Amen. And it's who God is. Let me introduce my wife to you Uh and the love of my life, my best friend for over 40 years now. And so, honey, if you please stand and turn around and say hello to everybody. There she is right there Thank you, sweetie. You can be seated. And uh and so we uh uh I've been dragging my wife around with me all over the place now and and we don't normally travel by vehicle. Uh your pastor said, I don't see a lot of evangelists that actually have trucks. And he maybe he was alluding to the fact they don't get really good gas mileage, but really because I bounce all over the United States and I've let the Lord just kind of fill my schedule for these last uh seven, eight years. Uh I do most of my travel now by uh by flight, uh airplane and uh and we normally travel southwest. Southwest is the only airlines by the way that will give Uh if you fly enough and you get enough points, uh your companion a free pass. So for free, she travels with me for free everywhere. Everywhere I go. So I mean she can go back and forth to California with me for eleven dollars. Amen. And and my wife said, Honey, uh she said, uh, but if you went, you know, Delta or United or American, you have so many points they'd be kicking you up to first class all the time. I said, Honey W with you sitting next to me, it is first class, amen. So I got a couple of points right there. Amen. But uh hey, I am I am just excited about the fact that we have a president that really truly is putting our country first again. Amen. And he wants jobs back. I don't know about you, but um I really enjoyed the fact that they reclaimed millions of acres uh back from being a monument status to where we couldn't explore for oil and coal and natural gas. They reclaim those so that we can go ahead once again and start drilling our own oil. Wouldn't that be wonderful? Amen. So we wouldn't have to rely forty percent of the oil coming into the United States is from Muslim nations that want our demise. That's not a smart thing at all, amen. And plus the fact, you know, two dollars a gallon of gas, I I've told I was out in California and and I uh I I told the young people, I said, hey, isn't it wonderful? Because we are beginning to now explore our own natural reserves of oil The pipeline is open once again from Alaska. We have a huge reserve called the Backen Reserve up in the Colorado-Wyoming area. We have more oil there in that one reserve than all of the Muslim nations put together I said, isn't it wonderful we can start looking forward to one day once again paying 75 cents a gallon for gas? Now I was out in California, I said, well you'll probably pay $1. 25, but everyone else will pay $75 Okay. Uh but uh so I I'm glad what we did just see uh on November the eighth, we proved to the entire nation and the world that Christians once again are relevant to this society. You know why? Because up to that point, not even 20% of Christians got to the polls to vote, and we had over 80% of Christians show up. More Christians voted on November the eighth than they have in the history of our nation in any presidential election cycle. I don't know about you. You see, that's just God. Amen. And uh uh I'm telling you, it did my heart good. Uh it warmed the cockles of my heart when these prognosticators and pundits on the news media couldn't figure out what was going on, you know, a and they kept on saying, go to the commercial break, go to the commercial break. They couldn't figure out, you know And because it wasn't a what, it was a who, and it was God. And he showed up and he stirred the hearts of people that got to the polls and voted. Amen. Now what that is? That's power in the Christian life. Amen. You right here. You folks right here. When I was here the last time. Got down this old fashioned altar And you pray right here that God would stir the hearts of his people and get them to the poles. I remember that at these altars right here. So why did God perform a miracle for us on November the 8th and baffle everyone? I'll tell you. Because of prayer, because of God's people interceding upon our behalf as a nation, and because of God's divine intervention that he answered those intercessory prayers by. And because of that, we've been given a space of grace. So we need to do something with this space of grace. Well, what should we do? Well, as I've told many people before, we need to do five things, okay, to continue to go forward for our country. And what the message is going to be today is how to be a good citizen. But those five things is we need to once again get educated. We need to know who we are. Number two, we need to get engaged in the process. Because we have responsibility to our government. Oh, we shouldn't be involved in government. Nonsense. All the way through the Bible, God's people have always been connected with the people of government. Always. All the from the very beginning to the very end. You see, God and him putting his people in connection. I mean, look all the way through the Bible. You name me one Old Testament book that isn't written by a government official to a government official or about a government official Amen. I mean even the Lord Jesus Christ said, render under Caesar the things that are Caesar's and under God the things that are God's. And talking about duality of citizenship, here we have it. You know, here in this in this nation of ours, we we have, first of all, our country, the greatest nation on earth. We also, because we're citizens and we know Jesus Christ as Savior, if we know Jesus Christ as Savior, we're citizens of heaven as well. And our King King Jesus. We have responsibilities to both. Amen. We're ambassadors of that faraway land, but we happen to be in the greatest nation in modern history. Amen. And I don't know about you. I'm happy. to be an American. And I know we have some faults and I know we have some problems going on, but it's still an amazing thing. We need to get engaged. We need to entreat God's mercy upon our country number four. We need to get educated, get engaged, we need to entreat God's mercy. We need to encourage others to do the same. That's number four, actually. Okay? Because there's strength in numbers Amen. We need to get more people involved, more people knowing what to do, making a few phone calls. Amen. And I'm going to show you tonight exactly what we can do to make those phone calls. And I've got some things here that are just miraculous in their inception. Number Five, we do those four things so we can do the fifth one. I mean we get educated, we get engaged, we entreat God's mercy upon our country through prayer, and we encourage others to do the same. Why? So we can continue to evangelize the lost. It all comes back to knowing Jesus Christ as Savior, knowing for sure that you're going to heaven, having the abundant life here on earth, and then reproducing yourselves. Amen. And that's the Christian life. Hey, the most important thing we do as independent Baptists is to see people saved, walk down an old-fashioned aisle, get baptized in deep water, grow in grace, and then reproduce themselves. Amen The second most important thing should be to hold on to our country so we can do the most important thing. Amen? That's what America is. I truly believe this looking into history The reason why we were a nation in its inception was for the propagation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's why America is. Amen. And that's why we sing that song, the author of liberty. That's our God, who he is. So I've got some things that we can get educated. I have some books back there. This is the Maxims of Washington. This is the latest book that we just produced, and it is a reprint of an original book. that George Washington put out because he wanted everyone to understand, to remember, why we are so unique. Not because we're better, but because this is a Christian nation. Any page on this book right here This is the certainly an objective of primary importance, whether viewed in reference to the national security. To the satisfaction of the community and to the preservation of order, we must have a strong military I mean, any page on that book is wisdom. And the very last chapter of this book, it tells you what George Washington said on his deathbed as he was dying and how he sh was sure that Jesus Christ was a Savior and heaven was his home. It all started uh back in his early life when he found out truly what the value of prayer was. And and there he is in Valley Forge right there uh praying and what you cannot see unless you look closely is a little fella poking his head out from behind the tree right there His name was Isaac Potts. He was a loyalist. He was for the king of England to win the war. He was on his way home and heard someone talking in this clearing. There George Washington was in this particular stance with his head up. towards heaven, speaking out loud, praying to God, his horse a few feet back, and there is his bivouac, the area there where his troops were. Isaac Potts stood in amazement As he listened to George Washington pray. He continued on home, walked into his house. His wife had dinner waiting for him. She looked at him and she said, Isaac, what's wrong? He said, What do you mean, my dear? She said, What's wrong? I can tell by your face something's happened. So well I was walking home and I heard someone talking in the clearing and I I came up and poked my head around the tree and there was General George Washington, the general of the Continental Army, and he was speaking. And I realized it was to God. And my dear, I didn't want to move. I felt if I did, I'd bump into God Himself. His presence was so real there. And with men like that praying like he was praying, they're going to win and Great Britain's going to lose. And my dear, we're changing sides tonight. Isaac Potts, who put himself in the etching, was the one that actually commissioned that. Life-changing experience simply by listening to George Washington pray. These are amazing books that we have put together. This is the only reprint that we've done. The others we have written, and they are amazing in their Production and in their content, the foundations that sustain America. I'm going to preach a message, Lord willing, from this book tonight But it's black leather, and this is one we gave out last year. And it's a huge array of the foundations of our nation, our faith, our founding fathers, even the matrix of liberty. What makes us so very different and the matrix is actually taken from the largest granite monument to the pilgrims that is up in the New England states Most people don't even know it's there. We've gone up and researched it. The prayers that shaped America. This is an amazing book. They're all leather bound. Amen. I love the smell of good leather. Amen. For generational books, that's why we put them together this way. Because we're going to give them to the Senate and to the House And we wanted them to be a different type of a book, even the inserts, I mean and they're amazing. The reason why we did what we did in Brought the quality of these books because we want these books to be handed down from one generation to another, to another. They're lifetime books. These books will be around when Jesus comes. Amen? And we want that. And so the prayers that shaped America, an amazing plethora of the types of prayers that made us who we are today, the sacrifice that sustains us as America that defines us as America and you see all the sacrifices of all the people that have gone before us I was uh telling your pastor last night, Woody Williams, I just spoke with him up in Montana, and uh there he is at the age of twenty something when he's getting the Medal of Honor from Harry Truman. He was introduced by President Trump in West Virginia just recently and he led in prayer and uh and led the pledge of allegiance to the flag. Uh Woody's 93 years old, the only Medal of Honor recipient still alive from the Battle of Iwo Jima, one of five that are still alive from World War II that received the highest medal of the land, the Medal of Honor. When Harry Truman put the Medal of Honor around his neck, as you see that right there He whispered in his ear, I'd rather have this medal than to be the President of the United States. Amen. So these are tremendous books, and if you want these, I'll be glad to sign them for you They're going to be going out of print when they do, it's over, it's done, but but we have them here today. And the reason why we do is because they are a little bit of history And as I I believe told you before, uh I had two men that wanted to produce them, uh that wanted to publish them. One said, I can do it for you uh at about $190, $8,200 per book Another man said, I'll do it at my cost for 40, so you know which one I went with. Amen. And so we just provide them to you for the same cost. Now, uh the one on Washington, because it's much bigger Then the others it's forty-five dollars, but that's just what we have in it. And so if you want those, uh they're there uh and uh that's very good to get educated Then we have the five DVDs. This is the latest one that was just put out in March that we're going to be watching tonight. But if you want your own copy, I would suggest you get one. And it shows the reason why we are who we are because of pastors. Preaching from pulpits, through them from the Word of God, about the Son of God, through the Holy Spirit of God, to the people of God And that's what made us who we are. Amazing. The foundations that sustain America, again, a message I'm going to be preaching tonight, our nation's capital. And that is the tour of some of these things we're going to be seeing when you come down in October. So I hope you come because we're going to have fun. I'm going to take you around myself for at least one of the days. On the 12th, you'll be there on the on the 12th. That's that's my birthday, so I'll I'll I'll be sixty-four, amen, uh, on that day. Now, I still feel like I'm 18, amen. And my wife says, you still act like it, and so I don't know how to take that. And she says, take it positively And uh and then the Barbary Power is war. And so if you want those, those are for a gift of ten dollars apiece. And uh look, you say, uh well, what should I do with these? Hey, watch them and give them to someone For $10? I mean what do we spend $10 on? You know what those represent, each one of them? Years of study on my part. Thousands upon thousands of dollars of production cost. Say what can I do for our country? Buy a few of these and give them to someone. And let them watch. Hey, we're a visual society anymore. And so those are for you back there if you so desire. I'm going to be handing these out tonight, Five Minutes from America. on how to pray for our country. I think we've handed these out before, but your pastor said there's some people that still want those, and so I have those for you today. We have the CDs. If you can get good music, you should And uh and so Jesus led me all the way and our prophets, and and this is a uh compilation of a lot of good patriotic songs that we put together for the Last Capital Connection. And then the constitutions, if you're a veteran, take one with my thanks. If not, they're a dollar. And then this is a trap that I wrote. Actually, I um I got inspired to write this. I called my wife and I dictated this over the phone to her, and it's an amazing track that's been used very powerfully. I actually uh gifted 500 of these to your pastor. So he can use them here in this area. But it's an amazing tract about George Washington, who he was, and then the analogy of the truth of life, of course, which is salvation through Jesus Christ our Lord. And then the capital connection for the next generation, September 11th through the 13th for 15 uh to 19 year olds. The next capital connection, March the 12th through the 14th for the national, the big national uh connection in Washington, D. C. I welcome you to come with your pastor. I mean we uh go right into the Capitol at night and have an after hours tour. I think I've told you this before. We hold church in the Capitol basically We sing in the rotunda. Hey, for decades they held church in the Capitol, so why shouldn't we do it today? Amen? And uh so uh we hold uh church there and I lecture on why we are such a Christian nation. We go right down and sit where the representatives in the House representatives sit and uh last year we actually prayed for them uh and uh the uh congressman said I want them to pray and when I asked them to pray everyone stood up simultaneously I didn't ask them to do this everyone turned around and knelt And the congressman looked at me like he was in shock. I said, this is how we pray. This is how Baptists pray. And he said, oh, wow, that's great. And then this is and this is a miraculous document right here. I'm going to be going into uh detail about this tonight. But your pastor had a part in this document. This is the Republican position platform. This is what they promised us they will do during these next four years. And the only way that they're going to do it is if we make sure that they do do it. I'm going to show you, I'm going to tell you the story behind this and then what you can do to actually affect a national course. correction in our nation by following this document right here and how your pastor had part and parcel in doing this actually was instrumentally used in electing uh Donald Trump and Mike Pence. And someone asked me, have you met um President uh Trump and and uh Vice President Pence? Yeah I've met him and talked with them. They're great people and and very personal people. Mike Pence is a tremendous Christian. I don't know if President Trump is actually Christian yet, but uh uh I sure am glad he's where he is. Amen And doing what he's doing. And so, hey, commercial's over. Let's get into the word of God and see what God has for us today, okay? Amen? And so are you there at Acts 21? Acts 21. You know, we need to look into, you might say, history and glean some things from history. Hey, go to the people that have lived a little bit longer than we have. The um the gray hair, so to speak. Or in some cases the the no hair. Okay. He said your love offering has just gone down right now. But I remember a story of a farmer, and this farmer, he was an older man, but a very wise individual. What they say actually, those that don't have any hair, it's because of the brain power. Because they think so much it just and basically it you know, it just burns up the burns up up the hair. Those are the guys that are real thinkers, amen. And the ones that still have some some hair, well then you know, they're sort of the ones that have a lot of hair like me, uh we don't think at all. Okay? All right. We we just read what other people think. Okay. But uh but I remember a story and this this old man, he was a very wise man, a very good farmer and he had healed a lot of animals. He thought, well, you know what, if if I healed animals, I could probably heal people. And so he moved into a town there that he lived by And he opened up the little office and he put a shingle out. He said, Cures $500. If not cured, get a thousand. And so we thought he's going to try his hand at this. And we'll call him for the sake of the story Dr. Geezer And then there was an actual doctor. His name was Dr. Young, and and he really was uh he took great exception of this man coming in and kind of posing as a pseudo-doctor. And so sure enough he went over to see Dr. Geezer and he said, I'm going to teach him a lesson. I'm going to get $1,000. And so he walked in and and of course it was a small town, so he recognized him. Dr. Young, what are you doing here? He said, Well, I I have a problem. He said, Well please uh get on the examination table. He said, Well Dr. Geezer He said, I don't have any taste in my mouth. And so Dr. Gizel looked at Dr. Young and and told his nurse, nurse Betty, please go get the medicine from Box 22 and put three drops of that on Dr. Young's tongue. To which she did. By the time the third drop touched her tongue, she said, he said, that's gasoline. He said, Congratulations! You got your taste back. That'll be $500 So now Dr. Young walks out, he's out five hundred dollars, he still hasn't taught this guy a lesson. He said I've got to get my five hundred dollars back and make five hundred dollars and and teach this guy a lesson. So he thinks for a few more days. He says, I got it, this is foolproof. And so he walks back in and and Dr. Gesel Caesar, Dr. Young back so soon, what's what seems to be the trouble? It was just a few days ago when when you were here. He said, Well Uh I I have a a bad problem. I've lost all short-term memory. I can't remember what happened just a few days ago. He says, please get on the examination table. And he looked at him, looked at his eyes. Looked at his ears, looked at his mouth. He said, Nurse, Betty, I'll go get that medicine from Box 22 and put three drops of that on Dr. Young's tongue. He said, Oh no, you don't. That's gasoline. He said, Congratulations, you got your memory back. Well that'll be $500. So now Dr. Young walks out. He's out a thousand dollars. What am I gonna do? Unbelievable. I've got to get my thousand dollars back, at least break break even and and teach this guy a lesson. So he thinks for about a week and comes back in and this time he has very dark Sunglasses on, he's got a cane, he's tapping around and and Dr. Geezer sees him. Doctor Young! What's what's the trouble? He said, I lost my eyes. I d I can't see, I can't see. He said, Nurse Petty, please help him onto the examination table. And so Dr. Geezer, he checks them all out and everything, looks at his eyes, he says, You know what? I can't do anything for you. Here's your thousand dollars. He said, hey, that's only ten dollars. She said, Congratulations. You got your eyesight back. That'll be five hundred dollars What I'm saying is we've got to look at those people that have been down the road a little bit before we have, because there's no substitute for experience And so in doing that, we look to God's word, which is the greatest source of wisdom, the greatest source of experience. And we see something here, I think that's very interesting. It bears light into where we are today and our current history because see from this election we've been given that space of grace about four years. Now they're after uh President Trump and they're after Mike Pence and they hate it. Say why Are these liberals just going crazy because they can't come to grips with the fact that they lost? Amen? I mean I tuned it in and all those people waiting for Hillary to come and give her victory Victory speech in that big glass thing, you know they're all I was going, ha ha ha ha ha Save for the heart and that's not nice. I know. Live peaceably with all men, as much as lies within you. Okay. But uh in any case, that didn't lie within me. I just kind of, you know, I thought that was funny. Amen. But we've been given this space of grace. What are we going to do with it What are we going to do with it? I think the w the thing that we need to understand is we need to be good citizens. We need to be good citizens and know what we can do to help our country. for the next generation. Sometimes the next generation doesn't even know that we're in some dire straits here. And so it says in Acts chapter 21 and verse 39, this is Paul speaking. And it says, but Paul said, I am a man which am a Jew of Tarsus. A city in Cilicia. A citizen. Oh, there it is, see, a citizen of no mean city. And I beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people. What is it to be a good citizen? Heavenly Father, we pray now as we open thy word that you would bless the principles, the truth of thy word, thank you that we hold the only other thing that'll make it out of this world intact, your eternal word. That's already settled forever in heaven. Lord, our soul and this book are the only two things. Everything else you say will be burned up. And Father, we ask now, dear God, that you would steal the heart, that you would arrest the mind and bring it into subjection to thy word. Father, help the cares and burdens of this life just to vanish away. Create and maintain a hedge protection around this assembly and bind off the wicked and the evil one. And dear God, as I speak now I I'm stepping back and I'm asking you along with all of us as we unite our minds and hearts in prayer that you would step forward and And by thy grace and for thy glory, dear God, that you would be here in your presence, in your power, in your provision, that you would articulate These lips, that you would illuminate this mind, that you would anoint every word that's said and infuse it by thy grace into our minds. And our hearts and we, your people, will be very careful to give you all the praise and glory for what you are about to do. For we ask this in the precious name of your Son and our Savior. And by the power and the merit and the authority that is in the name of Jesus Christ, we pray Amen. Isn't it wonderful we can still pray in the name of Jesus Christ? Amen. Hey, we need to give that back to the chaplains and the military, by the way. That's one thing that we're working on in Washington, D. C. , with the chaplains and these value action team members. Why? So that everyone everywhere can pray in the name of Jesus Christ So that coaches of football teams before they take off that football at high school games can pray and pray in the in the name of Jesus Christ. So young people and schools can pray in the name of Jesus Christ. I think it's ludicrous. The fact that Congress never opens without prayer, and we can open a classroom without prayer What kind of idiosyncrasy is that, you see? We need to bring this type of thing back to us, this this type of common sense in who we are and knowing that because Paul was a citizen of Rome, he had certain rights, certain privileges, but we also have certain duties, you see So it is with every single one of us. What do I need to do to be a good citizen of my home here and my heavenly home? of my nation here and my heavenly nation, as we say and as we are ambassadors. The dominion of the providence over the passions of men was held May 17, 1776. There was not a single instance in history in which civil liberty, when it's lost, religious liberty is lost as well. If therefore we yield up our temporary property, we are at the same time delivering our conscience into bondage. Nothing is more certain than the general wasteful use of resources and corruption of manners that make people ripe for destruction. That's why they're trying to bring us into financial bondage, you see. That's why they're trying to uh when someone's in office that's a liberal The taxes go up. I like that President Trump is slashing the taxes, don't you? Amen. Hey, my wife and I, you know, I don't know about you, we're paying thirty percent of our income when God only expects ten percent There's something wrong when the government expects three times as much as God. And the reason why I think is because a lot of people worship the government You know, our Father who art in Washington, D. C. , hallowed be thy name, okay, is what they're saying, because they want they want handouts. Hey, I want the government doing anything for me that I can't do for myself. Because every time we allow that, we have to trade liberty for these free things. And look, free stuff is never worth freedom. Amen? We need to realize these things, the good form of government May hold the rotten materials together for some time, but beyond a certain pitch, even the best constitution will be ineffectual and bondage will once again enslave all of man We must hold on to the Constitution. As Daniel Webster said, miracles seldom cluster, and what happened once in six thousand years of recorded history may never happen again He said, the people of America, hold on to the Constitution. Because if it's lost, it's lost forever. And if we lose it, the whole world plunge into anarchy. We almost lost it We almost lost it on November the 8th. We almost lost it. And look, I was told by congressmen, if we lose the Constitution, it's gone. And if we allow someone like Hillary to get elected, we will lose the Constitution someone asked me just a minute ago. And I'm going to go into detail and show you from the Bible how important this is. What do you think about Gorsuch Being appointed as uh justice of the Supreme Court. I said that's amazing. If he doesn't do anything else, you think about this, Gorsuch, who is a constitutionalist, is going to be there 30 to 40 years I don't know about you. That is very important to us as a nation because what that did was it kept the Supreme Court from being an a an instrument of social change to being a court of law once again. Amen? And that's where all the social changes come from. Hey, it's time to get those types of common sense things back into the government. Hey The Supreme Court should never have ever voted or ever talked about same gender marriage. That's not in their constitutionality whatsoever. The Chief Justice said this is lawless for us even to consider this. And then we all, you know, we just go along with it. And the reason why is because we don't know that the Supreme Court of the United States is the weakest branch of the government. But when we look and when we see the best friend of American Liberty is that person who is most sincere in promoting true and undefiled Christian faith Who sets himself with greatest firmness to bear down profanity and immorality of every kind. And whosoever is a vowed enemy of God, I scruple not to call him the enemy of our country George Washington said that. And it is the man of piety, inward principle, character from within. that we may expect to find the uncorrupted patriot, the useful citizen, and the invincible soldier. God grant that in America true religion and civil liberty may be inseparable and that the unjust attempts To destroy one may be the issue and tend to support the establishment of both. Hey, we need to wake up and understand we are under attack. It's not just political attack, it's spiritual attack Amen. It's not one party against another. No, no, no. It is the falsehoods of the devil against the truths of God Almighty. Amen? And that's what we need to come back and understand once again If we are going to be a good citizen, what we need to be is a good Christian. You can't be a good Christian and not be a good American. And you can't be a good American and not be a good Christian. George Washington said that too as well. So what are the three things very quickly that we need to do? Well we need to have that commitment, we need to have that compassion, we have that Christ-likeness, and that all comes, number one, from being separated from the world. Amen? If you want to be a good citizen, that's what you need to do. You need to be separated from the world. You know what that means? You need to look different from the world. I don't want to look like the world. I don't want to talk like the world. I don't want to dress like the world. You know what God says about us? We're peculiar people. Now people say, well, yeah, peculiar. Yeah, you know what peculiar means? It is a treasured object. Something that is treasured, something that is rare. And in the world today, we must be those peculiar people that walk different. Hey, when before I got lost, I mean before I get before I got saved when I was lost, I walk different. And and it was really strange. In Bowie, Maryland, where I grew up, we have a certain walk. And we walk like we walk like this. And you weren't cool unless you walked by it like that. And you would never wave at someone. You'd always go You know? And you had to be dressed in a certain way. I mean you had to be dressed in you had to wear a band lawn, you had to wear I talk Chuck Taylor shoes with basketball socks rolled uh you know over top and green max shirts with a big long black leather I mean if you didn't do that you weren't in You see? Amen? And you had to talk a certain way and and you had to wear your hair a certain way. Hey, forget about that. I don't want to be in the devil's cookie cutter. Amen. I want to be a peculiar person. I don't want to walk. I don't want to talk. I don't want to act. I don't want to speak like the world. I want to speak like God God wants me to speak I want to think the thoughts of God. Hey, my thoughts are boring. How about yours? I don't want to think my thoughts. I want to think God's thoughts And that's what being separated from the world is. Hey, it's not boring to be separated from the world. It's exciting to be separated from the world. Amen? I mean, I many times can just tell, hey, that person's a Christian Just by the way they're dressed. Amen. That's separated from the world. John 15, verse 19 says, if you were of the world, the world would love his own. But because you're not of the world But I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you. See, a man's known by his friends and his enemies. I'm glad I have certain friends. This man is my friend. I love this man. I pray for this man. He is my friend. I know if I need a little bit of encouragement, I can always call him because he's always up. Smiling. He's just saying, well maybe. No, no, but look, he's he's one of those guys that I just like to get around. You know why? Because he enjoys his Christianity. I mean we w I don't I think we probably got close to being kicked out of of the of the Uno restaurant last night because we were making so much of a ruckus. We were laughing over there having a good time. And I mean they must have, who are those people over there, you know? But what I'm saying is I I know I'm glad I have friends that enjoy the Christian life that are just not enduring to the end. Have you ever met those Christians? Huh? How you doing? Oh, then you're sorry you asked them? Because well let me Let me tell you what I got going on today. You know. Oh my. Okay. You learn not to ask those Christians how they're doing, because they'll give you the whole list of the, you know, all the things that, hey, look, I I've got things going on too, but look. By comparison of where I'm going to heaven, of what I get to do now, here And the fact that I can lay down at night with a clean heart and no regrets by following God because the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. It's wonderful. Oh yeah. I mean I I've seen I've seen Christians, you know. Someone comes to the door? Yes? Hi. I would like to invite you to church. We have a good church down here in the community and we have a good time. Yeah, I really oh yeah, I I want to go to your church for sure. Yeah. Yeah, I've been you know eating oatmeal out of a gas pipe, at least that's what you look like, you know. Enduring to the end. Hey, I'm glad I'm glad that I have friends that enjoy the Christianity. But uh but I also I I'm not sad that I have some enemies too Huh? Because a man's nobody's friends or anything. Look, be careful if you begin to get comfortable in the world. I'm not comfortable in Washington, D. C. I'm not comfortable when I walk through the Capitol I'm comfortable right now because I'm among God's people, but I never know what's gonna go on on Capitol Hill. I mean, even when they're playing baseball, isn't that amazing that they can be shot now just playing baseball? That's the kind of crazy Nation that we live in. I was a little uncomfortable last night because I had my back towards the door. I don't normally sit that way because of my training. I like to sit But you know, I just forgot about it and had a good time last night. But we need to be separated from the world. 1 John 2 and verse 15, love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world, if any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Be careful what you love. Even be careful about what you say you love. I stopped saying I love this and I love. I'll say say I like that. I enjoy this. I love God. Amen. I don't want to love the things of the world. I want to love God first and foremost. Amen. And maybe like the things of the world, enjoy the things of the world that God allows me to. 1 John chapter 2 and verse 16, for all that are in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father, but of the world. Do you know the devil only has three tools? You think about that. Someone asked me, associate pastor asked me, how many tools does the devil have in his arsenal? I said, three. He went, yeah. I said, the lust of the flesh, the less of the eyes and the pride of life You know the sad thing is? They keep on working on the human race over and over again. They sometimes even keep on working on Christians. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, oh I want that. Huh? The pride of life, oh well, you know who you know who I am You know who I am? I'm an old Gentile dog. That's who I am. I am a hell-deserving sinner that's going to heaven because of the grace of God. I I I get to walk in and talk to senators and congressmen on Washington in Washington DC. The men and women who lead our nation. Now I'm not enamored and I'm not, you know, intimidated. I am very respectful because I know that they represent a lot of people, but I keep in the back of my mind, they're public servants, we pay their salary. They work for us Huh? You see what I'm saying? We've got to draw a balance in realizing these things. And also understand something that there's something going on in our country. A lot of times people are wondering why all of these things are occurring, uh eradicating uh these types of differences. Uh Karl Marx rewrote History, Designing Social Engineering I'm going to be coming back up. And social engineering is very dangerous. It's the cultural war. You've heard about the cultural war that we're in and how a Christian needs to be combative in the cultural war They need to have the right position, the right disposition, but we need to know that the forcible overthrow of all social conditions, social norms, through an intimidating religious police state Which would control all the minds, all the properties, say religious. Yeah. Don't you understand that Marxism is a religion? It's just a religion of the godless. Don't you understand that ecology is a religion? It's not a true religion, it's a false religion. There's a lot of false religion, but unanimous thought of the majority is the goal. of these missionaries from hell. So there is no freedom of thought, no action or property. Call them to whatever you wish They are striving to do this through a artificially academic type of approach which attempts to control all, number one, through the school system. Indoctrination stations that they give tests to see how quickly they are breaking down the social norms, faith, and the family in the minds and hearts of young people To the point now in college campuses you can't even express a provocative thought because it might ruffle one of the little snowflakes that go to School there, you know. I mean because this election didn't go right, can you even imagine in universities they handed out coloring books and play-doh To displace some of the stress of these college students because they were stressed out because the election didn't go the way that they want it to? You know what I tell them? Suck it up, buttercup This life is not all a bunch of roses. Oh well I just don't agree with that. Hey, good luck in finding a spouse you're going to always agree with. Or a boss that you're always going to agree with. Hey, just try working for someone and telling them, oh, I don't agree with that. I don't think I should be here that that early. Okay, see you later. Bye But that's what's going on. Our school system, number one. Number two, our media. You see that today. This is social engineering being controlled by these six things. Legislation in Washington, D. C. , legislating all of these nonsensical things, wasting our money on the immune system of the shrimp So they actually devised a little treadmill for the shrimp to run on. I've seen it. And there's a shrimp. And there's millions of dollars to this nonsense. And this is the type of legislation that that they're oh no. Oh look, you I mean there's transgender stuff in the military. You gotta give me a break, really? You go in the military and the military pays for your sex change? And then you're out of commission for months and they're paying millions of dollars for this? And you know, psychologists say those people, many of them wind up killing themselves anyway after Tell you you know why? Because God created all people, man and female. One or the other. You're saying that God made a mistake. God doesn't make mistakes. Sorry. Here's make mistakes. I sure am glad President Trump said, hmm, that's it. Writing that off, that's not gonna happen. Not in America. Oh, well that's just not compassion. No, that is what you call common sense. And I'm glad to see some of this thing. But this was social engineering, see This is what we this is the cultural war. I'm just going to be be very quick on this. The courts. The court system. And how the court system now is vehemently vehemently up against Christianity in so many times. The churches. And that was one of Evan's questions. You know, the churches, entertaining, go to churches to entertain, you know, let me entertain you. You know, you're up there singing and dancing. with all the wild music and and all the lights and sounds and and all all the rest of it. Look folks, those are things that we need to be very, very careful about This social engineering is something that is out of the pit of hell. This is what Marx has tried to do. This is what we need to fight against. It's something that we need to really understand. So schools, media, legislation, courts, churches, and monetary policy, the redistribution of wealth. Aren't you glad that President Trump said no to the Paris Accord? Billions of dollars? You know, it had nothing to do with environmental things and everything to do with economical things. Where it was the redistribution of wealth. That's what the liberals are all about. Well, we can just give money to all the poor nations and that's a good thing, you know. No, no, no, no. The reason why the poor nations are poor nations is because the poor nations don't believe in God You see, as a nation. You understand? And and America does, and when a country believes in God then there are certain things that follow, that is liberty, and what follows liberty is peace and prosperity, okay? And we're not supposed to be just handing things out to everybody and that's why everyone went crazy when he got out of the Paris Accord because they they weren't gonna get their hand out. Hey, we're the number one leader in environmental technology. We don't need to be holding hands with anybody. And so their thought as if the state is more important than the private thought. private held land, uh private liberties, and these should be destroyed in the name of the loyalty to the state. Be careful about that. And that's something that we need to see, brethren. I count not myself to have apprehended, but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before. See, we need to forget about what we were and continue to strive to what God wants us to be. That is being separated from the world unto God. That's number two. separated from the world unto God by keeping our thought life right. For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate. I believe in predestination Now that part probably will be cut out and people will send that all over. But w what would he mean? I pre- I believe in predestination to be conformed to the image of the Son of God. So once you're saved, you are predestined to be conform to the image of God. Amen? That's wonderful that he might you know look at us and understand this is this is a vessel unto honor to be conformed to the image of his son That he might be the firstborn among many. That's what we need to do. That's what we need to understand. Here, the problem is too many times. You know what? We have a thought life. We have an outward life, we have an inward life. You understand that Look with me over to James chapter one excuse me, James Chap chapter four. How many are with me this morning? Say amen. I'm almost done, okay? Are you are you with me Okay. What time you normally get done? Twelve? You're probably done now and and and yeah, okay. Alright, so I'm I I'm over. So can we give me a few more minutes? Everyone okay? Okay, just give me a few more minutes. I'm alm I'm almost done here, okay? All right. And and you know what what we need to do is always have when God is speaking to you, always have an open heart. Amen. Always keep yourself wide open, your mind, your heart. It says in James chapter 4 and verse 5, do ye think that the scripture saith in vain the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy A lot of times we say the word lust and we is a bad connotation, but it's just a strong desire. That strong desire can actually be a good desire You see. But we don't use it that way in the world that we live in. But God says the spirit that dwells in us lusteth the envy. You know why? Because too many times we're thinking about the things of the world And we're not thinking about the things of God. We're thinking about the things of the world and we're so purpose-driven. I mean, we need to get this done, we need to get that done. Even on vacation too many times. You know, we gotta get it here at this time, here at that time, and then you gotta go home. Mähdja. We don't have that. But two fellows are with me, one guy says, that's just our and here comes the senator out. And I prayed with the center. And I said, What'd you like to pray about? She said, Well a good friend of mine just was diagnosed with cancer because we played with her. And so we bowed right there in her office and prayed for her friend and for her. And I walked out and I said, Okay, all right, okay, all right, you're right, I'm wrong, okay. But what I'm doing is I'm praying as we're walking through it every single time that we walk on the hill, we have divine appointments. Because the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord. You ask God to order your steps, he'll do it. He leads us and say, hey, we are praying for the Lord, we need someone for an after hours tour, one of the Capitol Connections. to talk to and we named this congressman. And we took five steps and he was walking around the other side of the corner and there he was And he said, what can I do for you guys right now? And he said, we need someone from after our steward. You got it. And I'm thinking, thank you, Lord. See, that spirit, that spirit. That close within us, the lust and the envy, because we're so centered on the things, the alligators that are admittedly at our toes. Huh? Look, I heard this years ago. Don't show me what a person is. Done throughout their day, that doesn't prove who they are. Show me what they've left undone. Because we can accomplish a lot of things each day, but if we haven't taken time to just still our mind and our heart and listen to the Holy Spirit of God, we have failed. And by the way, we need to do that in the morning. So that God's with us for the entire day. I'm telling you folks, it's just fun. It is fun to walk through Capitol Hill and brother Every single time we walk off of Capitol Hill, we say, That's amazing. I was I was walking across to our office from w one of the uh the congressional office to our office, uh Wake Wake America's office, and walking past the Capitol and they were having a news conference And two things happened. One person called and said, I just saw Dr. Harding over at the news conference. Well just standing there watching. And then the second thing that happened was so one of the congressmen that was being grilled by the news media kept on looking at me the whole time that he was talking. When he got through he walked right over to me and said, Dr. Harding, good to see you. He said, I know what you were doing. I said, what do you think I was doing? He said, you were praying for me. I said, yes, that's right. And I thought to myself, what a testimony that God has given to us on Capitol Hill. You see, folks I'm going to tell you some things tonight that simply are amazing. You know why? And I'm going to repeat this tonight. Great men, great people, extraordinary people can do great and extraordinary things. But anyone That gives themselves to God can do miraculous things. If we allow God just to. Speak to us in that still small voice. Hey, I I go, I ask the Lord to help me pick out my tithe in the morning. Holy Spirit, what type should I wear? People say, Well, that's Christ. No, it's not. I'm trying to get sensitive to the Holy Spirit Amen. So that when it's a real important thing, the Holy Spirit can be heard loud and clear. Try that sometime. You ever put a $20 bill in your in your pocket and say, who should I give this to? Huh? Have you ever Hey I I bought two hamburgers one time. What? Juicy hamburgers. I ate one, I didn't eat the other. I said, Lord, I need someone to give this juicy hamburger to. I ask for whispering up, I'm traveling down the street and I'm going past a college campus and I pull in to this Christian College campus. And here, this is leaving a mock and night. Here comes the council walking across and just got off work and coming over to the dorms. I pulled up, I said, hey You want a hamburger? He said, I was just praying for something to eat. I said, Here you go. Hot, choosing hamburger. He went away happy, so did I. You see what I'm saying? So we need to be separated from the world. under God in our thought life because our thought life then will basically equal the life that we live without. It's so much fun. Don't live below where God wants you to live. Live a miraculous life. Live a joyful life. Live a life that's abundant because it's the life for others, you see. That's being a good Christian. That's being a good American. The world is looking for peace. They look to alcohol, drugs, fleshly pursuits, but there is no peace. Without God, because God says in Isaiah chapter 26, that I will keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee. You want to have peace? Put your mind upon God. It's a wonderful life with the Lord. Number three, separated from the world, separated to God in your thought process, but separated for service. For a purpose, you see. From the world unto God for a purpose. You know the problem with a lot of people in life? They don't have any purpose. I wouldn't ask someone, I need to know what my purpose here is. He took up the Bible and led me to the Lord. Huh? Trouble with a lot of people, they just don't have a purpose. Even some Christians they're kind of Wondering, what's that do? Because they haven't prayed. Don't tell me that God won't tell you what your purpose is if you pray and ask Him. He wants you to know His will more than you do. Amen. And He wants to show you a purpose. 2 Peter 1, verse 9, who has saved us and called us with a holy calling according, not according to our works. But according to his purpose and his grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. Do you understand? I have no idea. What God wanted me to do when my pastor said you do a God and country type of a ministry, I had no idea exactly how to go about it, but I believe in pastoral authority. You know what? I'll guarantee you this. Brother Leblanc is not perfect. But because you are here and you submitted yourself to his leadership, he has wisdom for you because of his position as pastor more than any person on earth. Because God gives him that. So when my pastor said, pray about a God and country ministry, I prayed, told the next day, that's what I'm going to do. I surrender myself. Then I start asking God, how am I going to do this? And God has led me from that point to this. And now? I'm going to tell you some things tonight. Simply are miraculous. And I'm going to tell you how you can see more of God's miracles in your life. I'm not a charismatic preacher, but I think independent Baptists have kind of been scared off. Because the charismatics are talking about miracles. God's the God of miracles, and he wants to give you a miracle in your life. Problem is we don't ask him. Huh? We live so below our station as Christians. I enjoy the fact that I think I've told this before, but I'm just gonna hit it real quickly and go on. My wife and I wake up in a miracle every single morning. We live in right outside of Washington DC, Maryland, on two and a half acres. I mean she said the other day she was walking out our little dog Zoe and she came on two uh two uh those and uh and three little thoughts with spots on still baby and her two brothers I remember right now for earth you know we live on two and a half there's no way I could I could ever have afforded that ever but God gave it to us miraculously. Honey it's wonderful wake up, I don't see any of my neighbors. I'm not looking through the window to my neighbor who's looking at through the window at me. I don't see it. You know the reason why? Because I believed God and He gave us a lot of two and a half acres. I mean it's so quiet. If you were knocked out and you came to on our property, you would have no idea you were twenty minutes outside of Washington. In DC. But God's a God of miracles. He's done a miraculous thing in our country. He wants to continue to do miraculous things in our nation, and our families, and our churches, for him and the gospel's sake. But we need to believe him. He wants to give us a revival in our country. I'm going to be talking about that tonight. But we must be a good citizen and be compassionate. As Christ was to everyone. I don't know about you. I'm real glad that we have President Trump. He signed thirteen congressional Review acts. I mean, he has actually done more to stop government from interfering in the lives of Americans in the first hundred days than any other president in history. He has passed more laws with all of these with out all these people trying to keep him from passing laws than anyone has ever done since Harry Truman. The news media doesn't want you to hear that. He has slashed all types of regulations, bringing jobs back to America, allowing people to spend, I mean, millions and billions of dollars back and bringing back things to our country, but we need to be separated unto God for purpose. He knows what his purpose is. And I don't even know if he's saved. What's your purpose? What's your purpose as a Christian? Your purpose as an American. Well, I know what one of my purposes is to hand out tracts. Amen? Amen. Oh, I'd love to hand out tracts. I love to go sewing. people about the Lord. Hey, uh I I have a cup link uh that has uh there's a capital on it and and because someone asked me about that cuplink on a flight uh back from North Carolina uh to Washington DC, uh he got saved. Amen. Goes to Fort Campbell and I told him who to go And report your duty for I thought he's military, so it's good. I said, You know, you want to get saved? He said, Sure. I said, he said, Yeah. I said, You sure? He said, Yeah. I I said, I I don't you don't have to. I said, No, he said, No, I I want to get saved the lens of the Lord in the plane. I said now go to this guy, he was a rat hawk pilot. And he's lying outside of Fort Campbell or your station and you report to him for duty and you tell him whatever that he wants to do, you're going to do it. And sure enough, the pastor sent me a photograph of him and this young 23-year-old. And he said, Tim Sharp showed up and said, uh, Chuck Harding led me to the Lord Jesus Christ. And I And I'm coming for a corporate duty. Anything you come in to do, I'm gonna do. I kinda like that, amen. So get baptized, and then you know, so it's a good thing. But what I'm saying is, hey, I know that's one of our purposes. As Christians, hey, and look, the best. The best friend of America is one that continues to go slowly and tries to show people through their life that the Son of Man has come to seek and save that which was lost. That the Lord is not slack concerning his promise. But as some as some men count slackness, but as long-suffering to us, we're not willing that any should perish. That all should come to repentance. I don't know about you. I sure am glad he brought me to repentance. I was twenty-one years old. I was twenty-one. Hey look, I had a lot of success in my life, but at at that time, but at the age of twenty-one I knew that there was more to life than just this, that, and the other. And I sat down, a man led me to the Lord Jesus Christ, the Savior. I mean look, if anyone had asked me, Are you a Christian? I would say, sure I'm a Christian, of course. I believe the Bible that Jesus Christ is the Savior Leave there's a heaven again. I'm a Christian, I'm not a Buddhist, I'm not a Muslim, I'm a Christian. I was on my way to hell. There's someone in here today probably this size of auditorium and this and this size of of group. There's someone here. You think you're Christian and you're on your way to hell. If you died, you'd split hell wide open. No hope. Forever. But God doesn't want you to suffer that fate. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. He wants you to get saved today. So some people think I'm a Christian and life to be embarrassing. Look, there's going to be a little bit of embarrassment, but it's not going to be anything compared to standing before all of humanity at the great white throne of judgment and God pointing at you and saying, Depart from me into the lake of fire. That's prepared for the devil. with his angels, where the worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched, and the smoke of their torment rises up forever. I never knew We can bow the knee now or we can bow the knee then. Bow the knee this too. Bow the knee now. Oh my. You're safe. Save. Secure. Safe around. He's separated from the world, separated unto God, separated from purpose. But you don't even know your purpose, what your purpose is if you're not saved. But glory, honor, and peace to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first and also to the Gentile. Aren't you glad that he opened it up to us? Us old Gentile dogs, us wild olive branches. And I want to tell you this, I was wild, as wild as you could even have imagined anyone ever being. But God grafted me in. If you want to be a good citizen, we need to be a good Christian, and that's how we can do it. But as we close today, let me ask you this. Do you know for sure? That you are saved. Do you know positively you've done what God says to do in the Bible, that you've accepted one time the gift of eternal life by realizing that you're a sinner. Because you've sinned, the wages of your sin is death, but the gift of God's eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord. and that you've repented, you've turned from your way and turned to God's way, God's way, and you've asked him to come into your life and be the master of your life and the savior of your soul. If you've never done that, don't walk out of here today without doing that. We live in the greatest nation on earth, in the nation of the greatest freedom anywhere on the planet. It would be a shame for anyone walking out of here to be walking out in bondage. Someone might today. Someone might be walking out and and and you can't see the chains, but they're there. And the chains that the devil put on you. But we have the key to unlock the chains. And it's the truth of God's word, and it's simple. Simple plan of salvation. So I have an invitation today for whoever you are that doesn't know Jesus Christ as Savior. Paul said, I'm a citizen of Tarsus, no mean city. He had some duties. He had some privileges. And so do we. All eyes closed, all heads bowed. I would say, Brother Harding, I I'm that person. I don't know for sure that I'm going to heaven. But I don't want to walk out of here today on my way to hell. And Brother Hardy, I would like you to pray for me. I would like to know for sure that I have received the gift of eternal life. As all eyes are closed and heads are bowed Is there anyone that would say, Brother Hardy, that's me? Here's my hand. Pray for me, Brother Hardy. Lift your hand up. Let me see. Anyone know? Say, Brother Hardy, I'm not sure that I'm going to heaven, but I'm positive. I don't want to go to hell. Anyone like that at all? All right. I would say, Brother Hardy, something that you said. Holy Spirit of God touched my heart. And too many times I'm running right past. These valuable lessons that the Lord has for me and I want to live where God wants me to live. I want my steps to be ordered. by him and I want to see miracles occur in my nation, in my church, and my my family in my life. But I need a greater belief. That God is a God of miracles. Or whatever the Holy Spirit spoke to you about. Brother Harney, something that you said, Holy Spirit of God used and spoke to me. Here's my hand. Your hand. Yes, hands everywhere. That's great. Wonderful. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for loving us. Thank you for each and every person that's here today. There's one that doesn't know you as Savior. Pray you'd bring them to that knowledge of the truth, the desire to know you as Savior. Thank you for all these Christians that raised their hands that the Holy Spirit of God spoke to them. Lord, in just a few minutes as we stand, if any want to use this old-fashioned altar, Lord, I pray that you would. Help us to understand the contrition of the body shows the humility of the heart. And so Lord bless now and have your will and way in this invitation Uh the duty is ours. The results all belong to you. And we'll thank you for it. We ask it in Jesus' name. All eyes closed, all heads bowed. If you just stand to your feet as the musician plays, God spoke to your heart. I want you to just