We're going to look at the first three verses. We're continuing our series through the book of James, going verse by verse, and uh we're Looking at the subject here, how to end wars, how to end a war. While you're finding James chapter 4, uh we have several folks that are either in the public school system or they were at one point And uh you might appreciate this. I came across this this past week. It says you might be a school public school teacher if There's a series of things here. You might be in education if, one, you believe the staff room should be equipped with a Valium salt lick. I thought that was pretty good. Valium Salt Lake. Uh if you want to slap the next person who says, must be nice to work from eight to three and have your whole summer free You might be in education if you can tell it's the full moon even without looking outside. If you believe that shallow gene pool should have its own box on the report card. Um I thought these were funnier than you all responding to, but uh if when you're out in public you feel the urge to talk to strange children and correct their behavior, you might think Uh if you have no time for a life between August and June, uh if uh here's one. I kind of feel this way, actually. Uh if you think people should be required to get a government permit before they're allowed to reproduce. Um How am I doing, Sandy? Yeah. All right. Uh you encourage an om um you encourage an obnoxious parent to check in the charter schools or homeschooling. Um if you think caffeine should be available in the staff uh staff room in intravenous form. Um When you meet a child's parents, you instantly understand why the kid is like that. And uh then you laugh uncontrollably when people refer to the staff room as the lounge. So Anyway, I thought maybe some of our school teachers would appreciate that. James chapter number four, let me read real quickly verses one, two, and three. The Bible says, From whence come wars and fightings among you Come they not hence, even of your lusts that war in your members? Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain, ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye Ask not. Ye ask and receive not because ye ask amiss, that you may consume it upon your lust. Uh how to stop war. How to stop a war, whether it's in your home, whether it's in the workplace, in a church, wherever it might be. James tells us how to stop a war. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless now the little bit of time we have to look into your word. I pray you would speak our hearts. And I pray, Lord, that you would help us to be peacemakers as you instruct us in the Beatitudes. Bless and fill me, I ask, Lord, with your Holy Spirit in Jesus' name. Amen. We noticed in verse number one the reality of wars. He says, Whence come wars among you? He's making the statement there that they are real. And we looked at length at the fact that uh fussing and fighting and wars have been around since sin entered into the world began with Adam and Eve's children. And uh Cain and Abel when Cain killed Abel and all the way through the end of Revelation. War is a reality. Fighting and fussing is a reality of human experience. Then we noted the reason for wars. I gave from this passage of scripture, I find two reasons that there's fussing and fighting and warring between people, whether it's individuals or groups of people. One is because of the lusts of the flesh, the lusts of the flesh. We notice that in verse number one. Come they not even hence even of your lusts. that were in your members. And so that was one reason. The other reason we gave, and he points out here in verse number two, is a lack of prayer. And uh you have not you lost and have not, you kill and desire to have, you fight more, yet you have not because you ask not. Now tonight, what I want to do in the few minutes I have is give from this passage what I believe are the remedies for war. How to stop that fighting. How to stop that fussing. Now I don't want you to respond to this, but uh I have no doubt I'm talking to somebody That is under the sound of my voice, I have no doubt, and you're probably at this point, you know, I'm just tired of fussing. I'm just tired of the constant fussing and fighting that goes on. I just want it to stop And um whether it's again in the workplace or wherever it may be, uh let me give you some thoughts tonight that might be helpful. Number one, I want to encourage you to jot these down. The remedy for war I put this down. Number one, I must die to self. I must die to self. Apostle Paul said in 1 Corinthians 15, 31, he says, I die daily. I die daily. For four years I had the privilege, and I've referenced this this morning, for four years I had the privilege to be chaplain with the hospice program here in Garrett County It's a tremendous privilege. They worked with me. I didn't have to compromise any convictions. I didn't have to cooperate in any ecumenical way. All they simply did was they worked with me very uh graciously they simply said if we have a patient that has no pastor, has no spiritual input, we'd like to give them your uh their information to you at the at their request and you be able to visit with them and do anything you can To help them spiritually. My first question was, can I say whatever I want? They can say, they said, you can say whatever you want, whatever the Bible says, whatever you feel like they need to know. You can say, no strings attached So it worked out beautifully. And for four years, I was on a weekly basis visiting with people who were knew they were going to pass away in a brief period of time. As I mentioned this morning, I was able to lead uh quite a scores of them actually to Christ and doing the funerals, see many, many others make profession of faith. Now I said all that. Some of those funerals were difficult And in the 22 years I've been here as pastor, I've done some funerals that were very difficult, maybe because of the circumstances behind the death. Some of them were difficult because of the person they were and trying to say something, you know, and point people to Christ. Just a challenge. But I'll tell you The most difficult funeral I ever performed, the most difficult perfor funeral I ever performed is one that I have to perform every single morning. And that is when I have to die to self. And I have to get up and perform a funeral for Dennis Leatherman and say, it's no longer I that liveth, but Christ needs to live in me today. Lester Olof, I got that thought from Lester Olof. He said the most difficult funeral that I perform is my own each and every morning. What we have to learn to do as Christians, listen What we've got to learn to do as Christians is we've got to die to self. Just die to self. Our selfish, sinful nature, the selfish nature that's part of us. Will tolerate anything as long as it's in control. Our selfish simple nature will sacrifice anything Our selfishness, our selfish, sinful nature will sacrifice any relationship. This selfish sinful nature will abandon any conviction, will violate any scripture, just to get its own way. And we have got to die to sell. This old simple nature will pay any price to get my way. It doesn't matter who's hurt. Doesn't matter what relationship is destroyed, doesn't matter how it grieves the Holy Spirit, this old sinful self demands its own way. And we have got to learn to die to self. The way to stop wars, number one, is to die to self. I'll tell you what the greatest danger to mankind is, is this selfish, sinful nature that resides in every single one of us. That is behind every war, that is behind every uh every sin, and the greatest danger to mankind. The greatest danger, you know what the greatest danger to Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church is? It's not the sodomites. It's not the liberal politicians. As much as we're against that, it's not the abortion crowd. That's not the greatest danger to Mount Lake Independent by the Church. You know what the greatest danger of this church is? Our sinful, selfish nature that rests in every one of our hearts. That's where the danger is. We've got to learn to die to self. The greatest danger to any marriage is not the other woman, is not the other man. It's not the financial situation, the greatest danger to every marriage. And now all that might play a role, but it boils down to this. This old selfish sinful nature. that refuses to die, that must have its way, regardless of the cost. Dr. Lee Robertson, I had the privilege to senator him for a number of years uh down at Highland Park in Tennessee Temple, he taught for years a leadership class. I had the tremendous privilege of sitting in the very last semester that Dr. Lee Robertson taught the leadership class. Him and his assistant um uh uh brother Faulkner, J. R. Faulkner taught that. They co-taught that. I was able to sit in on that first hand, sit there, take notes. I got them in my file. And he would say this to us as young men preparing for the ministry and and uh he would preach it from the pulpit. He said this over and over and over again. He said, Young people, he said, young men, you've got to die to self. You have to die to self. Die to self. Dr. Pat Creed, our tremendous friend in the ministry, in missions and preaches our Missions conference. He's worked on staff under Dr. Roberts. Last time he was in, we were talking about Dr. Robertson. He said I was able to be in meetings and travel with him and different things, work very closely with him. He said he would always say to the staff You've got to die to self. You have to die to self. Die to self. Die to self. Die to self. And I believe the great one of the secrets, if you want to call it that, of Dr. Robertson's great, great ministry, how God used them so tremendously As Dr. Robertson learned, you have to die to self. Die to self. He used to quote John 12, 24, I mentioned this in prayer breakfast yesterday morning in our devotions. Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die. It abideth alone. But if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit. And we're always taught, he always taught us, that if you get to the point where you die, no longer my will, but thy will be done. No longer I that liveth, but Christ that liveth in me. We get to that point, then God can bless, and God can work, and God can heal. And God can bring peace to any situation. Die to self. You know, saying that, die to self, that sounds kind of poetic. You know? We like to say something like that. Preachers like to say that. Sounds kind of heroic. Well, I'll just Die to self, very noble. I'm going to die to self. Sounds spiritual. Well, you're real spiritually. Dies to self. You know, it's all of those things, but I'll be honest with you, dying to self is one of the hardest things in the world to do That is tough. When something's not happening the way I want it to happen, and something's not coming together the way I want it to come together, and somebody's not behaving the way I want them to behave And I've got to die to self. That is tough. That is tough. And so, die to self. Die to self. There is a foe whose hidden power the Christian well may fear. More subtle far than inbred sin, and to the heart more dear, it is the power of selfishness, it is the willful eye. And before my Lord can live through me, my very self must die. Must die. Well how do you how do you remedy wars? First of all, you have to die to self. Number two, I put this down. I must discipline my desires. I must discipline my desires. Look here at James. This struck out at me, stood out to me In these first three verses, verse number one, he says, Come they not hence, even of your, what's the next word? Lust. I circled that word. Look in verse number two. Ye Lust and desire to have. Look at verse 3, the last part. That ye may consume it upon your three times in three verses, God uses that word lust, those desires. We studied this at length last week, but the word lust, just basically a reminder, simply means a desire to please myself will. A desire to get my way. A desire to have what I want. And three times he references this desire. And I believe what he's telling us is we have got to learn to discipline our desires. Someone whose desires control them is somebody that is in a fuss all the time. Somebody that is heading for a train wreck when the desires control them. So I've got to learn to discipline my desires. What does Matthew 6, 33 say? Somebody help me out. But see Ye first the what? Kingdom of God and his righteousness and all these things shall be added unto you. You know what that verse is telling us? I've got to learn to discipline myself what I'm pursuing in life. I've got to discipline what I desire in life, and I have to make a conscious decision that my number one desire in life is the kingdom of God and his righteousness. I've got to discipline myself That first and foremost, in every area of my life, number one desire is going to be the kingdom of God and his righteousness. 1 Corinthians 10. 31. Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do it. All to the what? Glory of God. My number one desire must be I have to discipline myself. The things I say, the actions I take, the behavior I engage myself indulge in. Must all first and foremost be for the glory of God and for the advancement of the kingdom of God. I must discipline myself that that is what I want above everything else. Our wants, I put it this way, our wants are what produce our wars. It's what I want. You know what causes the fuss? That I want something different than what it is. And I'll go to war over it. This old selfish nature will sacrifice any relationship, will shatter any peaceful coexistence. to get what it wants. I must die to self, discipline my wants, that my wants are number one, that Jesus Christ be exalted and glorified, and God's kingdom and his righteousness be advanced in my life. That must be ourselves. Take your Bible, if you would, and turn to Philippians chapter 4. Paul makes a profound statement here. How many people would agree with me Paul was a great Christian? Man alive. I think he's probably one of, if not the greatest Christians perhaps that ever lived. God used him in tremendous way. Just a man like you and I But he learned something, and he tells us what he learned in Philippians chapter 4 and verse 11. He's in jail when he's writing this, by the way. And he says, not that I speak in respect of want, there's that desire, but I have, I circled that next word. What's it say? I have worked. In whatsoever state I am, therewith to be what? Content. I think that word learned there is important. Paul said didn't just come naturally. I had to learn this. It wasn't just a natural thing that whatever state I am, therewith I'm content That doesn't come naturally. We always want something to be better. We always want something more our way. If we have one car, we want a better car. If we have one house, we want two houses. If we have this, we want that. And Paul said I had to learn to discipline my desires that regardless of what state I am, whether I'm rich or poor, I have a lot or I have a little, I'm healthy or sick, I'm in jail or out of jail. I'm just deciding that my desires are going to be, I'm just going to be content. And I'm going to give glory to God. And seek his first. Therewith to be content. Discipline. And the word content simply had the idea of being satisfied. If we would learn to just be satisfied with what we have and the situation we're face and what God has placed us in, I tell you that would stop a lot of fussing. How many people can I get agreement here on that? Our fussing, our fighting is over dissatisfaction. I deserve to be treated better than this. I deserve to have better circumstances than this. I deserve to be respected more than this. I deserve to get my way in this. No, no, no. I've got to die to self and I've got to discipline my desires and I'm just going to be satisfied with what God gives me. Now, let me put a qualifier here. We should never be satisfied with our spiritual growth I always want to be stronger in my faith. I always want to grow in my walk with the Lord. I want to be more effective in my witness. But as far as my interaction with other people, I ought to be s uh uh be content. Alright, that's the way they treat me. Hey, I'm fine with that. I ought to be burning in hell anyway. I deserve to be under the in hell right now, so anything I'm getting is better than I deserve. Um Hebrews 13, 5, if you would turn back over there towards the back of your Bible I like this passage. Last chapter of the book of Hebrews, right before James. Hebrews chapter 13. Look at verse number 5. This is a good passage to underline in your Bible. Let your conversation be without covetousness, and be what? Content with such things as ye have, for he has said, I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. Listen, let your conversation, let your lifestyle uh be uh not uh let your lifestyle be without covetousness Just learn to be satisfied. You say, Yeah, but preacher, you know, it's us if I just had this, if I had that, then I'd be happy. If that if we had this, then we wouldn't be fussing. If I owned that, wait a minute Even just from a human standpoint, every one of us in this building right now, every one of us are richer than 90% of people in the world. The poorest of us here are better off than most of the world. And we're complaining, and we're unhappy, and we're not treated a good enough, and we don't have enough of this, and we don't have a nice enough of that, and our car isn't new enough and this is the carpet isn't this and my clothes aren't that and my work isn't this and my ninety percent of the world would give their right arm To have what you and I enjoy and take so for granted. We need to learn to discipline our desires and be content with such things we have. Ben Franklin said this. Contentment will make a poor man rich, and discontentment will make a rich man poor. I think you hit the nail on the head. Why don't we ask God tonight? Why don't we ask God tonight, Lord, teach me to be content? Teach me to discipline my desires, to be satisfied with whatever you allow me to have or not have, wherever you allow me to go or not go, whatever you allow me to experience or not experience. Lord, I'm better off than what I deserve. I ought to be in hell. And Lord, I'm just going to rejoice in that. And first and foremost, desire is that you be glorified and your kingdom be advanced. Number one, die to self. Number two, discipline my desires. And the last one is this: delight in the Lord. Delight in the Lord. I want to read to you Psalm chapter 37. And uh says this fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. I sense a little tension there, I tension a little warfare, fussing. fretting because of evildoers, uh being envious of the workers of iniquity. There's a little bit of warfare boiling there. For they shall be soon cut down like the grass and withers a green herb. Look what he says. Look at his advice. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Listen to this. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thy heart. You know what our problem is? We look to people to do for us what only God can do for us We're looking to our spouse. We're looking to our parents or our children. We're looking to a church member, the pastor, we're looking to an employer to do things for us that only God can do for us. And God says, listen, you just delight in me. You just rejoice and be glad that you have Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. Listen, these people that have all this stuff that we fuss and fight for, that we think we have to have, and they don't have Christ You and I that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we have no reason in the world to be dissatisfied. We've got Jesus Christ. Our problem is we don't delight in him. Uh somebody said it, and I know I'm not quoting this correctly, and I was trying to find the quote to get it correctly, but it goes something like this, and I'm sure some of you afterward will correct me on this. afterward. You'll correct me on this. But um it goes something like this. Um I've re I didn't realize Until I didn't have what I needed, that Christ was really everything I needed. Does that make sense? Does anybody sound familiar to anybody Tell me afterward, all right. Uh but it's something along those lines. Um Charles P. Jones was a black preacher, 19, early 1900s, late 1800s. He pastored the Tabernacle Baptist Church in Alabama. God was stirring in his heart and in his church, and he wrote down a little poem that became a chorus. And I meant to check mark if it's in our hymn book. I don't know if it is. It might be. But it goes like this. Jesus Christ is made to me all I need. All I need. He alone is all my plea. He is all I need Wisdom, righteousness, and power, holiness forevermore, my redemption full and free, He is all I need Jesus Christ is my all-in-all. All I need. All I need. While he keeps, I cannot fall. He is all I need. He redeemed me when he died. All I need. All I need. I with him was crucified. He is all I need. Glory, glory to the Lamb. He's all I need. All I need. By his Spirit, sealed I am. Jesus Christ is all I need. I'm telling you, when we get to that point where all I really need is Jesus, then there'll be peace. The fussing will stop. The wars will end. And Jesus Christ will be all in all and all we need. Let's die to self. Every day, perform a funeral. I die today. No longer I that lives, but Christ live in me. Let's every day discipline our desires. Say, you know what? My only desire today is that Christ be glorified, the kingdom of the gospel be advanced. And let's just delight in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ, you're all I need. Whatever else I get above it, it's over and above. Jesus Christ, you're all I need. And I believe wars will end. That's the way to end wars. Father in heaven, bless now, I ask. Have your way in our hearts and lives, we pray, in Jesus' name, with our heads bowed and with our eyes closed.