Coaches uh do about forty weeks a year now and I do seven weeks overseas. I leave next oh in fact I fly out of here Monday And on Wednesday I go to New Guinea and Australia. And I want you uh I'm going to talk about different things and I'm just kind of warming up a little bit. I'm going to speak a message tonight I've never preached But I just want to uh educate you a little bit, okay? How many folks, uh my sister's got a doctorate uh in math from the University of Ohio. She just retired at 81 years of age. The other sister I have is a d medical doctor, you see. And and I'm a doctor too, of eating blueberry pop tarts if that's about it, you know. And uh Uh as I go through and uh talk with people, my sister that's a doctor in math, I give her a question the other day, and she prides herself in always being right. And so I said, since you've got your doctrine in math, and you know you've done this for all these years, and I want to ask you a question, and I need it as a sermon illustration. And she said, well, go ahead, what is it? And uh she thought it was spiritual, but I said, how can you turn the number seven into an even number. And she's well well you can't do that. And I said, don't use your calculator. I got it in my head. I and I was asked this question the other day, got it right. And she says, well, can I have 24 hours? Okay, yeah, you can. She did math for 16 of those 24 hours. And she called me back and said it's an impossibility. I said, no, you you don't know what you're talking about. Well, yes, I do, because you know I've been in this my whole life. Well, you know, we have people in churches That do not understand what faith promise missions giving is. And you you do, but not everybody does. My home church, the pastor heard about this. I preached it three years ago at Gospel Light. Sitting right beside me, been in the ministry 40 years, and I showed him the scripture. He said, I didn't even know that was in there. Wow. And he believed in it. He just didn't know where it was. And so my sister, 24 hours later, she calls me and says, Dan, it is impossible to take the number seven and turn it into an even number. No, it's not. Just take off the S Did you get that? Their hair is not even blonde. But anyway, uh She said, you stinking jerk. She hung up on me. I don't want you to hang up on me tonight. And I want you to slide in your Bibles to Acts chapter 13. And I got all kinds of ways to introduce this message. Uh and uh what I want to do is let you understand something that I've been to missions here since you really started, preacher, and I remember with Pat Creed and Pat Creed's one of my men mentors and Uh I was here when he taught missions and John Halsey is with the Lord now. I followed him for 14 days in Alaska, 14 nights in a row of meetings, because I didn't understand what I don't know what faith promise was. And he taught me. And it's there. Tonight, I want you to understand as I give you this message. I want you to recognize that the Holy Spirit of God Is the one that drives the missionaries. Now, I want you to also understand in missions, the Holy Spirit authorizes that missionary. And he also he utilizes that missionary. But I want you to understand and realize this as a church. Everything goes through the local church. Some professors didn't think some doctor of theology did not think this up. It's not some odd idea. And I'm just gonna honestly I'll be done by 815, but I just want to unload. Some things on you tonight in a gracious way. You do get missions, but I want you to understand afresh why you do this. Okay? And how does this work? And it's clearly illustrated and unfolded here in the book of Acts in chapter 13. And it's uh the Christianity's beginning to spread. It's moved from Jerusalem to Antioch and uh Antioch to Rome. And the Holy Ghost is, if God is working it through the local churches. And in this chapter, Luke lays it out for us under the direction of the Holy Ghost, the Holy Spirit. They give you and I a, can I say a pattern and a procedure to do this? And we're after more souls, are we not? Man, last time I was here we was dealing with COVID. Right? I think that's true. It's amazing how we all got COVID. I was preaching up in Ohio and a bunch of Amish come to the church service, converted Amish, and I said, did you guys ever get COVID? And one homage guy said no. Well, I said, how'd that work? None of us own a TV set. A lot of us believe what we hear. We don't believe what God's Word is. So tonight, very quickly I almost get in Acts chapter 13, verse 1 through 5. Then I'm going to read verse 52. Then we're going to spend the night in that chapter. Now there were in the church that was at Antioch. certain prophets and teachers as Barnabas and Simeon and that was called Niger and Aleutius of Cyrene. And Amanian, which had brought had been brought up with Herod, the Tatararch, and Saul. And as they ministered to the Lord and fasted, now watch this, the Holy Ghost Say it. If you don't know this, you don't need to take a course in theology. The Holy Ghost drives the bus in the first churches and in church planning. And admissions. You know what that word drives the bus mean? We get on board and go with him. Because he's the one that does the calling He's the one that gets us ready. The Bible says the Holy Ghost said, separate me, Barnabas and Saul, for the work where I have called them. God's called the uh you guys to Spain. He he's called you to Paraguay, or you're from Bolivia, but going to Paraguay. That's like me going to Japan. I'm just saying God never called me to these places God's called me to Australia, Papua New Guinea. That's a my heart is there, Brother Lyons, their heart is there. Brother, your heart's there. And you just can't stop that because God has called them. Now watch this And when they fasted, that's the church, and prayed, and laid their hands on them, that's Paul and Barnabas. Now watch this, they sent them away. That means to release them To let them go. And then that word sent, that means they pay the way. They support the way. Not only by prayer, but financially. Verse 4, so they being sent forth by who? The Holy Ghost departed unto Seleucia, and from thence they sailed to Cyprus. And when they were And sa uh where at Salamis they preached the word of God and the synagogues of the Jews, and they had also John to their ministry. Now they did not raise hog, dogs, frogs, or dig wells They didn't have printing ministries yet. You check the great Macedonian call in Acts 16, it was to preach the gospel. That's where it starts. All that other stuff comes later. Amen. Keep this thing in order, keep it in line. Now look at verse 52. It makes this statement in that same chapter. And the disciples were filled with joy, and with what? The Holy Ghost. Starts with him and ends with him. Can I say first of all, the mission of the Holy Ghost is a recognized missionaries? Look at verse 32, or verse chapter 13. Look with me at verse 2. And they ministered unto the Lord. That means these guys were busy. You don't get saved on Monday. By the next Sunday you get baptized and go to the mission field. You've got to be developed. You've got to be discipled. And they ministered unto the Lord and fasted, and the Holy Ghost said, Separate me. You know, they had fellowship in the Holy Ghost in that local church. They were walking with God. And I'm telling you what, you got the bus ministry here? You've got the youth ministry here. You've got other ministries here. And they're all part of this local church. But outside of what's here You have a worldwide ministry, and that's in missions. That is church planning. Look very carefully. The ministry of the Holy Ghost In that local church, it says in verse 2, he said, separate me, Barnabas, and Saul for the work where I have called them. Now, can I step over here for just a moment? How many have ever had God deal with you? Liar, liar, trousers on fire. How many have ever told a little white lie? After you got saved. How many have never sinned after you got saved? See me afterward. I'm just telling you. Well, we're all pretty normal here, aren't we? The Holy Spirit, how many done something and you felt bad after you did it? My wife told me the other day she disagreed with what I was doing. And I said, Well, okay. And I looked at her and I didn't say much and I didn't tell her she was right. I just said, okay. About an hour later, she came back and said, I didn't mean to be so harsh, and God dealt with me, but I'm just telling you, you're missing this one point. But I just want to let you know if I come off wrong, I'm sorry. Whoa. I married a good one, did I not? Hey, how have you how many of you men been wrong? 49 years ago, and you haven't said your story yet, amen. When it comes to missions, some of us we go to church. We hear about it, but we do not recognize the fact that the Holy Ghost of God, He drives this bus. And I want you to understand. The fellowship of the Holy Ghost was in that church, and the ministry of the Holy Ghost was in that church. Look at verse 2. Again, the discipline. In this local church is amazing. And they ministered unto the Lord and fasted. And the Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Farnabus, and so. Things don't happen by accident. They've got they got a hold of God in this church for the work where I have called them. God's called them. When God called me to New Guinea There was a boy there, his name was Tobias, T-O-B-I-A-I-S. Last name was R. Berry. You're going to see photos of him tomorrow night. You're going to see photos of everybody everybody in the thing. And he came to my church and I led him to Christ and he was 11 years old. He'd like a tick on a dog. I couldn't get rid of him He was kind of a street kid. He didn't know who his dad was, but he knew his grandmother was, and he had a mom, and he had a a brother that was a preacher. And that boy went with me everywhere And uh I asked him a question one day. I said, Why are you always following me around? And he said, Brother DeLong, I want you to know that I want to be around you because God's put it in my heart to be around you. Hmm. And God, I think, wants me to go into the ministry someday. Hmm. And I see, he said, I need to recognize the fact that God brought you to New Guinea and God called you to New Guinea. If it wasn't for anybody but me, I recognize that fact I want you to understand, folks, when you have missionaries coming out of your church, when you have missionaries that come here to this church to raise support. I want you to understand, you'll recognize the fact, you have the discipline and understanding that when that look at verse 2, they ministered to the Lord and fasted. That word fast indicates that they they were praying till they got a hold of God and God put it on their heart to take these two young men and pay their way and being called by God sent out of the church. I'm telling you, it was a spiritual climate that God's after. You want to have a great missions conference? Make sure that you have a right relationship with the Holy Ghost. Amen. Like I said, I've made mistakes. My wife's made mistakes. When you keep a short account with God, man, God's ready to bless. Amen. This faith promise giving, this missions giving, does not, like that other guy said, doesn't do a thing for the church. of where the church is. Doesn't do a thing for the buildings. Doesn't do a thing for the property. It doesn't do a thing to the people Yes, it does. If your religion is just buildings and carpet and pews, we're in the wrong business. Amen. I want you to understand the Holy Spirit brought you here tonight The Holy Spirit wants you to recognize the importance of missions in and through this church, and he wants to use us all in this. It's not just about the missionaries. Can I step over here, preacher? It's about you. You need to recognize that tonight. Number two, look at this. To authorize. My granddaughter's trying to get her driver's license. I want you to chill I'll get to the illustration in just a moment. The mission uh of the Holy Ghost is to authorize missionaries. She'd been in Canada for three years, my granddaughter She comes down to the state of Ohio to take her driver's tax to get a get a driver's license. You can't do that Well what do you mean, Grandpa? You gotta take driver's ed. Well well I didn't know that. And she went to take the test. They kind of laughed at her and said uh and she's uh she's been educated in Canada. She don't go to a school in the States and but she's a citizen and she said, well I'll just I'll get I'll take that class. Do I have to drive for two hours or an hour and a half I said, listen, sister, you're about nine months down the road before you can get a guy to train you. She says, I did not know that. I want you to understand the mission of the Holy Spirit is to authorize missionaries. Look what it says in verse 4. So they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed. You know that church recognized that Paul and Barnabas was going to be missionaries and that God had touched their lives and God told them and he had called them. And I I'm telling you, it's not the seating capacity of a church that's important. It's the sending capacity. I don't want you to catch this. Personal identification They laid their hands on them. Look at verse 3. Personal identification. It says this, and when they had fasted and prayed, they knew they were right. They laid their hands on them and they sent them away. When they laid their hands on them, they did it physically and symbolically. They they were identifying with a call of God in their life So as there are the recruits today, every missionary that I deal with at BIMI, I'm sure that their boards do it. I know we do it a gospel-like When that missionary gets to go to the field, we lay hands on him. Amen. We physically want to let him know that we're behind him. We symbolically want him to know that we're behind him. Because I want you to know, every missionary realizes when they are authorized by the church, they've been what? Deputized, okay? I mean I am one of your deputies in Papua New Guinea, Australia, the United States of America. You're one of the 50 churches that support me around this world. You took me on for support. You voted on me. The thing is this That's a personal identify I am identified with Dennis Leatherman. I'm identified with this church, but I'm identified for the gospel and the cause of Christ, my eyes, my hands, my feet, my whole life has a personal identification that I'm a missionary for the Lord Jesus Christ. Watch this. In and through this church That's an important thing. Personal identification. Number two, prayerful identification. This is where churches go off the rails. Look at verse 3. It says, they fasted and prayed. Man, if I can get you to pray for me, that that's that now I'll take the financial support, but I want to let you know another sermon I preach Three ways to support missionaries, financially, prayerfully, and emotionally. And the prayerfully, I'm telling you what, you can send that check every month You can send it every month to every missionary that you support, but that does not win one person to Christ on all these fields. What wins them to Christ is your prayer, because they're hitting that battlefield every day And I'm telling you, you need to pray for them, for God's presence in their life, God's power in their life, God's program in their life, because there's a target on their back, and the devil wants to stop them dead in their tracks. Now you've authorized them and you depatized them as a church. And the Bible says here in that authorization that they authorize that personal identification and they they have to do this. You know, I've been to at Gospelite Baptist Church and we would uh ordain a pastor there. They call me to come in if I'm in the country and I'll drive over there and they'll do the Q<unk>A and when we're done everything's fine. We all stand up and have him kneel and we pray over that young man or that older man. The Baptist International Mission Incorporated when The missionaries are approved, like the Moors and people like that. We put 'em in front of us and there's about forty pastors there, about twelve directors, and When the when the whole thing is over with, we're not a local church, but we we are identifying with them that personal identification and let them know in this identification we're going to pray for them I was at a church service in Philadelphia and at Pennesettes Church about a month ago. A woman's known me for about 40 years in that church. She's in a wheelchair and I go walking past her and she's got a cane. She hooks me with it. Don't you go anywhere, young man. You sit down here. She said, I'm a, you know me, Don. I said, I know you yeah, I know you. Don't have a tooth in her head. She says, I'm on a fixed income and I give five dollars a month to missions. But I do a lot more than that. I want you to give me three prayer requests. Three prayer requests at the top of your list. I'm going to pray for you every day the next 365. I can't send much money. I can't do much around this church. But I'm going to hook into you with this old cane and let you know I'm going to pray for you every day. Whew. I'm not complaining. I'm just explaining she can hook me every day of the week with her cane. Because I need people to pray for me. All these young missionaries, you need to pray for them. Praying church at home is the secret to victory and the personal and social and vocational life of any missionary on any field around this world. Samuel said, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord and cease and pray for you. You need to pray in three ways for your missionaries. Can I say this informed? Number two, intelligently. Number three, intensely. I want to challenge the church tonight. I didn't plan this. Her name was Lauren Drews And she's the wife of Pastor Cam Druze, the church that we started in Australia. I'll be over there next week. And uh uh she got sick and I was over there last year. We ordained her husband to take the church there. Church runs about 100 to 110. She was dealing with a bad ankle and it got infected. They took it to the doctor. It was cancer. Uh they gave her chemotherapy, they gave her radiation, they gave her surgery, it got infected, it came up with her leg, and twenty days ago they cut that leg off at the socket So it wouldn't kill her. She laid in that hospital for ten days. I went through this with them. I'm praying for them He called me the other morning, they're 12, 14 hours in front of us, and good night, he's biggest biggie, and and just just crying on the phone. He loves God, loves the ministry, has a job, pastors that church. He said, you realize I love her with all my heart But my life has changed. Would you pray for me? Man, I love her with all my heart, but I asked God this morning why? I said don't know I don't know why. But I'm telling you what, and I'm going to pray for you because I personally identified to you. 'Cause you're one of my preacher boys from twenty years ago. And I mean it's real now. And I go over there next week. I'm going to sit down with him and her both. And all I can say is I'm praying for you. I'm pulling for you. You're going to get through this. You're going to come out the other side. I don't understand everything that's taking place, but God is going to give you a victory through this. Don't quit. Hang on Don't quit. Don't give up. I got people back in the mountainside by this lake over in Maryland. They're on their knees for you today. I got this old woman with a cane In downtown Philadelphia to hook me around the arm. I called her this morning and said, There's something I need you to pray for. I need to have wisdom to talk to this young preacher and his wife that's crippled the rest of their life. They can't even put a prosthetic on her He has to carry her to the shower and back. Unbelievable thing they're going through. Hey, I'm telling you, and they're church planners in Australia. Hey, that's just part of it. Amen. I want you to understand, you need to let you let you know that you need to identify personally with your missionaries, prayerfully, and here's the last thing. Look at verse 3. It tells us this that we need to practically And I use this thought practically. Look what it says with me in verse 3. It makes this statement that when they had fasted and prayed and laid their hands on them, they what? He sent them away. Get to the mission field. Man, you guys want to be there yesterday, right? He wants to get there tomorrow. You know, uh they could, they'd been there already. But it says they sent them away. That means they released them to do God's will with watch this the financial taken care of Their prayer taken care of, the emotional taken care of. We're not going to keep you here. No way, Jose. You have to go. We know God's called you. We want to be part of this. So the practical thing is we are releasing you and you have the authority, authorized, deputy to go and we watch this. We have to understand we recognize that God's called you. That's what this missing thing's about You've supported me all these years because you recognize what I am. Well, I wish who I am. I wish I was taller. Who's with me? I wish I had more hair like the guy sitting in the back. Sorry, preacher, you don't I don't wish to have I'm just saying. How many have a wish list? Number one thing on my wish list is this, time. Number two is health. And that's it. I want to serve the Lord. These missionaries are just getting started. You've recognized the fact because you haven't come in And I want you to understand you're going to authorize the fact that if you take them on support, you're deputizing them to represent this church. Let me give you the third thought tonight, and that is this. The mission of the Holy Ghost is to utilize missionaries. It says in verse 4, so they, the church, Being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed, and they preached the word. That's amazing stuff. So they being sent forth by the Holy Ghost departed and verse 5, they preached the word. Amazing stuff. You missionaries, I want to encourage you. This church has to recognize that God's called you The local church authorizes and deputizes the missionaries to go, but you've got to be utilized. Now what do you mean by that, preacher? There's four things here that these missionaries have to do. If they do not do it, they're worthless as teeth on a chicken. Amen. And you be careful. Watch when missionaries come in. Some missionaries, there's several types of missionaries. There's lutionaries They just been that's all they do is try to mooch. Then there's cominaries. They'll con you into things. They'll give you this little song and dance and so sad, then you realize, wow, when's the last time they've been, when's the last time they did? I'll give you four things you've not got to have in every missionary. Number one, this is key, they uh the Holy Ghost, they were to witness for Christ. The Holy Ghost utilizes every missionary. The Bible says in verse 5, and they preached the word of God. You know, when they did this, they were going everywhere And they they're outstanding people like Sergus Paulus, the governor of the island of Pappas. They were saved, you know, in verse 7. No one can witness in the power of the Holy Spirit without seeing miracles and places like this. And I want you to understand Bill Barons, you all remember him from years ago. He came to New Guinea to preach for us, and our church had grown a little bit. He did a week of revivals and he got he got got to preaching on soul winning. at the end of the conference. When he got done, the next Saturday, instead of having eight or nine people come to visitation, we had 24. About three or four weeks later, we had 48 to 50. A few weeks later, we averaged 84 people going soul winning for the next four years in that church. We had people saved practically every Saturday. We had many saved on Sunday. Over a four-year period, we baptized 365 people. It's not about the numbers. But Bill Barons preach, if you're doing anything for God, you will be a witness for Christ, especially missionaries. Well, I'm just a music missionary. I'm not against them, but no, you need to be a soul winning missionary. That music comes later. Well, I'm just a printing missionary. Well you can print that stuff later, but you need to be a soul winning missionary It says there to be a witness. Number two, they're going to be in a battle for Christ. Look what it says in chapter 13. Look what it says in verse 8. It says now, but Eliamas, the sorcerer, for so is his name by interpretation, withstood them, seeking to turn away the deputy from the faith. Then when Saul also is called Paul, filled with the Holy Ghost, set his eyes on him, this this bad dude, and set of a fool Oh full of all civility and all mischief, thou child of the devil, thou enemy of all righteousness, wilt thou not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord? Good night He's calling it out, is he not? I want you to understand that they were to be witnesses for Christ, and they are going to battle for Christ. Any missionary worth his salt With his weight. Missionaries cannot be faithful to the Word of God without encountering opposition. That's part of the program. I use the term welcome to another day in paradise. Man, our church was grown in New Guinea, Catholic Church, about half a mile from our church. He'd come up there on one Saturday morning, we'll get ready to go on visitation. He walked right into our churchyard with about twenty of his church members. He had his Catholic outfit on. He was about half drunk smoking a cigar from England. He came in there and called me every name in the book Because I said we're not the Catholic Church. We believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, not Mother Mary getting us to heaven. Amen? Now I know that wasn't smooth. It wasn't kosher, but I want to understand there was a difference in my Baptist church and that Catholic church. And the difference is the Lord Jesus Christ. You know, but God, the Holy Ghost, calls the missionary, sent through the local church, to do one thing, and that is be a witness for Christ. And if you're going to be a witness for Christ, you're going to get cut up you're gonna get battled, amen. Been there and wore that t-shirt. Doesn't do not like it. That was from a Catholic priest Within a year, I had two independent Bible-believing Baptist missionaries saying that I was soul winning too much. Oh yeah. And don't go to his church because he believes in this and he believes in that. He's from that gospel-like sword of the Lord bunnies. And I asked that guy, what do you mean by that? Well you know you're King James. Yeah. What do you cartoon? What what's going on here? Oh, you've got that subverted text. You've got that NIB text. You got all those other texts. I mean, don't water down what God's word says. What's wrong with being a witness? I'm not the sword crowd. I'm Dan DeLong's planting a church here that God's led me here or a church. Same guy posted on our church door the next week who had a rented hall. Don't go to this church anymore. He put it up at 8 o'clock in the morning. I happen to be the first one there. Come over to our church. We're more than the KJV. You think you're just the Catholics are gonna be your enemies? Be careful There's independent guys out there they say they are, but they're not. The devil is unbelievable, and I'm telling you here, Luke writes about it. Paul calls them out, and I am telling you, they are going to have people come after them. You need to pray for them. Number three, I wrote this down. They were to harvest for Christ. It's not about me or DeLong or the missionary's name. It says in verse 48 and 49 of chapter 13, and when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad and glorified the word of the Lord. And as many as were ordained to eternal life believed, and the word of the Lord was published throughout all the region. Are you kidding me? When you stay faithful and do what God does, I've been in the are you ready for this? This is my 50th year this time. And I was 20, 19 years as you knew me in ministry And I right now it's thirty-one in missions and I'm starting to see and reap where there was one church in New Guinea, now we have eight Where there was a no church in Australia, now we have one getting ready to plan a second one. I just want to encourage you. These Gentiles, it said the day when I they glorified the word of the Lord I just want to encourage you that there's a harvest for Christ and it's you. It starts with you, the local church. Number four, and I've got to hurry. Before I close, I want to get it to you. They were to suffer for Christ. It says in verse 50 and 51 of our text, as you'll take a quick look there, the Bible says this. That but the Jews stirred up the devout and honorable women, and other chief men of the city raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them out of their coast. They shook off the dust of their feet against them and came a Diconium, and the disciples were filled with joy and with the Holy Ghost You know, when Paul got done there, you thought, oh, it's over. They're never going to make it. Oh, they they've all righted it against them. And they've been watching too much of CNN. Been watching too much of the cable news. We just trust God with it and understand that the mission of the Holy Ghost is missions. You know, as I finish this thought I wrote this one last word down. And that is this. Realize this all begins with you. The local church. You go back to Acts chapter thirteen and the beginning of it. We're talking about the church, and there were in the church. And they ministered to the Lord and fasted. The Holy Ghost said, Separate me, Barnabas, and Saul for the work whereof I called them out of this church And they laid hands on them in verse three. Who did? The church. And they sent them the way. Who did this? The church. And being sent forth by the Holy Ghost That's the missionary, but being sent out of that church. I want you to realize it all begins with you. And it all starts again with you and again and again. All God's people said. Now I have a code of conduct that I do. Scares my wife to death. We did it in Australia Before that, we did it in Trinidad and Tobago, but we first did it in Papua New Guinea. Now Papua New Guinea is a poor place, but anytime we would start a church, the very first church service Before we were chartered, before we had a constitution, we took on a missionary for support. And it was not me And there was no one in the church to take the missionary on, it was going to be me. But I've watched God bless in the U. S. Australia, Trinidad and Tobago, and Papua New Guinea, every time we would start a church. That's what you want me to do, isn't it? That's what you got missionaries out there for, don't you? You don't take them on for support to write books, they can do that later. You don't take them uh uh on for support to sing songs if that's part of it. You want them to give the gospel out. You want them to win people to Christ. You want them to disciple people. You want them to get the baptized and join the church and repeat. Amen. That's why you do what you do. But who tells us to do it? The Holy Ghost does. He recognizes And I want you to get this. And he will authorize. He will use, he will utilize that missionary. And I want you to understand you have to realize that all doesn't start with a missionary. It starts with your relationship. Well the Holy Ghost. A little different message tonight. I can't preach this at all churches. But you get it to become a stronger church in missions. Heads are bound, eyes are closed, no one's looking around. Brother Long, you say, Pastor uh Leatherman Brother the Long God has spoken my heart tonight, and I I uh I knew most of this stuff, but you know, I I realize Tonight that doesn't Holy Ghost is calling and sending and using missionaries through the local church. Who can say, I want to have my heart right with God this week, and I do recognize the importance I do understand the how the church authorizes the personal and the prayerful and practical identification to these missionaries. And that they're supposed to witness for Christ, battle for Christ, have a harvest for Christ. They're going to suffer for Christ, but this is exactly what you want us to do as a church. To be that conduit, to be that supplier, because we understand tonight that your word says, separate me. Barnabas and Saul for the work where I've called them, and send them forth out of this church for your honor and glory. You can say, Brother Long, I appreciate the message. I want to be part of this faith promise program. Would you pray for me that I'll be loyal for that this week? Can you raise your hand with me? Hands all over. Who can say this and this is a step higher, maybe a step wider? If the Holy Spirit of God would call you, the Holy Ghost of God would call you this week. Into missions. Would you say, Here am I, Lord, send me? Could you raise your hand to that? I see hands going up already. Thank you. Thank you. Who would say, Preacher, the Holy Ghost has spoken to me tonight? That uh that I want to be part of this sending and and and financially and prayerfully and emotionally connecting with these missionaries, Lord, to so they can do your will. And I understand tonight it comes through us, the local church, and I want to I want to be part of that. Could you raise your hand and say pray for me Thank you, Pastor. Let's stand together a header