Jeremiah chapter one. I um was studying last night for tonight's message And then I would I was reading uh here in Jeremiah uh for a different purpose and then something just hit me right in the face. Told pastor about it last night. I was like, I have read this I I don't know how many times many times I've read Jeremiah chapter one here, and I have never seen this. Isn't that cool though? Like uh you read something over and over and over and over and over again and then boom, right in front of you. You've never seen it before. It's just so cool how that works. The Bible is a living book, that's for sure. God will speak to you and He will use His words to speak to you every time that you read it. It's a pretty cool thing, isn't it? That's why after you read your Bible you ought to read it again And you ought to read it again. And then you ought to read it again and keep on reading it. It's a good thing. Jeremiah chapter 1. I said I read this passage often. Um every t every time I um uh I started this probably when I was I don't know nineteen twenty, something like that. But every time I would um do deliver a devotion or a lesson or preach or anything. I would always come to this chapter. Um it's where j uh God tells uh Jeremiah that he is calling him and that um he's given them a message to say and I'm paraphrasing there we'll actually read here in a second. But uh it's pretty cool. Let's start in verse uh four of chapter one I've got seven points tonight, but they're all really quick, so it's okay. Verse 4 of chapter 1 says, Then the word of the Lord came unto me, saying, Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. And before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations. Now, the message tonight is not about abortion or anything like that, but this absolutely destroys any argument for it. That's just common sense, I think. Verse 6, then said I, Ah Lord God, behold, I cannot speak, for I am a child. But the Lord said unto me, Say not, I am a child, for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee, thou shalt speak. Be not afraid of their faces, for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord. Then the Lord put forth his hand and touched my mouth, and the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms. To brood out, to pull down, to destroy, and to throw down, to build, and to plant. Skip down to verse seventeen. Thou therefore gird up thy loins and arise, and speak unto them all that I command thee. Be not dismayed at their faces, lest I confound thee before them. Let's pray then the message this evening. I was just titled this How God Calls Us. How God Calls Us. This is not going to be a um I guess you'd say dynamic message. This is just going to be more of like a how-to little study here. It's going to be fun. Heavenly Father, Lord, we thank you for the day you've given us. We thank you for just a good day, Lord. Just a good day to be in your house. Lord, we ask now that you would be with us the rest of the service this evening. Lord, I ask that you would fill me with your Spirit. Lord, I want you to just completely take over and teach us the things that you want to teach us tonight, Lord, and it's in Jesus' name. Amen. Now obviously Jeremiah was a prophet, and he was a prophet at a pretty dark time in Israel's history. Um he was the prophet that uh prophesied of the coming of of Babylon and prophesied of the captivity and actually um prophesied through it lived through it and then was alive after it, still prophesying, and then he prophesied against uh Babylon itself and other nations and things like this. It's a pretty dark time in Israel's history Um there's a lot of sin. There's a lot of corruption. Um pretty much uh the the the uh authorities, I guess you could say, whether it be the religious authorities or the kings, um all all of them were just corrupt at that point Um wasn't a good situation. So uh God calls Jeremiah here to preach, uh and to prophesy. Um and and verse ten specifically, he he gives him the the job to um to root out and to pull down and destroy and throw down, uh to build and to plant. And so Jeremiah uh was a prophet That God had called for a pretty dark time in Israel's history. Like I said, it was before, during, and after uh Babylon came in and took captives. So we know this was a very sinful time, and throughout the whole time, uh well the first uh half, I guess, first half, give or take a little bit, of the book of Jeremiah. Um, it's like warnings, you know, uh God's j God's judgment's coming, God's judgment's coming, and all this kind of stuff. And then of course God's judgment comes. Um and then I mean the word's not in here, but I feel like Jeremiah could have said, hey, I told you so. Um but uh that that's what happened. That's the time frame we're in here in uh Israel's uh history. It's a dark time. And so I got to looking at this and I got to thinking about this. God had called Jeremiah for this specific purpose, correct? Like this was what God wanted Jeremiah to do, to prophesy, to preach during this time. And um I I've read this a bunch of times, and then last night this kind of boom right in the face, and this thought hit me. How did Jeremiah know that God called him? Okay? Well he said so But there's like there's a little process here, and I gotta think about this. How do I how do I know what God's calling me to do? How does God do this? What is the process God goes through when he calls somebody to do something? When he calls someone to pastor a church, when he calls someone to teach a Sunday school class What's the process that God goes through? This is awesome because we're going to see it like word for word here. And I just it just it just jumped out at me last night Before we can understand how God calls us, again I have seven things. The first thing is this: we have to understand God forms us. God forms us. Look at verse 5. Before I formed thee. God formed Jeremiah for something very specific. God created Jeremiah. God formed him. Now we can look at this generally. Go to Genesis chapter 2, please. Genesis chapter 2. God created man, correct? Genesis chapter two, you already know where I'm going, verse seven. It says Lord God for man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. We see here where God created man. There's a belief that is taught in public schools and other places as well and almost has just become generally accepted, which kind of blows my mind, but that's besides the point. There's a a belief being taught that uh God did not create man, that man just kind of came out of nowhere. We just kind of evolved. We just kinda got here over time. That that's just silly. And I'm not going to uh uh spend the next you know twenty, thirty minutes uh uh trying to say why evolution is wrong. We we know that's wrong, okay? That's just obvious. Um so We know that God created man. We know this. God formed man. God formed man out of the dust of the ground. Breathed into his nostrils about the life. Man became a living soul. God formed man as a whole, but also individually God forms us individually. Go to Psalm 139. Keep your Bibles handy. We're going to do a lot of turning today. Psalm 139. Give me a second, I'll catch up with you. But God created us individually. God formed us individually. God formed man out of the dust of the ground. God created man, but he's telling Jeremiah, I specifically formed you. God specifically forms us. Psalm 139, verse 16, says, Thine eyes did see my substance yet being unperfect, and in thy book all my members were written Which in continuance were fashioned when yet there was none of them. Basically what this is saying is God has a blueprint of us. God knows what we are going to be fashioned like before we are fashioned God knows how he's going to form us before we are formed. God created man as a whole, but he also creates us individually. God knows what our DNA code is before we exist. God knows what we're like. He forms us. He forms us individually. He forms us physically. And again, Psalm 139 talks about that. Verse 14, I believe, says, I will praise thee for I am fearfully and wonderfully made God creates us, yes, mankind in general, but also specifically me. God formed me God created me specifically. He knew what I would look like. He knew what my personality would be. God formed my likes, my dislikes There are no two identical people. So we look at the twins and say they're identical twins, but there are some differences. I was talking with uh a Lord yesterday and some of their taste buds are different. One of them likes peppers and one doesn't, right? Isn't that weird? You'd think they like to have the exact same diet, but they don't. Um the one one has like a little spot right here, right? I can't see from here. I wouldn't know which one's which from here. But they're different. There are no two people identical Their personalities are slightly different, correct? Or are they a lot different? They're a lot different. So there are no two people identical. God formed each one of them, and he formed each one of them different. They are not the same Things that are different are not the same. So God formed us individually. Now what are we talking about? God's calling on our life. How do we know what God is calling us to do? Before we can get there, we need to understand God formed us for that calling. God has created us for specific things. Again, I was talking with the pastor about this last night, and he made this comment, and I've heard him make it here before. He's convinced that God created him to pastor this church. And and and he did. I mean that that is that's an awesome thing. And when you know that, it's uh it's a whole lot easier to uh continue serving the Lord. One second I had a lot of caffeine today. Is that bad? I I I I drank I drank an energy drink this morning. I had coffee out soul winning. Um So I'm caffeinated. We might finish this whole thing by seven forty. We'll see. But anyway, uh God forms us individually. He forms our mannerisms Um the way though I mean just just our personalities, our likes, our dislikes, our mannerisms, God created us. He created our spirit He created our personality. God forms us. So before we can say we know what God has called us to do, we need to understand this. God has formed us for something. God has created us for a purpose. So we need to understand that. Secondly God forms us, but two, God knows us. God knows us. I don't think this should be a surprise because he forms us. God knows what he made. God knows what his creation is. Let me go back to Jeremiah here real quick. I should have put a bookmark in here. It says here In verse 5, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. God knows us. Um, I know my wife pretty well. Not as well as God knows her. I think I know myself pretty well, not as well as God knows me. This will blow your mind. I shared this with the teens this morning. Alright, how long have I known myself? Alright, I'm 28. I've known myself for a little while. How long has God known me? God is blow your mind. God knew me before I knew me. God knew me before there was time. So would there be a before if it was before time? It'll brack your brain, won't it? So God's known me a little bit longer than I've known me. God knows me. Which means God knows what I can do. God knows what I can't do. God knows what I could do with his help. God knows what I could do if I would trust in him to help me do things. God knows me very well, better than I know myself. God knows what temptations I struggle with. God knows my strong points, my weak points. He created those strong points and weak points. God knows me God knows me. God knows you. With that being said, I've heard this excuse, and you've heard this excuse. Well, I feel like God is calling me to hear, but I just don't know if I can do that I feel like God is calling me to do this thing or go to this place or ha uh work in this ministry, but I just don't know if I can do that Doesn't matter if you know if you can do it. Because God knows you can't. God knows what you can do. God knows you better than you know you. He knows us better than we know ourselves. You know, people say, oh, we know each other so well. We finished each other's sentences. God knew the sentence before you existed. God knows you. He knows you. So before we think, all right, what is it that God is calling me to do? How do I know if God is calling me to do this? We need to understand God formed us for something very specific, and he knows us. He made us, he created us, he knows us. Number three, he sanctified us. He sanctified us. That's a big word. Look at verse 5 again. Before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee Before thou cameest out of the womb, I sanctified thee. What does the word sanctify mean? Set apart Now we're going to look at a few things, obviously, here. The word set apart, it means like reserve, set apart, right? So obviously God has sanctified us unto himself. I'll go to 2 Corinthians 6. I'm going to save my place this time. Second Corinthians chapter six And verse number seventeen Obviously a highly quoted verse here. It says, Wherefore come out from among them and be separate, saith the Lord. God has called us to be separate. We preach on this. Separation. We preach on separation. You know, love not the world, neither things are in the world. If any man love the world, love the Father is not in him. Be not conformed to this world, be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. We preach on separation We're to be set apart. We're peculiar people. We're being different. We're to be set apart. That's that that has the idea of sanctification. We are constantly becoming sanctified, becoming more and more like him. Things like this. And then also It's not just this in a general sense. Yes, we're sanctified, we're set apart for service to God, we're set apart from the world, but we are set apart for yet a specific thing. God has set us apart for a specific calling, a specific task. God formed us for it. God knows we can do it, and He's set us apart to it. He's reserved us for that job. Does that make sense? So he has set us apart for this. So before we understand, and this one I'm going to kind of run through a little bit, I guess, but before we can understand um You know, what is it God's calling me to do? Is God calling me to do this? And so how does it work when God calls somebody? What does that look like? We need to understand He forms us, He created us, He knew us before we were created, and He has set us apart for something very specific. When I say the word specific, I it kind of has I kind of mean like unique. Um God has a unique calling on your life. Now, this calling does not just mean pastor, missionary, deacon, Sunday school teacher. It may, but each person has a very unique calling. Xander has a calling on his life. I don't know what that is. He might, he might not. I don't know. But my calling is not his calling. His calling is not my calling. We don't have the same, we're not set apart for the exact same thing. We don't have the same likes, we don't have the same dislikes, we don't even look the same. We have different callings. Each person's calling is very unique. You are set aside for that specific thing. Does it make sense? There's some people, I look at their calling and I think there is no way I could do that. And you know what? I'm right. Because God has not called me to do that. You know what I'm saying? Does that make sense? God equips me to do what he's called me to do, and he equips someone else to do what he's called them to do. I'll get to that point in a minute here, too. I'm kind of getting ahead of myself, but you know what I'm saying. Each person's calling is unique This is why we should not try to fulfill each other's callings. That's a bad thing. All right, our pastor is Pastor Leatherman I'm not our pastor. You're not our pastor. Don't try to fill his calling. Does this make sense? This is something that just kind of bothers me when I say, well when I hear people say, well if I was pastor, I would do this You're not. Okay? And I can say this because he well he's watching. I can say this, but um because he's not here, but he is here. But you get the point, okay? He has a calling and it's unique to him. God created him to be the pastor of this church, not anyone else. And if something happens later on down the road and he wanted someone else to be the pastor, he'd let them know, not me or you. Does that make does this does this make sense? Okay. I kind of feel better now. But um we do not need to try to fulfill each other's callings. They're unique. And if I tried to fulfill someone else's calling, then I wouldn't be fulfilling my own. God has a job for you. Do yours. One's not better, one's not worse, one's yours, one's someone else's. God formed you for that job. He did not create you to do someone else's job, he created you to do yours. So we need to understand this. God forms us, God knows this, God sets us apart. One thing I wanted to mention too, um, that failed to mention at the first point there, God forms us. If it's god if God created us a specific way, we do not need to change the way God created us. Now you could take this down the whole the whole transgender thing, they're changing the way God made them. That's just evil, wicked It's horrible. Alright? It that's just sin. It's sin. That's what it is. But it it goes beyond that. When we try to when we complain about the way God made us. I wish I was taller. I wish I was shorter. I wish I was more athletic. I wish I was smarter. I wish I was, you know, lived here. I wish I was from there. Quit wishing to be made a different way. God knew what he was doing. Alright? God knew what he was doing. Um God formed you, specifically you, for something unique. So be happy with the way God forms you. So there's that too. So then the fifth thing is this: God equips us. One, God forms us, two, God knows us. Three, He sanctifies us, four. Oh, I skip four. He ordains us. Look at verse five. Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee, and before thou cameest forth the womb I sanctified thee and ordained thee. Now I've had people say this word means the same thing, but it doesn't. Or else If it did mean the same thing, then he wouldn't have said two different things, right? So what does the word ordain mean? Who wants to guess? Well, I take a sip of water. Who wants to guess what the word ordain means? Ooh. Say that again. Commission for a specific purp purpose. I like that. That's not the exact same thing I have here, but kind of. Uh who's got something else? Mine is not nearly that detailed of a definition. I got my definition from the 1828 dictionary, which I like that dictionary, uh Noah Webster's. But the word ordained means to appoint or decree. A point or decree. Alright, so follow this. God knew what he wanted us to do, so he formed us, he knows us, he set us apart, and then he decrees it. He decrees it. He um appoints us to that thing. This is where he actually appoints us to the job that he's created us to do. This is the step where a lot of times we recognize, ooh, there's a call. No, no, no, no, now follow me here. God knew what he was going to call me to do before I knew, right? So some of these other steps were already going on before I even existed, and before, yeah, even after I existed, before I was comprehending what was going on. Right? Some of these other steps are at work. This is the step where sometimes the light bulb goes off. Where God actually calls us to do something. Where he ordains us, where he says, he decrees it. This is what I want you to do. Now um he's not going to write out in the sky with clouds or anything like that, and then you're not going to hear some big voice say, This is what I'm calling you to do But this is the step. Now, God will decree to us. He will say something to us. He will establish us and tell us what he wants us to do. Now, if God's going to speak to us W what's he going to use to speak to us? His word. Alright, this is where it gets sad. So I'm going to walk down here These other steps have already taken place. God already knew that He had a job for us to do. Right? God knows things before we know things. God formed us and created us specifically for something. Right? Yes. God actually sets us apart, says, I want you to be safe. I want to set you apart for this job. And then he goes to actually call us and speak to us, but if we're not reading his word, can't So you know what a tragedy is. God does all this work, creating someone, forming someone, giving them a specific personality. specific likes, specific dislikes, creates them specifically to do something unique for him, and they don't ever know Because they're not in the Word of God. They don't even know basic basic Bible, let alone what He wants them to do. This is where a lot of people stop You say you we look at people and say, oh man, God's hands on them. God can do stuff with them. God man, they got potential. God's got a big plans for their life. But they don't read the Bible. They don't seek God's will, so they don't know what it is. And for a lot of people, this is where it stops. And they don't fulfill God's calling because they never bother to find out what it is. And that's a sad thing. But um that's the that's the next the next step here. He like I said, it's not an audible voice or anything like that, but he speaks to us through uh uh his word. And as we read God's Word It becomes alive to us and a and he puts burdens on our hearts for things as we read his word. You think you you listen to people that surrendered to some Foreign mission field, random country you didn't even know existed, and they say, God called me to that when I read this verse. That happens. God speaks to them when they read his word God speaks to me when I read his word. He speaks to you when you read his word. So if you don't read it, we might not get to the next steps. That's why it's kind of an important thing to read the Bible. We've got to read it. You've got to get into it. I want to know what God wants me to do. I just wish I knew what God's calling on my life was. No, you don't if you don't read his Bible. If you don't read God's word, then you you really don't care what his call is. So read read the Bible. Read your Bible. Every day. Every day. Read your Bible. But then after that, step five, God equips us. So one, God forms us, two, God knows us, sanctifies us, ordains us, equips us. I like this part. I like this part. Remember I made the comment earlier? We you hear people say, Well there's no way I could ever well God knows, that's why he equips you to do it. Look at um verse Uh what verse is it right down here? I believe it was ten. Verse ten. Um, verse nine. Then the Lord put forth his hand and touched my mouth. The Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth. Jeremiah chapter one verse nine says that. God gave Jeremiah the words to say, Jeremiah said, There is no way I can say this I'm a child. I'm young. I'm a kid. That was his excuse at the time. There's no way I could say this. There's no way I could do this. God says, don't worry about it. I'm not going to use your words. I'm going to use mine I'll tell you what to say. Kind of reminded me of uh Moses. Remember? God calls him and he says, I can't do this. I can't do this. I can't even speak. God says, Don't worry about it. I'll equip you to do it Well use your brother. Okay? I'll take care of it. Well here Google Farah's not going to believe me. Well here's the staff. Watch this. Put your hand in your coat. Look, leprosy. Okay? He'll believe you. Don't worry about not being able to do it. Don't worry about not having the tools to do it. Remember, God knows you better than you know you. God formed you for something. So when he calls you, you read his word and have a burden and he's calling you to do something specific as you're reading his word. And you say, there's God, I have this burden you've given me, but there is no way I could do that. Don't worry about that. He'll equip you to do it. He'll give you what you need to do it He might be called, okay, use the example of a mission field. There's no way I can go there. I don't know the language. I don't know the culture. Well He'll help you. He'll equip you. He'll give you what you need. Okay? Um and he gave Jeremiah what he needed. Now Jeremiah's excuse was I'm young. Alright, that's just an excuse. You can't be too young for God to call you to do something. It'd be the same as saying, well, I'm too old, or I'm too short, or I'm it doesn't matter. If God's calling you to do something, you read His Word, He gives you a burden, He gives you a desire. It's clear that that's from God, and He has called you to do something, He knows you, He created you for that, and He'll equip you. He's not going to leave you hanging out there to dry. He's going to give you the he wants his work done. Do you know God wants his work done? So if he calls you to do it, he'll give you the tools. He'll equip you. He'll equip you with um maybe the physical tools you need, maybe the mental tools, I don't know. Whatever it is though he'll equip you. He did Jeremiah, he did Moses uh and so on. God eclipses. Age is not an excuse. Age was Jeremiah's uh excuse. Verse six says, Then said I, Ah Lord God, behold I cannot speak, for I am a child. Lord said to me, saying now I am a child For thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee. Whatsoever I command thee, thou shalt speak. God says, don't worry about it. I'll give you what you need there. God equips us. Number six, God sends us. God sends us. Um And you can see that in verse 17, where he says, thou therefore gird up thy loins and speak. uh unto them all that I command thee. It's where he's actually sending the mountain when sending the mountain when he's saying, Go. And in verse seven, he says the same thing. I command thee, thou shalt speak. God actually sends him out. So God forms us specifically for something unique. He knows we can do it. He knows it's better than we do ourselves. He sets us apart for that. He calls us to do this, gives us what we need to do it, and then says, do it. Again, this is where a lot of people get to hang up. They know what God's called them to do, they get training, they get um their equipping, and they know they know it for a fact, and then when it comes down to it, they just don't go. They just don't do it. Oh, this is where a lot of people get hung up on this step here. God sends us. Now I need I want to say this. We have to make sure that it is God that is sending us There are a lot of people that go into ministry or mission field or take the family business or start their own or go work somewhere or do something or teach a Sunday school class um just because someone else asked them to. Now, it's not a bad thing when someone asks you to teach Sunday school class. That's a good thing. That means they like you, okay? That's a good thing. But you have to make sure it's what God wants you to do. If someone asks you to go to a mission field somewhere, that's a good thing. It means they like you. They think you'll be good for it. But you better make sure that's what God wants you to do. Does it make sense? It has it has to be God that sends us. It has to be God that calls us. Um now we should get advice. Oh, we should ask our pastor. We should ask wise people. We should ask in a multitude of counselors, there's wisdom. And there's safety, Proverbs says. So it's good to get a lot of counsel, but we better make sure it's not those counselors sending us out We better make sure it's God that's calling us to do this thing that He's called us to do. And we have got to be fully persuaded of that in our own mind. We have to know that God is calling me to do this thing. If you don't know that, and you're going off into some mission field, you're going to to to some other job here in the church, you're going to do something else And you're not sure God's calling you to do that, when you're tested, you're not gonna really hold up. But if you know for sure, yes, God has created me for this, and God has called me to do this thing. Then when some trials and tests come, you'll stand through it. You'll stick with it. Because you'll be persuaded in your mind, yes, this is what God created me to do. But if you're not sure that that's what God created you to do, then when you're tested and trials come up you'll be like, uh I don't even know if I'm supposed to be here. Does that make sense Does that make sense? Good. So God sends us. Not someone else, not ourselves. We shouldn't go off to do something just because we want to do it. It must be God that sends us. Go to Philippians real quick, chapter two. Hold your place here because we'll be back. Verse thirteen, I believe it is. Oh. Yes. It says, for it is God which worketh in you, both to will and to do of his good pleasure. We have got to be sure that it is God that is working in us. And working through us. So that's what I thought I wanted you to see there. But um number seven is God establishes us. Go back over to Philippians 1, verse 6. Being confident of this very thing, he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. And go back in here to Jeremiah chapter 1, verse 10. See, I have this day set thee over the nations. God will establish you. And the thing that He has called you to do. Um God knows you, right? He knows you, He formed you, He made you for something specific. He's He's equipped you to do it. He's called you to do it. And he will establish you in doing that thing he's called you to do. He will set you there. He will place you in that ministry. He will place you in that Sunday school class on that bus route. He will place you in that. He will establish you in that. If you let him. Um God I think this is interesting. God recognizes the um our call before anyone else ever does. Verse 10 is where he says, See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to root out, to pull down, destroy, to throw down, to build, and to plant. He said, This day Jeremiah had hadn't started his job yet. This is at the beginning of his call while God's still talking to him. But he said, This day I've established you. God recognized the call on Jeremiah before anyone else did. Even wrote before Jeremiah did, remember, because God knows things before we know them. So God will establish you. So we think, alright, how do I know what God's calling me to do? Alright, well first you've got to understand He has created you for something specific. You are fearfully, wonderfully made. You are unique for a unique purpose, and God knows what it is, and he knows you. He knows what you can do and what you can't do. He made you for something specific. You've got to understand that. Doesn't matter who you are, God did make you for something specific. He set you apart for that. You, specifically you, for something specific. He's got a specific job for you. And then he calls you to it. He ordains it. He ordains you. He says, I want you to do this. And he does that as you read this. As you read his word. He speaks to you. He gives you a burden for things. Okay? And then he'll equip you to do it, to give you the tools you need, then he'll send you out. And if you go, well he whether you go or not, he recognizes that's what he wants you to do. Understand God knows what he wants us to do before we know what he wants us to do. So that's kind of uh what I wanted to share with you tonight. I mean how how was it that God calls Jeremiah here? I think that's how he calls all of us. I think that's how he I think that's how he works. He creates us for something specific. Isn't that cool? It's just it There's just something about that thought that is just encouraging to me. God made me unique for something Everyone's looking for purpose in life. Everyone's looking for meaning. Why am I here? Why am I here on this earth? What am I here for? Oh, God's got something very specific. He's got a reason for you. He's got a purpose for you. You know what it is. Maybe you don't know because you're not reading the Bible. Um maybe you don't know because he hasn't showed you yet. But I maybe you should ask him. You have not because you asked not. Ask God to show you what he wants you to do. There's something he wants you to do. Well he made you. He made you for something. Okay, that helps me out. Um that that's to me that's encouraging um to know that there That I have purpose and value and there's something specific for me. And everyone listen to me. This is not just a message for younger people, okay? This is everyone is valuable. Everyone has a purpose. You're valuable, you're special, you're unique, God's made you for something. Find out what it is. If you know what it is, what's keeping you from it? They're an obstacle in the way. So heads bowed, eyes closed, no one will look around for just a moment, please. Um I didn't really hit on this too much tonight. I wish I would have, but how many of you say, you know what, I don't even know if I'm going to heaven? Something would happen to me, I don't know for sure. If I die right now, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven. I'm not sure I'm saved But I am concerned about that. Could could you could you pray for me, Pastor Matt? Could you just slip your hand up where I can see it? I'm not sure I'm saved. Yeah, you may put your hand down. Thank you very much. Okay. Um a couple more questions just for everyone else. Let me ask you this. How many of you would say, I have no idea, no clue what God wants me to do? I have no clue what my purpose or calling is in life. I have no clue. Could you raise your hand I have no clue what my purpose for calling in life is. Okay, that's good. I appreciate that. You put your hands down. Thank you. Okay. Now, that's okay. Okay? Um Maybe we just need to spend some time in the Word of God and let God speak to you. Ask God to speak to you. Ask God to show you what it is. Maybe He just hasn't revealed that to you yet. That's between you and God. Okay? But I'll be praying that God shows you what it is He wants you to do. Okay? And you should be too. Now how many of you would say this, you know what, Pastor Matt, I do know. I know exactly what my calling is. I know exactly what God has called me to do, but I'm not doing it. That's you, could you raise your hand? I do know what God has called me to do, but I'm not doing it Okay. Now maybe there's some obstacle in the way. Maybe there's some sin in the way. I don't know. But if you know what God is calling you to do and you're not doing it, we better figure out what's in the way so that we can do it. Remember, your job is unique God designed you for that, so we better figure out what we need to do so we can do his job, okay? So uh if you could just stand to your feet, please We'll have invitation him here in just a moment. But if God has spoken to your heart about anything really, now would be a good time to come forward and say, God, what does you want me to do? What do you want me to do? I would like to serve you, Lord. What is it you want me to do Maybe you haven't been reading your Bible, so he hasn't been speaking to you. Maybe you need to say, God, uh, I haven't been reading my Bible. Okay? You raise your hand and say, you know what, I'm not even sure I'm saved. Um come talk to us about that. Come forward. We'll show you from the Bible how we you can know for sure. People in heaven, that's the main thing. So if God spoke to your heart in in any way, uh when the piano starts playing, you come do business with God