This morning. Job chapter number one, as we look to the Lord for our help this morning. Um, you know, I was thinking about many things, but Father's Day, I still have my father. He's eighty-four years old And he's there in Denton, North Carolina, uh, this morning. We're away from there, but we're gonna have a celebration with him later on. And uh we're just I'm just thankful to have a dad uh that I could look up to and and uh he mentored me. He he uh brought me up uh in church uh growing up. Uh so I'm thankful for that. Job chapter number one And verse number one, the Bible says, There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eschewed evil. Uh we we think about Father's Day today. We think about honoring our fathers, and and uh I'm I'm gonna look at a few things this morning. The title of the message this morning is How to Be a Success as a Father Or things the Father can do to get and keep his children's hearts. I know I realize in our day it is a struggle. It is a struggle to bring up a family to love the Lord and to keep following after God with a heart for God. It's a struggle because the world has such an influence on us Uh uh but I want to uh be a help and encouragement to you. We were with uh brother S. M. Davis. I don't know how many of you know him, but he he does a lot of messages on family And uh I got part of this outline from him. I want to use part of it this morning, but I hope it'll be an encouragement to fathers this morning to uh so that we'll have uh the next generation coming on That the next generation will pick up that blood-stained banner of Jesus Christ and carry it on to victory for the cause of Christ. This week I've discovered some things in the Word of God, looking at Job. The number one thing that a father and mother can do to get and keep their children's hearts It's so simple and yet it's astounding. I can't believe I haven't seen it before uh in the Word of God. But you know, every time you read through the Word of God, he's going to give you something And sometimes uh you you say, Wow, I never saw that before. You hear a preacher preach and say, Why didn't I get that? Why didn't I get to preach that message? Uh but it can be so simple but so earth-shaking also It's so simple and yet astounding. I'm amazed at how simple this truth is and and yet how powerful it is. I want to tell you a story. I want to read a story uh about a military veteran. His name was Gil Hanson Sr. He was a distinguished-looking elderly man who served over 20 years in the Navy. He graduated from the U. S. Naval Academy in 1960 and in all his sea duty tours uh with one exception were on destroyer type ships, including three tours off of Vietnam. His last tour in the Navy was as a commanding officer of the ship that was designed for anti-submarine warfare. He retired from the Navy with the rank of commander. Brother Hansen was telling about his life. He said, both my dad and my mom were from Norway and came from well-to-do families. He said, my dad migrated to the U. S. through Ellis Island, New York, at the age of 18, graduated with an engineering degree from Princeton in 1921, and began his life in America He met my mom in Norway, where they were married, and brought her back to the U. S. Brother Hansen said, I was born in Virginia in 1938 and had one younger brother, Bill, who was born in 1941. He said, Bill and I are first generation Americans. You know, that's something that we can be thankful to God for. Uh, that we were born here in the United States of America. Still the greatest nation in the world, even with all the faults and failures. Uh we just need to get back on track with God And he said, Bill and I were first generation Americans. Dad in the finest in the finest European tradition was the patriarch of our family. Mom was a stay-at-home mom throughout her married life. All of our evening meals were served around the dining room table with Dad at the head of the table. He sat in the only chair that had arms to it Mom sat at the opposite of the t end of the table, and Bill and I sat on each side of the table. He said, I remember uh there was always table conversation going on In fact, after dinner, uh we would often linger at the table in conversation, sometimes spending more time discussing topics, even taking more time than we did eating the dinner. I don't remember a time when I wish I could have been excused from the table. Bill and I both enjoyed the time of discussion. There was always a time of inquiry on how our day had been. While mom entered into the conversation, it was clearly directed by dad. He not only commanded the respect by his bearing and position at the head of the table, he earned our respect by his firm but loving direction in our lives Later in life in the 1970s, I was in the Navy with a beautiful wife and three sons of my own when Dad went home to be with the Lord. In April of 1972, I was off North Vietnam in the heat of combat. There was no way I could attend Dad's memorial service or his burial at Arlington National Cemetery. In 1974, I completed my sea duty tours and was assigned to a shore duty station back in Northern Virginia in the same area where my mom was living On that first Sunday after our arrival, mom invited us all over, including my brother Bill, over to the old home we had grown up in for Sunday dinner after church services. The dining room table was set, and we were about to sit down for dinner. Now look at me there in Job chapter number one. We'll continue the story later But in verse number 1 through 3, again I'll repeat verse 1, there was a man in the land of us whose name was Job, and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God and eschewed evil. And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance also was seven thousand sheep and three thousand camels and five hundred yoke of oxen and five hundred she asses. And a very great household so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the East He wasn't wealthy just materially. He was wealthy spiritually. We see that back in verse 1. He was perfect and upright. We will look at that here in just a moment. Now in verse number uh uh let's see, let's look at verse four and five. It says, And his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day Now some Bible commentators and and uh different Bible scholars say that that was on their birthday. I don't know. I I don't I'm not that smart, but it says everyone on their day, being when their ever their birthday came, they Through a feast for the rest of his brothers and sisters. I don't know. But it says that his sons went and feasted in their house every one his day, and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them and rose up early in the morning. And offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts Thus did Job continually. Now look at verse 13. The Bible says, And there was a day when the sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house Notice this is the second time we're told that they ate and drank together. Verse 13. Now look down to verse 14. The Bible says, And there came a messenger unto Job and said, The oxen were plowing and the asses feeding beside them, and the Sabaeans fell upon them. and took them away. Yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. While he was yet speaking, there came also another and said, The fire of God has fallen from heaven and hath burned up the sheep, and the servants and consumed them, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. While he yet spake, uh was yet speaking, there came also another and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands that fell upon the camels and have carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee Uh so this tells us about Job losing all his financial wealth. All of his uh things that he had worked for, all of his hopes and dreams uh were taken away All of his material possessions, everything that kept him busy for the Lord, was taken away. And then in verse number 18, the Bible says, While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. Notice that's the third mention of the of Job's children sharing a meal together. I don't know how it is in your family, but it is precious to me when my family can get together and sit down to a meal together. We thank God for what He's done for us, what He has provided for us. It means more to me now than ever before. As I get older, I used to not understand it. Grandma and Grandpa, whenever we gather together, they say, Oh, do you have to go so soon? But now as they're leaving home one by one and getting married and starting lives of their own, it's so much more precious to me when our families can get together over a meal. This is the third mention. Of Job's children sharing a meal together. And then in verse 19 it says, And behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness and smote the four corners of the house And it fell upon the young men, and they are dead, and I only am escaped alone to tell thee. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshipped And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away Blessed be the name of the Lord. In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. Here we have the whole story of Job, of the destruction of his wealth, but the taking away of his family. Only Job's wife was left to comfort him Now in chapter 29 of Job, you don't have to turn there, but here we have Job reminiscing about what it was like before this great trial came upon him In Job chapter number 29 and verse 1 and 2 says, Moreover, Job continued his parable and said, Oh, that I were as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me Then we look at verse 5 that says, when the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were about me. I thank the Lord for all the dads that are here this morning that you have your children, some of you have your grandchildren, some of you even have great-grandchildren here this morning. That's a blessing And it does my heart good to see that here this morning. But notice that phrase, when my children were about me. You know, sometimes when we're looking through the Word of God, we look at some of the fathers in the Bible and we say, oh, how many faults they have. Uh, we're not any different. We're just men. The best men are only men at best, but sometimes men will point out the faults of the fathers of the Bible like Noah uh the mistakes that he made and the sin uh that he committed after the flood and and we think about Abraham how he lied and and Isaac and Jacob and and all having major faults of one kind or another And then the kings, David, he was a man after God's own heart, yet he had sin in his life that he repented of uh before God and God forgave him. Solomon Rhoboam that we were talking about in Sunday school this morning and their significant failures And some would even say, It is right there weren't truly any great fathers humanly speaking in the Bible Nobody that we can pattern our lives after. And after studying this message, I can say they're all wrong. There is somebody that we can look at. This Job right here. Job in the Word of God, how he was. We've just missed it. We've read it for what it was and thought, oh, poor Job and all that he went through. And that we hear about the patience of Job and and we hear about these things uh but but we just missed it somehow Job was the example in the Bible of a great spiritually successful father whose children did well. Let me point out number one why Job succeeded as a father. What was it that caused him to be a successful father? Now what was it? I want that secret. I still had children at home. I want to be a successful father Uh he did two of the most powerful things that a father can do to win his children to God and keep them going the right way. But it wasn't just what job the uh Job did It's what Job was. It wasn't just what he did, it's what he was. A father can't just do the right things and his children turn out right. A father must first be the right kind of man inside. We're not human doings. We're human beings. It's not what we do. It's who we are. It's how we behave ourselves The Bible tells us in the New Testament we know how we ought to behave ourselves in the house of God. We're not human doings, we're human beings. It's more important what you are than what you do. Any man can have a rebellious child, but a father is far more likely to have a rebellious child if he's trying to get the child to be something that he's not willing to be himself. One of the most distressing things to see for fathers sometimes is to see a reflection of their own weaknesses in their children's lives. Something that is a weakness. You know, many times I might say something, I might do something in my life, and I say, oh, that's just like my dad. I love my dad. I love him, but I I sometimes, you know, what we do, the children do in excess, sometimes I can remember back, you know, my dad's not perfect. I'm not perfect Uh but I want to be. I want to be towards God, what everything that I should be, and for my family. In fact, Job himself warned about the dangers of a father being a hypocrite. In Job chapter 17, verse number 5, the Bible says, He that speaketh flattery to his friends, even the eyes of his children, shall fail. Take note of that. That's Bible. That's just as much Bible as John 3:16. Job 17, 5. He that speaketh flattery to his friends, even the eyes of his children, shall fail. A man who uses flattery uh in an insincere, hypocritical uh way to a person who uses flattery to manipulate other people for his own selfish interest What happens to that man's children? They go spiritually blind. They go spiritually blind. They themselves cannot see. They go spiritually blind. The eyes of his children shall fail It's very important that a father be a genuine, sincere Christian and not a hypocrite. Job 1:1 shows us why Job succeeded as a father. It tells us Job was a perfect man. Job was a perfect man, you say, sinless? No, not as far as Jesus Christ was. But the word perfect in the Word of God talks about his maturity, his spiritual maturity A perfect and upright man. It doesn't mean that he was faultless like Jesus was, but it does mean that there was no glaring, obvious flaws in Job's life for his children and others to see. He did the right things. He spoke the right words. He was kind. He loved his children. The word perfect here means spiritually mature. It also means complete. Complete. He wasn't complete without his wife. God put the man and the woman together and put gave Adam Eve to complete him. So Job was perfect. He was m spiritually mature and complete. Most anybody, if we looked at Job today, if he was walking the earth today, we would say, wow. Now that man is a Christian. There was nothing in his life that would make us think otherwise. Four times in the book of Job, we are told that Job was a man of integrity. In Job 27. 5. Job 27. 5, the Bible says, God forbid that I should justify you till I die. I will not remove mine integrity From you. We need to have some character about us. We need to have men, we need to have some integrity about us. What kind of name do we have in the community? Job was talking to his friends who had falsely accused him, and Job told him, said, I'm going to maintain my integrity. He was also upright. He was righteous and upright in his relationship with God. How about us? How about me this morning? Are we upright? Are we upright and righteous with our relationship with God and our fellowship with Him this morning And then how he treated the others. In Job 31, Job described a whole bunch of things about his life. I won't turn there this morning. But he described how he kept his eyes and his mind and his heart from lusting after other women in verses one through twelve. He described how he treated his servants fairly and how he treated them justly in verses 13 and 14. Job described how he was kind and generous to widows in verse 16 and to orphans in verse number 17. This was a man after God's heart And then poor people in verse 19. Job told in that chapter how he trusted God and not his gold. He wasn't looking to him. That's why he was rich in material possessions, is because God knew he could trust him with it. And he wouldn't put those material possessions before God himself. He told how he was humble and not proud. He told how he refused to rejoice when those who hated him had problems. He told how he was full of hospitality, inviting travelers into his home and wouldn't let them stay in the street. He told how he refused to harbor secret sins in his life And in Job chapter 16, verses 4 and 5, the Bible says, I also could speak as ye do. If your soul were in my soulstead, I could heap up words against you and and shake mine head at you, but I I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my lips uh should assuage your grief He said, I wouldn't do what he he had three friends that came. I mean, they spent a whole day without even saying a word to him. They were truly his friends, but then they started accusing him He told how he would use words to strengthen and lift and encourage rather than to criticize and put people down. In Job chapter number 30, And verse number 25, he says, Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? Was not my soul grieved for the poor? Oh, he had compassion. He was like in in many ways like a picture and type of Christ. He had compassion towards people. He was touched with the feeling of our infirmities That Jesus would have been, it was. He had a tender heart. Let me tell you, it's not possible for a father to be that kind of man and his children not see it You know, our children are are a reflection of us. If a man is that kind of man, uh like was just described, a man's children are going to see it and they will take note of it. It's impossible for it not to impact their lives. Many times I look into the mirror in the bathroom in the mornings and I'm shaving and everything and I think, how did my dad get here? I'm seeing my dad now instead of me many times. Uh i it's it's easy for children to respect a loving, kind father like Job was, and it was easy for them to respect Job's God. You know, if our children don't have respect of us as their parents, they're not going to respect our God either. We've got to win that. We've got to deserve that. Now the question is, did Job's children really do that? I really believe all ten of them did. I believe they all did very well spiritually. Some people read uh where Job's children were eating and drinking wine and think, wow, they were just having uh an awful party Uh that they were it was a a drunken party. Uh that's not what the Bible says here. Uh nowhere does it suggest in the text at all. The word wine did not always refer to strong drink or alcoholic beverage in the Bible Wine or sweet grape juice was the main drink that you would have at a mealtime. Back in Bible days. You would either drink sweet grape juice, which had flavor to it, or you would drink water You had a choice of the two. We go into restaurants today, and they have soft drinks, all kinds of sweet drinks that you can get, or you can drink water. I like water. Amen. But uh but in the Bible days it was sweet grape juice or it was water. Psalm 104 Verse number 15, the Bible says, And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face to shine, and bread which strengtheneth man's heart. And you remember that Jesus turned the water into wine at the wedding of Cana of Galilee. That was sweet grape juice that went with the meal. Job was a God-blessed, wealthy man, and he and his children would have had some fabulous, delicious banquet meals together. We could be sure of that. I mean whenever we get together, uh our our oldest daughter at home now, she cooks meals. I love 'em. She'll go on and she'd cook just like they do in the restaurants, but better Because they don't have all those uh preservatives and all that stuff in there. But it's like a celebration when we come together as a family. Uh we're talking, we're enjoying ourselves, enjoying one another, the fellowship Uh that's something missing in families today. We need that. But don't miss the big thing here. This is ten grown children here And verse number four says, And his sons went and feasted in their houses every one his day, and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink uh with them. This is ten grown children, so I'm assuming they're all grown right here. You usually don't have a house if you're two or three years old of your own So I'm assuming that all ten of these children are grown because they meet in each other's house on their day, whatever day is designated for them to have the meal Uh but here's the amazing thing, they all ten still loved and respected each other so much that they all uh get together and have a good time, even when their daddy Job can't be with them because he's busy They're still meeting with one another. They're still loving one another. This is like, wow, folks, I I I can't stress it to you enough. Ten kids and no sibling rivalry. They're all getting along with one another. People can't understand between me and my older brother. We used we used to fight like cats and dogs growing up, and I didn't have to tell you that. But we were in the world, we were in public school, we were uh going after the world and everything. We'd actually try to kill each other growing up. But now we're best of friends. Uh w there's no arguments between me and my brother. I love my brothers And uh but but here it is ten and there's no sibling rivalry rivalry, not even between the firstborn and the younger children Did you notice that in verse number 13? And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house. There's no sibling rivalry between the eldest and the youngest right there. So many times in the Bible and present-to-day life, there are conflicts between siblings, especially between the older, the oldest one and the youngest one. You know that first one they get spoiled rotten And then the last one usually gets folded rotten, and there's usually a clash between the oldest and youngest. But it doesn't have to be that way. It does not have to be that way. And those conflicts start when the children are young and still in the home, and often and too often will get worse as they f fall out throughout their lives The oldest is usually the one that has the key to unlock the door to peace among the siblings. Two things siblings can do to have peace and joy in each other. Number one, serve one another with no expectations of anything else. Did you get that? Serve one another with no expectations of receiving anything in return. Wow, that's eye-opening. That's earth shattering. Look for ways to serve one another without looking for or expecting anything in return. And number two, surrender or yield your rights. You know, us as Christians, we have no rights. We have been bought with a price. We are not our own. We are to serve our Master, the Lord Jesus Christ. We have no rights. Well, I have a right to be this way or to be treated this way. I have a right. No, we don't. We don't You surrender your rights, then you will have that peace that you'll be able to get along with almost anybody. Number one, why did Job succeed as a father? His perfection and uprightness And secondly, how did Job succeed as a father? There were two key things that Job did to succeed as a father. Number one, he prayed for his children. Would you say that phrase with me this morning? He prayed for his children. He prayed. Moms and dads, grandmas, grandpas, great-grandmas, great-grandpas, are you praying for your children, your grandchildren, your great-grandchildren? He prayed for his children. Now you gotta see this because this is phenomenal. I'm not talking about little lay me down to sleep prayers and I I uh and I'm not making fun if it's a sincere prayer that you're praying But I'm just saying that there are times when prayers for your children should be urgent I go to the New Testament where it says the effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth nothing. We're talking about heaven and hell. We're talking about peace here on earth. uh among family. Uh our children, uh God gave them to us. And we need to pray for them fervently that God will lead them, that He will give us wisdom as dads and and to moms uh the uh in in the household uh to be able to lead our children to the savior of the Lord Jesus Christ We need powerful prayers. Did you see what Job did in Job chapter number one, verse five? Picture this. Job is very busy, very a very important man. It says in verse five, and it was so when the days of their feasting were gone about. That Job sent and sanctified them and rose up early in the morning. He was busy all day long, but he got up a little bit earlier in the morning For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts Thus did Job continually. He's got a lot of uh to oversee. He's got these crops that he probably had to watch. Sure he had servants But he had to keep an eye on those things. He kept an eye on how many uh uh in the herd that he had and what was weak, what he needed to sell off, what he needed to gain He was a busy man, but yet he would get up early in the morning for the sake of his children. And it talks about he he sacrificed. We talked about that in Sunday school this morning He offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all. Think about that just a minute. He gave an animal. He had to go out and pick a an animal without spot or blemish. He had to bring it in. There were several processes had to go through and he offered that animal. I don't know if it was one altar uh that he offered and then he would get another one. He'd come and do that ten times, one for each child, or if he had ten separate altars and he offered an animal on each one of those. But it said that he did that uh continually. He had to find the right animal, bring it, sway it, all kinds of processes. Then he had to offer another one and so on What was this a picture of? This was a picture of Jesus dying on the cross, not for all your children, but for each one of them individually. A sacrifice the Lord Jesus Christ gave. Ten sacrifices, a sacrifice for each individual child, and Jesus died personally for each one of your children. He didn't die ten separate times. He died one time, but I love the picture that's created here. He cried, he died, Jesus died on the cross for you, Sarah. He died on the cross for you, Faith, for you, Joel Jr. , and for you, Mary, and her other children that are uh already married and gone. Jesus died for each one of them individually, and you can call out your children's names and your grandchildren He died for each one of them individually. That's why we say the the the thing sometimes Uh we'll say, you know, if if I'd have been the only one in the world, Jesus would have still come and sacrificed his life for me He did it for us individually. Why? Because he loves you that much individually. We can say to our children, Jesus died for you. Jesus died for your sins. One of these days Jesus will speak to your heart, and at that moment you trust Jesus as your Lord and Savior. That's what you do. We train them up. We teach them Listen to me, in eternity it won't matter how smart they were. It won't matter what gifts and talents that they had or or or or how much wealth they gained here on earth. Your children uh uh how how talented they were or or how much money they made. If they never trusted Jesus Christ as their Lord and Savior, it would have been better for them to have never been born. I've never pushed our children into a false profession or tried to drag a profession out of them. I'm not going to pick green fruit. The Lord has to draw, the Holy Spirit of God draweth them. Yes, salvation is simple. It's very simple, or none of us here would be saved today. It's very simple But I can pray for them. I can pray for my grandchildren. When I pray, I beg God that they'll never harden their hearts toward God and that the moment they realize that they're a sinner and Jesus Christ speaks to the heart that they will trust Jesus as Savior right then and there on the spot. You cannot join the church and be saved. You cannot be baptized and go to heaven. You cannot take the Lord's Supper, what we call communion, and go to heaven. You've got to trust Jesus as your Savior individually. He died for you individually. You have to receive it. God doesn't have any grandchildren. He only has children. Amen. And each one of us Born here on earth must come to him individually and ask him to save us. To forgive us and save us. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. That's a promise from God You've got to realize that you're lost and trust Jesus for yourself. Nobody can do this for you. We see Job's specific prayer in verse number 5. It may be my sons have sinned. Think about that just a moment. Let that sink in. It may be that my sons have sinned. Job didn't see any sin in his children's lives. He thought all was well, but he said, it might be, it may be. How many believe that it's possible that your children have sinned in the past week? Job is saying, just because I've not seen it doesn't mean it's not there. Just because all of them seem like Christians doesn't mean they are. They may have sin in their life. Job is offering sacrifices for this very thing Maybe they've gotten upset with God about something. Maybe it may be my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Have we ever said in our heart, God, how could you let this happen to me? Hey, God is the one who loves us. He's not the enemy. He's not sitting in heaven. uh with a long white beard and ready to zap us when we do something wrong. He loves us. He he wants to direct us and and with that loving, tender care But yet we pray for our children anyway. We pray for them to make wise decisions, to keep themselves and their hearts and their bodies pure for that one they marry. We pray for them to have a hedge of protection about their lives. You pray for them to be full of joy. Then they won't look for foolishness in the world. You pray for them to have high standards and convictions that come from the Word of God. You pray for them to be humble and teachable. You pray for them to be concerned for lost souls. You pray for them to be in unity with the rest of the family. You pray for them to love the things of God, to come to church, to love church The way mom and dad and grandma and grandpa do. And you pray for them to love the word of God. It's precious to us. We have God's word to us this morning Uh we pray for them uh that they'll have a prayer life. One preacher used the uh uh the letter S and he said the five things he prays for his children is for salvation, for safety, for schooling, for spiritual life And for their spouse. And especially, God, if my children have any sin towards you in their hearts, help them to be to make it right Right now, God, I want my children to love you and trust you. If you can deal with sin while it is still in the heart, it's not as likely to show up in their life. Very quickly, it's more important for us to be a success as a father than to be a successful businessman. There's no one that compete can compete with you, Dad, or your children. God gave your children to you. It's your responsibility. It's my responsibility for our seven children uh that we have. And now we got seven grandchildren. Uh I want to be a part in their life also. We need to influence our children. He gave your children to you. He didn't give your children to an athlete to be their mentor. He didn't give a rock star to your children to raise them up. He didn't give your children to Satan to babysit. He gave them to you. He didn't give them to a politician. He gave them to you. How did Job succeed as a father? He prayed for them. This is important. Don't miss this. He placed his children about him. He was in their life. He had them with him from time to time as much as he could. Job 29, 5 says, let's see. I don't know if I wrote that down. Job reflects when he was a younger father at time. I did read it earlier. When my children were about me, love is not spelled L-O-V-E all the time, it's spelled T-I-M-E. Time with our children. Spend time with them. A child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame. With Job being a great businessman, he would have to the be gone inspecting his land, his crops, his herds often perhaps Perhaps he took his children with him. From time to time when I'm going to a conference or the Capitol Connection in DC or or traveling uh to another conference like the God Bless America rally, I'll take one or two or three of my children with me Usually when we're at a church presenting the work, we take them all. But I want them about me. I want them around me. I want teachable moments for my children We have to make time. Make our children important and have them about us. How's the best way to teach a child to work? By working with dad and mom. Proverbs 22, 6 says, Train up a child the way he should go, and when he is old, he will not depart from it. Not just to tell them, but to show them. Show them, hands-on. He worked uh we we work gardens together. Uh we don't want as much anymore because we're so busy, we're on the road so much, but But we can take even those moments of working in a garden, getting the ground ready and and pulling the weeds, we can take that as teachable moments. Those weeds can be like trend in our life And we've got to get the sin away so that we can bear fruit. If you let the weeds go, then that fruit, those those plants are not going to produce. So we can take those as teachable moments. Job 1. 5 thus did Job continually. He took the he talked to them. They traveled together We as dads need to be consistent. Use teachable moments. You know, it's more important to use a garden to get weeds out of your children's lives than it is to use your children to get the weeds out of your garden. Gil Hanson that we talked about earlier, he had three sons. They wanted to make more money than he was giving them as their paltry uh little money he gave them each week. So Uh one of 'em saw ad in the paper that they could run a paper route. He had three boys. So Gil Hansen took this as a learning time. He'd take the oldest one out and they'd run the route, par uh third of the route. Then he'd go pick up his middle son and they'd run a third of the route. And the same with the younger son. He said he just wanted to get them started in it. And he said three years later, we're still doing that because he loved to spend time with his boys And with his children. And he said the route doubled. God blessed the work. Proverbs says, A wise son maketh a glad father. Fathers, with children at home still. This morning picture them down the road, them wise, and you glad. Psalm 128 verse 1 through 3 says, Blessed is everyone that feareth the Lord that walketh in his ways, for thou shalt eat the labor of thine hands, happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee. Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine, by the sides of thine house, thy children like olive plants Around about thy table. There was one other possible title that we could give to this message this morning, The Vital Importance of Family Meal Time. Family meal time. You remember we started out. There was a Harvard study done by a lady by the name of Sarah Shaw. She said, young children learn 143 words by reading with their parents and 1,000 words by eating meals with their parents. Not only does eating family meals increase the children's vocabulary, but children who sit down with at least one parent for five meals or more a week for a minimum of 20 minutes per meal get better grades. are less likely to abuse drugs or alcohol, less likely to develop eating disorders and show fewer signs of depression. They're crying out. There's many children all across our land today crying out for some attention. Another study showed children who eat regularly with their parents make forty percent higher grades. in school. Social scientists agree family meals makes a big difference in social development. Parents tend to cook healthier meals and teach manners and other social skills at the dinner table Three out of four teens said they talked about what's going on in their lives during the meals. If they don't have meals together, then they're not getting that three or four times to talk out what may be important in their life. Eating together as a family can build connections, relieve stress. Every member of the family feels like they have an equal part in conversation at mealtime. To win a child's heart, there's three things, listening, talking, and touching. All three take place as you hold hands and ask the Lord to bless the food that He's provided for you. Dad, it's up to you. Sit down as a family over a meal No television, no video games, no newspapers, no books, no computers, no texting, no cell phones, none of that outside interference We're going to enjoy being together at mealtime. We need to enjoy our time together at mealtime. Why is mealtime such a big deal? For two reasons. Bib biblically speaking, a meal that someone uh that That when somebody had a meal for somebody, it was a covenant of peace. It was a covenant of peace. Far less likely to to fight and far more likely to defend someone you eat with The Lord's Supper is a covenant of peace between us and our Lord, and also a covenant of peace in the local church itself. It's when we come together and share in the Lord's Supper. The second purpose of mealtime is not only a covenant of peace, but for communication. You're rehearsing God's blessings. You're reviewing the day as you listen and talk. You build your relationships with one another. This is what takes place at mealtime, like no other time. We need to bring back the family altar also. Amen. But mealtime. Five stars beside this next statement. Mealtime is daily Heart check time for your children between you and your children. Every mealtime you take uh you're checking your children's hearts. The eyes are the windows of the soul, the Bible tells us. The eyes are the windows of the soul. If they won't look at you, you know something's wrong. At meal time. You can tell something's wrong when their eyes are cast down. Just like we have five senses in our body, there are five senses spiritually. Number one, imagination What are they imagining in their lives? What are they imagining about mom and dad? What are they imagining about their siblings? What are they imagining that may not necessarily be true? Number two, affection. Are they uh are their affections in the right direction? Are their affections right? Number three, memory. What is significant to what they are holding on to You know, I think of some of the silliest things that happened way back in elementary school, and I think, why did I even remember that? But what is in our memories And why are we holding on to it? What's those things are important to our children. Number four, conscience. Do they have a guilty conscience or do they have a clean conscience? Number five, reasoning. How are they reasoning, logically or biblically? If there is a child who will not look up at you and talk to you, then you get them by themselves and talk to them before they go to bed. Talk to them. That way you won't lose them. Remember two men walking with Jesus to Emmaus, but didn't realize who he was. When did they recognize him? When they sat down to eat with him. They they recognized him. They knew who he was. Do you understand the principle right here? It's at mealtime that the children realize or find out who mom and dad really are And you find out who your children really are, it's fellowship time. Job lived to be about 200 years old. historically in the Bible. When we trace his life, he lived about two hundred years and saw four generations after him. I wonder how many sat around his table in his old age He had ten children after the first ten children. If each of those had ten children, he would have a hundred grandchildren If each of those had ten children, he'd have a thousand great grandchildren. If each of those had ten children, he'd have ten thousand great grandchildren great great grandchildren. That's eleven thousand one hundred and ten descendants Before he went away they had to have a pretty big table. And that's not even including their mates, their wives, or their husbands. That's pretty interesting Remember the first story we talked about? That they had come back from church to have dinner at their old home place with their mother. And even his brother Bill was there and and now uh here's Mr. Hansen with his family there. Dad's gone. Mr. Hanson said the dinner room table was set and they were about to sit down for dinner. Nobody sat in dad's chair. If he was away, if he was gone somewhere, nobody sat in his chair. They left that one empty, but Dad's gone now. And he prepared to take his usual seat and he called his mother's eye, and she motioned For him to sit in his dad's chair that was now vacant Don't take your dad, if you still got your dad, don't take him for granted. One day that seat's going to be vacant She motioned for her oldest son, Mr. Hansen, to take the seat. She was saying the leadership role in the family was being passed down to him as the oldest son I'm sure Job's family experienced the same thing one day. Dad, each one of you, dads, your time is limited here on earth. Make the influence for good for the Lord while you have an opportunity, while you still have your children around your table, while they've not gone out and done something that they'll regret for the rest of their life Just spend your time, make every moment count. Will the person who follows you know to sit at the head of your table? Or his own table. Here's a closing thought. Maybe you didn't have a dad that would sit at the head of his table Luke 14 talks about a great supper put on by the Heavenly Father where everybody is invited to come. Dad, if you've never trusted Jesus Christ, your Lord and Savior, he's offered for you to come sit at his table today. Will you accept the invitation? Jesus Christ has paid the penalty for your sins. Jesus Christ has given us a home in heaven, but he said he'd roll back. all those sins off of your heart and take the burden away if you just but trust him and receive him. With all heads bowed, all eyes closed, Father, take your word now, speak to every heart May you be honored and glorified. There may be someone here that's never trusted Christ as their Savior. Father, may today be that day as we turn the service over to Pastor Lynn.