Bibles, please, and go to the book of Genesis, chapter eighteen. Genesis chapter eighteen, And I want to speak from a familiar passage of Scripture here this afternoon And um and so I uh want you to keep your Bible open here and we'll um You can follow along and make sure I'm doing the right thing here and saying the right things. I use the King James Bible uh just so everybody knows, all right. Um and um when when I uh first was saved, uh my mother went out and bought bought me a new Bible, I d or bought me a Bible. I did not uh own a Bible and um and she didn't know any better and she she got me uh one of these new Schofield Bibles. Now I know that we had a brother Schofield in here. Is he still here Yeah, he's old Schofield, yeah. And uh but she got me what? What was that? You're the old Schofield, yes. Uh but she got me a new Schofield and um And so it took me a few years to figure out that uh that wasn't the right Bible, but I did figure it out and uh a actually uh figured it out on my own Amen. And uh so that gave me a conviction and now I'd um I'd fight you over the King James Bible. Amen. Well, I'll get faster Danny to fight y'all wouldn't. You know, you get your kids to stand up for you All right, let's look please at verse twenty-three. That's about that's about a good place to start, I think. So let's look at verse twenty-three. Genesis 18, verse 23. It says, And Abraham drew near and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked? Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city. Wilt thou also destroy and spare not the place for the fifty righteous that are therein? That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked, and that the righteous should be as the wicked that be far from thee, shall not the judge of all the earth do right? And the Lord said If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes. And Abraham answered and said, Behold, now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, which am but dust and ashes. Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous. Wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find forty and five, I will not destroy it. And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty's sake And he said unto him, Oh, let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Peradventure There shall thirty be found there. And he said, I will not do it if I find thirty there. And he said, Behold, now I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, peradventure there shall be twenty found there And he said, I will not destroy it for twenty sake. And he said, Oh, let not the Lord be angry. And I will speak yet this uh but this once Peradventure, ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake And the Lord went his way as soon as he had left communing with Abraham, and Abraham returned unto his place. Now you know the rest of the story, don't you? Couldn't even find ten. There were not ten righteous souls in all of Sodom And so they were destroyed. The city was destroyed I have been privileged to go to Israel, take folks from our church over several times, seventeen times as a matter of fact. And many, many times I have gone down to that area where they think at the end of the Dead Sea, Sodom and Gomorrah We're located. Uh there is a hillside there. You walk over to the side of that hill. And uh it it just crumbles. You can reach your hand into that mound, that big old hillside, can just reach your hand into it And it's just like ash, just like bones crumbling up, like tuna bones. You know what I'm talking about? Remember remember when your mom made you eat tuna when you were a kid? Tuna salad? Remember that stuff? And you just crumble it in your hands. You know? And uh you talk about a waste area. It is absolutely a waste area. When you're there the y your your thou you're your You're you're miles from nowhere. I mean nowhere. There's just nothing there. Um there the uh mining equipment sometimes you can see uh some military stuff drive by, but that's about it. Nobody lives there. Nobody lives there. The atmosphere is heavy. The air just seems a little thicker. The sunshine, it it's like it can't get down to ground level. It's really strange. One of the most strangest place places I I've ever been. Well that's what happens when you mess with God. When you when you violate God. When you take his word and make a mockery out of it, eventual judgment is coming. Now I want to use this little story here, and I want to speak to you on this subject, how can America be saved? How can America be saved? Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you for your wonderful word, and I pray that you will bless. Now as we look into the this uh story of Abraham uh pleading for the people of Sodom And Father, what a heart Abraham had. He did not want to see his family, his nephew Lot, and his family be destroyed. And uh, Father, thank you for the heart that you gave to Abraham that he would intercede on the behalf of these people who were some of the most vile, wicked sinners on the planet And Father, we need to think about this story and then look at our own beloved nation. And I pray you'll help us to get a little burden for America as a result of what we hear in this message. So fill me with your spirit and help me as I speak, and bless each one as they listen. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. I love America. I know you do as well. I love the flag and I love our national anthem. And I love patriotism and I love Gettysburg and I love Bunker Hill and the Delaware River and Valley Forge and the Declaration of Independence. I just love it all I love the Fourth of July and the fireworks. I I I just I love our military. I mean everything that is America that has made America great and the greatest nation that has ever been on the face of this earth, I love it. I just love it all I've been uh privileged to go and preach all all around the world. Uh I was in Russia in 1990, three months after the curtain fell. Uh we s we uh uh we took in about um uh ten thousand uh uh Russian Bibles And uh and the people were absolutely uh starving for the Bible We stayed in a motel, one of these great big high-rise motels, in downtown Moscow, and all through the night there was this. At our door. Not very loud. And I looked over at the fellow that was in my room and I said, Is somebody knocking at the door? And he said, I think so. We got up, I got up, and I walked over and looked through the little peephole, and there was a little gal out there, a little Russian gal out there, with a maid uniform on, about sixty years old. And I opened the door and she said, America? I said, Yes. She said, Biblos. Biblos? And I said, Do you want a Bible? She went, Yes. Please. Please. And she was bawling, just tears. I went back in the room and got in my suitcase and I got one of the Bibles and I brought it out and I gave it to her And she spasibhas, thank you. And she fell to her knees and she grabbed me around my calves. And wouldn't let go. And she's kissing that Bible. I thought, wow, I made her day. Yeah, I made her day Well, I pried loose from her and I, you know, said, uh, okay, God bless you. And I shut the door and locked it, and went, I didn't sooner get in bed. And that went on all night. All night long. Wanting the Bible. I'm telling you, when I got back to America, I wanted to get down on tarmac at JFK and kiss the ground. Thank God for America. If you've ever been outside of America, thank God for America. I can tell you there is not another place anywhere like this land that we call home. But I can also tell you that I'm worried about our country. With with what's going on in our in our nation today, I'm really worried that if we don't get on the right path and stay on that path We're going to find ourselves on the receiving end of the judgment hand of God. Well, you see, what made America great is hard to find anymore. It really is hard to find any longer. Men who governed and made decisions based on principle and truth. has been replaced by those that stand on the steps of the capital, stick their finger in their mouth and hold it up in the air to see which way the wind's blowing. Whatever happened to principle? Churches that used to believe the Bible and preach the gospel, but today they've thrown out the Bible And the apostate liberals have taken over the pulpits of America and uh we're seeing all this feel good uh a religion that is being uh preached in our nation and it's n i it's it's another gospel. It's not the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's another gospel. And it's sending multitudes of people into a Christeless eternity in hell. God help us. I I don't know about you, but I've had about all of uh uh of Obama and Clinton and Clinton and Clinton and Clinton that I can handle I about had all of them I want. I've never you know, w we we knew. It's just now coming out what we all knew six years ago. Eight years ago. We knew what they were doing. Thank God for who's in the White House today. And in our text, God told Abraham that he was going to destroy Sodom and Gomorrah because of its wickedness. Fire and brimstone were going to pour out of heaven and uh uh from the hand of God, and the uh God was going to rid that uh region of the sin and the wickedness that was coming out of those two cities. And when God told Abraham this news, all of a sudden Abraham was greatly concerned. You know why? Because his nephew was there. Lot was his brother's boy. And when Abraham left his homeland to come down to the land of promise, Lot came with him. He loves Lot. Lot's his nephew. And now Lot is living in Sodom. You remember how God had blessed the both of them so much, and Abraham went to Lot and said, You know, uh our our our two families cannot uh coexist here. You you choose and go one way, whatever you choose, I'll choose the other. And of course Lot made his mistake when he chose the well-watered plains of Sodom. You see, just because it looks like paradise does not mean it's paradise. Thank God for America, but boy, it's certainly not paradise, is it? So, oh Abraham said, Well, wait a minute, Lord, if I can find fifty righteous, will you spare the city? And the Lord said, Yes, if you can find fifty. And uh so Lot uh evidently, or Abraham knew that there was not uh fifty in the city, so he said, Well, um Lord, how about forty-five? If I can find 45, will you spare the city? The Lord said, yeah, if you get 45 Well, Abraham knew there wasn't forty-five righteous souls there, so he said, Well, Lord, how about forty? And they just kept whittling it down until Finally, Abraham said, God, if I can just find ten, would you be okay with ten? And the Lord said, if you can find ten, but there wasn't even ten. Wasn't even ten. You know how many he found? Four Lot, his wife, his two daughters. Not even the daughter's husbands. They laughed at Lot like he was crazy. Judgment? What are you talking about, judgment? We're not doing anything wrong here. And that's what America has used the media to flip around on all of us who know the difference between right and wrong. My grandfather had a fourth grade education. He dropped out of elementary school to go into the coal mines. He got a job working, bringing the ponies out of the mines, pulling the sleds with the coal on it, and feeding those ponies and watering those ponies and putting them up To rest for the night. But my grandfather knew the difference between a man and a woman. If you were to ask my grandfather What's a woman, he could tell you what a woman was, unlike some Democrats that we're all familiar with, including a Supreme Court judge. We're in trouble, folks. And that's why we need revival in America. God said, if you can find ten, sadly, God could there wasn't ten. Sadly, and judgment fell. I wonder what the number is for today. Think about that. I wonder what the number is today. You know, Lot had been there for 20 years, and he only has four converts. And he went in with him. Exactly. That's sobering, isn't it? That's sobering. I mean, you know, uh uh and our c are are you are you pastors, are you telling a can you tell a difference in your church spirit And um uh and uh your church um mindset. D can you tell a difference now that we've got the devil out of the White House? I'm tell I can see a difference. We're seeing more decisions. We're seeing more people saved. I had two funerals this week. One was a huge funeral. It was about 500 people there. People don't go to funerals these days, so that was encouraging to see. But we had we had uh uh uh and this lady was a godly lady and she raised a godly family, but we still had Several people got saved at the funeral. I lo I couldn't count all the hands that went up. So wait a minute, you you gave an invitation at a funeral? You bet your boots I did I give 'em the gospel and then I lead 'em to the Lord right there in their seat. I don't I don't ask 'em to come forward, I'm not that That brazen, but I I uh I mean it's not about me and it's not about uh it's about the person who is dying, but wait a minute, there is no greater thought. Then where am I going to spend eternity after you just spent twenty minutes explaining to them how this person is in heaven with the Lord today? And so in the other one, there were ten people there, and six of them got saved. I'm telling you folks, you want to save America, here's what you do. You get Americans saved. It's just that simple. And I'm seeing the difference, preacher. I really am. I mean, there's a greater spirit in our church There is more enthusiasm for the things of God. My attendance is is uh rising. My Sunday night attendance is much better than it was Uh for the last four years, I'm telling ya, things are moving. And we have got to jump on the bandwagon here And hold up the old book and get our people back to women's souls to Jesus Christ. That is how America is going to be saved. That's how we're gonna do it. Now I know that that you know I I've heard preachers say, well, God destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah because of homosexuality. Really? I don't think so. He said, well, I always thought that that's why he destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah. No You know why you know why he destroyed them? Because there wasn't even ten righteous souls in Sodom. You know what that tells me? That tells me that the four righteous souls that were there were doing nothing. They weren't doing a thing. Twenty years he's been there. You don't have any souls to claim for God in twenty years? Something's wrong. I mean you're doing something wrong. You say, well, what was Lot doing? Sitting at the gate. You know, he's sitting there hanging out with with the other dignitaries. He was sitting there thinking he was all high and mighty Listen, folks, I am all for government. We need government. Not as much as what we've got, but we need government. So we don't all kill one another. Alright? We need government so we can have a military. We need government so we can have uh bridges and roads and all that stuff. I'm all for government, don't get me wrong But government is not the answer. Church people are the answer. Getting sinners saved. We we um I I gotta tell you this one. This guy came up to me a couple years ago and he said he said uh Preacher, he said, I've been kind of noticing some of the clientele's been coming in here lately. And I said, uh, what He said, I've been kind of noticing some of the people that have been coming to church. And I said, it's great, isn't it? Yeah, I knew what was coming. I said, It was great, isn't it? He said, Well I no, that's not what I no. I said, Yes, it's great. And he said, Well, some of 'em don't even have cl enough clothes on to make leggings for a hummingbird. I say, yeah, but you notice when they get saved and they get baptized, they start wearing clothes to church. Have you noticed that? Well, yeah. I said, then you don't have an argument. You don't have an argument. That's right. I'm not going to stand back here and say you can come in and you can come in but you can't. You see, Jesus died for that thing right there just as much as he died for this one. Amen. Now it's like I said a while ago, you might have some platform rules that you don't have for pew rules. You see what I'm saying? And there's been a time or two where I've had to go and put my arm around somebody and say, Come here, I want to talk to you a minute. You need to wear some clothes when you come to church. Did you not notice that you're the only one naked here? You know a little sense of humor will get you a long way down the road, brother. You know, you don't want to go in there with a baseball bat and say, you see this right here? Now you're gonna put some clothes on, aren't you? And that won't that won't float. We got to win people to Christ. And you know, Paul said to the Corinthian church, he said, you know, not many Mighty or cold, not many noble. You know, we don't have a church full of doctors. I don't have uh I don't Matter of fact, right now I don't have any. I made him mad and ran him off. Go figure. I mean who'd have thunk it, right? I don't have a bunch of PhDs in my church. You know, post hole diggers. I don't have that. No, I got lay folks and you know The guy that's running my Super Sixties ministry right now, he's trained, but the the guys before him weren't. They weren't. The man that was runner for years had a degree in business. But he had a heart for God. He had a heart for God. Winning people to Christ. Winning people to Christ. You say, well, you know, we pretty much saturated our town. No, you haven't. Don't give me that. Don't give me that. Do it again. Leave the tracks all over the place. The lady at the mall, who owns the mall in Westminster, she calls me about once a month. Your people are putting these little pamphlets all over our our mall. And I said, um, really? Yeah. If you don't stop it, I'm going to get an injunction against you. I said, ma'am, I'm not doing it. I said, Do you think that I get up in the pulpit of our church and say, Hey folks, go down to the mall and swing tracks everywhere I don't do that. You're not doing it? I said, no. She said, well, somebody's telling them to do it. And I didn't say it, but it crossed my mind. Why don't you bow your head in prayer and ask him what he what he's doing? All right? Ask him uh tell him to stop. And she called me one day, she was mad, oh my goodness, she was mad. And she said, I got these, I got these uh flyers. She calls them a different name every time she calls me. And she I got these flyers and uh uh and and and chick-fil-a uh uh uh has now got them beside their register and they got your church name on them. I said uh yeah I said the manager the guy that operates the Chick-fil-A he's a member of my church Oh yeah. They did a an uh article in the Carroll County Times. They did an article about our church. And and the guy said that that I was the pastor of the Church of the Closed Mind. What uh Amen. Nailed it, man. I mean just Yeah. Isn't that awesome? I thought it was great Just telling people about Jesus. You gotta win people. Now let me tell you uh this illustrate this story and I'll I'll you'll get the point. Before I came to Open Door, I was pastoring out at Ridgewood Baptist Church in Joliet, Illinois. I just woke up one day and I was in purgatory. I d I don't know how else to define. Man, that was a different world. You know, I'm a hillbuilding from West Virginia and I wake up in Chicago Chicago. You know? Wow. You talk about it out of place. They needed a translator to understand me. And I needed the translator to understand them. I pulled this guy up on the on the platform one day. I was going to do an illustration one Sunday morning and I said, Come up and help me, sir. He jumps up, he comes up on the platform. I said, What's your name? He said, Ride I went, What's your name? Right? I said, spell it He said, I O D. I said, sir, your name's Rod. From henceforth now and forevermore, you will be known as Rod. Do you have that? And he la he laughed and all the church laughed, uh you know. But man, I was so out of place, preacher. I was so out of place. But I went in and I taught them how to win souls. We had 145, I think, the first Sunday, and when I left there four years later uh or five years later I left there we had uh between eight and nine hundred. Little building was full. I mean and you say how'd you do that? We just won souls to Christ. You know, we we just went out and got them. We ran buses and got them. I I I would have people in Joliet call me up. This is the pastor, yes. Where's my kids? I say, um who are your kids? But they didn't get on our bus, they got on Jack Howes's bus from Hammond. Oh, that happened a lot. Yeah. I mean I hello, is this the preacher? Yeah. And then boom, man, they let me have it. But I kind of figured that would be a problem, so I made sure our bus workers had accurate records, you know. But we just started started seeing people saved. And we got all these people coming to church now, and say, you know, people preachers were going, Well, how do you do that? You just teach your people how to win people to Christ. And so we had this tape ministry, which turned into an eventual C D ministry, but we had this tape ministry. where those guys would tape every message that I preached. And then they would make them available to people And uh I think they they they paid like uh a dollar for uh for a tape. And so we were distributing tapes all over, all over, Joliet And I look up one Sunday morning and right here on the third row was a real pretty lady. Young lady, about I don't know, maybe forty years old, very pretty lady, very stylish, and she sat down and never said a word And so I was standing at the door and I uh w when everybody was leaving and I shook her hand and I said, My name is Pastor Norris. And she said, It's good to meet you, sir. Like that's all she said. I thought, well, she doesn't want to know anybody to know who she is. That's fine. So the next service, Sunday night, she's there. Wednesday night, she's there. The next Sunday morning, she's there. And I'd shake her hand. How's it going? She'd say, I'm doing well. Thank you for that sermon this morning. That was awesome. I I really enjoyed that. I said, Good, good. She said, I'll see you tonight. Okay. And I'm thinking Whoever you are, you know. She walked out the door, and sure enough, at night there she is. And this went on for months. Months And one Wednesday night, I came in and she was already in her seat, and I was making my way to the to the platform to get ready for the service, Wednesday night prayer meeting. And she stops me and she says, excuse me, Pastor. She said, uh, my husband is really sick. And I said, oh, I'm sorry to hear that. I said, uh, what's the problem? She said, well, uh, he's got an enlarged heart, and it's really bad. And said he's on the waiting list at Loyola, up at the University of Chicago, Loyola, and um uh he's on he's in line to get a heart transplant But I don't know if he's going to make it or not. And I said, Oh, I said, Well that's not good. She said, But what could you have the church pray for him? I said, sure. I said, what's his name? So she said his name is Ken. Period. I said, okay All right, we'll do that. And so I got up and up uh and made the prayer request and I said, and this young lady down here is wanting us to pray for her husband. His name is Ken And uh and and uh he's got an enlarged heart and he's in need of prayer, so let's pray for him. And so that went on for weeks, weeks. And every Wednesday night, Pastor, don't forget to pray for Ken. Gotcha. Gotcha. And so about uh I don't know, six months or so went by. I remember it was it was um it was hot. It was it was summertime. And And uh towards towards uh the end of August, I think, if I memory serves me correct, and she was walking out and she said, um She said, I heard you say something about C D tapes. I said, yes. She said, do you have uh uh or uh cassette tapes? I said yes. She said, Well, do you have CDs? And I I looked over and Tom, our sound guy, he's standing right over there. And I said, Tom, do we have CDs? He said, We just started making them And I said, we just started making them. And she said, uh, I heard that. So anyway, um she said, I'd like to have some C Ds of the preaching here. And I said, oh well, okay, we'll get you some. And I looked over at the table and there was a whole stack of them, about that that high And I walked over and I saw ho the name on it, and uh the the name that was on it was a lady who had died. Well, she ain't picking 'em up So I grabbed them and I turned around and I said, Here, you can just have these. She said, Well, how much are they? I said, I said, uh, I think they're already paid for. And I gave them to her. And I did not know it, but she went home and put those on one of those eight disc changers. You know what I'm talking about? And she would get Ken ready, put him in his chair, lean his chair back Take the controller and stick it in her pocket, hit play as she walked by, and then just let the sermons go. And he had no choice. He had to listen He had to listen. So she comes in, she says, You got any more? Yeah, I can get some. I look over to the table, there's another stack. So I went over and got that stack and gave them to her So now she is just putting them in the player, letting them play. He's sitting there listening to them Church started at 6 on Sunday evenings. About 5 o'clock, she calls my house. And I had since found out her name. Her name was Linda. And she said, Pastor, this is Linda. I said, uh, hey Linda, what's up? She said, um, I've been playing your CDs for Ken I said, ooh, I bet he likes that. She she said he loves it. He loves it. And said, guess what, Pastor? I said, I don't know. You know, what She said, he wants to come to church tonight so he can walk down the aisle and get saved in church. I said, what? She said, yeah. Is that all right if he does that? I said, well, I reckon it is. She said, now He also said that one he heard you talking about this this fellow that got saved and got baptized uh in the same service. He wants to know if he can get baptized too. I said, well, if he gets saved, of course he could get baptized. We're always ready to baptize. She goes, okay, we'll see you in a little bit, click Now, I didn't know anything at all about this guy, other than the fact he had a bad heart. Well, the door opened and I saw Linda taking this Six foot eight man. And his heart has it's gone from drug abuse, I found out. From drug abuse. And he was bloated. He probably weighed in the area of 400 to 425 pounds. I mean a huge fella. And he made oxygened the whole nine yards and he made his way down and sat in the second row I started to tell him, I'm sorry, but Linda's gonna sit in the third. But I didn't. It did cross my mind though. Because she always sat in the third row. And so he sat down on the aisle And I it was time for church to start. I didn't even have a chance to go shake his hand. So we s we, you know, started singing and all that. He's he's sitting over here bawling And I thought, man, this guy is under conviction. Look at this. So I preached the sermon that night, gave the invitation. As soon as I said, let's pray, he stepped out. And I met him here at the front. And he he said, I need to get saved. I said, uh, great. Great. I said, let's sit down right here. So we sat on the front row, made some people scoot, and we sat down on the on the front row. My church family stood and they sang Invitation hymns for 30 minutes. That's how long it took me to convince him that the Lord would save him. And uh I went through the plan of salvation. The Romans rode with him. I said, Ken, do you understand that? Yes. You understand that, yes. I've been listening to you preach. I understand everything. I know exactly what I'm doing right now. I'm fully aware. I said, okay. Are you ready to pray and ask the Lord to be your Savior? He said, I am. So I took him by the hand and I said, all right, let's pray together. I said, I'm gonna pray first, and then I'll help you pray, okay? Yes, sir. So I prayed. Thank the Lord for You know, convicting, bringing him here. I said, now Ken, if you'd like to pray with me right now, just just pray. I said, pray, ask this. Dear Heavenly Father, nothing. So I peeked, you know, like y'all do when, you know. So I I peeked and looked at him, and he's crying, he's weeping. He said, um, Pastor, let me make sure that I understand this correctly. I said, what I thought I I thought you got it. He said, just want to verify one thing. God can forgive me of any sin that I've ever committed. I said, yes sir, he can. And he will. He said, Wow, that's amazing. I said, Yes, sir, it is. That's why we sing Amazing Grace. How sweet the sound that saved a wretch like me He said, that's just unbelievable. It's just unbelievable. I said, you ready to pray now? Yes, I am. I said, all right, dear Heavenly Father, nothing. I look back up. He's just sitting there shaking his head. And the tears are dripping down off his cheeks. And I said, What's the matter now, Ken? He said, Preacher. Do you mean to tell me that all I have to do is ask God to forgive me And he'll forgive me for everything I've ever done in the past. I said, Yes. Yes. He'll forgive you for everything. And he said, Man. I said, Ken, look at it this way. I want you to think of the worst thing you've ever done in your life. And he said, Well, one time I said, No, man, don't tell me. I don't want to know. Don't tell me. Tell God. And I said, You ready to pray? He said, Yes. He put his hand in mine and I put mine over top of his like that. I mean. That was a massive hand. You should have seen that thing. I put he grabbed mine and I grabbed on top of his and I said, Now pray with me right now. I said, You ready? He said, I'm ready I said, dear Heavenly Father. And he couldn't hardly pray for crying. But he prayed. And he asked the Lord to forgive him. Of all the sins that he'd ever committed. He said, Lord, you know every one of them. He said, Lord, you know every one of them. You know the guilt that I've been carrying for 45 years now. Please forgive me. And I said, in Jesus' name, Amen. He said, in Jesus' name, Amen. My church started to applaud. Yankees. Applauding on a Sunday night in a Baptist church Yeah. Oh man. It was so sweet. Linda's walking about Yehow off the ground, all the way across the front. She's so happy He looks at me and he says, can I get baptized? I said, yes, you can. He stood up, and when he stood up I was standing beside him and I'm sitting there looking up, I thought, how in the world? Well, I like to never got him up to where you step into the baptistry. You had to go up a flight of steps to do that. And by the time I got him up there, he is gasping for air. I mean, you know, bad heart. And so finally he got his breath, and my church folks are out there just singing it's it's you know 8 30 and they're just singing their little hearts out And uh and they kept singing and then s some folks started testifying and the next thing I know I had to interrupt them. Hey, we're ready up here They were having revival without me. So I got Ken down in the water, and when I got him down in there, I thought I hope this thing holds up. I really thought that. And so I said, Ken Did you just trust the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior? He said, I sure did. Amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Yankees. Yankees. You gotta get the picture, folks. Yes, they do. That's my point. That's what I'm trying to get you to see And so I said, you're trusting him and him alone as your only hope to get to heaven? Yes, sir. I said, I now baptize you in the name of and I thought, how in the world am I going to get a four hundred and fifty pound man, six foot eight? Baptized. I weighed at that time I was eaten up with Crohn's disease and didn't know what I had. I was 145 pounds Stopping wet. Alright? And pull the bananas. I mean that would be pushing it. And I said, well, okay, here's what we'll do. I said, can you s can you float on your back? He said, sure. I said, okay, I'm going to float ya. And so so I laid him down and I said, Now put your legs up. I've got your neck. And I had him by the neck. And he put his legs up and I held him by the back of the neck. And I said I now baptize you in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. And I grabbed his nose, shoved him underneath, picked him right back up again, raised to walk in newness of life And he just he just laid there and then he said, Glory to God. Does it get any better than that? My church f the Yankees went nuts. Oh, we had a time. One month later, Ken died. They were going to the doctor, to the heart doctor. He walked out to the car, fell over dead. Linda calls me. And she says, Pastor Kenny, Kenny just died. I said, Oh, I'm so sorry, Linda. She says, Will you do the funeral? And I said, Well, I'd be glad to do the funeral. Are you kidding? Of course I'll do the funeral. She said, Well now before you commit, there's something you gotta know. She said, Are you at the office? I said, Yes. She said, I'll be right there. So about she only lived about ten minutes away, and so she pulls into parking lot, comes inside, shuts the door, sits down, she says I don't know how to tell you this, so I'm just going to come out with it. I said, All right. You know, hit me. She said Ken was a member of the Outlaws Motorcycle Gang. Say that again. Yeah. He was not just a member, he was one of two enforcers for the Joliet chapter of the Outlaws. You know what that means? Remember on the front row, you mean to tell me God can forgive me for anything I've ever done? Hey, even murder? Yes, sir. That's our God, yes sir. I'm in that camp too, brother. You see the point? You mean He can for Yes, He can forgive you. Of anything? Yes. Can you think of the worst? Well, one time I No, don't tell me I don't want to know. But Linda later told me, and the president of the outlaws later told me. That he had bodies all over Will County. The power of the gospel. Funeral home director calls and says, uh, Paster? I said, yeah. He said, uh we got a problem. I said, uh we Kimasabi. Sounds like you got a problem to me. He said, do you know who these people are? And I said, no, not really. I I don't. She he said, These people make the hell's angels look like Girl Scouts. I said, Are you kidding me? He said, No. Look 'em up. Look 'em up And he said, They said you're gonna do this funeral. You gonna do this funeral? I said, Well, yeah, I guess so. Are you sure? I said, well, yeah. I said, uh you do know that Ken came to my church and got saved about a month ago. You do know that, don't you? Well Linda said something about that. I said, it'll be fine, don't worry about it. So the night of the visitation, we go there, they took all the pictures off the walls. And had these black reeds with one percent All over the walls, all over the front, both sides. Because one percent of society doesn't care They don't care about anything. They are that one percent. When I walked in and the funeral home director was standing against the wall like this. Scared to death. Scared to death. And I walked in and and I looked at him and and he said he said, Did you see all of them here? I said, Yeah, I saw them all. He said, Man. I said, it'll be all right. They'll leave it they'll leave it standing. That's what I told him, they'll leave it standing. And he said he said, They already paid cash. I said, Of course they paid cash. You know, you could have double charged them, they'd have never known. They'd have paid you anyway. And he said, You know what they told me? I said, No, what'd they tell you? They told me, get out of the way, we'll handle this. I said, well, if I were you, I'd get out of the way and let them handle this. And so he said, don't worry. Stood there frozen against the wall. So I walked down to the to the front, casket was open, and Linda was standing there And she has a handful of gospel tracts with Ridgewood Baptist Church on them. And my picture. And everybody who came in, there were over hundred outlaws in the parking lot. They had a wheelie contest in the parking lot. I found out that Ken's outlaw name was Yogi. Everybody called him yogi. Yeah. I mean he was a bear, that's for sure. But She stood there and they would come in and they would put liquor or pornography or marijuana or cocaine or whatever uh you name it. And they filled his casket full of all that garbage. And Linda's standing there. Ken got saved about a month ago. Here, read this. It'll tell you how he got saved Ken got saved about a month ago. Here, read this, it'll tell you how he got saved. And she said, Don't you dare walk away from me. Don't you dare, she said. The more time goes by, the more higher up in the club they are, you stay right here because I'm going to need your support. And I said, Linda, I'll just stand right here all evening if you want me to And so I did, and she passed out every tract until she didn't have any more. Then I went out to the car and I got a handful more, came back in, gave them to her, and she just kept on all night. I mean one right after the other they just kept coming. Well the next morning I walk into the funeral home Funeral home directors standing there against that same wall. I said, Bro, did you spend the night right there? He said, No, no. No, I went home, he said He said, Do you know what we're going to do this morning? And I said, I know what I'm going to do. He said, Well what are you going to do? And I said, I'm going to preach a message. Jerry, are you nuts? And I said, probably. But I'm that's what we're doing. He said, Well they told me get out of the way. And I said I said, Well, I don't take orders from them. I'm not in their club. And he just looked at me and said, Well, all right, good luck. I said, luck has nothing to do with it, brother. Pray for me. So I preached a message, I preached this message. The thief on the cross and how that thief got in at the last minute. One rejected and one accepted. And right before the service was to start, I look around and there are about a hundred outlaws. Now there's 1,200 of them out in the parking lot, but a hundred of them came in. They were close associates And the guy who was the president, his name was Terry Scheer. And they called him Blood. Seriously. Meanest guy I ever saw in my life. And he came walking down the aisle, zeroed in on me, he was looking at me, and I thought, oh, here we go. He walked right up to me and he said, You doing this service? I said, Yes I am. He said, How long are you going to be? And I said, Mmm, probably till I get done. He looked at me and said, What'd you say? I said, Probably till I get done And he just sorta looked around like there was two guys behind him that could have squashed me like a grape. And I looked at at the one guy and and he kinda winked at me a little bit. He thought that was funny. And Blood looked at me and he said, You let us know when you're done. I said, I I can do that. So he turns around and he starts out, and I said, Don't ask me why. Lost my mind. Where are you going? That was that was just dumb. He stomped mid stride World around, he came back, he said, what'd you say to me? I said, Where are you going? He said, I'm not listening to this. I said, why? I'm not listening to this. And he spit right in the floor in front of me. In the funeral home. On the carpet. Turned around and started out. And again, I just went nuts And I said, are you chicken? That was not my finest moment right there. Man, he stopped again. He was about ten more feet down before that happened. And he whipped around and back towards me he came and I'm sitting there going, Our father, which art in heaven. I thought, this is it, I'm dead. He walked up to me and he said, Let me tell you something, preacher. I'm not afraid of anything. I said, Well evidently you're afraid of God. I ain't afraid of anybody. I said, all right. You just tell yourself that, that's fine. And he whirled around again and left. Well, I got up and started preaching, and when I got Into the heart of the message, I saw movement over here. There was a hallway that went around, and I saw movement over here, and I looked the next time I saw that, and it was him. He was listening. He was listening. He's he was he didn't want any of the other guys to know he was there, but he was listening over here. And I later, afterwards, established a relationship with him, and I think that he got saved. I can't say for sure, but I think that he got saved Because he was in a accident, a motorcycle accident, and me and another fella, one of my deacons, we went to visit him and he wept and cried and said You, preacher, are the only one who has ever come to visit me. And he ended up dying from those uh from those uh uh those uh inflictions in that motorcycle. But I preached the message and I said, let's all bow our heads. So they did. And I said, now if you're here today and not saved, I said, you're like that one thief. It said uh no. But if you would like to receive Christ, you can be like this penitent thief. He repented of his sin and he got saved. And I said, You're probably wondering, am I ever going to see yogi again? Well, I said, that depends on you Because we know where he is and we know how he got there. So if you want to see him again, I guess you're going to have to go where he is, because he can't come to you And so I said, You'd like to get saved right now, let's pray. And so I led him in a sinner's prayer. You know normally people pray silently when you do that, you know I said, just pray with me, dear Heavenly Father. Well all over the back of the auditorium. Dear Heavenly Father. Oh rough, gravelly, smoking voices, you know. Wow, that was different. I realize I'm a sinner. I realize I'm a sinner. And we went all the way through the sinner's prayer. And I thought, wow man, now I'm going to nail them to the floor. I said, uh I said, all right, now, with heads bowed and eyes closed, nobody looking around. If you prayed that prayer with me just now and you meant it, I want you to get up and come to the front and shake my hand and tell me in front of all these people that you got saved. And thirty-four of 'em walked down the aisle. Thirty four of 'em. And the next Sunday morning The dead of winter next Sunday morning. I hear Boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom boom You know those Harleys they really run good when it's cold You know? They ri that those air-cooled engines and they just purr when they're cold. And uh so so I thought, what in the world? And there was about eight of 'em Eight of them, Harlies. I I mean I could pick them out, you know, and uh I heard them all shut them off and I thought, man, there's there's a good eight or ten of those guys out there. And sure enough, they come in the back door. And the guy that came in first stops and waves at me? I'm sitting over here Waves at me as if to say, Hey Dad, we're home. Yeah. Yeah And for the next two years, until I moved from there to Jolia or to uh Westminster Every Sunday morning, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, you hear them coming. Come in the back door, throw their hands up in the air, and set all along the back row. And by the time that two years was up they had two rows going. Yeah. Yeah. Probably was. I just didn't know it. You see the point, folks? You if you're gonna get America saved, you've got to get Christians born again in America. You gotta get Americans born again. We run buses to nursing homes. We run vans to assist in living homes. I mean, listen, people everywhere need the gospel. You say, well what are those people gonna do for your church? I don't care. I just know I'm supposed to go get them. Well they're not going to help your offering. No, but I don't worry about people helping my offering anyway It's God that meets the needs for our church. We need two million dollars a year, forty thousand dollars a week God always provides. You know why? Because we run a bus over to get a little old lady whose kids uh uh uh just can't wait for her to die so they can get her money You know, they don't give two hoots about her. We do. We do. And you stop anybody in Westminster, Maryland, and say, You know of a soul winning church here in this county? What are they gonna say, Jeffrey? Church the open door. Yep. I can't even go to a restaurant in Westminster. People walk up to me, hey Pastor, how you doing? I say, I'm doing good. How are you? Oh, I'm fine. You don't know me, do you? Nope. No, how am I supposed to know you? Well, I got saved in one of your Living Cross programs. Oh, awesome. I got saved at a Christmas cantata. So y you give an invitation at a Christmas cantata? Certainly. Yeah. Leave you with this. You tell people how to get to heaven, and God will tell people how to get to your church. All right. Now that works. So we go get we go get the little rag muffins. Nobody wants. They don't even know who their dad is. Their mom could care less. Hey, can we take your child yeah, take 'em all. Take here. Get them all. You go give me two hours of free breathing? Take 'em. Take them. Sometimes we feed them. We definitely clothe them. Some of them girls come, mercy. Sh it's a shame. But you tell people how to get to heaven and God will tell people how to get to your church. That's how America is going to be safe.