We support missionaries in this church. And you're dealing with one of them tonight. And that is your faith promise offering You ask bring this up in a Methodist church or Presbyterian church. They think you're speaking Chinese. They never heard of this thing. Amen. And so it deals with what? Finances, money. Alright? There's two other ways in the Bible we are told to support our missionaries. Does anybody know what one of those two ways are? That's good, that's good. You got that one right. Amen. What's the third one? What? Oh we covered that. That's number one. Huh? No. Fellowship, you're getting closer. Huh? Uh uh close, but you know, it's just like playing horseshoes or hang grenades, it doesn't count till you hit it. Emotionally. Emotionally. Three ways. This book of Acts is full of it. Preacher, when he goes down to New Zealand, you already support the missionaries there financially. You support them, and I say this prayerfully, you go down there, and when you're actually with them in the ministry, it becomes an emotional thing. Tonight is a church, and I was here all those years ago when you guys started your faith promise, giving. Tonight when I'm done, the pastor has a piece of paper he's going to hand to you. How to pray for your missionaries. But I'm not going to preach on that outline tonight. I have a different one. But before I get into it, I I want you to know that your missionary book, that's what this big White book I got here. It's your missionary book back there, preacher. And I'm going to read some names here. And if you know this missionary, just jump up and say, I know where they're at. I know who they are And I know who led them to the Lord. Alright, here's the first one. Brandon and Maggie Barley. South America. South Africa. Do do to do to do. How is she connected with me? I led her to the Lord when she was five years old in Walkertown, North Carolina, jumping on the trampoline with my daughter. Hmm. I was her uh first contact when God called her and her husband into missions. And they wanted to go with B-I-M-I. But they had a situation where they couldn't, and I recommended uh the mission board uh uh Forgotten people down there in Florida and they took them and now they're on the mission field. That's a family you support. Isn't that good? They're right there. Here's another. If you know this family, just jump up and And uh, I mean they're probably uh there they're more in evangelism in America. And uh how many know Jason Caldwell family? Stand up if you know them. Ha! Come on, stand up. How many knows he is the bird man? He married up when he got married. How many know he's a good preacher? How many have prayed for him? How many have met him and talked to him? You're emotionally and supportedly and prayerfully attached to him. Have a seat. That is good. Hey, let's go to the next one. By the way, he he's a good friend. The Candavan family. How many know what country they're in? Tella! Ireland. Guess who chaperoned their first date at the Bob Evans in Valparaiso, Indiana, way back in the last century. I did And I chaperoned it, and he paid for my meal. I wasn't going to chaperone it. He's from Mike Edwards' church. See? And uh him and her got married. And they had triplets. How many know their son Sean Tanovan? Could you stand up? Man. They all know him. Guess who held him in the hospital with his brother and sister as triplets when they were one day old? Because I introduced his mom and dad and chapter on their first date. I may have done their wedding, but I don't remember. I'm attached to these people. Amazing. He's a BMI missionary, the son is He married a girl where a person from a church like this handed out a track on a bus going down the street in Rhode Island. You're now out there on the East Coast and she took that thing home and read it and got saved. Daughter got saved and now she's on the mission field She's one of the few missionaries. I'm taller than the missionary. Amen. Well, let me go on here. Y'all know David Gibbs. Pat Creed, Sr. , how many know him? Stand up. How many know he is tough? But his life's tougher. I mean he was introduced me to missions. He was my director for several years. We didn't have a seat. Man, he helped me raise the fort. He's the first one to introduce faith promise missions here. I was in the Q<unk>A that you had with him, and you said, what does it take? He says, three years to get him started Man, I don't forget those things. Man, DeLong's not dumb as he looks. Then you got me. The DeLong's. I'm married to the most beautiful missionary in the world, all right? And uh the Demakotas, who knows them, stand up You know what was so unusual about the Devakotus key is deep and he cannot speak, he cannot hear, and she had to call every pastor to line up the meetings to support them. And they're all sign languagers, have that great uh ministry, and they don't speak English Sign Language. They speak that that uh Nepalese. I mean how many that amazing? But we got a lot in common. Have a seat there. Man, we're growing this thing, aren't we? Devacotas, they're being my missionaries. Sam Estep. Ha! Gotcha, this is me and the preacher. Mexico He's a Maryland boy. Loves to eat. Worse more than you admit that all we did today was eat. Sam gets up, eating, goes to bed eating. Sam East was on my bus ride for four or five years, dated one of my daughters, she dropped him like roadkill He's one of the best missionaries I've ever met. Oh no, yeah, Jar had one he could get in a suit at one time. How to seek that is so cool. If Sam comes by, he's tell him I said hello. This is just in your prayer book here, Larry Williams. He's in heaven now. Stand up if you know Larry Williams Pastor, great Pastor. He was my first bus worker with me back in 1976 out of Wisconsin. And that guy, he was one of the toughest guys I ever met. That took a church out there and did something great, went home to be with the Lord, had a Bible college, and him and I did ministry together. Have a have a seat, I'm just telling you, preacher, you got a lot going on like I do, preacher. Who's the next one here? I don't know the Fellowship Tract League. I guess that's about it. I've taken enough of your time. Let me say something. You support about ten of these missionaries. And you love those people. And you send money to them every month. I want to challenge you in two ways tonight, but the main way is this. I want to show you. Last night was how To support a missionary, how to give. Now, tonight is this, how to pray for your missionary. I want you to join me, please, if you will, in your Bibles in Acts chapter 20. And I want you to get this with me. And I I may be here or there or yon. I may have a lot of illustrations. I don't know. But God put this on my heart And I've been dwelling on this all day long and doing a lot of missions work and I praise the Lord for the the missions uh house over there and looks like a office for Dan DeLong right now and and uh I I get a lot of work done but it's been on my mind heavy for the last week is to bring a message called How to pray for your missionary. And I want you to see this with me in the book of Acts, and as you turn there in verse 20, or verse chapter 20, And I'm going to start at verse uh I'm going to just start at verse 25. Well let's drop down for time's sake. I want to make sure I don't go too fast and miss a lot of it. But let's go to chapter 20, verse 35. And last night I said this, I have showed you all things, Paul says, how that in so laboring you ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said It is more blessed to give than to receive. And when he had, Paul had thus spoken, he kneeled down and he prayed with them. He prayed with the people that come to send him off on his missionary journey. He would never see them again. He prayed with them. He prayed with them all, and they all wept sore and fell on Paul's neck and kissed him, sorry most of all for the words which he had spake, that they should see his face no more, and they accompanied him unto the ship. And I just want to point out this a very important thought. Everywhere Paul went, especially in the book of Acts, prayer went for him, went with him, and behind him. And uh I want you to also know in Peter's missionary journeys, planning a church. Oh, Herod put him in jail, didn't he? Then Acts chapter 12, verse 5, it says that little church there in Jerusalem. It says, but prayer was made in that place. That church made prayer for the situation. Acts 13, 13 says they fasted and prayed as they sent Paul out. Acts 16. 25, when Paul's in the middle of that jail cell, fastened to that wall, and before the earthquake came, it said they prayed and sang. It says in chapter 16, verse 13 of the book of Acts, prayer was wont to be made everywhere. Missions goes, there's prayer. And it can I say this, we do have the missionary praying, but it ain't the missionary I want to talk about tonight. It's the brethren. It's you and I. You're going to get a paper tonight from the preacher afterward, and I hope God will work on your hearts. I think it's 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 12, I believe. Brethren, pray for us That's all Paul asked for. Pray for us as we go on our journey. Financially, you could support him, that's great. But pray for us, and I've found out when you pray for somebody. And you get to know somebody, you become emotionally attached to them. There was a couple tonight at the end of that book that I turned over, I don't know their names, don't know the missionaries I can tell you I've never prayed for them. I don't know them. I hope God blesses them, but I am not attached to them financially. I'm not prayerfully or emotionally. Do not judge me for that. I'm just stating a fact, I don't know them. I see Ron Bragg in there. He's been a mentor of mine since the Ark landed. I'm just telling you. And I know him, and he's been a help to me. He prays for me. And I'll call him right now on my cell phone and have him put it on speaker. Brother Dan, I've been praying for you this whole month. He's got a prayer barn out behind his house. Every bit of a chance, that's where his office is. It's really something to see. He he's older now, and the mind's not quick, the body's not study, but he can he never has ever forgotten. To pray for missionaries that he's emotionally attached to. So tonight I want us to go to Luke chapter 11 for just a few minutes. And I want us to take a look at tonight, and I'm going to give you at the end of this introduction Five ways, five things you can do in praying for your missionaries. I want to challenge you tonight to make a decision that you will pray. For twelve of your missionaries. You say you support eighty two? Preacher, I don't know. Just take twelve. Every month Just rotate it. Spend that five, that ten, that twelve, that fifteen minutes praying for that missionary because they need it. And you know what? They I'll say this and I want to be not carnal. They work for you They're an extension of your ministry. They have you've deputized them to represent you around the world, whether it's in Nepal or whether it's in Papua New Guinea or Australia or Ireland or a Mexico, that you have voted and prayed and asked God and put it on your heart to support these people, they are honored to be your missionary. But there's so much more to it than that. The Bible says in in our in in Luke chapter 11 and uh These disciples of asking Jesus a question, and they said, Jesus in chapter 11. Let me get there with you, verse 1, they made this statement, Lord, teach us to pray. Every time you leave, Lord, you go out there in the bushes behind the rocks and out there talking to somebody in the dark and John the Baptist talk his followers, his disciples to pray. And now we we want you to, can you teach us to pray? Now you know how many of you folks have remember learning how to ride a bike Two of us, okay. How many's ever conquered the art of doing a skateboard? You kids and the big boy there. Who like me is smart enough never to get on one? You're too old for that. You don't even know how that thing works. You couldn't tell if you're going backwards or forward on a skateboard. Amen. Prayer. These disciples had no idea how to get a hold of God. The Bible says in verse 2, and Jesus said, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in heaven, Halloween be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done as in earth as in heaven, or in heaven as so is in the earth. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our sins. For we also forgive everyone that is indebted to us and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Okay, that's good. And all that's fantastic. But I want to get to you tonight. So let's get right down to verse eight. This is where prayer starts. I say unto you, though he would not rise and give him because he is a friend, yet because of his importunity, underline it and circle it. He will rise and give him as many as he needeth. This one friend is down in the street, the door is knocked on at night, and a man from another town comes to see him. The man downstairs doesn't have any bread. He wants to feed his friend who came from a far away and and he didn't have anything to feed him, so he went down the street to his neighbor who lived up on the second floor. He knocked on his door and said, Can you give me some bread? Nope. I need some bread. Uh-uh. Please give me some bread. It's not for me, but it's a friend that's come from a far country, and I need to take care of it. Notice it's a third party That's asked and kind of wanting the bread. This is the middle party, the church, asking the other party to give the bread. And the man said, no, no, no, however Look at the word importunity. Most people have no idea what that word means. Let them know how to pronounce it correctly. It's only used once in Scripture. And it means this: unashamed. Uncensored, undeniable, nonstopping, begging, begging for God to do something. On their behalf. Watch this for someone else. It's amazing. And Luke 18 We won't go there. We don't have time. This widow, she's got a little boy, and she's got a neighbor harassing her and won't let up And she goes to this unsaved judge day after day after day after day after day, and the judge says, I'm unsaved I don't know God, but this woman won't let up. She troubleth me. You study that in the Greek and take her backwards there a little bit. And that means because of her importunity, she would not quit bugging the judge. And the judge said, because you won't stop bugging me I'm going to take care of business for you. And she did. And he did. Go back to chapter 11. The man upstairs, I'm going to give you the bread, not because of your asking, not because it's your friend, but if it's because of your importunity. Just to get you to stop, I'm going to bless you. I'm going to move it on. Now, folks, we usually pray about that when it involves us. We usually never pray like that when it involves our missionaries. So I want to encourage you. Teach us to pray. And the Lord said this without that opportunity. Look at verse 9. And I say unto you, ask and it shall be given. You seek and you shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. And this is great stuff. But folks, we need to learn to pray for our missionaries. And tonight's the challenge of the night is learn how to pray. For the missionaries. Let me get something before we get to that, and that is this. Who in here tonight wants to ask God to show you his will for your life? Could you raise your hand for me? I'd be everybody in if you did not understand the question, who would want to know God's will for your life? Secondly, I wrote this down. Who wants to ask God to call you or put you or use you in some ministry in some way here in this church or somewhere in this world to honor and glorify him, could you raise your hand? Okay, we went down a little bit, you know Depends what God's going to ask me to do. Importunity has not not an ounce of that in it. Number three, who wants to ask God to show you how You know to do the right thing and the right time on the right day in the right way for your family, for your job and your future. Who would want that? Okay, now we're talking. Who wants to seek God's ways about your patience? Oh, hello. Anybody got trouble with patience in here? And those that didn't raise their hands do. Okay. Faith. Pride. Thank you, men. Last thing to die with a man's his pride. Self-centeredness. Worry, who will earnestly, unashamedly, do that helpless plea to ask and seek And know at the core of your heart that you're doing God's will for your life. Who wants that? Every one of you. I'm not preaching about that tonight. I'm going to step deeper. I'm going to take for granted you're already there Now you need to start calling out for the people that you've deputized to represent you around this world in the ministry of this church. All God's people said Whoa, this is getting exciting. Now I've lived this or I could never preach it. Okay. I thought I knew what prayer was, preacher, until I got to New Kenny. Got surrounded. Things are falling apart. Stole my car. Stole everything but my dog. They should have took that. Got cancer. People left the church for the King James Bible only and all that stuff. I'm telling you, you better learn to pray for your missionary. Now I'm telling whether you're in New York or you're in Guam or you're in Papua New Guinea or you're in the Philippines, it's all the same for every missionary. There's five things they face. And you need to face it with them. I want to use the word tonight and help me with this. Don't take it wrong. You need to understand. How to pray for your missionary. And to do that, you need to understand what he's going through and she's going through. I'm telling you, I just want to encourage you. This church knows what missions is, and I want to give you a strength and a power that'll pass most churches. Because most of them stop it with that Monthly check. They check their books and make sure they get the monthly letter. And then they fold it in a folder and repeat. Fold it in a poll folder and repeat. Fold it in a folder and repeat. I want you to make a difference with me tonight. I want you to ask God to touch your heart to really get a hold of Him concerning your missionaries. So are you ready? Let's take a look at this. Excuse my cough, I'll get into it here. Would you look at me at five truths that we must understand and apply in our prayer life for our missionaries? Five truths. And here's the first truth, and that is this. We are encouraged in prayer for our missionaries when we understand their circumstances. When we understand their circumstances, okay? Now, how many of you folks in here have ever given somebody has given you a surprise inheritance You had no dyes you're getting it, you got a letter in the mail, and now you're $100,000 richer. Have you ever had that happen in here? Well, you don't want to know what I'm talking about. How many's ever got a letter in the mail that you got a speeding ticket and you had no idea you were speeding, had a picture of you in it, and you've got to pay a three hundred dollar ticket? How many of you have been there? Okay, got your attention. Circumstances. Hey cop, I had to go 100 miles an hour because I get up late and I'm running late to church. I gotta preach. Hey preacher, I got to get to work. You know. You know, uh the wife was talking to me today and and we got talking too long, and he don't want to hear your excuses. The circumstances on what? You I preach the sermon, choices have circumstances. Circumstances have consequences. Every missionary in here is going to answer the call of God. Better understand they're going to get in some circumstances they did not plan for. Amen. Hey, Paul reaching into that Uh fire that he carried wood in that storm and the ship had wrecked. He told the people it would, they just wouldn't listen to him. Then he's serving God, and in the middle of that He puts that thing down in the in the fire, that whole bunch of wood, and it says a venomous beast bit him right on the hand. Man, God, what are you doing? The water didn't get me? The sailors didn't get me? You had this poisonous thing biting me. Man, this was bad Right! Hey, how many of you independent Baptists out here ever get ants? I talked about it last night. Another negative thought syndrome. And Paul standing there shook that beast off. And God used it in a complete other way. So he'd have a will and a way with those people Missionaries are going to get in some circumstances, and you better pray for them that they do not quit. Peter's thrown in jail. The church is praying all night long. God answers their prayer. I mean he gets I mean that angel wakes him up, he gets dressed, opens up every door, he lights the way, goes down to the house, knocks on the door. Rhoda, I have a sister named Rhoda, she's in heaven now These two were in the Bible. I mean, I said she's so dingy. And and and he knocked at the door. And Peter's here. She runs inside and tells the praying church they did what? They did not believe. That Peter was there. Man, circumstances, you serve God long enough You need to pray for a missionary that he will survive the circumstances that God puts him in. Storms, fiery furnaces, jail cells. People in the street that hate him, people in his church that want to deport him, people on his on his church probably want to rot. That's all happened to me, but a couple of those things. I didn't ask for it. God brought it my way, and I needed people to pray for me to get through the circumstance. I wrote this down here is the I had a youth rally and Gino Sharp puts up these these towers around the world for Baptist Media and uh him and uh another missionary. He's got a church he's a church planner now in Washington, D. C. and they're in New Guinea and they're helping me with my youth and we uh teaching some college classes and That night we had a youth, had 148 youth come to our youth activity and join our property, and man, we're and we preached and God was blessing, and then about eight guys jumped over the fence With rifles and shotguns and pistols, and they went to rob us. Now Gino, as big as him And and the other preacher is about his size too. They're in the house with my wife eating pie with their wives when the robbery occurred. And they stole a school a church van. They stole my van. They stole a church truck And it's the first time I've ever seen a live hang grenade pin pulled, the guy was holding it. Because I was trying to stop him. He says, he says, I'll let it go. You know, I'm telling you, they didn't teach me at Bob Jones University how to handle that type of situation, the circumstance. So I backed off and they sold those vehicles and went right down that off of our driveway like here and we had the gate closed and they ran through that gate and about five thousand dollars damaged in the front of that pickup truck And they went down that street blowing their horns, and I am telling you, I was not a happy camper. I was not a happy missionary. Because I was under a circumstance that I had no idea I was doing and I didn't know how to react to it. You ever be in the middle of God's will? Circumstances happen. You don't wonder what's going on, you better pray for your missionary. Because he has so many circumstances he never thought he'd be coming his way. And I want you to understand when Paul, when we read here in the book of Luke, Jesus said, listen, you ask and seek and knock. You're going to have some situations, you're going to have some circumstances, and I want you to know I want to help you take care of every one of them You know, the Bible tells me in Mark chapter 11, verse 24, therefore I say unto you, What things whatsoever things you desire when you pray, believe that ye receive them, ye shall have them. That's not talking about asking for a Cadillac. That's talking about doing God's will God's way. You know, the Bible is very clear. We talk about the the different circumstances that we're under. It makes this statement that You know, in 1 John 5. 14, and this is the confidence that we have in him that if we ask anything according to his will, he heareth us. And if we know that he heareth whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desire of him. It's one thing for you to be called to the Philippines. It's another thing for that boy beside you to get sick with the disease and die. You don't know it's coming, you don't know why. But uh a church of 100, 200, 300 Filipinos are watching, you don't know where you're at in New York Everything's going good and then you're robbed. Or let's say the wife gets sick or the son gets sick and things begin to fall apart. I want you to understand your missionary really needs prayed for Because in the what he's doing God's will, he'll come under circumstances. Paul talks about the depression. Paul talks about the the onslaught. He talks about the battles within and the battles without And hey, the thorn of the flesh, that was a circumstance that God wanted them to have. So Paul would capitulate to the full will of God and not flinch in the future. All God's people said Paul said, I'll just stay the way I am, because I want your power in my life. Number two, you've got to understand to pray for your missionary. I just want to encourage you tonight, and I think it'll be a blessing to you. Is that we're encouraged to pray when we understand the conflict. And I started to twist into that message there a little bit. Point number two is the conflict. Chapter 11, Book of Luke, the guy needed bread. Didn't have any conflict. How many have run out of gas along the road? You don't have a gas can? Yeah you're the one that didn't put gas in it and you tried to blame everybody else but the conflict it's you you can't blame anybody How many's ever made a mistake absolute 100% mistake And you have to make a choice. Do I own up to it? Do I confess to it? Or do I make an excuse for it? Or do I just let it go? Conflict. I deal with this a lot in counseling where people years ago were called by God into missions. called by God into ministry, and they said no. And as the years went on, and they're getting older and older, they said, I wished I had done what God wanted me to do the first time. She's in Luke chapter 18. She's got an adversary. He absolutely hates her. He is giving her a heartburn every day. And she's running down to that magistrate, that judge. She troubles him every day. And it's not because she's asking. He says, I understand the conflict. I got to get her off my back. This importunity that she's doing to me, I'm going to take care of it. And the man upstairs with the bread, the conflict is he can take care of the conflict. What's God teaching here about the man upstairs and the judge, that he is that judge? He is that man upstairs, and he says this, ask, and you shall receive. Seek, you shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. Man, we need people like us praying for our missionaries all around the world. For the Bible says this in Philippians chapter 4, verse 6. Let it ring home true. Be careful for nothing but in everything by prayer and supplication. With thanksgiving, let your request be known unto God, and the peace of God with passes all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Jesus Christ. And I want you to catch this thought here as I dwell on it. It goes on and says in the next couple of verses, if I can find it quickly, this it just come to my mind. I won't do it because of time's sake. But I want you to understand God's already at tomorrow. And no matter what the conflict is, he will take care of it. You know, when I think about the conflict, I think about uh Serving the Lord in Papua New Guinea. And on a night like tonight, we would have a church service, had vans like you have, and we'd pick up people before church, and we'd take people home. About six months we were getting stoned every night. We'd taking people home. We were losing windows in our vans and our trucks. The church met with me and said, Preacher, we gotta do something. We we can't go out and pick those people up no more. We just can't do it. You know, we just can't do it We just can't do it be and and if we do it anymore we're going to lose everything. Somebody's going to get hurt. Somebody's going you know that brings conflict in a missionary's life when the church tells him to shut down a soul winning Shut down bringing people to church. And there was a man in the church that was a captain of our uh milit uh uh uh uh mil uh police in that area. And he says, why don't I just go see the mayor on this thing And every Wednesday night we have three police cars that will give us escorts back and forth picking people up. See what the the mayor says. We'll have AR-15s, two on the front and two on the back and one on top So if anybody does throw a rock, we're going to shoot into the air where that rock came from. I'm on good night. That's answered prayer. That's a little bit a little bit rough. He said first time through we'll just fire in the air. They're dumb enough to throw a rock and then you know they're assaulting the police, not the church. You just always be between the police vehicles. We did that for four years Never had an incident. You see, when we shared that little conflict, we we knew there we needed help with this, and it really bothered me. Do I shut it down or I keep it going? Missionaries make those type of decisions every day And I want to encourage you, God will give you everything if you're in his will, according to his purpose in your life. I just want to encourage you, church, you need to understand the circumstances of your missionaries. You pray for them when you understand the conflicts they're under. And thirdly, you'll be encouraged to pray for them when you understand their concern. You know, as you supported me in missions, I I didn't say much about it, and it was probably my fault. But I got cancer twice in in Australia. And I didn't want to make it public. And the first time, when I dealt with this, the first time with it, I found out about it, I talked to my wife, and I said, let's just pray what God wants us to do. So for three days she cried and prayed and and uh I I was praying and on that fourth morning I got up and I didn't say anything to her and I told her, you know, if you y we need to go home, we'll go home. Get this taken care of. If I'm gonna die, I'm gonna die. My dad died or my uncles died of it. My sister died of it. My cousin cousins died of it. It's in our f in our blood When she walked out that fourth morning and she'd been praying, she said, number one, Dan, I love you and I'm not ready for you to die yet. And I know God's not done with us. What has God told you to use this phrase? What's your big concern? And I said, well, I'm honored. My concern is the ministry started here will fail. She looked at me and says, it's not about you. It's about him. And he's given me peace. Don't be concerned about that failing or not. Then we need good women, don't we? The Bible tells me in 1 Thessalonians 5, 16, rejoice evermore, pray without ceasing, and everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. Watch this. Concerning you. You better understand the concerns of your missionary. Oh, you can write him that check every month, but when you become emotionally attached, you write him a letter, you call him on the field. You do mourn this kumbayal, think of him once a year during a missions conference. When you reach out and understand, what's one concern I can pray for? You know I went through that surgery. We started it. The church was running about 60 people. And I had to stay out of the pulpit preacher for about five, six, seven weeks. You know, I was sure the thing with tendons was gonna go down and sure the thing was gonna dry up and have ten people there and and uh when I got back from the surgery and to go out in public and I got got my strength back. I could sit or preach a little bit and stuff and and my first Sunday back, we had about a hundred people show up. I think they come see if I was dead or not. The church actually grew in my absence. Now you listen to this. Ask, seek, and knock, and it shall be added unto you. I learned my concerns to give it to God. That came from my wife, but I'm telling you, pray for the concerns, pray for the conflicts, pray for the circumstances your missionaries are under, and they will come and tell you, and they will bless you how God has done great things in their life Not because of your money, but because of your prayer, and because of your caring. Weeping on his neck in Acts chapter 20. Wouldn't let him go. Walked into the ship saying, we love you, we're praying for you, we already support you, we'll never see you again There are. Now the way to do that where I come from is or have a I got this. I got your back. No matter what happens. Your concerns are my concerns. You have no idea how that builds a missionary up. All God's people said, man, this is great. And then when the devil comes and he gets the circumstances of the family and he attacks the kids of that missionary and the conflicts start and they want to deport you and there's concerns all over that the missionary cannot even tell you He needs somebody like you in his corner, asking, seeking, knocking, like that guy asking for the bread, importunity, do not stop, do not stop, do not stop. Woman in Luke 18, troubles that judge, do not stop, do not stop, do not stop, because God promises You'll get his attention. And he always takes care of business. Isn't this great stuff? Let me give you one more thing. And I want you to understand, I'm preaching at me today. I want to encourage you today. You be that church that understands the circumstances, the conflicts, the concerns, and you've got to also catch this thought You understand the challenges. Every missionary's challenged. Right now, your challenge gets support to get there And so are the belchers, you know, and you're already there. You're challenged to get more support so you can just pay for your water in New York. I'm just saying it's expensive there A lot cheaper in the Philippines, but God will take care of you, and God will take care of you. Bottle of water in the Philippines Philippines is five cents. $15 and you, I'm just teasing those things are high up there. You have to pay money just to throw the thing in the trash. Two different worlds But I want you to understand this as a church. Grab a hold of the fact. It said in Acts 12, 5 about Peter, but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him. And I am telling you, I want to encourage you as a church tonight, I want to challenge you to understand that the missionary, when he goes through different things, Just pray that he'll stay faithful, stay true, and do not quit. Devil's going to attack the family of a missionary. First of all, he's going to attack the family. Attack the wife or the husband. How it works. Oldest child right down to the pecking order. Then he comes after your church people, not your church You know, he don't care about physical buildings like you and I do. He cares about destroying lives. You got to pray for that missionary when those challenges come. He doesn't give up. He doesn't bail out. He doesn't tap out He stays right where God has him. And when a missionary goes through a challenge, I am telling you, and he wins that challenge because people are praying for him, I am telling you, the work is just beginning. B-I-M-I, if we can get that missionary the fourth year, we can get him off a furlough back out the fifth year, he's usually in it for life unless something happens. But those first four years are so critical. Because in those first four years comes those circumstances, the conflicts, the terrible concern, and he is challenged and he is usually going to quit about that time. The last thing is this. I want to challenge you as a church. I want to say it correctly. You've got to understand their conflict. You've got to understand their circumstance. You've got to understand that missionary's concerns and his challenges. But lastly, it's us. We need to understand our consistency. It doesn't take long. Grab that book there that I had and just go through the names. It's not a rosary bead thing, but I want to pray for the Yeah, can of vans. I know the struggles they're having to keep that church and I know the struggles they're having where there could be a split. I know where the other one's gonna start this church. Sam Estep, I know he wants to do this and I give his wife the help that she needs and and I know that situation. I get those out of the prayer letters. And when you have a, can I challenge you tonight as a church, just be consistent Because you don't know what they're going through, but they got circumstances. They got conflicts. They got concerns. I want you to catch this. They got challenges we can't even spell. But they got you supporting them. When Paul writes in Acts, he writes about the support financially. He tells us about it all through Acts. He tells it 2 Corinthians 2. But he also talks about this prayer thing And every time he prayed with somebody, they become emotionally attached. You can see that in Roman in Acts chapter 20. And I want to encourage you as a church, get attached to your missionaries. Pick a name, pick twelve names, pray for them for a whole month, and then pick up another twelve names, or just pick up one. Pick up two, pick up three. It'll only take five to ten minutes of your time. God is not hard of hearing. God never forgets. But the Lord says, hey Jesus, teach us. Can you teach us to pray? Yep. How do we do it? Ask, seek, knock And it'll be given to you according to my will. You know, as you close your Bibles tonight, the invitation is going to be very simple. You make a commitment to pray for your missionaries. How do we do it, Brother Dan? Well Very simply, you need to understand their circumstances, their conflicts, the concerns they have, their challenges, that we gotta consistently, as we'll support them month by month. We need to pray for them daily. Psalm 18:6 says, In my distress I called upon the Lord and cried unto my God. He heard my voice and out of his temple and my cry came before him. God's never going to turn it off. James chapter 5 says, confess your faults one to another. And pray for one another that you may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. The Bible says in Luke 18, 1 that men ought to always pray and not faint. Tonight, when you get this slip from the preacher after the service, it just simply says at the bottom with the Bible verse, brethren, pray for us. Paul says, pray for us. I was in Papua New Guinea years ago and I was doing uh a church, Gary Who Baptist Church, it had grown for Sunday 24 people. And our last Sunday we, for a year we averaged over 500, had three national pastors take their work. God bless that Bible College, Youth Group. God was blessing that thing. Now I saw one another church after I handed that church over, getting ready to start a third church, Marinatha Baptist Church without a pastor, a missionary left. And uh church about 300. So I'd go over there Thursday nights and preach for them and and then have guys fill the pulpit on Sunday until they got a missionary or pastor. About three weeks into that thing, the somebody came and stole their church van. It was used in a robbery, and the police shot in that robbery. And the rascals, it was teenage boys, shooting back at the cops, and the cops the boys tried to get out of the van, but it was one of those typical church vans, about half broken down, and they had one of the doors welded shut so it wouldn't fly in the wind They tried to get out that door and the police shot in there and kill three of them. Then they brought the van back to the church to me the next day and bullet holes all through it and blood everywhere and We got it cleaned up and washed up and and had to go get it fixed. So I put it in a shop and and then with this gang of rascals, there's about 40 in that group. Thursday night at church, we started a church just like this, and I'm getting ready to prep. My wife has about a hundred kids like over in the gym. Not quite a hundred. Uh we did pass the Pirate Club and I probably had about 150 adults with me and the teenagers and getting ready to teach and and shotgun went off Shooting in the side of our building. Everybody screamed, including me. And that morning I bought my first, you'll remember this, cell phone. Now how many remember the cell phones you old people that you plug into your cigarette lighter that look like a giant walkie-talkie? Anybody remember that? I think it was like a foot long. I bought me one. I was built up town. And it was sitting there on the front pew just like that with my briefcase. When the bullets started flying, women started screaming. I said, lock the door, turn out the lights, and I dove under the front pew When I dove under the pew, I knocked my briefcase off and the phone went under there with me. What to do? Hey preacher yelling from outside. We're gonna come in there and kill three of you because You owned the van that we stole and three of our guys were killed in it because you rolled the door shut. Crazy stuff. You know, and women are screaming, men are praying about half mad, and the leaders under there are shaking like a leaf. I'm sitting there. And it rings. Who's calling me in the middle of the first church service that I ever had a phone in my life? Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, the light came on. I thought they was going to shoot at the noise in the light. And I'm pushing buttons. I didn't know what buttons were. And I pushed something called speaker. A basta! Who is this? This is Paula. I'm probably the first guy that called you on your new cell phone. I said, yeah, you're not going to believe this. Believe what? It does work. We do have electricity here, you know. Got a tower, just one, and it works, you know. And he said, this is great. And I said, listen, you're not gonna believe this. We're getting robbed at the church tonight. What are you doing at church? He forgot I was at the other church. This is the guy that is the captain of the Royal Police Force in that community, a deacon in my other church. You tell me that happened by accident. He said, preacher, you get in there and start preaching, keep those lights off. You preach at them, you just cut loose. Keep them busy. Let them yell at you. You yell back. Act tough I'll be there in ten minutes. He got there in about 15, 4 or 5 squad cars. Keep preaching. They're yelling at me, and I'm yelling at them, but I'm on the ground under the pew. Told everybody to sit tight, lock the doors, couldn't get to my wife. He snuck in behind him and about 15 to 20 cops arrested every one of them. Called me on the phone again, preacher, you can get off underneath the pew, you scaredy cat. Marched them, set them right down. You guys look like them. The good, the bad, and the ugly. I mean how the they're all and and more truth of that than you think. Empty the church preacher. I'll divide it and went home. Man, they were talking stories. My wife come in. We sent the kids home. And he set those boys down and he started preaching at them. And he said, now y'all there's about twenty of them. Y'all got to come to church for the next seven weeks. If you do not, I'll have you arrested. I'm going to take you all home tonight with my squad cars. You're going to be in the cage, call it the bird cage These are pickup trucks with jail cells on the back. You're going to stay in there till we get to your house. If you don't take me to your house tonight, you can stay there all night long, but you'll not get home in one piece. Do you guys understand that you're going to take me to your house tonight? Now I'm listening to this guy. And he says, you're going to promise to come to church. Your parents are going to come to church. They're going to apologize to the church. Or we the police, we have the license to come and burn every house down that your parents live in Well, he would not pass a course in the United States of America on talk about woke. He woke everybody up in that church. Them boys are satin there scared to death. I'm a preacher, I'm scared to death. I said, Brother Paul, calm down. I ain't calming down. This is the only thing they understand. God had you call me tonight. We were praying for you tonight, forgot you was at church, praying for this ministry. You called me out of the blue on the first day you had a you think that's a mistake? No, that's God at work. Them boys all came for seven weeks About half of them got saved. Four or five families got in that church. That church is so gone that they got a Christian school of 350. Church of about 400. One of the guys I trained is pastoring it now. I want you to understand something. God will answer your prayers, but he just wants you to be consistent. Because there's circumstances, conflicts, concerns that you'll never see, sense, or smell, or go through, but it gets that missionary through those things. That lesson that night I learned I was a wimp compared to these guys. But I'm glad that these guys are on my side. I've also got to minister to the guys that were trying to shoot us. I tell you what, God brought victory out of all of that. Folks, can I give you something to do for your missionaries? Teach you how to pray for them. You understand those five thoughts. It'll carry you through a year to lift up these missionaries that you're supporting The missionaries that are depatized by your church. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Father, we come to you tonight, and it's a different message than missions. They get giving here, Lord, you know that. Tonight I want them to grasp the fact that they need to understand. The circumstances, the conflicts, the concerns, and the challenges missionaries have. And God, we support them financially. And God, we support them emotionally. But maybe we have a strength this year in this church. To have a goal not only to raise our faith promise, but to raise our prayer time, our prayer situation for our missionaries. There's no shortcut to your power in our life. And Lord, it's very clear. And we come to you tonight, in that one commandment, at 1 Thessalonians, Paul writes it. He asks it. It's the last thing he wants the church to do for him. Brethren. Pray for us. And we want to have a heart that's careful for nothing, but in everything we want to pray. We want to use this importunity when we do our request. And we want to bring it to you, God, knowing, and they will pass all understanding. You'll keep our hearts and our minds on this through Christ Jesus. And Father, we just pray tonight. There's anyone in here tonight that said, Brother Dan, Pastor Leatherman, God has spoken to my heart tonight To pray for the missionaries that we support and the missionaries we're going to take on. Could you raise your hand as a testimony? God has touched my heart And I'm going to dedicate this year forward as we do our faith promise, I'm going to dedicate more time to God, Pastor. Standing.