We thank God for it. Thank you, Pastor. Thank you very much. Well, thank you very much. It is a delight uh to be here. I would like to say To the pastor and to the congregation, uh our congratulations on fifty years of life. That's quite a milestone. And uh to see a church that is uh fifty years of age and still on the old straight and narrow path It's pretty much of a blessing, I tell you for sure. It really is in in this day and time. And so I want to say that. And then for the members of the church, I would like to say that uh we're glad to have our first student from uh this congregation at Heartland Baptist Bible College and Elizabeth Barrett. And uh I've got to talk to Elizabeth a couple of times. It's not like I've got to spend a lot of time But I definitely know who she is and got to visit with her. And I believe you brought her to college days, isn't that correct? And I was so excited to see uh her there and to have a student uh from here. We're off to a wonderful year at uh Heartland Baptist Bible College and she's as far as I can tell she seems to be doing well and I haven't seen her name on any of the bad lists you know that she don't want to be on so I think she's doing just fine. I don't expect to see her name on there. Amen So I'm very thankful about that and uh very much appreciative for the opportunity to come back and preach and to be a part of a meeting with Brother Smith. Uh Brother Smith, I count him as a dear friend, but he is uh n uh on the go all the time and uh I'm preaching all over the place so whenever our paths cross and We get to preach together or be at the Sword of the Lord Conference in uh North Carolina together. I always appreciate his stand, his testimony. and his love for people and his love for souls and love for the work of the Lord. And uh I I have heard heard other preachers say this almost uh exactly the same way that when Brother Smith addresses the issues of the day, whether it has to do with social issues or whether it has to do with the moral climate of our country or whether it has to do with ecclesiastical separation and matters. I've I've observed that Brother Smith, in my estimation, comes down on the right side of the issue just time after time after time. And I'm so very thankful for that. And thankful for his uh testimony. Open your Bibles tonight, if you would, to the book of Ezra. And chapter number seven. The book of Ezra and chapter number seven. While you're turning there, I was thinking while we were driving here today, uh Brother James drove me uh to the hotel and then brother Smith and I rode in together. And I couldn't help but think as I was looking at the beautiful scenery, the hills, the mountains, just uh valleys, the green oh my goodness, you've had to have had rain here in the last six months, which we've hardly had any back home. And the green out here is just astounding to me. I mean it's just absolutely beautiful And uh I was going to stand up and say the thing I think Elizabeth is marveling at the most is the scenery in Oklahoma, which is uh pretty flat right uh where we are. It's uh the western part of Oklahoma's very flat if you've never been there. And right by our church, about a half a mile away, is what they call the Hill Crest Shopping Center. And you can drive towards that intersection from north, south, east, and west from miles away, and you can't find a hill anywhere So I don't know where in the world they got Hillcrest Shopping Center, but that's what it is and I often think of uh students like her that come from this beautiful region. I just came from the state of Washington last week and there's some pretty nice country there too. And uh some of the young people come and they make fun of our uh lack of scenery in Oklahoma. But we're not about the scenery. Uh we're about uh the people And doing the Lord's work where we are. Amen? So I thank God for this opportunity. Now, before we read, and I want to remind you that uh the preaching clock doesn't start yet. So those of you that watch your clock, hey, I'm just we're just gonna talk a little bit. And then after we sit down and read, then you can start the preaching clock So I learned this trick quite a while ago. It's really helped me a lot. And I can tell a lot of people are enthused about it here. So anyway Uh let me just uh say this to you about Ezra. Now, we know that when Israel, uh when Babylon came and took uh what was left of Israel into Babylonian captivity We know that that captivity, by the uh record of the history of the Word of God, according to the prophecy that was also made, that was a seventy year captivity of the Jews under the hands of the Babylonians. And the Babylonian Empire fell when Belshazzar was slain that night, and the Medo-Persian Empire came into place. So that seventy-year period ended And God put it upon the heart of a king of Persia by the name of Cyrus that the Jews could return uh back to Jerusalem. And those of you that know your Bible know that that began then A three-wave movement of Jews back from captivity in Babylon back to Jerusalem And each uh group that went back over the coming years was led by a different leader And I like to put it this way, they were all builders. This isn't unique to me at all, but I'm just saying they were all builders. Zarebabel was the governor And along with Joshua the son of Josedek the high priest, Zerebel led the first contingency back to Jerusalem, and he was to go back and build the temple Rebuild the temple that had been thoroughly and utterly destroyed. And then Ezra was to go back and rebuild the people. They needed spiritually built up and returned to the worship of the Lord, and uh they needed a revival. And so Ezra was the people builder, and then of course after him was Nehemiah And Nehemiah we recognize as the one who built the walls. And so all of these men were builders. Zerebbabel built the temple, and Ezra build the people, and Nehemiah build the walls. Now, what we have in the first six chapters of Ezra is Ezra's account of the return of the Jews to go back to Jerusalem and rebuild the temple. This is Ezra's account of Zerebels' leadership and taking Israel back so that they might rebuild the temple. Now some of you know that uh when Zarebel went back, uh it was an exciting time. They went back and they laid the foundation of the temple, they built the altar first, and then they laid the foundation of the temple, and then sadly they took off after they laid the temple, they took sixteen years off where they did nothing to the house of God. And that's when uh the Lord worked under the King Darius by then. That's when the Lord worked on uh Haggai the prophet to go and preach to Zeramabel and say, now look, you're saying it's not time to rebuild the house of God, but you're rebuilding your own sealed houses and you're doing what you want to do. In other words, they've forsaken God's agenda and developed their own agenda And so Haggai the prophet went back to give them a kick start to get back and rebuild the house of God, which they did. And so that is in Ezra's account in the first six chapters. If you went to the end of Ezra chapter six, I don't have time to read it. But if we went to the end of chapter six, it is a great time. I mean it is a hallelujah time because the temple has been rebuilt And they have observed the Passover, and they're observing the Sabbath days, and worship is taking place, and there was great joy. Excuse me just a second. Revival and joy always go together Now I know w uh you know when you preach about revival you can hear well word of God and revival and prayer and revival but where there has been revival there is great joy. Absolutely. And if you don't have joy you definitely need revival Because when the heart is in step and in tune with God, the joy of the Lord uh i it it can't be hidden. Many Baptists try to hide it real well Uh especially on Sunday mornings and for what reason I cannot figure out. But where where God is real, where the heart is revived and stirred for the Lord, there's joy. And if you went to the end of Ezra chapter 6, you'd find that there was great, great joy. Alright. So when we come to chapter number 7, I want you to read with me the first words of chapter 7. Now, after these things, alright, now here's what's happened here. Zeramabel went back, rebuilt the temple, they dedicated the temple, it was finally finished, and great joy and rejoicing and revival, it's recorded right here in chapter 6. Now, if you listen to my explanation about these three leaders, I said that Ezra went back to rebuild the people And the account of Ezra's work begins in chapter seven. So somebody might say, well wait, wait, wait, wait. Here's what you ought to be asking if you're not that familiar with the history. You ought to be asking, if there was great joy and revival at the end of chapter six, then why was Ezra uh sent to rebuild the people in chapter seven? And here's the reason for that. Between the last verse of chapter 6 and the first verse of chapter 7, 58 years have passed. 58 years. And we know that's not unusual in the Word of God to jump even in a verse over a good number of months or a good number of years. And so in this particular pay uh case, fifty-eight years have passed since the temple was dedicated Fifty-eight years have passed since that time of great joy. Now can I get you to think with me just for a moment? Don't you know than when it looked like the desolation of the land and the desolation of Jerusalem, it looked like there could never be worship there again. And now the temple is rebuilt and they are worshiping the Lord there. There's great joy. Hey, that had to be exciting. For the Jews. And their heart was stirred. I mean they were back in step with God. It's a wonderful thing. I imagine the next year when they observed the Passover, it was pretty I I imagine they were still very enthused about it Probably on year two they were still fired up about it. I'm gonna say uh by year five they were still fired up. By year ten, well, they were still doing it By year twenty, it was like, here we go again. Come on, don't look at me like you don't understand human tendency and the propensity of the propensity of the heart to grow uh passive and to grow indifferent. And to even get to the place that by year 30 and 40, it must have been that, my goodness, it seems like this rolls around often. My soul, it seemed like we just had the Passover, and now we're doing it again Because the Passover disrupts normal life, you know. Yeah, okay, go read. I just my Bible reading, I'm in the book of Exodus, and I just read that if you're gonna properly observe the Passover, it uh it disrupts your routine. And it's somewhat inconvenient for the people to come to Jerusalem and assemble together and put everything else aside. And so now by year fifty-eight, they are in bad shape And God sends Ezra to restore or rebuild the people. So let's start in verse 1. You want to stand with me for the reading of the Word of God? And if you if you need to remain seated, you can And if you uh would go ahead and stand, I'll make sure you get the set plenty. All right. Look in chapter 7, verse 1. Now, after these things. In the reign of Artixerxes, king of Persia, Azra, the son of Sariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah. I'm sure you've got all these names memorized. So drop down to verse number five. The son of Abishua, the son of Phineas, the son of Eliezer, the son of Aaron, the chief priest. So this Ezra is a direct descendant of Ezra the chief priest. Verse 6. This Ezra went up from Babylon, and he was a ready scribe of the law of Moses, which the Lord God of Israel had given, and the king granted him all his request According to the hand of the Lord his God upon him. And there went up some of the children of Israel, of the priests, and of the Levites, singers and porters, and the Nethanims, and in Jerusalem. in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the King. And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king. And upon the first day of the month began he to go up from Babylon, and on the first day of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem according to the good hand of his God upon him For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord and to do it and to teach in Israel statutes and judgments. Now Verse 11, this is the copy of the letter that King Artaxerxes gave unto Ezra the priest, the scribe. Even a scribe of the words of the commandments of the Lord and of his statutes to Israel. Art exercises. Now here's the letter. Art exerxes King of kings unto Ezar the priest, a scribe of the law of the God of heaven, perfect peace, and at such a time Verse 13, I make a decree that all they of the people of Israel, now let's stop reading there. Because from verse 13 down through verse 26 is the body of the letter. It's the content of the letter. Okay. So what we have here, Ezra has uh been uh per given permission and makes requests and has license to go back to rebuild the people, to follow God and to go back and rebuild the people. He can't just go. No, Jerusalem is still under the Persian authority and he has to go with permission from the king From Babylon uh back to Jerusalem is a massive journey. And they would come to several checkpoints where they have to be authorized to do what they are doing. You did just travel about without coming to borders and to checkpoints to make sure that you were doing the right thing. And so he had to have a letter from the king. And so Ezra had made request, and the king granted him in the letter that is in verse 13 through 26. The request that he made. Alright, now I'm going to talk about that letter in just a little bit. But look down at verse 27. This is the letter that Ezra has in hand, and here is his response To Art Xerxes letter that he gives him. Now let's see. Somebody says, I don't know what the letter says. Well it's good. It's really, really good. And how do I know that? Look at verse 27. Blessed be the Lord God of our fathers. Ezra got this letter from the king. He said Blessed be the Lord God of our fathers, which has put such a thing in the in uh as this in the king's heart to beautify the house of the Lord which is in Jerusalem and hath extended mercy unto me before the king and his counselors, and before all the king's mighty princes, and I was strengthened as the hand of the Lord my God was upon me, and I gathered together out of Israel chief men to go up with me. Now, go back to verse number six, if you would, tonight. And here's what I want to focus upon in verse 6 where it says, and the king granted him all his request. According to the hand of the Lord his God upon him. Now, I'm I want to follow this up tomorrow night, God willing, with a sermon out of the New Testament on prayer and seeking and asking and such as that But I want us to look at this tonight, where the king granted him, Ezra, his request according to the hand of the Lord his God upon him Now I don't know about you, but I like the sound of that. That's got a wonderful ring to it. So I'm going to preach tonight. You're going to think I'm Joel Osteen when you hear the title, but uh I'm not And I didn't get this from Joel. Uh-uh. No way. I got it right here in the Bible. How to get what you want from God. Now doesn't that sound Osteenish? And uh contemporary positive thinking stuff But again, this is a Bible message. This is not a positive thinking sermon, just a feel-good type thing. How to get what you want from God and more. Just like it happened to Ezra. Father, we are grateful tonight for your precious word, and we are thankful for your faithfulness. We are thankful for your faithfulness. Great is thy faithfulness. And I pray now that you would help us to give attention to these moments that we have together. And I thank you already for the preaching and the practical a challenge and reminder that we received in this service. And thank you for the privilege to lift our voices together and to sing your praises. In Jesus' wonderful name we pray. Amen. God bless you. May be seated. Is this okay? Yeah. My goodness, I got three glasses of water down here. I could go for a long time. This is wonderful. Appreciate that. Okay I want to introduce you to Ezra just uh very, very quickly here, where The Bible says three things about Ezra, just that I'm going to bring to your attention so we'll have an understanding of the man that is so important in our account here tonight. The Bible says That in verse number one through five, that he was a descendant, a direct descendant of Aaron. Now, I'm sure that In this assembly tonight, that doesn't really cause people to say, wow, or or make you so fired up. But if you were a Jew and you understood this as a Jew And you would have understood this lineage of Ezra, then you would look at it like this. This man was of a privileged lineage. I I mean, do I have to explain to this assembly on a Monday night? I don't think so. The significance of Aaron, the chief priest, in the history of the nation of Israel. And so we're coming to an account where there's given the lineage of this man Ezra, and we understand that he is a direct descendant of Aaron himself. So let's just call it privileged lineage. Is everybody good with that? A privileged lineage. The second thing we notice about Ezra is that he was a priest. Ezra was a priest. So it means that he had a responsibility between people and God. So that he had a responsibility as a priest to teach the things of God. And then as a priest, he would be like an intercessor or one who would appeal to God on behalf of the people. And so Ezra was a priest, a very significant individual in relation to the people and God. But there's something else that the Bible says about Ezra, that is that he is a scribe. So he is a priest and a scribe. Now I used to think that the scribe would just copy the the Word of God. Copy the law. So that from one tablet to another tablet that would be his job. Or from one um uh one parchment to another he would uh he would copy the Word of God But I found out that the scribes did more than that. It was the business of the scribe to understand what he was writing. So that if you want to put it this way The scribe needed to be an expositor of the Word of God that he put from page to page. And so it wasn't just enough that he would write He had to give a thought and he had to give study and he had to give understanding. He had to seek God who inspired the law and gave the law. He actually had to understand it. Why Because they would have been as the as a scribe and a priest, he would have written the Sabbath lessons, let's call 'em that. He would have been uh responsible for uh properly handling the word of God and making sure that what was being taught about the law was what God meant. By the way, that's still the preacher's job It's not the preacher's job to start with his own thoughts and go to the Bible and try to find something to back him up. It's our job to go to the Bible and the Bible has the thoughts That are given by God and they are the very thoughts of God and we're to find what they are. And then we're to say what God meant to be said And and we're to find, I tell our guys in our homiletics class that I teach, uh, that our main purpose in expository preaching is finding the intent of the biblical writer, because if you find the intent of the biblical writer, you found the intent of God. who inspired the biblical writer. And so Ezra would have had that responsibility. But then it says one more thing about Ezra. He's not only of a privileged lineage and a scribe and a priest, but he is a ready scribe. Did you notice that down in our text where the Bible says in verse number 6, this Ezra went up from Babylon and he was a ready scribe? So that got my attention and I want to know what's the difference between a scribe and a ready scribe? Well, here's the difference. What's the difference between a guy that can do a ma uh uh arithmetic and a ready mathematician? What is the difference in that? Okay? Well the difference in that would be the difference between my nephew, Chuck, and me. Chuck who has several degrees in mathematics and who makes more money than uh in a five years than I'll make in a lifetime because of the afforded opportunities that he's had, because of his extreme intelligence in uh in mathematics and working for the high you know, it stuff and classified stuff and all of that. And Chuck had finished his uh one of his degrees at Oklahoma State University and he was attending the church that I was pastoring at that time years ago. And Chuck came to me and he said, Uncle Sam, now that's my name. I'm Sam. I'm his uncle. Don't make fun about that, please. I might be offended by it. Okay, so Uh anyway, he comes to me and he says, Uncle Sam, this is my dissertation for this degree. I w I want you to look at it. Well I open the book and it's one mathematical formula after another after another, page after page with comments about it. It might as well. had been written in Chinese. I had no idea what it was about. And Chuck said, What do you think? I said, Chuck, I've never seen anything like this in my life. And he and and now he likes a little common sense. He said, Really? I said, No, I've never seen anything like this. I said, this is amazing. And he was just totally happy about it, you know. And so I picture my nephew Chuck, okay? I'm trying to figure out my tithe over here on a hundred dollars. All right? And here's Chuck over here with this high complex mathematical problem And I'm over there, you know, doing my best to figure it out and starting to sweat a little might exaggerate a little. I know it's somewhere around ten dollars, I think. But anyway Uh but here's Chuck over here with this extremely difficult thing and he's over here smiling and he's looking at it and he's just writing away and he's saying, I love this stuff, I love it. He's a ready mathematician. I'm not And there is a ready scribe and there's a scribe. And here's a scribe over here that is laboring over a text and he is writing and he is working on it And he is wanting to get it right, and he is toiling, and he is laboring, and here's over here Ezra, who may be working on a more difficult text. And he's over there smiling and seeking the Lord and saying, I love doing this stuff. And he is a ready scribe. Everybody see the difference? So here we have Ezra Who is of a privileged lineage? He is a priest and he is a scribe, but not just a scribe, he is a ready scribe. And you read with me, it's very, very clear that this Ezra made a request to the king. And the king granted him all his requests. Now, I'm not going to brag on our exercise tonight Because though the king granted him his request, we understand the rest of that verse and the significance of it, don't we, when it says, according to the hand of the Lord his God upon him So we're not going to give praise to Art Xerxes tonight. He was not necessarily a good man, and he was not a godly man, he was a pagan, he would have been an idolater, and there'd be many things about uh Artic Xerxes that would be very repulsive to us And yet God worked in such a way that everything that Ezra requested, then this king, according to the hand of God that was upon Ezra, the king granted it to Ezra. Now, when you see what he granted, you can only give praise to God. It's amazing. It's totally amazing. Well, somebody said, what was his request? Well, we don't really read where it says, and he requested this, and he requested this, and he requested this, and another thing. We don't read that. But we do read from verse 13 through 26 what he granted. So whatever the king granted, that's what Ezra had requested. Is everybody with me on that? So I'm not going to go read it all. But you can read it uh tonight or whenever you want to. But I'm just wanting you to see that in verse number 13 through 26 Let me give you a little list of the things that were granted him. I mean this is utterly amazing. The first thing that was granted, now watch this, and I'm going to do this fast. The first thing was granted is the king said to Ezra, Yes, you can go gather up all the Jews of the chief people, of the tribes, the leaders of the tribe uh of your of your people, I should say, not the tribes, but of the leader of your people, and you can go gather up all the people that go of their own volition that volunteer to go with you. You can take all the people you want And when you go with them back to Jerusalem, you take the law of God in your hand so that you can go live by the law of your God. Now I didn't think a whole lot about that at first till I thought, wait a minute, this is a Persian king. Did you ever hear the law of the Medes and the Persians? That when the Medes and the Persians have established a law that it can't be changed even by the king himself. And so I just want you to kind of think about it this way, just for simplicity. If you think about over here, we have the law of the Medes and the Persians. And over here we have the law of God. Do you think there's a possibility that they sometimes might collide? That they might contradict one another? Or do you think the law of the Medes and the Persians would be very compatible with the law of God? Come on, friends. We know better than that, don't we? The Medo Persian Empire was a totally pagan empire. And here's the law of God that is only holy and is only righteous. And so here's what the king said You go back to Jerusalem with all the Jews you want to take, and you take the law of God, your God, in your hand and practice it. Now think about that for a minute. He could be painting himself into a corner of that king, couldn't he? Well, I can see you're not excited about that, so let's go to the next one. All right. Now down in verse number fifteen through verse number eighteen, here's what he said. I give you permission to go throughout my province and gather up all the cash that you can. You just gather up all the silver and all the gold, and you just gather up all the money you can. And I want you to go throughout my province and wherever you can raise money from among your people or in my province, then you go raise all the money you can And take it back to Jerusalem to establish the worship of your God there. And he said, you take it back there, and watch this. This is music to a preacher's ears. Whatever you have left over, just use it in the work of God however you need to So you go gather up all the money that you want and that you can and take it back to Jerusalem. What is overflow, then find a way to use it in the service of your God That was the second thing you did. And then the third thing you did is this. Now when you get back there, you're going to need meals. You're going to need offerings. You're going to need sacrifices. And and I know that you're not going back fully equipped. He also knew the complete desolation of the land back there. That while the temple was there, it's not like the infrastructure of Jerusalem was there. Why the walls hadn't even been built. And the city had not been restored yet. And so the king understood, when you get back there, you you just go tell my men that you need this and this and this and this, and they'll make sure you get it So you just tell my boys, here's what you need, they'll take care of it. I got it covered right here in the letter. Now the next thing he said was this. This is all in these verses. Next thing you know, he said I want you to also have the liberty to take back with you all the vessels of silver and gold necessary for the worship of your God. I want you to take it all back. Now how many remember when the temple was destroyed? What happened? A lot of the stuff got carried away to Babylon. Some had been taken back by now from Babylon to Jerusalem, but obviously not all of that And so whatever you find or whatever you have that needs to be taken back to Jerusalem, you take it back there. And then the king did this amazing thing He said, Oh, by the way, take this letter to the King's Treasure House and whatever you need that you don't have, go to the King's Treasure House and get what you need. Yeah, he did that. He he did it. Well, I'm gonna go ahead and enjoy it. I mean, this is amazing. He took that and he said, You go to the king's treasure house and you get everything you need out of the king's treasure house. So he did that. Then he said, Oh, here's another thing, and he put it in the letter, that when you make your journey back, no toll, no tribute, no taxation, you are going back duty free. So that when you take all of this money come on, no taxation on it. When you take all of this treasure, no taxation on it You are going back duty free. There won't be anybody collecting taxes and tribute and toll from you when you go back to Jerusalem. Yeah, you just go. And then he said, there's one more thing. And when you get back there, if anybody gives you a hard time, you just let me know. We'll make them wish they hadn't. All the way to death. We'll tear their house down, we'll do some killing, and we'll make sure that they don't stop you Now I just wonder, ladies and gentlemen, can we marvel at this? Can we see how amazing it is? I mean this is so amazing That when it comes to the end of the chapter and Neah and Ezra realizes what the king has done, all he can do is say what Bless the Lord. Look at it in verse 27. Blessed be the Lord God of our fathers. And hold on just a second. I wonder what he meant by that. Blessed be the Lord God of our fathers. Well one of the fathers was a king himself, and he said something like this The hand of the king, the heart of the king rather is in the hand of the Lord, and as rivers of water he turneth in whithersoever he will Nehazra said, I'm seeing this played out right before my very eyes. The king has granted everything I requested and more. I have an imagination. Sometimes that's good. And my wife tells me sometimes that's weird. But anyway, I have an imagination I wonder what it was like when uh when uh Artic Xerxes went home that day and Mrs. Art Xerxes greeted him at the door and says, Hello, Art. She called him Hart. Said hello Hart, how you doing, honey? Did you have a good day today? And he said, Yeah, yeah, I had a good day. Well, you sound hesitant. I mean, what do you mean? Yeah, you had a good day. Well, it was kind of a strange day Well what do you mean it was a strange day? Well, you know, you know about this guy Ezra, and there's been talk about a bunch of the Jews going back. He said, Well today I granted them a letter that they could go back and take all the Jews back that they wanted to take back and so on. I granted that in the letter. Well, I mean that's fine. What's understandable? I don't see why that would bother you. What else did you do? I mean w what else did you grant in the letter? Well, I told him that he could go gather up all the money that he wanted together up and take it back there too. Now I I don't know the I I don't think this is I don't think this is um Well, let's just be honest about it. It seems like that through the course of time, the Jews have known how to fare pretty well financially in almost every circumstance. And now by seventy years plus, uh seventy now over a hundred years, more like a hundred and thirty years, the Jews are integrated in the culture and the society there And many of them have prospered and done well. In fact, many of them did not want to go back to Jerusalem because they had fared so well in this strange land. And so they had no doubt gotten what many would call a a fair share of the economy. They might have controlled a fair share of the economy there And now you know what he is saying? He's saying, I let them go gather up all the money that they could gather up and take it back to Jerusalem. Honey, what were you thinking about? I hear his wife saying I mean that's it that could be a lot of money that would be leaving our economy that we might need right here. What were you thinking? He said, That's what I'm wondering. I don't really know what I was thinking Well now she is curious and she says, what else did you do? Well, I told them that when they get back there, we'll provide everything they need to worship their God. I mean like sacrifices and like offerings and like meal and all of the things. I said just go tell my boys. I pretty much gave him a blank check and said, Go tell my boys, and I'll give you everything you need Honey, what did you do that for? Well what next thing you know, you'll be letting them go back and not paying toll on any of this. Well, since you brought it up That is what happened. I I I told them that they could go back duty free and toll free. She said, Man, you've had a weird day. What on earth are you doing? He said, I don't know what got into me. But we know, don't we? We know exactly what got into him. The hand of the Lord was upon this man Ezra, and Ezra's going back to do the purposes and fulfill the will of God And God stirred up the heart of that king and he turned his heart like he does rivers of water. And the next thing you know, he has granted Ezra Everything he requested, and without exaggeration I can say he got everything he asked from God and more. Boy, oh boy. I love your stuff. I've read the Bible, the Bible's boring. No, you're boring. The Bible is not boring. No. Well, are we done? Well, almost. You've got to look back at verse 10, though. And notice the wording of verse number 10. Where it said about Ezra that Ezra had prepared his heart. To seek the law of the Lord and to do it and to teach in Israel, statutes and judgments. Now excuse me just a second. Somebody said, Well, I mean I can see why this happened to Ezra. He was of a privileged lineage And they were trying to exclude me because, Brother Davidson, if you knew my life, you wouldn't think that I was of any privileged lineage, that's for sure. Well, maybe you know. Maybe maybe so In terms of your earthly lineage, maybe so. I mean I I had the wonderful privilege of uh you know I was named after my great-great-grandfather who was a Baptist preacher in England and I And uh then my great grandfather who came from England to the United States and became a preacher, now he fell in with Seventh-day Baptists and got messed up in some ways But I'm just saying I had this kind of a heritage and and I was raised in a Christian home and heard my dad read the Bible almost every single day at the breakfast table and lead us in prayer at the table for God's help and blessing on the day. And then my dad would conduct our devotion at night, uh mom and dad and and six of us, and then I was the fifth out of six. So it got smaller as time went on. But it seemed like for every kid that departed to make the prayer time shorter, my mom added to her prayer time. She prayed for everybody everywhere. So I'm just saying, we'd get together and we'd have prayer in the house, and I had a wonderful, wonderful heritage like that No nobody ever asked in our house, are we going to church today? It didn't matter what day it was, it didn't matter if it was a holiday, it didn't matter what the occasion to the church was In fact, I think sometimes we drove by the church just to make sure we weren't missing something. It seemed like we went all the time. And that's the way I was raised, and I'm thankful to God. My wife was raised in the same kind of a family I mean we were both just very, very blessed. And we've been in the ministry forty five years now. My mom is ninety five, her father is ninety, my dad's in heaven, her mom's in heaven. And they're 95 and 90 years of age, and all they've ever done is pray for us. All they've ever done is encourage us. All they've ever done is try to be a help and a blessing to us. I'm so thankful to God for that. And you say, Well, that's not my story. That is not my story at all, Brother Davidson. I'm happy for you and your wife, I suppose, but that isn't how it's been in my life. Well, I wish that it would have been. I wish I have no control over that. I wish that everybody would have been raised in a similar fashion. But I want to say this That if you came to know God by a personal faith in Jesus Christ, then you have been born from above And you have been brought into a relationship with God by Jesus Christ, and you're a part of quite a lineage, I might remind you that because of your faith in Jesus Christ and the conviction of your heart that brought you to that salvation through Jesus Christ, you can honestly say That God is your father. You can honestly say in the book of Hebrews that Jesus is your brother. You have the Holy Spirit of God dwelling within you. You have the opportunity for a Christian family in the context of a local New Testament church And you have the Word of God that is in your hand and you can consult it on a constant basis, I might remind you that you ought to think twice before you say, I am not of a privileged lineage, because you really are. If we truly believe this born-again stuff. If we truly believe that if any man is in Christ, he is a new creation. All things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Yeah, we are privileged. Anybody in here that knows Jesus, we are a privileged people. Absolutely. But you know what Ezra had done? Ezra had done something that every one of us can do. He had, in other words, when this hour, he didn't wake up one morning and say, you know what I think I'm going to do? I'm gonna write down some stuff and see if the king will let me do it. No, no, that isn't what happened. He he prepared his heart for this for a long, long time. In other words, when it says that he had prepared his heart to seek the law of the Lord, this had become a way of life with the man. This isn't something he said I'm going to turn over a new leaf and start seeking the law of the Lord. When it says Azrahad, the indication of the tense there has to do with the fact that this had become a part of who he was and a part of what he did and this had become a way of life. I'm going to say to you tonight that you may not have had the kind of heritage or the lineage that some have had as far as earthly parents are concerned But I'm going to tell you, Ezra did something that every responsible person in this room has the ability to do, and that is to seek the law of the Lord. To seek the Word of God. In fact, I wouldn't trade places with Ezra. I got more of the law of God than he had. I said, I'm holding in my hand. the entire revelation of God called the Bible. And besides that, he didn't have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit in him, like you and I have the indwelling of the Holy Spirit He had not yet received that promise that the Holy Spirit that dwelleth in you shall guide you into all truth. He didn't have that. I wouldn't trade places of Ezra for anything. See how privileged we are? I don't know how old these girls are right here. I'm guessing you're about thirteen or fourteen, wouldn't you be? And you'd be about the same, I guess, or twelve, something like that. 14 and so here they are. How many of you believe? Well, you know, when they get to be about twenty, they can seek the law of the Lord. They don't have to wait till they're twenty. What are you talking about? There are children in this room that if they can read, they can start seeking the law of the Lord. Just trying to find out the mind of God. What does the Bible say? What does the Word of God say? What does this mean, Daddy, in the book of Hebrews or in the book of Proverbs, Sunday school teacher? What does this mean? And you can be seeking the law of the Lord. Don't sit back and say, Well it's too hard to understand. I can't understand the Bible You know what people do that uh come into subjects and areas and fields that are difficult and hard and takes a lot of learning? They work at it They study and they ask questions and they learn and do you know what people aren't willing to do with the Bible? They're not willing to ask the questions. They're not willing to do the study. They're not willing to see. You can seek the law of the Lord, and nobody in this room is exempt if you know God. This book is to you, and the Holy Spirit is in you. Make it the business of your life to seek the law of the Lord. Now you can do that. You want to speak to you? Yeah. That's what Ezra did. To seek the law of the L so King James is hard, isn't it? Huh To seek the law of the Lord and do it. Now we can understand the King James. What does that mean? It means what he saw in the Word of God that he was doing that he shouldn't, he quit doing it. What he should do that he wasn't doing, he started doing it. And I don't think you ever come to a time I made up my business in uh nineteen ninety-one. I'm going to read the Bible like it's the most important book in the world, and since nineteen ninety one I've averaged at least four times a year in reading the Bible through. I only say that to encourage you. And somebody says, Well, I live a busy life. Well, I've lived a fairly busy life. But I decided I'm going to read the Bible like it is what it is, and it's not here just for a preacher to get sermons out of And to get lessons out of it is to shape the preacher's life before it can affect anybody else's life. And it made it my business to start reading this Bible and seeking the law of the Lord. And you know what I found out It still takes place that I'm reading my Bible early in the morning, got a great cup of coffee sitting right there by me in the quietness of the morning And my little wife, she's not a morning person. She smiles the first time about eleven o'clock. And uh so she still the house is quiet and she's sound asleep, and I'm sitting there, and God is still saying to me Change this. I stepped aside from the pastorate in May of 2010 after 36 years of pastor, 20 years at Southwest in Oklahoma City. And uh that first year not pastoring, my wife and I were together that next 12 months, far more than we'd been in any 12-month period of our whole marriage. No question about it. And it was wonderful for quite a while. And after the end of that first year and we're home in uh l late summer right before school starts and I'm up reading my Bible early one morning And I'm in the book of Ephesians, and I had been noticing over the past week I'd been cranky with her, not patient, not kind like I should be. And uh to be real frank with you, every almost everything she did just irritated me Just like man and I just I just couldn't figure out what had happened to her. So guess where I'm reading? I'm reading in Ephesians 5. I know what Ephesians 5 is about, the first half of the chapter, the last half of the chapter, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God, and then he starts talking about Actually he's talking about Jesus and the church and how the husband and wife relationship is to be of earthly picture of the kind of love that Jesus has for the church And I came to chapter five and verse twenty-five. I know what it says. She and I do marriage conferences and stuff. I've taught this stuff. I know what it says. So I just whiz on through it and I'm down in verse three of chapter six. And it's like the Holy Ghost put brakes on in my soul, says you where you think you're going You need to back up into chapter 5. I know chapter 5. So I went back and read the section again. And I came down to verse 25 Husbands, love your wives as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Come on and quote that thing backwards. I know the verse. I told you I taught people what that means And the Holy Ghost said, that's it right there. I didn't have any weird experience. I'm just saying the conviction of my heart was this: here is the problem. You're not loving her. I do love her, but you're not doing what love is. Because love is kind and love is patient and love is gentle. Come on, somebody, don't make me turn to 1 Corinthians 13 and drag this thing out all night. We know what love is, don't we? And God spoke to my heart. You know what I had to do? Me, me, the teacher, the preacher, the one that'd go to marriage conferences and tell these men you need to love your wife, how Christ loved the church. He gave himself work You can't do that in your own strength. You can't do that. Yes, sir, getting their face stomp and fume and carry on. I had to get down on my knees and make an altar right there at that uh Ottoman and pray and get right with God and ask God to forgive me. I knew the problem Later that morning when she got up, she came in here and I thought, Well, I better not delay this or I'll be right back in the same boat. As soon as she came in the room I got a hold of her and said, Santa, need to talk to you Had a talk with God this morning, he talked to me out of his word, and you've been here taking the fire out of me. She said, No kidding And I said, Yeah. And I said, It's me. And I haven't been showing you love, and I sh I should. There's no excuse for it. And I apologize, and I want you to forgive me. And we prayed together. And I mean this is a year ago, right about now. Year ago last month. We prayed together. I'm telling you that woman shaped up that quick. It was amazing, Brother Smith, the instant changes that took place in her. Is everybody with me here? Now come on, friend. If you're serious about your reading the Bible, God's going to speak to you. And God's going to speak to you about some things that belong in your life that aren't there. Paul put it this way, you've got to put them on. Well when you see it's there, don't act like it's not there. I said when you see it's there, don't act like you didn't see it. When he says to put it on, then put it on. And it may have to do with an attitude, it may have to do with bitterness, it may have to do with forgiveness, it may have to do with a lack of love, it may have to do with fevering, it may have to do with If this is to you and this is for you, then what needs to be put on, put it on. And what needs to be put it off, put it off. Let's not make the life complicated. People say, it's so hard, it's so complicated in this day and time. I d I I reject that. I totally reject that. Sure, let me tell you, sure we're living in weird days, sure we're living in strange times, but you can't find a time in human history when it has been convenient for people of faith to be good Christians. Don't make it complicated. I was talking to Brother James today on the way back. We were talking about the ministry. This and that about the ministry. I said, James, it's really very simple. People try to make it sound like ministry is so complex and so difficult. Know that you have a genuine walk with Jesus Christ. Make sure that he is first. And if you love him, then I'm going to tell you your true love for Jesus Christ and his working in your heart It'll pick you above the petty stuff that irritates you and it will distract you and draw you away. And work hard. And submit to biblical authority. This isn't difficult. People make the life difficult and then think they need psychiatrists That kind of stuff. Psychiatrists and everything. When basically all God's people need to do is return to the book. Just do what it says. Make it your business to know what it says and then act upon what it says. And if you're sincere about it, you know what's going to happen If you're sincere about it, then the Word of God is going to have such effect in your life that if you're sincere about it, you'll almost hurt yourself if you can't help somebody else with it. I mean you'll find ways to help somebody else. And sometimes it's in a Sunday school class, sometimes it's a preacher preaching in the pulpit. Sometimes it's just trying to be a comfort to the neighbor whose loved one died Or he's going through a divorce, or his child has gone bad. Is everybody listening to me? And if you make it your business to know the law of God and to know the word of God Hold on just a second, to seek the law of God and to seek his word and act upon it, then you know what? God's going to use you to pass that on and teach others also to be a blessing to And if it's an official teaching capacity, fine. If it's just being a blessing to other Christians, fine. I got over a long time ago. Brother Smith, I I just I just rejected. Hi, Pastor People. Okay, I'm pastoring. Hi, how you doing? How's your yard looking? I hate yard work. I don't care how his yard is looking. If I had my way I'd live in Arizona where they just put some rocks out there and call it good. You know, I don't want to mow grass. Hi, how you doing? How you like that new truck you got, huh? A truck is a truck is a truck is a truck is a truck. Unless it's afforded, then oh boy. But anyway, I'm just I'm not interested in the truck. I'm not interested in the truck. But I can go up and say, how's the Bible reading going? Yeah. In the Word? Where are you? Amen. Jeremiah. Jeremiah, Book of Jeremiah. If you said Psalms, I doubt it, because I've heard a lot of people say, uh, Psalms. Well yeah, I mean, no. But you're in the book of Jeremiah. Yeah. Reading regularly. Is God saying anything to you? Yeah. You're taking time to listen. Because you know what you can do? You can get in a marathon. I found this out. I wish I didn't know this by experience, but I think you can just read and your mind can be out in the Bahamas or w wherever and you still turned the pages and saw the words on the page. That that that's not going to help That's not gonna help. Anything I can pray with you about? Hey, what about that person you brought to church? Or what about that neighbor? You know I was knocking doors in your neighborhood and I told you that one neighbor. Well, what about those kind of things? And well let's see if there's a Bible term for this. Yeah, but exhorting one another, provoking unto love and good works. And so much the more as you see the day approaching You you will pass it on that way. You don't have to stand behind a pulpit and be a preacher or stand in an official class and teach. Although if God leads you to do that for crying out loud, do it. Absolutely for sure But I'm telling you, among your members, I'd always tell our congregation, say some good word of encouragement to somebody. Say something meaningful to someone. See ya later. Have a good week. Don't work too hard. Oh come on, this is wearing me out. And nobody even means it. Good to see ya And it takes so little effort to say something encouraging and kind. And you know what I found out? If you're in the Word, it just kind of pours out of you No, just things of encouragement, not necessarily according to scripture and trying to walk around like you're a uh w walking Bible. I'm not talking about flaunting the fact that you've been in the Bible, but if you truly live in the Word, it just kind of comes out. I mean it just kind of comes out. So somebody has a need or somebody's discouraged or somebody instead of hang in there, hey, hang in there. Now what does that mean? Trust the Lord with all thine heart. Come on, seek the Lord. You see what I'm saying? Encouraging people? Yeah. And that's where Ezra was You see, here's what it all boils down to when we talk about Ezra having what he asked from God and more. I'm saying, Pastor, I'm saying that God's people in this room can know exactly what Ezra experienced. And here's how. Put it together. Ezra's devotion to God's Word. Affected his devotion to God's work, which affected the nature of his request. Which brought him favor with God and man, the king. Is everybody with me here? See, when God says or when the preacher gives a title, How to Have What You Want From God and More, if you're a young person and you're thinking, bring on that Corvette, yeah. Probably not. You're probably a little off there somewhere. Or if somebody says the gated community I've always wanted to live in, or the big house on the hill overlooking the valley and the lake, that's what I've always wanted. Yes, sir. Ask God, He'll give you everything you ask for and more. No, no, no, no. Hold on just a second When I said ask how how to have what you want from God and more, what did Ezra want? He wanted exactly what God wanted. That's exactly what he wanted. He wanted worship restored in Jerusalem. He wanted God's people with their hearts revived and stirred and back again and that revival and that joy of the Lord back in their life. That's what he wanted. Where do you get that kind of a want? From his devotion to the book. From his devotion to the law of God. His devotion to the law of God affected his devotion to the work of God, which affected the nature of his request, and which affected God's willingness to give him his request. You know what most people are requesting for? Selfish things. I'm not trying to be ugly. Oh, I shouldn't even say this. I'm going to get in trouble. But the prayer requests of most church prayer meetings are sick. They have to do with me and mine. And how I feel and they feel. And it's going to be hard for them if they don't have And on and on and on. No, I I I'm for praying for people about everything. But where do we assemble in church and hear that God's work is really what matters. It has to do about souls in this area being saved. It has to do with people being called to the gospel ministry. and reproducing ourselves. It has to do with starting new churches. This country is in dire need of some Bible believing churches. And where there used to be a pioneering spirit and starting churches, many of those churches aren't even recognizable as a Baptist church anymore. And you didn't go back to some of those same areas. What is God's work to get the gospel around the world? You see, and if we're truly affected by his word, then our passion and our heart will be for his work. And when we have the passion that God has the passion for, I think we'll find ourselves where Ezra is, can you believe what he's doing? He gave me everything I asked for and more. And then what about, well, yeah, but Brother Sam, what about all these other things? Seek your Seek it first, you know this verse. Seek if first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things shall be added unto you. First things first, how to have what you want from God and more. You know what I'd like to see? Back at Southwest Baptist Church, wonderful congregation. Have a revival service is right now back home. You know what I'd like to see? A number of people who have gotten complacent and they just go to church and they go and they leave and they go and they come and they go and they hi hi yeah yeah yeah yeah how's your yard? You know that kind of stuff. You know I'd like to see people say, enough, this is not a game. Church life is not a game. The Christian life is not a social, it's not a social club. A Christian social club. That's how our church Church life is to be about doing the work of God. Having the passion and the heart to see God's work and God's will accomplished. Devote yourself to God's Word. It will affect your view of His work. That will affect the nature of your prayers. That will put you in the position to receive what you ask from God and So Father, thank you for these moments now. May your Holy Spirit do your work. And maybe there are some in this assembly in this room tonight that just need to get refocused. Maybe some need to say, you know, I've turned so inward. I I I've gotten there. I've turned so inward. Like the morning on the couch I didn't want to admit. that I wasn't showing to my l w love to my wife. I would rather think that she's just going through some kind of whatever and she is the problem. Lord, I know it's possible for some to sit in this assembly right here tonight Right here tonight and not want to face the reality. That we have