Do have one item of business later on before we go to prayer time. We'll Uh we got our uh you hear music playing? I thought it was my heartbeat. We got our report, I don't think I gave this from uh the month of March for the website. I don't think I did And uh we had a good re good uh report for March. We had 857 sermons downloaded off of our website, 452 on phones. Imagine that. Who'd ever dreamed the day you would uh take pictures with your phone and uh all those things, but now he downloads sermons on the phone. The number one sermon, believe it or not, was from Brother Sam Davison. He was here back a year and a half ago. Downloaded, that was the number one. The uh uh state, number one, state Anybody want to guess? You never guess it. New Jersey. Joycey. That's Ken and Karen up there. That was maybe when you were up there. I don't know. But uh New Jersey had 58 sermons downloaded in the New Jersey. Boy, they sure need it there, that's for sure. Um West West Virginia was next, Georgia, all over the place. Um Total of 33 different states downloaded sermons off our website. And the number one country was Canada. 33 sermons up in Canada, Germany, New Zealand had 17 Belgium downloaded some sermons. Vietnam. Fiji downloaded two sermons. And uh just um twenty-five different countries. Isn't that amazing thing? That just every time I am uh uh amazed at uh the influence that there has. Matthew chapter seven. One other thing while we get here. Um today was cosmonaut day in Russia. And how many years ago was that 50 some 1961. So how many years ago was that? 55 years ago? 56 years ago Uh the first man in outer space was a cosmonaut. First man in space. Anyone want to guess where he blasted off from? Kazakhstan. He sure did. The first person ever in space blasted off from Kazakhstan, our adopted uh nation. So that caught my attention. I thought that was interesting. He's a hero. He was killed about five or six years afterward in a uh he was flying a jet and I think they were testing the jet or something and it crashed and he was killed just a young man in his late twenties, early thirties, I think, is when he was killed. So um kind of interesting, kind of interesting. Alright, Matthew chapter 7, we've been looking at these four or five verses here, and beginning in verse number 7 down through 11, we've been talking about prayer I want to finish it up and we're going to move on, Lord willing, next week. But let me read down through these verses here again tonight. We're going to look at the last three verses and zero on that, and then like I said, we're going to move on uh to the rest of the Sermon on the Mount. Verse number seven says this, ask and it shall be given unto you. Seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be opened unto you. And as I've been saying, the Lord could have stopped right there, and that would be a profound promise by God. Just that statement. But he goes on and he expands on that. And he says, For everyone that asketh, what happens? receiveth, and he that seeketh, and he's and he that knocketh shall be opened unto him. So he's he's going back and he's expanding on his initial statement. Then he doesn't stop there. Then verse uh nine, ten and eleven He illustrates his point, and he goes on, he says, What man is there of you, whom if he ask his son bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask them? How many people get the impression reading this the Lord the Lord is trying to emphasize the fact that He's going to answer our prayers? Good night. Now that little phrase in verse number 11 caught my attention. In fact, I circled it with a red pen. It says, How much more? Be then being evil, know how to go give good gifts to your children, how much more. And that's what I want to talk about tonight, how much more. Let's pray And ask the Lord to help us. Father in heaven, we come to you this evening. We're very grateful for your blessings. We're in the middle of the week, Lord. And I know some folks have been talking to. It's been a bit challenging this week. Others it's going well. But Lord, wherever we're at and whatever's going on around in our life, we ask you would just help us to push all of that out of our hearts and minds. And I pray we can zero in on what you're teaching us here about prayer I pray it'd be more than just head knowledge, but Lord, it'd have a profound impact on our lives, my life. And so, Lord, I present my body anew. I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Holy Spirit That you speak through me, through me, to each of our hearts and lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We've been saying this over and over, but this is one of those great prayer promises in the Bible And uh anybody that's going to take prayer seriously or what the Bible says about prayer, you're going to end up in this verse. Um I think this verses, particularly seven and eight ought to be committed to memory by every Christian. We ought to have this down and be able to quote this and have it in our heart and mind I've tried in the last, how long have we been looking at this? Two, three months now, something like that? I've been trying to get beyond simply knowing what these verses say about prayer And I tried to do more than just give facts about prayer, but my concern, at least in my heart and mind and in our church, is that we know what this verse means by prayer and how it applies to my life and how it should impact my life. My concern is that prayer becomes an integral part of our lives That it's not just something that we uh, you know, just some little uh ritual we go through. Well, before we eat, we'll say our prayers. God is great, God is good, and we thank Him for our food. That's better than nothing, but I'm hope my concern is that prayer is more vital to us than simply some little thing we say before we go to bed. Now I laid me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep if I should die before I wake. I pray the Lord my soul to take. God bless uh grandma and grandpa and o aunts and uncles and everybody. You know what I'm saying? And so uh that's our concern that it becomes a regular part of our daily lives, not just something that we do through an empty routine or just something that's an emergency. Oh no, you know, it's a terrible thing. All that we can do, only thing left to do is pray That ought to be part of our lives. It ought to be just prayer ought to be as much a part of our thinking and our life and our uh our our daily routine as anything else we do I they I I I I and I hope we're getting there, at least getting to this point. But um our church ought to be saturated by prayer, everything we do, saturated with prayer. I really appreciate Brother Mark, and he'll pray with the choir when they're practicing and pray, have special prayer Saturday night for the big events we do. Um or bus ministry, we try and saturate that with prayer. Soul winning, we want to pray. Just everything we do, we want to saturate with prayer. I believe our homes ought to be characterized by prayer Um somebody says, what do they do at their home? Well I know one thing they do. They pray at that house. Boy, they pray together as a family And I really want to challenge husbands and wives, wherever you're at. You know, you've been married. Harry and Ruth celebrate uh their anniversary this week. Sixty-nine years married. How about that? And so wherever we're at in our marriage, I want to challenge us, husbands and wives ought to pray together. That ought to be as natural as sitting down eating together. It ought to be as natural as watching a ballgame on TV together, uh just praying together. Let's and Kathy and I have worked hard to get to the point where, you know, if something comes up, well, let's pray. Just uh, you know, just whenever, whatever the situation, well, let's pray over that. And uh it ought to be as is as natural in our home between husband and wife. Sometimes, I don't know why it is, sometimes husband, I don't know when we first got married, it's a little awkward praying with her, and I just had to get over it and just pray Um parent and child ought to pray together. Just parents praying with their kids. Well, something's going on. Well, let's pray. And uh uh and the evening time, what we did for years, the the boys growing up, we would uh we'd read scripture, we'd sing a hymn, and we'd pray around. As soon as they were old enough to do it, they'd go around, they'd pray, we'd all pray. And I just think it ought to be natural. It ought to just the I think kids or the first person a kid hears pray, a child hears pray ought to be dead Praying for them, mom and dad praying together. Um I just i it's that important. Uh in our personal lives, praying, praying, praying. So now we come to verse 9 and 10 and 11. And I'm looking at this. He made these phenomenal statements in verse 7 and 8. And uh we've looked at that, we've tried to cover them you know, some major aspects of prayer, what hinders prayer and great promises of prayer. Now he comes to verse 9, 10, and 11. And I notice an aspect of prayer that the Lord is emphasizing here, and that is this. When we pray, we are coming to God as a child coming to his Father. And he's bringing out that aspect of it. He is using the relationship that you and I have to God, as He's being our Father, we're the child. He uses that to illustrate how important prayer is and how God will answer our prayer. Just like a child looks to his father to uh have his needs met. He says that's what we ought to be, coming to God and having our needs met. The central factor in prayer, if I understand this correctly, the central factor in prayer is this: God is my Father. And I am coming to him as a child, seeking to have my needs met, looking for wisdom, looking for direction, asking for help, whatever it may be. But I am coming as a child to my Father. And I think if we see prayer that way, it changes our whole concept of what prayer is. Just like a child coming to the Father. Now, the question is, when does God become our Father? Are we just is He the Father of everybody? Is He what's referred to as the universal fatherhood of God, everybody's father? No, no, no Uh the moment I trust Jesus Christ the Savior, the Bible says I'm born into the family of God. That is when God becomes my father And as a newborn babe, I am dependent upon God for my spiritual needs and my uh um and uh have my prayers answered. So When we accept Jesus Christ as Savior, God becomes our heavenly Father, and uh He is our spiritual Father. Now, I got a couple uh thoughts here that I put together on this matter of God being our Father. The first one is this. And if you want to jot these down the back of your prayer list, a little outline uh it might be helpful to you. Number one, I want us to consider the capabilities of our Father in heaven. I'm coming to God as a child, and He is my Father in heaven. I want us to think about the capabilities of God. Now, for the most part, when a child comes to their father, the father is capable of meeting that child's needs God has created us in such a way the fathers are able, for the most part, to meet the needs of the child. If a father is not meeting the needs of his child, he's not taking care of them, he's not providing for them He's not making sure uh every way possibly can that they're secure, that their needs are met, there's food on the table, there's clothes on their back There's a sh there's a uh uh they're in shelter, they have a roof over their head. Um uh that father is neglecting his responsibility. That's the responsibility of the father. And so God enables the father to meet the needs of the child. However, God's capabilities of meeting our needs far exceed Our physical father's capabilities to meet our needs. We think about God. He is fully capable of meeting any need I possibly have when I come to him. He is fully capable of answering our prayers. God is never When we come, whatever our need may be, or whatever our request may be, it is never an issue that God is incapable of meeting that need. You follow what I'm trying to say God is uh is capable. So uh I put this down. One thing the Bible clearly teaches is this God is omnipotent Now, what do we mean by that? When we use that word omnipotent, all powerful, it has this idea to possess unlimited power. Now, I'm grateful for my father. I speak very highly of him. I talk about him a lot. And you know, most of you all know my dad, and he's been a tremendous influence, and his Christianity has been a profound influence on my life. However My father was limited in his abilities what he could do for me. There were some things in life that dad could not meet that need. Only God could do that. For instance, my father could not save my soul. As good as a Christian as he was, and as strong as his faith was, and as faithful he was to the Lord, that was something only God could do for me. And so God is all powerful. He possesses unlimited power. Now, here's what I want to do tonight. I want us to go through and just look at a lot of verses. Most of these we're going to be very, very familiar with But I just want to reiterate and emphasize in our heart and minds that when we pray in a little bit from now, we take our prayer list out, we're going to bow our hearts and our heads and our minds before the Lord And we're going to lift these requests up. I'm going to remind you that the person we are talking to is our Heavenly Father, and he is all powerful. He is capable to meet all that. So let's look at a few verses here. Keep your place. We're going to end up back here. Go with me to Genesis chapter 1. If you would, Genesis chapter 1. Probably really wouldn't need to turn there, but I want us to go and look at this. Genesis chapter 1, all the way in the beginning of your Bible, and look at verse number 1. Now think about this. This is who we are coming to. As a Father. This is our heavenly Father. And we are coming and we're making requests to him. Look what it says in verse 1. In the beginning, God did what? Created the heaven and the earth. Now listen, do you agree with me? If God can create this heaven and earth, I think he can take care of me. Right? Anyone with me? Good heavens. This is our Father. And I'm coming to my heavenly Father, and He's the one that created all this. Come over to chapter number 18 of Genesis. And verse number nine. We're thinking about the capabilities of our Heavenly Father to meet our needs when we come to Him and pray. Genesis chapter 18, verse number nine. And they said unto him, This is Abraham, where is Sarah thy wife? These are the uh angels of the Lord. And um where is same uh Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent And he, the angel of the Lord, said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life. And lo, Sarah, thy wife, shall have a son. And Sarah, she's in the other room through the tent door there. And Sarah heard it in the tent door which was behind him. Now, Abram and Sarah were old and well-stricken in years, and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of woman. Therefore, Sarah, what Laughed within herself, saying, Am I waxed, after I am waxed old, shall I have pleasure, my Lord being old also? What is she saying? When she's laughing here, she says, look how old I am, look how old my husband is. What is she basically saying? God God can't do what he says he's going to do. God's going to give me a son and she laughs And um uh you know she's sh and I'm thinking in her mind, and it's hard to be critical of her, and actually later on in Hebrews they they uh uh the Bible honors her But at this point in time, I think she's thinking in her mind, God's not capable of doing this. This is impossible. For this to happen. Look at the response. I love this. And the Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh? Saying, Shall I, of assurity, bear a child which am old? Look at this next statement. Is anything too hard for the Lord? And the implied answer is what? No. There's nothing too hard for the Lord. Now, when God promises us something, and it may sound outlandish, but guarantee it, if God promises that, I'm telling you, he is capable. of doing what he has promised to do. Now I'm reading ro I'm reading the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 7, verse 7. Ask and it shall be given unto you, seek and ye shall find. Knock and it shall be open unto you For everyone to ask is receiveth, he that seeketh, find he that knocketh shall be open there. I'm thinking that is an open-ended promise there. Can God do that? And the answer is yes, God can Nothing's too hard for the Lord. So I don't know what your situation may be. I don't know what your knee may be. I don't know you may be uh you know you feel like you're in a ten-foot hole and you say there's no way I can ever get out of this situation I want to remind you, if you know the Lord as Savior, God in heaven is your Father, and the Bible makes very, very clear there is nothing too hard for the Lord. God is able. God is able. So this is a tremendous promise here in my mind. Is there anything too hard for the Lord? No. At the time appointed, I will return unto thee according to the time of life. And Sarah shall have a son. That's our Heavenly Father. That's the one in a few moments we're going to pray to. Nothing too hard for him. Come over, if you would, to Job. How many people agree Job went through it? Good night. I'm sure when he's going through, he's sitting out there and he's scrap scraping himself with the pot shards and he's got boils and his Fa- his children are are are all buried, his possessions are all gone, he is at the bottom, uh uh the lowest point of his life. And I'm sure he's thinking, can God, can I ever get back? Can I ever get out of this situation? Is this ever going to change? Look at chapter 42 and look at verse 1. Then Job answered the Lord. Now the Lord went through this whole process challenging Job and rebuking him. He asked these tremendous series of questions. Can you do this? Have you done that? Have you done this? And God's Kind of reiterating to Job, listen, I know what I'm doing. I'm all powerful. I can take care of you. Look at Job's conclusion. Verse 1. Then Job answered the Lord and said, I know that thou canst do everything. And that no thought can be withholden from me. I'm telling you, when Job came out of that, he knew that his heavenly father could do anything. Was all powerful. God was capable of meeting his needs. God was capable of taking his situation and turning it around and bringing him up out of that pit and setting him on a solid rock. Job had no doubt about it. Now I know. Now I know. This is our Heavenly Father. He's capable of fulfilling his promises. Come over to Jeremiah chapter 32. Jeremiah 32. Jeremiah been through it. And he's preaching. Nobody's getting saved. He's being persecuted. He's suffering. He's the weeping prophet. We refer to him that way. And chapter 32 and verse number 17 Verse 16, now when I had delivered the evidence of the purchase under Baruch the Sunarai, I prayed unto the Lord. I prayed unto the Lord, say Ah, Lord God, behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and the and stretched out arm. Now look at his concluding statement. And there is nothing too hard for thee. Look over at verse, same chapter. Look at verse 26. Then came the word of the Lord unto Jeremiah, saying, Behold, I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is there anything too hard for me? And the obvious answer is what? No. So God is all powerful. God is able to meet our needs. Come over to Luke chapter 1. Here you have Mary and Martha. They found out. That uh Mary finds out that she's gonna have a child. She's not married, she's a virgin. How can this be? Luke chapter 1, verse 34. Then Mary said unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man? How can I have a child? I know not a man. And the angel said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the highest shall overshadow thee. Therefore also That holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God. And behold, thy cousin Elizabeth, she has also conceived the Son in her old age. This is the sixth month with her, who shall be, who was called barren. Now look at this. For with God, what? Nothing shall be impossible. And so, uh, there is no need that you have or I have that God is unable to meet. And so when Jesus says that we should pray. And uh uh that if uh no man asks his father uh bread and he gives him a stone, no man asks a fish and he gives him a serpent And he tells us that God is more than able to meet our needs. So I put down the capability of God. I want to show you one more verse. This thing has stirred my heart. Last fall, I read this Psalms, turn with me to Psalms 81 Why don't you see this? Last uh fall I was thinking I was reading through Psalms the second time. I tried to read Psalms twice a year. And there was a situation that we were dealing with in our personal life, and uh and I was praying, I was asking God for help, and I came across Psalm 81, and God impressed this on my heart. Psalm 81 in verse number 10. I've got this underlined, I've got it highlighted, I've got it bracketed, I've got stars. Psalms 81:10. I am the Lord thy God, which brought thee up, brought thee out of the land of Egypt. Look at this. Open thy mouth wide, and I will what? Fill it. What's he saying there? When the Lord says, open your mouth wide and I will fill it. What's he saying? Ask. And he's saying not just ask, but what? Ask big. Open your mouth wide. Ask big. Did you ever see those little robins, you know, in the birdlands, and they're out there and it's all mouth. You could drop a baseball down their throat That's what the Lord's telling you and I. He says, listen, I'm capable of meeting your needs. I'm able to meet your needs. Ask, open your mouth wide. And I will fill it. I will fill it. I don't know about you, but when I'm reading this, and he says, How much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask God? I'm thinking, God is capable. God is able. to meet our needs. And uh, you know, it's impossible to ask too much. It's impossible to ask too big. And so, number one, I put this down. Uh God is uh uh the the capability of our Heavenly Father. Number two, now we're back in Matthew 7 here. Number two, I put this down. The carefulness of our Heavenly Father. The carefulness of our Heavenly Father. Verse nine Or what man is there of you if his son asks bread, we give him a stone, and the obvious answer is no If he has the fish, will he give him a serpent? No. My impression reading that is this: God is not careless. When we come and ask for something, God's going to be very, very careful to give us that which is best. God is going to be very, very careful to give us that which we need. Our Father is very, I put it this way, our Father in heaven is very careful about what he allows into our lives. He's very very careful about that. Now let me give you another verse. Turn with me if you would over to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. First Corinthians ten. And notice with me, here's a familiar verse. This was uh I've been talking lately about the two guys that took me under when I first got saved, Arden and Terry, and they discipled me and taught me. This is one of the first verses that they introduced me to. Verse uh 1 Corinthians 10, verse 13. There hath no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way to escape. that you may be able to bear it. Did you catch that? God is a filter. God is very, very careful what He's going to allow us to face. He is very, very careful what He's going to allow to come into our lives. Even in this matter of temptation. That word where it says will not suffer you, that has the idea is not going to allow you. To face something that you cannot deal. I'm glad that we have a Father in heaven that's very, very careful about what He brings, what He allows into our lives. Everything that comes into our life. There's a there's a um uh in Peter he says that you are I think it's 2 Peter, he says you are peculiar people. Anybody familiar with that passage? Now I I read that and I thought, yeah, there's some of them are in our church, peculiar people. But um the word peculiar there comes from a word that has the idea to be surrounded. And the illustration that I picture in my mind, and I think I've used this in a message not too long ago, but the illustration is kind of a dot on a piece of paper and a circle around it It's encompassed. You are an encompassed people. You're distinct from all else. And the idea is this: nothing comes into my life. I'm a peculiar people in God's sight, in God's care, in God's concern. And nothing comes into my life but is first of all goes through his permissive will. When I'm reading this, I'm thinking, my heavenly Father is very, very careful about what he lets into our lives. Sometimes it doesn't make sense. Sometimes why would God allow this? But I know this. If God allows it, then therefore something good can come out of that. There's a purpose behind it. There's something uh that uh he's trying to accomplish. How many folks when you were growing up you wondered why in the world your dad would have you do something? Anybody know? Why dad if you loved me, why would you have me You know, cleaning out the garage. Why are you having me do this? Uh because he's very careful. He knew it would help us, it would it would develop us. So I look at this, and God is very careful about what he allows into our lives. He's very careful about what uh how he answers our prayers. Um God doesn't just uh um do you ever do you ever um uh see somebody raising their kids and just let the kids have whatever they want? And just whatever they want, they get it. They're not careful about it. That's not a loving parent. That's not a loving father. A loving father is very, very careful. No, that's not best. Here you need to do this, not do that And even in our prayer life, God's very careful. We talk about this sometimes. There are times that I've asked for something. I thought it was best. I had to have this. And God said no, He never allowed it Then later on you look back and say, Praise the Lord, God didn't do that. Right? Uh my son a couple years ago was just starting out in the new area we've working at the time and There was a lot of finances involved and it w he was juggling dealing with these money, had to keep record and uh pretty large purchases and some guy I don't remember the details, but some guy had run a credit card, he had bought a large amount of money, or he made a donation to the organization. It was a large amount of money. And for whatever reason it didn't run through. It didn't run through And Sam, I was talking to him later. He says, I kept praying, God, please, this has to go through. Man, this has to go through. And he said, I was begging God. And he said, at the last minute, the bank came up and said, wait a minute, that's going to the wrong account If that would have gone through, it would have been disaster. And they caught it the last second and corrected it. And we were talking, and he made this statement to me. It stuck out in my mind. He says, Dad, I'm thanking God for unanswered prayer. He said if that would have, if God would have done what I was asking to do, it would have been disaster. And God knew, and God said no, God said no, God said no. I'm glad our Heavenly Father is careful. He doesn't just give us what we want. He doesn't throw us. I got looking at verse 9 and 10, I kind of reversed it in my mind. What if a child, now this is maybe ridiculous, but what if a child would ask a father for a serpent? He says, would he ask for a fish and give him a serpent? He would give him a serpent. Well, what if he asked for a serpent? That he's not going to give a serpent. And sometimes you and I ask for stones and serpents. So to speak. They're not best for us. And it would be detrimental to us. But because our Heavenly Father loves us and is very, very careful, he says, no, sometimes. No, I'm not going to give you a serpent knucklehead. Dad, can I have a boa constrictor? No. And so our God is very, very careful. He's very, very careful. He's not going to give us something bad if we ask for something bad. And he's not going to give us something bad if we ask for something good. So one, I see the capability of our Heavenly Father in that He is able to meet our needs, He is able to do for us what we need done Second thing I notice is the carefulness about our Heavenly Father. He's going to be very, very careful about what he allows in our lives. And thirdly, I put this down, consider the character of our Heavenly Father. The character of our Heavenly Father. Notice what he says here in verse number 11. If ye then being what? Are you there? Matthew 7 11. If ye then being evil, Know how to good give give good gifts unto your children. I see that, and that's telling me something that we know is true. Our earthly parents are inherently evil. We have a sinful nature. As much as I love my father, as much as I respect him and thank God for his influence in my life, my father is a sinner. As much as hard as I tried to be a good father to my boys, as hard as I try to be a good Christian to them and send an example, nevertheless, my boy's father is inherently evil. Ye then being evil, that has the idea, that word phrase being evil has this idea, possessing a sinful and moral corrupt nature. Now the Lord is taking that as a contrast. And he says, of somebody whose heart is deceitful and desperately wicked, somebody that there is nothing righteous in them whatsoever, there They're not good at all, morally, spiritually, standing before God. Yet that sinful person, that person being evil, knows how To give good things to their children, and by the way, some of the most immoral people in the world love their children very much Try and take care of them and and do things for them. I was reading an article about some of the cartel down in Mexico and how they're such tight family. And the family is so important to them in taking care of their children and protecting their children. And he's saying, listen, if a if uh somebody is morally evil as a human being, a sinful heart of immune of a human being, uh di uh deceitful and desperately wicked, yet they know how to give good gifts to their children and meet the needs of their child and take care of their child. How much more So, your heavenly Father, who is perfect in wisdom and perfect in love, how much more is he going to give good things to us? And so the very character of our Heavenly Father assures us. That our prayers, that He's going to hear our prayers and answer them in the best way. Our Heavenly Father is inherently good Then it says this. He says, How much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? That phrase good things has this to be useful. Things that are beneficial. Things that are good for us. I like this one definition I came across, to be distinguished by excellence. So he's saying, how much more should your Heavenly Father in heaven give good things, things that are excellent for us? How many people here ever had something came into your life and you thought, how in the world can anything good come out of this experience? Anybody know what I'm talking about? Been there? I'm telling you, we've got to by faith understand our Heavenly Father, He gives good things. They're excellent. He allows us to go through them so that we can grow and develop and be what we ought to be. And so our Heavenly Father, his character, he is inherently good. In fact, that's the whole theme of the whole Bible. God displaying to sinful man how good he is. How gracious he is, how he cares for us and does good things for us. We must not think that we have to wrestle good things out of God's hands. I think sometimes we get this idea, and it's because a little bit, sometimes maybe because of the way God operates, sometimes he'll delay his answers to prayer. You know, sometimes he'll wait for just the perfect time when my boys are small. It's interesting. When they were like three, four years old, Dad, can we drive the lawnmower? Want to drive though? Can we mow the grass? No, you're too small. You're too small. Then when they're like 15, 16, it's like, son, mow the grass. What? I don't want to And sometimes we ask for things that it's not the right timing. God knows we're not ready for that yet. And so if we're not careful, we get this idea because of God's delay in answering our prayers Sometimes he says no because it's not best for us. We get this idea, well I've got to wrestle. God doesn't want to answer my prayers. God doesn't want to do this and I've got to bribe him and I've got to wrestle and fight it out of his hands and talk. Him into answering my prayer, but that's not it at all. God, I believe God is more eager to answer our prayers and give us good things than we are willing to meet the conditions to have them take place. We want God to give us all these good things, but we don't want to meet the conditions that are necessary for that to take place. Remember a month or so ago we went through things that hinder prayer? How badly do I want God to answer my prayer? Am I willing to address these issues in my life that hinder my prayers from being answered But what I'm trying to say is this: God is more willing, more eager to give us these good things than we are willing to make the adjustments in our life so that we can receive them. God is a good Father. He's our heavenly Father. How much more should their Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask Him? Give good things. He is eager to give them to us and uh when we ask for good things. I read about a little boy. He wanted, it was coming up to Christmas time, and he won it so badly. Uh for God to give him a red bike. He cut he was praying and praying, God please at Christmas, let me get a good a red bike. Lord, I want a red bike. And then he got thinking, I need to convince God that I'm worthy of being getting this red bite. So he started praying, saying, God, I've been good for the last year. I didn't do anything wrong for the last year. God, please Then he got thinking about it, well that's not exactly true. So he said, God, I've been good for the last six months. Please give me this red bike. Then he got thinking about that, well, that wasn't really accurate either God had been good for three months. God had been good for a couple weeks. And finally, in desperation, he realized he hadn't been good at all, but he still wanted this red bite He ran down to the Christmas display and there was the the um uh nativity scene and he reached and he grabbed Mary and he said, God, if you ever want to see your mother again, give me a red bite Uh, the guy didn't get it. Well we laugh at that, and that's silly. But if we're not careful, sometimes we get the idea that I've got to somehow talk God into doing what I want Him to do. I've got to somehow wrestle this out of God's hand. And I'm reading Matthew 7, 7 through 11, and I don't see that the case at all. I see God as a heavenly Father that loves us and cares a lot about us and is good, and he is eager to give. uh those that ask. And he's eager to let uh to let him find those that seek and open the door to those that knock. And just like a good, an evil father knows how to give good things to their son, our Heavenly Father gives good things to those of us that ask him. So what we need to do is ask God. Pray. I hope that this little mini-series that I injected in here stirs your heart and my heart That we pray and pray and pray and ask God in these things that seem impossible, don't let them intimidate us. To bring them to God and trust God and wait on Him. Sarah, remember Sarah laughed? The baby wasn't born that evening. Right? It took a while till the process went through and she gave birth. It was almost a year later, nine months later obviously So when we're waiting on God, don't misinterpret that as God not answering our prayers. We have to wait on his timing. Does that make sense? So I hope your heart is encouraged and uh I've been praying for a revival prayer in my life. I pray that be true in our church in each of our lives. So let's pray and let's ask the Lord to give us faith to believing and have a right perspective on His willingness to answer our prayers, our Heavenly Father. Let's pray. Father in Heaven, Lord, you've given us this tremendous promise here And I pray you would help us as believers to see this clearly and grasp your love for us and the relationship we have to you. Lord, the things that are in our life that do hinder and grieve your spirit and hinder our prayers, help us to address them. I pray that our desire to have you answer our prayers would be greater than um our unwillingness to make adjustments in our life so that you can and will answer. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, how many would say Preacher, I need a revival in my prayer life. I need to simplify it and just get it down and make it an integral part of my life. Is there any like this? Preacher, I see that. I need that in my life. Sure, my hand is raised It's easy to talk about, it's easy to preach about, but when we come down to do it, that's where it's at. Father in heaven, you know our hearts, you know our needs. And we ask you to teach us to pray like a child coming to the Father and then to trust you and to wait on you. Follow your instructions, what you lead us to do. Help us to trust you and obey you. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen Very good. We can't really give an invitation, so I hope that uh it'll be a matter in our hearts that we'll really act on on what the Lord's