Job 2, verse 9 and 10. Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine what? Integrity. Good word. Curse God and die. But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God? And shall we not receive evil? And all this did not Job sin with his lips. Now I've entitled the message this morning. I changed it a little bit from what was in the bulletin. I've entitled the message, How to Disappoint the Devil. How to disappoint the devil? I'm suggesting to you that Job disappointed the devil. He did not respond to the trials that came into his life the way the devil thought he would respond. And the devil was very disappointed. I want to, in my life, I want my life to disappoint the devil and please God. Let's pray together. Father, I ask and bless now our study of this portion of Scripture. I pray, Lord, with all my heart that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit. I pray that you would speak through me. I yield my will again this morning to you. I present my body anew. And just use me, Lord, as the conduit to speak to our hearts and our minds, and that your will be done. Lord, I pray for myself and every one of us here That when it's all said and done, the devil will be disappointed and you would be pleased. We need you to help us to accomplish that, Lord, in Jesus' name. Amen. I don't know why, but the book of Job just fascinates me. It has for years. Uh I wrote uh an extensive uh study and report on Job when I was in Bible college. One of our classes, we had to write a uh uh like a uh cantata type thing, a play for one of the classes and I did a whole thing on Job but wasn't a very good play, but it's a great book And um I've just been fascinated with the book of Job. It is, as I was pointing out in a Sunday school hour, the book of Job, we are told, is most likely one of the oldest books in the Bible Some Bible scholars suggest that the book of Job was written even before Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and Deuteronomy, before the Pentateuch was written. It would have been written before that. I mentioned in the Sunday school hour that my pastor is with the Lord now years ago when I first got saved, he had the in he had the idea that Job may have taken place The events here in Job may have taken place before the flood. And a possibility that was way back then, very, very early in man's time here on earth, shortly after creation, this may have taken place. I don't know I know this, that it is definitely written many, many years ago. Now here's another interesting little uh tidbit or trivia about the book of Job. In the Hebrew, the book of Job is written in poetic form The whole thing is a gigantic long poem, and uh a lot of it is alliterated down through there, and the book of Job is just from a human standpoint The book of Job is a fascinating work of literature. Now we understand that this is the inspired word of God. God has given it to us. But this is an amazing book, and as I said, it has uh fascinated me for many, many years. Now, we look at the we look at what Job is about. Many of you are familiar, perhaps, Job suffered emotionally and physically as few people in history have suffered. Now, I don't mean to minimize. I understand there are folks, even this day, there are folks that suffer tremendously. But I'm telling you, Job's situation was extreme. All that he went through, the physical pain that he experienced, the emotional heartache That he experienced, the psychological struggle that went through, and people turning against him, uh, where he's nobody is supporting him, not even his wife is standing by him And what Job went through is an extreme thing. There's one other case in the Bible I find where someone suffered physically, emotionally, mentally more than Job, and that would be the Lord Jesus Christ. When he bore the sins of the whole world upon himself on that cross, he suffered the physical judgment of sin. He suffered the spiritual judgment for our sin. But Job is extreme. Job is an amazing thing. Now I want to look at a few verses here to kind of set the stage. We're not going to read through this whole passage, but if you would read the verses, chapter 1, verses 13 down through 19. You find that when this takes place, Job loses everything that he possesses, his possessions, his flocks, his housing, and even his own children. are destroyed, are killed, or taken from him. Now there's a phrase in verse 13 that every time I read that phrase, it gives me pause. I just have to stop and think for a moment. Job chapter 1, verse 13. Notice what it says. And I circled the next few words. There was a day. There was a day. One day can change everything. When Job went to bed that night His life was totally different than it was when he got up that morning. One day Can change everything. I remember back May 7, 1979. I got up that morning, lost, on my way to hell uh sinful wretch, a teenager just absolute disaster. Uh I I often say I I can't comprehend how a person can mess their life up so bad in just 19 years. And I woke up that morning just a wretched sinner on my way to hell. But I went to bed that night, a born-again child of God, forgiven on my way to heaven. And one day can change everything. I look back, and many of you can say the same thing. You look back over your life, and there was a certain day that everything changed. There was a certain day. When you went to bed that night, your life was different than when you got up that morning. And so that's the way it was with Job. There was a day. No time to prepare for this day. No time whatsoever No way for Job to anticipate that this day all my kids are going to be killed, all my possessions are going to be taken from me. All my employees, with the ex exception of a few, all my households going to be destroyed. He had no way of anticipating that. He had no way to prepare for that. It just hit him blindside. There was a day. You come down through here, you find that his entire household was killed, but four people. Everything he possessed was either stolen or was destroyed by weather. His children were killed. And the only one left is his wife. Can you imagine the devastation of that? How many people here ever We don't know uh no details. But anybody here ever you went through a situation and uh maybe financially or your possessions or whatnot and you were going through a situation and it really, really worried you. Anybody know ever anybody ever been that way Uh you say, yeah, the last five years of my life. Um uh man, it just can you imagine what he's feeling at the end of this day? Everything is taken. I just can't, and God, by God's grace and God have mercy, I just can't imagine a child being taken. Let alone all ten children taken in a stroke like that. I just cannot fathom what Job is going through. Then we get to chapter 2. And it gets even worse. In verses 7 and 8. Let's notice what it says there, verse 7 and 8, Job chapter 2. So went Satan forth from the presence of the Lord and smote Job with sore boils. From the sole of his foot unto his crown. And he took him a pot sherd. That's a broken piece of clay pottery Uh sharp. He took a pot share to scrape himself withal. And he sat down among the ashes Now we're told that uh boils are one of the most painful things a person can have. And back in this day, without the medication, without the treatment available that we're uh used to today, I cannot fathom the pain, the physical pain. that Job went through on top of an absolutely broken heart, shattered world. And now he from the top of his head to his bottom of his feet He's covered in these boils. The only relief he can find is take a broken piece of pottery and try and scratch and scrape and get that boil and get that pain. Deal with that pain. I cannot fathom. I cannot fathom. Now here's the question. And this is an age-old question throughout the years. Why was Job suffering so much? What did he do? What did Job do that brought this upon him like this? The fact of the matter is, Job was never told. As far as I can tell in science, God never told Job anything what was going on. As far as I can tell, while he was alive, he never really understood what this was all about. And that's an age-old question. Why do bad things happen to good people? Why did this happen to Job? Well, I see two observations by way of introduction just to set the stage here. I noticed, first of all, Job was a good man. This didn't happen to him because he was a wretched sinner. This didn't happen to him because he hated God and lived in debauchery and wickedness. He was a good man. Look at chapter 1 and verse number 1. This is God's assessment of Job. Chapter 1 and verse 1. Look what the Bible says. There was a man In the land of us, whose name was Job. Now look what God says about him. He gives us three characteristics of him. Whose name was Job. And that man, look at this, was perfect and upright One that feared God and eschewed evil. Perfect and upright. He feared God And he eschewed evil. Job, as his wife states later on in chapter 2, was a man of tremendous integrity. His wife recognized that, and get this: God recognized it He was perfect and upright. Now we understand that term perfect there, when applied to human beings, does not mean sinlessly perfect. It doesn't mean that Job was not a sinner. The Bible says, for all sinned and come short of the glory of God. Doesn't mean that he had not said things he ought not to have said. It doesn't mean that Job never did anything that he ought not to do. It doesn't mean that he uh never neglected things that should be done. He didn't do them. It doesn't mean he was sinlessly perfect. If we say that we have no sins We are a liar. The truth is not in us, the Bible tells us. Solomon said, There's not a man on earth that sinneth not. And so when the Bible says that Job was perfect and upright, he doesn't mean that he had never sinned. But what he does mean that Job was spiritually mature. Job was, to put it for lack of a better way to put it, a grown-up Christian. He understood the things of God. He did as best as humanly possible, he lived right. He was uh as best as humanly possible, he was honest in all his dealings He worked hard. When Job worked an eight when Job got paid for an eight-hour day, Job worked an eight-hour day. When Job said, gave somebody his word that something would take place You could count on it, it was going to take place. Job cared about other people. He was a very mature, spiritually mature man. He was perfect and upright. Then the Bible says that he feared God. He feared God. And that means simply this, just to give a simple explanation, simply means he had a tremendous respect for God. He reverenced God in every way. And then it says that he eschewed evil. Now we don't use that word eschewed very much. It simply means this. It means to reject. That which is evil. He eschewed evil. He rejected it. Had this idea. He kept his distance away from that which was not right. Job was very, very careful. God says Job was very, very careful to not allow anything that is wicked or sinful or ungodly or unscriptural. He would not allow that into his life. He eschewed it. He rejected it. He kept his distance from it. He did not want the sinful stuff of this world to be a part of his life and to influence him and hurt him. Uh he wanted nothing to do with anything that was evil. So why did Job suffer? Well, it wasn't because he was an ungodly, wicked sinful, depraved, rebellious man. No, no, no. Uh not perfect, but boy, he uh he was mature and uh he feared God And he stayed away from that which was wrong. I mean this guy, he had his spiritual act together. Notice something else here, and this kind of gives us a little insight into why he went through this. Not only was Job a good man, but I noticed that God, now I like this thought, God had faith in Job. God had faith in Job. Look at verse 1 and starting in verse 6. Now an interesting event takes place here that is happening in heaven. As far as we know, Job is never made aware of what the following verses, what takes place in the following verse. As far as we know, he's never made aware of that. Look at verse 6. Now there was a day When the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them, and the Lord said unto Satan, now here's a conversation between Satan and God. And I think it's interesting. Satan has to is accountable to God. Did you notice that in verse 6? And now notice what it says. And the Lord said unto Satan, Who's initiating this conversation? Talk to me. The Lord is initiating that. Now keep this in mind. God is initiating this conversation. Now look what happens. And the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan Satan answered the Lord and said, from going to and fro in the earth and from walking up and down in it. What in the world is Satan doing, going to and fro in the earth and walking up and down in it? 1 Peter 5. 8 tells us, as a roaring lion. The devil walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. So Satan is doing what he's always done, and what he does to this day, he's going back and forth to the earth looking to destroy mankind Looking to destroy God's people, to devour that. So going verse 7, from going to and fro in the earth and walking up and down. And the Lord said unto Satan, look at this. This is God initiating this. Hast thou considered my servant Job? I like that title God gives him. That there is none like him in all the earth. Would you agree with me? Job was unique. That says, I don't got anybody on earth that lives like Job does. And God kind of repeats here verse number one, a perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. What is God doing? He says to Satan, he says, Have you considered my servant Job? He directs Satan's attention to Job. And then he says this about Job. There's no one else on the planet like him. This guy's perfect. He's upright. He fears God. He stays away from that which is wrong. He didn't want nothing to do with that which is evil. What's God doing? Would you, can I just, I don't want to be irreverent here, but it's almost like God is bragging on Job. He's holding Job up. Check him out. Then Satan, verse 9, then Satan answered the Lord, Doth Job fear God for naught? Satan says, Oh, you think he's doing all that just because he loves you, just for no reason? Or dost Job fear God for not? Hast thou not made a hedge about him and about his house and about all that he hath on every side? Thou hast blessed the work of his hands and his substance, and is increased in the land. What what Job's saying, or Satan's saying, oh yeah, Job, he's a great guy, yes, sure, right. I I'm not disputing that, but you know why he does all that? It's just because you give him stuff. You do things for him. He's not doing that because he's committed to you. He's not doing that out of selfless reasons because you were. He's doing it for selfish reasons. He knows that if you do all that if he lives this way, then you'll do all these wonderful things for him. Now look what he says in verse number 11. But put forth thine in now And touch all that he hath, and he will what? Curse thee to thy face. Satan doesn't say, if you take all that away from him, you know what? He might curse you. Satan doesn't say, oh yeah, he's doing this. But you say there's a good chance he's going to fall away that he No, Satan is convinced. That Job is phony. Satan is convinced that Job is simply doing this so he can get stuff for God. You see, I believe it is a very serious mistake. When Christi Christ uh preachers and Christians teach folks that if you do what God says, then God's going to give you lots of stuff and you're going to be rich and you're going to have all this stuff. That is a serious, serious mistake. We are not to serve God because of stuff he will give us. We are to live for God and serve God because He loves us so much and what He's already done for us. And whether he gives me stuff or not is irrelevant. I love the Lord because he first loved me. That's the idea. But Satan didn't get it. And Satan apparently was convinced. That if God would remove that hedge, if God would take all those blessings of the great kids he had, and the property and possessions, and all the riches, if God would take that away from him. Job would curse God to his face. Um now look at chapter two And uh verses one through six. Now Satan does that, and he uh God says, alright, I'll take the hedge away, you can do whatever you want, just don't touch his body. Satan takes his property, his possessions uh and and his children takes all that horrendous in one day. Then uh look at verse one of chapter two. Again there was a day. Oh brother, as if that first day wasn't enough. When the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the Lord. Again he's accountable. Ah Lord said to Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth. and from walking up and down in it. And the Lord said unto Satan, here we go again, hast thou considered my servant Job? There is none like him in the earth. A perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Did you notice God's assessment of Job has not changed in spite of the fact that all these horrendous things have taken place? Job held his ground. Still, look at verse 3, the middle of verse 3, and still he holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movest me against him to destroy him. Look at the last two words. Without cause. God says he did nothing to bring this upon himself. And Satan answered the Lord, verse 4, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life. Satan says, Oh, yeah, all right, you took all that away. But you tell you what, a man's a man Uh man will compromise anything to stay alive. He says there's no man going to die for that which is right. Satan answered the Lord and said, verse 5, put forth thine hand now and touch his bone and flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face. And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thy hand, but save his life. There's a lot of things we learn about God's sovereignty and Satan's limitations here. Satan does have to answer to God and he ultimately will, the final judgment. Satan is limited. God can control what Satan can and can't do And so God says, all right, you can do what you want. You can do anything you want to him physically, but do not take his life. Don't kill him. And Satan basically gets Job to the point where he wished he was dead. And you'll read that later on as Job Some of the conversations. Job says, I wish I'd never been born. The heartache and wrench, the physical pain I'm going through. So Satan does everything to Job he possibly can short of killing him. God doesn't let him do that. But he sure enough pours it on Job to such a degree where Job is thinking, man, I wish I wished I wasn't even alive. All through this event, God, here's the point I'm trying to make. All through this, God is expressing to Satan I have confidence in this man. I have faith in this man. Now we read through scripture and we find over and over again, God tells us to have faith in God, right? We're told earlier. Jesus said very plainly in Mark 11, 22, have faith in God. And we are to have faith in God. In fact, we have illustrations of men and women all through Scripture who had tremendous faith in God. But here you have a unique situation where God is putting faith in man. God is trusting that Job is going to come through this. God is confident that Satan can do whatever he went. Here he is. Consider him. Do what you want. I am full confidence Job will stand the test. Now, of course God is sovereign. We understand that. But it's an amazing thing that God initiates this argument, so to speak, this conflict between himself and Satan And he sets Job up and says, there he is, do what you want. This guy is going to stay true to me. I have faith in his faith. I have confidence in his commitment to me that he will not change. Now, as far as we know, as I said before, Satan, Job never knew anything about this argument between God and Satan. Job never was aware of any of this. And what is happening here? I want to suggest to you, God is putting Satan in his place. God is making a point to Satan that there are people on this planet that love me simply for who and what I am as God. And he's pointing that out. Now, Satan was certain, as I pointed out, that Job was phony. Satan was certain that Job would turn on God. He says twice, you do this, he'll curse you to thy face. He'll curse you to thy face. Satan believed that Job was not genuine. He was convinced that Job was just using God so he could live this tremendous life and have all these things. But Satan was disappointed. Satan was wrong. Can I suggest to you, in the end, Satan is always wrong? And for us to listen to him, for us to disobey God And go along with Satan's ideas for us to follow him and even allow him to influence us is a horrible mistake. He is always wrong in the end. And here Job disappoints him. Job's faith did prove to be true. Job's faith did, uh Job's love for God did prove to be genuine. His commitment to God did stand firm In spite of all that Satan threw him. I don't know about you. I want to disappoint the devil. When I get to the end of my life, I would love to hear the devil say, hmm. Man, I couldn't get to him. I couldn't destroy him. You know, every time a soul gets saved, the devil's disappointed If you're here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ, your personal Savior, if you don't have it settled down in your heart and mind that God has forgiven you you for your sin and uh and uh has a place reserved in heaven for you. If you don't have that settled, I'm telling you, you need to disappoint the devil today. And trust Jesus Christ as your Savior, there's nothing the devil wants more than for you to leave here today lost in your sin on your way to hell. That's what the devil wants. And every time a soul gets saved, the devil's disappointed. Um, if you're here today and you're a Christian, you're not living for God? You're here today, you're saved, God's forgiven you, but you're not taking your spiritual walk seriously, and you're just fooling around, horsing around. I want to tell you to you, uh, you walk out here like that, you're exactly what the devil wants you to be. You're exactly where the devil wants you. Now, once you get saved, the devil can't ever get you to hell. Praise God for that. Jesus said, I give them eternal life, they shall never perish. But he can't get a saved person to hell, but he'll do everything he can to destroy their testimony. He'll do everything he can to get them to disobey God and violate scriptural principles. And I'm telling you We walk out those doors this morning and we're not right with God and we're living in sin and disobedience to God, we are exactly where the devil wants us to be. Or we could disappoint the devil this morning And we could say, you know what? Jesus Christ paid such a horrendous price for me. He loved me enough to suffer hell for me and forgive me and give me new life. You know, the least I can do, the least I can do. It's trust him and obey him as a Christian and do what's right and live for him. I tell you what, we walk out of here in that condition, devil's disappointed. I think the devil is convinced that every one of us are going to disobey God. He has no confidence in Christians whatsoever. He believes. Just as he believed Job would disobey God and curse God to his face, he's convinced that you and I will do exactly the same thing to some degree And live our lives in disobedience to God and live our lives unsurrender to God and do our thing and not pay any attention to what God says. That's what Satan expects from us. And I want to disappoint the devil. I don't want him to be pleased. I don't want what he expects from me to happen. I want to please God. Amen. So how do I do that? How do I, as a Christian, how do I live my life in such a way that the devil is disappointed, that I don't live the way he thinks I will, that he expects me to, that he's trying to get me to do Well, I think we learned some things from Job here. How Job responded when all this stuff hit him, and all this tragedy, this day came upon him, and absolutely we can't even fathom them the devastation. And yet Job remained faithful to God. He disappointed the devil. Let me give you a few thoughts real quick. I want to disappoint the devil. Job disappointed the devil, number one, by this. Write this down. He worshipped God. He worshipped God. Look with me if you would at chapter 1 and verse 20. Now this is the first wave of devastation that comes. Kids are killed, property stolen, destroyed, everything's gone. Then Job arose, rent his mantle, shaved his head, and fell down upon the ground. What's he doing? He's mourning. His heart is shattered I mean, he is absolutely hurt and broken. But look at the last part of the verse. He fell down upon the ground and what? Worshiped. Satan thought that he would curse God. And instead of cursing God, Job worshiped God. Well, I want to disappoint the devil. He said, how can I disappoint the devil with my life? Number one, worship God. Worship God. Look at verse 111. We already pointed to this. Chapter 1, I'm sorry, verse 11. Put forth thy hand now, touch all that he hath, and he shall curse thee to thy face. What did Job do? He didn't curse God. He worshiped God. The word curse there, the idea when he says he'll curse you to their fates, that word curse there means the opposite of blessing someone. If you bless someone in a biblical sense, you're speaking highly of them. You're saying pleasant things to them and about them. We're told in Matthew that if somebody curses us, we are to bless them. They say bad things about us, they say hateful, make us look bad, make us uh look like we're something awful and and curse us. We're not to respond the same way, we're to bless them, we're to speak highly of them, we're to say positive things about them. And Satan thought that when all this hit Job, that Job would curse God and say bad things about him and have a terrible attitude and raise his fist against God, but he didn't do that. He blessed God. The idea, he worshiped God. To curse means to blaspheme and denounce To say hateful things about God. You know, it's possible. Now I've heard, some of you have, I've heard unsaved people curse God I've heard unsaved people say some of the most horrendous, blasphemous things about God. Now I'll be honest with you, I haven't heard very few, if any, saved people. Say hateful things about God. But I've seen a bunch of saved people live in such a way they're saying hateful things about God. Complain and criticize and find fault and tear things down and live in disobedience to the word of God and the whole message, the whole message, the whole message. That's being communicated by a Christian like that is God isn't any good. God doesn't treat me right. God isn't fair. God isn't good enough to me. God isn't doing for me what I deserve. I've seen that in Christians plenty of times. And that is exactly what Satan wants from us. And I can disappoint the devil. By worshiping God, not cursing him, not uh not uh uh uh saying hateful things and living in such a way that makes God look bad But worshiping God. Now the word worship there in Job here and as it's used throughout scripture, in the literal definition of it, simply means to fall prostrate. To simply fall on your face before something. We read in scripture of people that worship false gods. And they fall on their faces and they bow down to Baal. That's the literal definition. That's the physical response of some. But it means also the further meaning of it is to literally submit my will to God. When I worship God, I am submitting my will to God. Now, this is Dennis Leatherman's definition of worship. I've been using this definition for many years. I like it It means, uh, I put it down this way. To worship God is to recognize God's supreme authority over my life. And to humbly submit to that authority in faith and obedience. Did you get that? Job worshiped God. He recognized that God Had the ultimate authority over Israelite, and he humbly submitted to that authority by trusting God and obeying what God said. That is worship Worship is not coming to church and going through some rigor marrow and little ritual and doing this, that, and the other across yourself, across my heart, hope to die, stick a needle in my eye. It's not some little rig or marrow we go through like that. Worship is an act of the heart. It is a surrender of my will to God and then trusting God, saying, God, you are God. You are the ultimate authority in my life. I recognize that, and I submit myself to that authority, and I trust you, and whatever you instruct me to do, I will do it That is worship. In Genesis 22, God approaches Abraham. And he says, Abraham, and this is unbelievable. He says, Abraham, I want you to take your son, your only son, whom thou lovest. I want to take him out on top of the mountain, and I want you to offer him up as a sacrifice to me Now, let me just throw this out. We know from other paths of scripture, God was never going to let Abraham do that. The Bible says he was testing him. He was trying Abraham. He wanted Abraham to understand that his faith was strong enough that he could be used of God in a great way. But he said, I want you to take your son, your only son, and thou lovest, and I want you to offer him up as a sacrifice to me. And the amazing thing is, if we have time to study it, Genesis 22, Abraham, as far as we can see in Scripture, never hesitates. There's no pause. There's no argument. There's no negotiation. There's no questioning of God. The Bible says he got his things together the next day and they headed up. His son said, What's going on? I'm paraphrasing here, of course, what's going on? And Abraham said, This son, we are going to worship God. Were they just going to go through some motions? No. Abraham was saying this, son, we are going to recognize God's ultimate authority, even when this makes absolutely no sense to me. I recognize God is God, and we're gonna humble ourselves, and we are gonna trust Him and obey Him. And Hebrews tells us that Abraham was convinced That if he if Abraham did go through and kill his son, God would raise him up. He had that absolute faith in God. I don't want to, I want to disappoint the devil. I don't want to, hey, I don't want to be the kind of Christian the devil thinks I'll be. I want to disappoint him. And how do I do that? I worship God. I recognize God is the authority. He is God. I am man. I'm going to submit myself humbly before him. I'm going to trust him and obey him. Nothing says more about the character of my faith in God than how I respond to the trials that God allows in my life You know, we might have the testimony that we're some great super Christian. Boy, I wish I had the faith of so-and-so. There's something else. I tell you what, it'll show what that faith is. Let some trial come in their life Let something happen they didn't anticipate, they never prepared for, something absolutely devastating that turns their world upside down that makes absolutely no sense. And see how much they trust God in that situation. See what their faith is in. Job disappointed the devil. And when the trials that you and I cannot even imagine hit him, he stayed true. Satan wants me to harden my heart against God. The proper response is to worship God, submit to Him, and trust Him. God, you are sovereign. Well, it would be good for all of us just in our own hearts, even right now, just express this to God sincerely. God, you are sovereign? I humbly submit myself to you and I will trust you and obey your instructions. That is worship. That is worship. Number one, how do I disappoint the devil? Well, let's do what Job did. Let's worship God. Number two, I put this down. We need to withhold ourselves from sin. Number one, worship God. Number two, withhold ourselves from sin. Look at verse number 22 of Job chapter 1 with me. In all this Job, what's the next two words? Send not. What do you think Satan thought Job would do? Satan thought Job would sin. Oh yeah. Oh yeah, he's gonna sin all right. Brother, you take his paycheck away from him, he'll sin. Brother, you take all those friends away from him, he'll sin. Brother, you hurt his family in one way or another. He'll sin. Ah, you take his health away, he can't do the things he wants to do, and he hurts all the time. I'm telling you, he'll sin against you, God. Oh yeah. The Bible says in all this, Job sinned not. He disappointed the devil. He did not do what Satan thought he would do. I'm convinced Satan expects you and I to sin today. Somebody's going to say something you don't like. Somebody's going to do something. Somebody's going to treat you in a way that you feel like you ought not to be treated. And Satan expects Us to sin against God, disobey God, and do what we want. That's what he expects. Now, if we want to disappoint the devil We can't let that happen. What does it mean to sin when it says he sinned not? It means to miss the mark is the literal strict definition of the word. To miss the mark, you're shooting a bow, you're outside the s the perimeter, you don't get any points or whatever, you miss the mark. To sin against God means I do not live up to what God expects from me. I've fallen short of that. I'm outside, you could say outside the perimeter of God's acceptance. The other idea behind the idea of sinning, other thought behind the idea of sinning is to trespass. To go into an area, I have no business being there. I'm forbidden for me to go To trespass, to sin. I'm telling you this morning, Satan wants us to sin. He wants us to He wants us to say things that God forbids us to say. Satan wants us to go places that God says no Christian ought to ever go. Satan wants us to think things that God says no Christian ought to ever think. Satan wants us to sin. In our families, in our marriages, between our parents and children, in our church, in our workplace, in our everyday life, He expects us to sin. He is functioning, He is working towards that end. He is trying to accomplish that. That is his will for us. I don't know about you. I want to disappoint Satan. Now I'm using my imagination here a little bit, but I can imagine anytime a Christian says or does something that God says we ought not to do, Satan is yes. Huh. That's what I thought. I knew it. I knew it. I knew it. I knew it. I knew they'd look at that garbage I knew he'd cheat on her. I knew he'd lie to his boss. I knew he'd steal that money. I knew he'd be unfaithful. That's what Satan expected. That's what he expected from Job. And Job was the best man God had on earth. Good night. What's he expect from you and I? How do you say, preacher, I don't want Satan to be pleased. I don't want Satan to be glad the way I live my life. I don't either So how do I disappoint him? Well, number one, worship God. Recognize God is an authority of my life. God is the one that can say what's right and wrong. I submit to that humbly and I trust him. I obey him, God and do what you say. I don't care what the circumstances are. I'm going to do what's right. I'm not going to sin. I don't want to sin. I want to disappoint since Job refused. Oh, I like the last. Look at the next of it. In all this, Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly. Job refused to accuse God of being unkind to him. Job refused to accuse God of being unjust. And I thought this was interesting as I was studying for this man. I never really gave this thought before. But I don't find anywhere where Job says anything against the Sabaeans. And they're the ones that came in and took all his stuff. I don't see Job says anything even against the Chaldeans who came in and destroyed his property. He didn't even say anything. He doesn't sin with his lips. In fact, he says to his wife, look at this, naked came I out of my mother's womb, naked shall return. uh thither and the Lord gave, the Lord hath given away. Look at this. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Oh, but preacher, you don't know how I was treated. You don't know what they said about me. You don't know what how they hurt me. You're right, I don't. But I know this. Satan wants you to get all bent out of shape about it and start sinning against God and disobey God because they did that to you. You say, preacher, if you know how they treat it, you know why. I don't do this, that, and the other. Well, I don't know how they treat you, but I know this: Satan wants us to sin. And Satan wants those heartaches and disappointments and frustrations that come in our life. He wants us to respond to them, not in godliness and righteousness, but in disobedience and sinfulness against God. That's what he wants. And so if I want to disappoint Satan, I need to withhold myself from sin. I withhold myself from sin. Now don't misunderstand. Did Job struggle with this? Yes. You read through the next 39 chapters, 38 chapters. And I'll tell you what, Job is struggling. He doesn't understand. He asks over and over, God, why? I don't understand. I was trying to be right. I don't know why you're letting this happen. But not one time does he say, God, you're not right. You're being wrong. Not one time does he sin against God with his lips. Does he yeah, hey, I want to suggest to you, there's nothing wrong with asking why. Jesus on the cross, my God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me There's nothing wrong with asking why if I'm submissive to the Lord and I recognize that He is God, but God I don't understand. This doesn't make sense here So he withheld himself from sin. Satan wants us to sin when trials and difficulties and hurt come. Satan wants us to go back to the old boy, how many times have I seen that? Someone accepts Jesus as Savior? And it's not long. Some trial comes, some disappointment comes. Maybe one person, family left them, wife kicked them out. You're going to be a Christian? I don't want nothing to do with Christians, you're out of here. And uh praise God in that situation he stayed faithful, Lord, and strong, great testimony. But I've seen it go the other way. Somebody gets saved and something goes wrong, the job is lost, sickness shows up or something, and they say, Philly, I'm going back to the old life. I'm going to go back to drinking and carrying on. My question is, oh yeah, how would that be go through that trial with that? Why don't you go through the trial trusting God? You know, I found out people that drink have trials and people that don't drink have trials I found that unsaved people have trials and saved people have trials. And so anyway, Job trusts God. When I sin, I'm doing exactly what the devil wants. Number one, I said this. If I want to disappoint the devil, I need to worship God. I need to humbly bow before God, recognize his authority. Number two, I need to withhold myself from sin. I am not going to let this heartache, trial, difficulty, pain, I'm not going to let it give into sin. I'm going to just stay away from sin. I'm going to do right. And number three, I put this down. Wait on God. Wait on God. Look with me again at chapter 2 and verse number 9. Now this gets interesting. Chapter 2 verse 9. Job then said his wife unto him, This is all he's got left. Kids are gone, property's gone, household's gone, everything's gone. His health is gone, he's in unbelievable pain. His wife comes in. She sits down beside him and puts her arm around him and says, Sweetheart, I'm going to help you with this pain. I'm going to treat these boils. I'm going to do everything to make your life as comfortable as possible. We're going to trust God. We're going to see through this. Is that what she says? No. Look what she says. Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? Curse God and die. What's she telling him to do? She's telling him to do the very thing Satan thought he would do all along. Satan said to God, You take his possession, take that hedge away, he'll curse you your face. You take his health away from him, skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath, you take his health away from him, he'll curse your face. Well, Job didn't do either then. And his wife shows up and said, Why don't you just curse God? Why don't you do what the devil's wanting you to do? What is she saying? She's saying, Job, look at this. She's saying, Job, you need to take this into your own hands. And deal with it according to human understanding. Don't wait on God. Don't trust God. Let's take care of this and deal with it the way we think it should be dealt with. Right? She's offering an alternative response to what God is allowing in his life. Curse God and God. Take it into your own hands. You do what we think should be done, what I think should be done. And she's trying to convince him to lean on their own understanding rather than waiting and trusting in God I like Job's response. But he said unto her, now watch this very carefully. Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. Now notice what he now this is important. Notice what he does not say unto her. He doesn't say, you're a foolish woman. He doesn't accuse her of being a foolish woman. He says, you're speaking like the foolish women speak. Can I tell you my understanding of this? I think Job understood how badly his wife was hurting. Her kids were killed also. Her possessions were taken away also. She's standing there looking at the husband whom I'm convinced she loved dearly. And he is in excruciating pain, unbelievable pain. And she thinks we have to do something And she speaks as the foolish women speak. It's important to notice Job does not accuse her of being foolish. He doesn't say you're one of the foolish women. He says, you're going to the wrong place for advice. You're going to the wrong place for a solution for this. Where do we go for the solution? Look what he says. What? Shall we receive good at the hand of God and shall we not receive evil? Again, in all this Did not Job sin with his lips? What was Job saying to his wife? He's saying, sweetheart, we are just going to wait on God. God gives good. God gives evil. We're just going to receive it. We're going to trust him. We're going to wait on him. And let God do whatever he is doing. Satan thought that Job would take things into his own hands. Satan was convinced that Job would lean on his own understanding. But Job says, no no no. God knows what he's doing. I don't understand this, and he struggles for the next chapters And his friends come in and pile on top of him, accusation after accusation, and he says, I don't understand it. I'm at the point I wish I'd never been born But he says, well just, sweetheart, we're going to wait on God and we're going to trust him. We're not going to sin against God. Can I make a statement? I was saved in 1979. That's 35 years ago this past May. I've had my shares of ups and downs. I've had my share of victories and failures There have been times where by God's grace I was able to do what's right, and there's times I hate to admit it I'd done some stupid things that were just flat out wrong. But one thing I have never, ever, ever regretted, and that is this: trusting in God. I have never ever one time regretted, Sam, wait a minute. Let's just wait on God through this. Listen, God knows I have never regretted waiting on God. Never regretted waiting on God. Now, I'll tell you, there have been times where I had to wait a whole longer than I wanted to. When it was all said and done, I look back, I say, thank God, thank God, thank God. And I waited on him and trusted him, didn't take things in my own understanding, didn't lean on my own understanding I just let the Lord do what he's doing. I stay faithful to him. I'm not going to sin. I worship him. I'm going to wait on him. I'm going to wait on him. When we lean on our own understanding, rather than waiting on God and trusting him, we're doing exactly what the devil wants. There's a passage in the book of Judges. It's repeated at least twice. It says there was no king in Israel in those days. And every man did that which is right. That's what it says. Every man did that which is right. But it doesn't end there. Every man did that which is right in his own eyes. And that's exactly what the devil wants you and I to do. He wants us to do what we think is right He wants us to do what we believe is the best thing to do in this situation. He wants us to respond to trials. He wants us to respond to difficulties and heartaches the way we think we should respond. As long as it isn't the way God wants us to respond. It wasn't that the people didn't want to do what's right. They just didn't want to do what God says was right. And we have churches filled with Christians around this planet, across our land, that want to do right, but not do what God says is right. They want to do what I think is right. And that is exactly, exactly, exactly what the devil expects from us. To do what we think it well, I just, this is just the way I think it ought to be. When it's all said and done, that doesn't matter. What does God say it ought to be? Well, they spoke to me that way. I'll tell you how I handle that. Alright, do what you think is right, and you're doing exactly what the devil wants you to do. They talk to me that way. Alright, what does God say I should do? God says, bless them that curse you. Do good to them that revile you. Pray for them. And the devil's disappointed. Well, if they're gonna be that way, then I ain't seen coming around. All right Or I can say, you know, I'm just going to trust God and wait on God, see this through. God allowed this. God gives good. He gives evil. Blessed be the name of the Lord. God knows what he's doing. We're just going to stay faithful. We're just going to do right. We're going to do what God says. We're going to see how God works this thing out. I'm going to submit to you, Job would have been hurt far more by sinning against God in this situation. than he was by simply trusting God and waiting on God through this trial. The interesting thing is when it was all said and done, there was nothing Satan could say. If you'll notice, after that, after chapter 2, Satan doesn't show up. He doesn't have anything more to say. Satan was wrong. Job did not curse God to his face. Joseph worshipped God. He withheld himself from sin. He waited on God, the exact opposite of what Satan knew he would do. Satan walks away disappointed. And when it's all said and done, Job is a stronger Christian than he ever dreamed he would be in chapter 1. You get to the end of the chapter and God is pouring out his blessings on Job. Job says, I heard you before with the hearing and the ears. I was seeing with your eyes. You know what he's saying? He said, I didn't even I will I was just a little baby Christian before I went through this. Now I come out, I understand so much more. It's so much what if he would have sinned? What if he would have rebelled against God? What if he'd have handled things the way he thought it should be? How would this have ended up? Satan would have been pleased, and Job would have been destroyed. No testimony, no praise of God. Here's our choice this morning. I wrote in my notes, I just read it there, I just I wrote in my notes, if a trial comes, how am I going to respond? But as I'm preaching, I want to amend what I wrote in my notes. It's not if a trial comes, how are you and I going to respond when the trial comes. Because it's going to. There will be a day. Maybe this week, maybe this month, maybe this coming year. I don't know. But there will be a day when you and I are going to go to bed at night and our world's going to be completely different than what it was when we woke up in the morning. I'm telling you, those days come. Many of us have been through a bunch of that. Amen or not? Now what am I going to do? Am I going to disappoint the devil when that hits me? When somebody does or says something that throws me? I gotta get all bent out of shape and bitter and angry and say, ah, well, I'm gonna What am I gonna worship God? And say, you know, I don't understand that. That hurts bad. I don't even I don't understand any of this, but I know this. God is God. I'm going to submit to him. I'm going to worship him. I'm going to I'm going to I know sin is bad. I'm not going to allow any sin. I'm not going to lean on my own understanding. I'm not going to take this into my own hands. I'm going to wait on God. And we do that. Satan's disappointed every single time. I don't want to, I want to disappoint the devil. And I want to please God. Don't you? Now maybe we ought to kneel at an altar this morning and say, God, change my attitude. God, help me to see you as God. Maybe we need to kneel at an altar this morning and say, God, there's some sin in my life. I need to get out. It's exactly what the devil wants. Maybe some of us need to kneel there and say, God, this has to go. Maybe some of us need to kneel at an altar and say, God, I'm just going to wait on you. I'm just going to trust you. I'm not going to lean the moment down. Just stay with stay the course. I'm going to do what you say. I'm going to wait on you to see what you're doing here. And that would please the Lord, I'm convinced. To that. If you're here this morning, you're not saved. You're in the exact condition Satan wants you to be. God wants to save you and give you a home in heaven. Father, bless now our invitation, I ask. Help us be sensitive and tender to your Holy Spirit. Help us to trust you and obey you, I pray. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Our heads are bowed. Our eyes are closed.