And uh while you're finding your place there, uh I got a letter today from, and I knew this was coming, a letter today from uh Brother Mike Clark. Did you know Mike Clark? Uh he started a church up in Pittsburgh and um Legacy Baptist Church three and a half years ago. We supported him right from the get-go. He was a missionary in Russia for years. And um but anyway he's uh uh they got up there and he called me about three months ago, said this was coming. So we got the letter today. It says a local autonomous church And he says, thank you for making it possible. Sunday, January 18th, we will present to the church a budget that will include a pastor's salary. When we presented Legacy to your church, you got on board with us and now it's time to by faith launch out into the deep. Not only have you helped plant Legacy Baptist Church in three and a half three and a half years ago, but you stayed with us to see it become established. Our church has taken great steps of faith in our brief time. We have been together and we are now taking another step in resigning our mission support and living off of what legacy can provide for us. Please continue to pray for us as we strive to please the Lord in all we do. And then he goes on the back some different challenges. I want to read that Sunday morning, Charlie, to the church But I was excited about that and um see a church, just uh him come in there, canvas, get a place, start preaching, folks coming out. They're running just about a hundred, I think And they're doing real good. And we thank the Lord for that. Alright, we're looking at the Beatitudes, and we're kind of winding down here. And uh we're looking at verses 10 through 12. Matthew chapter 5, verse 10 through 12. Of course you have all the previous beatitudes, blessed are poor in spirit, they that mourn, blessed are meek, blessed are they that thirst Hunger and thirst after righteousness, the merciful, bless the pure in heart, bless the peacemakers. Then he comes to verse 10. He says, This, the Lord's speaking here, blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye. Notice that next word. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely For my sake. The Lord uses that word when. What's he saying? It's going to happen. He's not saying if. He says you can anticipate this. You can expect this to be true. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Now look at verse twelve. Rejoice and be exceeding glad For great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. How to respond to persecution? Let's pray together. Father, I ask you bless now or study And I pray you'd be with the folks that ventured out tonight. We're glad for that. I pray you'd bless the folks that are home and listening in on the internet. Nice and warm. And uh I ask that uh you just stir our hearts from your word in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to say some other things, but I'm resisted. But um How to respond to persecution. In verse number 10, we noted that what persecution is not. If you remember a couple weeks ago, it's been a little while ago, but uh uh persecution is not somebody just being rude to us. Right? I mean somebody cutting you off. Oh, I'm persecuted. Persecution is not me just because I don't get my way on something. And then people respond. Uh or I want to do something a certain way and they don't want me to. Uh we have to be very, very careful. I've over the years had people say they were being persecuted for some of the stupidest stuff. It wasn't persecution And so we looked at what persecution was when people actually oppose us living for God, when there is a concerted effort to stifle us or to remove us from living for God and having an influence with the gospel. And we expanded on that. Now verse 11 and 12, the Lord's telling us how to respond to persecution. What do we do? When somebody maybe at work is spreading rumors about me and they're trying to keep me from having any kind of witness, uh what do what do people do in countries where they uh you know where they openly are hostile and throwing us in prison because of our faith in God and we read about it in the news. How do we respond to that? Well let me start out by saying this The Lord Jesus Christ, right from the get-go, when he started calling his disciples, he made no bones about it. He told them, he says, if you follow me, if you're going to be a follower of me, You're going to pay a price. You're going to dedicate your life to me, Jesus telling the disciples, if you're going to dedicate your life to me, it's going to cost you something. It's not a free ride. It's not just a uh you know a big party. There's a great cost there. He from the beginning of his ministry, he made that clear. He warned his uh would-be followers, listen, if any man followed me, you're gonna have to take up your cross. You're gonna have to die. You're gonna have to uh uh deny yourself Let's look at a few of these statements the Lord made. If you would, keep your place here, but if you would, come over to Matthew chapter 10. And you don't have to go far, and I just chose a few out of a list of scores of them here where the Lord made statements along these lines. Matthew chapter 10, look at verse number 22 Matthew 10 in verse 22. Well, let's go up a little bit farther. Look at verse 21. The brother, this is talking about folks if they're going to follow the Lord Jesus Christ, brother shall deliver up brother to death. The father, the child, the children shall rise up against their parents and cause them to be put to death. And ye shall be hated of all men. What's the next three, four words there? For my name's sake, what's he telling? He's saying, listen, if you're gonna follow me, if you're gonna live for me and live for my glory, people are gonna hate you. He says he shall be. He doesn't say, hey, this you've got to think about it. This is a possibility out there. He's saying this is going to happen. There's a price to pay if you're going to follow me. Come over to Matthew chapter 24. And I just flipped through my got the Gospels here and just picked a few out as I went through. Matthew chapter 24, and notice verse number 9. And the context here is actually the tribulation period, so that's kind of a unique time frame. But the truth is true across the board. Look at verse 9. Verse 10, verse 7, verse 8, and verse 9. And they shall deliver you up to be afflicted and shall kill you. And ye shall be hated of all nations for what? My name's sake. He's saying, if you're going to follow me, if you're going to live for me, there's going to be an awful price to pay. Come over to the Gospel of Mark And chapter 13, he makes a very similar statement. And I'm having you turn to these rather than just read them so we can see what the Lord is saying here. Mark chapter 13 and verse 13. Almost uh verse twelve, um now the brothers shall betray brother to death, the father, the son, the children shall rise up against their parents and shall cause them to be put to death And ye shall be hated of all men. Here it is again, for my name's sake. Luke chapter twenty-one, verse seventeen. We won't turn there, but he says this, and ye shall be hated of all men. Again he says that for my name's sake. Verse John chapter 15, verse 18. Let me just read this to you. If the world hate you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. And what he's saying is, you're going to identify yourself with me. You're going to identify yourself as one of my followers, as a believer in me, as a Christian. Listen, count on it. The world's going to hate you. There you are just going against the grain. I want us to go to one more passage. Matthew, come back to um well I already read it. Matthew chapter 10 What the Lord's saying here, as I said, is if you follow me, you are going against the grain of the world. And the world does not like people to go against its grain. You ever see these little bumper stickers coexist and tolerance and all that? If you pay close attention, the people that holler the loudest for tolerance are generally the most intolerant people in the world They want what they mean by tolerance is you do things my way. You fit in with us. You follow where we're going. And when we follow the Lord Jesus Christ, and I I accept Jesus as my Savior and I make a decision, you know, I don't want to just be a believer. I want to be a disciple. The Lord did so much for me. He suffered hell for me. I feel in my heart I just owe him my life. And I want to dedicate my life to Jesus Christ. I want to live for him. Mark it down. You and I are going against the grain. And it is going to, the world uh does not like people to go against this grain. Now come back here to Matthew chapter 5, the Beatitude He's addressing this fact that I tried to highlight just now that believers or followers of the Lord Jesus are going to be persecuted. To some degree, it's going to happen. Um and uh but what we see here is this persecution when I as a Christian and the world turns on me and starts saying hateful things about me, tries to silence me, tries to get me to conform uh to their values and their principles and tries to get me to conform to their priorities and I I say, no, I can't. I'm a follower of Jesus Christ. I'm dedicated to Jesus Christ. I can't fit in. That world is going to bring pressure on us. That world is going to just turn the heat up and try and get us to conform. How many folks here have ever experienced that to any degree you felt unsafe people try and press you to go along with their position? Sure And want to see things the way they see things and agree with them and and uh endorse what they uh are doing or not doing. We face that. Now what I see here is When I'm a Christian, I make that decision, and that pressure comes down and that heat's turned up. How I respond to that persecution is a huge indicator as to the level of my Christian character. In other words, what I am as a Christian is revealed in the fires of persecution. In fact, that's true across the board. It's in the difficult times, it's when things are going tough. That the strength of my faith is revealed. When I'm being tested, you know, and when it's hard, that's when my commitment to Jesus Christ is revealed. Anybody can follow Jesus when everybody's following Jesus, right? Anybody can do right when everybody's doing right. But brother, when everyone else is doing wrong, and down in my heart I'm committed to Jesus Christ, and I'm going to do right regardless of what anybody else is doing. Brother, there's that's when it's revealed Uh one that we used to tell us when we were young went to Bible college and it's true. The easiest place to backslide in the world is in Bible college. You can just go along with the flow, you can just do whatever, because everybody else is doing the same. They all have to or they get booted. But brother, when you get out of there and then you've got to take a stand and you say, no, this is wrong, this is right, I'm going to do right because I love the Lord, and all that pressure comes down on suddenly my Christian character is revealed. And how strong of a Christian I am. Opposition, ridicule, mistreatment, injustice, when all that's thrown at me and all that's heaped on me Then is when is revealed, all right, what kind of Christian am I? If I give in and go along, well my Christian character wasn't much at all If I say, well, you know, and I start compromising with that, with the world, my Christian character isn't much at all. So what the Lord's saying here, he says, listen, when this happens You need to determine that you're not going to give in to it, you're not going to compromise, you're just going to rejoice. And you're going to be strong in the Lord. You're going to go forward. So he's revealing to us here what our Christian character is Uh and actually this whole beatitudes, I've been saying this, these are not a plan of salvation. This isn't how we get saved. This is describing a person that is a mature, uh, spirit-filled, godly Christian. These are the attitudes. That a mature godly spiritual Christian has. And so what does a mature godly spiritual Christian do when he's persecuted? Well he says here, rejoice, be exceeding glad. Now, I want to look at three characteristics. I'm going to kind of stray from the exact text here, but um we're going to come to that uh in the next message. Um and this message tonight's only about an hour and a half, so we'll be out of here in a little while. But um uh but let me show three things about a spirit-filled mature Christian. Here's my first thought. Number one, they are unique in this world. In other words, a person Who is filled with the Spirit, a godly Christian, they are unlike anyone else in the world. They are a unique breed. The world cannot produce a godly, Christ-like Christian. The world can't work that up. Oh, the world can be religious. We've seen that. The world can take on even the name Baptist, you know, and put on a show and go through the motions. They can do that. But this whole world can't produce a Christ-like, godly, spirit-filled Christian. They can't do it. That is a unique creature on this planet. Christians, you have to think this through maybe a little bit with me. I thought of this driving down the road about a month ago and I jotted it down while I was driving. And uh only caused a few wrecks, so it don't worry. Nobody was killed. A Christian can be worldly And by that I mean a Christian can live by the world's values. A Christian can live by the world's standards, live by the world's priorities. Christians have the world's prior A Christian can do that, but the world can never be godly. You see what I'm saying? I, as a Christian, I can be worldly. But the unsaved person out in the world, they can never be spirit-filled, godly Christian. They can be very religious, they might be nice, but they cannot be a spirit-filled godly Christian. Now, here's where the problem comes in. When we have Christians or ministries, churches, whatever, and they think, well, you know, the world's out there, we're supposed to reach the world, we're supposed to impact the world with the gospel. If I sell out for Christ and am distinct and separated unto the Lord, the world heats opposition. They throw persecution at me. They hate me. and all that stuff. But I want the world to like me because I want to have an impact on them. And so what happens is you have Christians in ministries and leaders that say, tell you what, We're going to become a little bit worldly to pull some of that heat off of us. And we'll just conform to the world a little bit so that they will like us and they'll accept us and we can relate to each other And so you have the Christian becoming worldly. But here's the problem with that. A Christian can never be as good at being worldly as the world can. They're always going to be better at it than we are because we're different species, so to speak. We're a born of a father in heaven. We have a new nature. And so we can try and be worldly, but the chastisement of God's going to come in there, and the Lord's going to work, and we're never going to be as good at being worldly as the world is. And so we never have that real impact. We'll never impress the world by imitating the world Well, if I'm like them and then the persecution will back off and maybe we can uh you know build some bridges there or whatever and and don't misunderstand what I'm saying, we want to reach people. But when I try to impress the world with my worldliness I'm not impressing them because they're always better at it than I'm going to be. Um and I c whenever I try to impact the world with compromise. The world's better at compromising than any Christian will ever be because and when I do I get chastened for it. And so we're never going to have that. The world can never be uh so I I can never be as worldly as they are. And the world can never be as godly. The world can't be godly and Christ-like. I can be worldly to some degree, but not as much as them, and I'm not going to impress them. But they cannot be what I am as a Christian or what God intends for me. Am I making any sense? They can't be that And so I'm submitting to you, our impact on this world and our influence for the gospel is not going to be us emulating the world and And trying to imitate the world and impress them with that, say, hey, we're like you guys. That's not where the impact's going to be. We're going to be over here and we're going to say, hey, come and we can be like Christ, something the world can't do for you And that's where the impact is. And the world, and man, the persecution comes on and all that. But you know, they look and see and they say, that guy has something that this world can't give me. That guy is the kind of person that this world could never produce. It's because it's something God does. And so what he's saying here is when that when that persecution comes, don't give in to it. And we're going to look at some other things, how not to respond. uh later on. But uh he says, Don't give in to it, don't get discouraged, don't try and and turn the heat off, you know, or turn the heat down. Brother, you just rejoice and go on and be strong because You can imitate them, but they can never be what you are. And so the Christian, what I'm trying to say is this, the Christian is unique And the Christian that's described in the Beatitudes here is someone unlike anyone this world is ever going to produce. You take a beatitude Christian, spirit-filled, godly, mature Christian, and you take the best the world has to offer, they're going to fall short as far as uh as far as character and all that is concerned. And so, my first statement is this: they're unique in the world. The world doesn't react this way to persecution. They say, well, we need a compromise. We need to work alone. Here's my second statement Spirit-filled mature Christian that's being described here, they're under the control and dominion of Jesus Christ. This guy's not living for himself. He's living for the Lord Jesus Christ. Look what it says there in verse 11. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute and say all manner of evil against you falsely. For my sake. And we kept emphasizing that before. For my sake. You're not living for your sake. You're not living for yourself. You're living for me. And a godly, mature, Christ-like Christian lives his life totally yielded to Jesus Christ. Every aspect of my life. Matthew 6. 33. But seek ye First, the kingdom of God and his righteousness, all these things will be added unto you. Uh I got I got a list of verses here. Luke 9, he says, uh You've got to deny yourself. Take up your cross and follow me. Matthew 16, 24, Luke 9, 23 and 24. Luke 14 He all goes through there and he's saying, listen, you've got to deny yourself. You've got to die to self. I am your Lord. I'm what you're living for. I am the focus of your life. And so my entire life is to be lived for the Lord Jesus Christ. And when that's true Brother, I'm going against the grain. And there's going to be opposition, and they're going to do that. But um you say, why would anybody want to sell out to Jesus Christ? Why would anybody want to abandon all their dreams and all their plans And just put it all on the cross, all on the altar, and say, Lord, here I am. Whatever you want, wherever you direct me, I'm yours totally. Why would a person do that? Romans 12, 1 and 2. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. He says, because God's been merciful to us in saving us from hell, Jesus Christ died on the cross, suffered hell for us. And because he did that, then we present our bodies a living sacrifice. And I don't know that I was even conscious of this when I first got saved, but When I first trusted Christ, I mean God had just changed my life so much, and some of you all can say the same thing. To me, and it's not like I thought this through and said, all right, I'm gonna, it was just I need to live for him You know what I'm saying? It wasn't like, well, it was just that was the natural thing. I need to live for Christ. Greek, look what he did for me. And that's the response. So number one, the Christian described here that reacts this way to persecution, they're very unique. The world can't produce people like this. Two, they're living under the control of Jesus Christ. I mean they are sold out, they've yielded their will to his. They're going to live for God. That's where their heart is. That's where focus. I like this last one. I'll give it to you real quick. They're focused on eternity. Look at verse 12 with me. He says re and and here it is, they're speaking all uh They're speaking evil against you falsely. They're persecuting you. They're reviling you. All these awful things they're doing to us And look what he says we're supposed to do. He doesn't just say rejoice, and he doesn't just say be glad. What's he say? Be exceedingly glad. We're going to look at that in a future message. And that is like overflowing. That is like giddy, the little kid on Sunday morning got ex or Christmas morning. He got everything like he is just, yes, ah, this is great I mean this guy is stirred up. Man, why? But he says that's what you're supposed to do when people say hateful things about you. Yes, that's exactly what I wanted you. You know, I'm not sure exactly that way, but um says, wow, how in the world does somebody do that? Do you ever read Fox's Book of Mortars or any of these books about these guys? And they're being burned at the stake and they're chopping their fingers off, you know, and they're pulling their tongue out and they're doing these horrendous things, poking their eyes And what are the guys doing? You read about it. What are they doing? Thank you, Lord. This is praise. I mean, they're rejoicing. It's like, what in the world's wrong with you guys Paul and Silas in prison. They're in stocks. They're bloody beat up. And what are they doing? They're singing praises to God. The other disciples get beaten, threaten, they walk out, and they rejoice that they were counted worthy to suffer. How in the world Now look, I think there's a key here. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. Look at this. For great is your reward in where? Heaven. He doesn't say earth. And here's my point. These guys that rejoice in persecution when people are so hateful to them and so violent against them, and they're just rejoicing. And it's like they're glad, they're happy. You know why? Because their focus isn't on earth, their focus is on eternity They're not living for here and now. They're living for eternity. They're focused on eternity. Turn with me, and this stirred my heart. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter 11 Now, Hebrews eleven, the hall of faith, we call it that. And uh man, these amazing people, some of them Very less than perfect, but nevertheless they have great faith. And you get to the end of this list in verse number 35 And he goes down through here and he lists a whole slew of unnamed people who suffered greatly because of their faith. Look at verse 35. He says, women receive their dead, raised to life. Okay, that's good. And others, I circled that. He goes to a whole list of great victories and defeats and how they escaped hardships But then he's in the middle of verse 35 he says, and others were what? Tortured, good, grief. Not accepting deliverance. They would rather be tortured than abandon their faith and displease the Lord. That they might obtain a better resurrection. Where's their focus? What are they looking at? The second coming, they're looking for the Lord. I'm going to be resurrected. I th there's something better than this coming. But read on. And others had a trial of cruel mockings and scourgings. And I'm telling you, it's hard for us to comprehend the violence of that. statement. Yea, moreover, of bonds and imprisonment, they were stoned, they were solm asunder. They were tempted, and that doesn't mean they were tempted to sin. It means they put them to the test and really tried their faith. They were slain with the sword. They wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins, being destitute, afflicted, tormented. I mean, they were run out of their homes, they were run out of society. They were treated horrendously. They were persecuted And notice what it says, verse 38, of whom the world was not worthy. They wandered in deserts and in mountains and in dens and caves of the earth. And these all having obtained a good report through faith received not the promise. In other words, they didn't get to where they were going for. Now my question is, how could these guys do that How could they not accept deliverance? How would they go through all of that rather than deny their faith and rather than displease the Lord? I think you come back. To verse number 10 of the same chapter, and there's the answer. Come back. Hebrews 11:10. This is speaking of Abraham, but it sets the tone for the whole list of folks here. It says, for he looked for a city which hath foundation whose builder and maker is God. What's he looking for? He's looking for the new Jerusalem. He's looking, Abraham was focused on that city God had for him. He was focused on eternity. Come down to verse number 13. These all died in faith, not having received the promise, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them. In other words, they saw it was still coming, that eternal home with the Lord. That's far off, that's still coming. Look what it says. And were persuaded of them and embraced them and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims where? On the earth. They said, we're just passing through here. You persecute us and do all this violence and say all these hateful things. Hey, fine. Praise the Lord. Not a problem. I'm just passing through. You do what you want. Brother, there's one day coming. I'm going to be forever with the Lord. And that's where their focus was. If this earth was all we had and I got persecuted on this earth, that would be terrible. This is all I had was this life and I I I got spent it in jail like Bunyan and some of these guys spent the whole thing in jail That would be horrendous failure. But this life is not what it is. This is just a temporary going through. Our focus is eternity. And so the world, do what you want to me. You can't stop me. I'm going to live forever there. That's where my home is. Read on. For they verse 14, for they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country. And truly, look at this If they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, this whole world, they might have had opportunity to return. But now they desire a what? A better country, that is a heavenly. Therefore God's not ashamed to call be called their God, for he hath prepared for them a city The whole reason these guys could go through all of this is that they saw themselves just pilgrims and strangers. I'm just going through here. Do what you want. Have your shot. Listen, I'm going to heaven. That's where I'm going to be forever. And that, I believe, is the key, and that shows our character. How I respond to how this world treats me indicates in a lot of ways where my heart is. If it's devastating to me and I'm all worried the world doesn't love me and all this, that tells me my heart's here. But if my heart is in heaven And my focus and my anticipation is all in glory. Hey, you can take away from me whatever you want, you know? You can do whatever you want. It doesn't matter. Man, I've got a home in heaven. That's where I'm going. And that was how they could endure this, I believe, and how they could go through this. So our persecution how indicates to us, and how we respond to it, indicates to us Very much what our Christian character is. And if it devastates us and we compromise and we're all worried about what the world thinks of me Well then my I've got some growing to do. I've got a my faith needs to be developed a little more. I need to get my eyes off this world and get it uh on the Lord Jesus Christ I remember I lived in Philly, grew up outside Philly. I was going to school at Tennessee Temple down in Chattanooga. It's a 14-hour drive down there, something like that. And I had this old beat up Grand Torino, I think it was. What was it? Grand Ann some Ford some guy gave it to me down there. I didn't have any ch on uh any car, and so he gave me this thing, and I mean it was shot when he gave it to me. So we're going home for Christmas. Yes, I got a car. Yay! And we drive up there and barely made it. And tires were bald. It was just shot. So we had Christmas, didn't think anything uh you know, I was young and dumb, and um so we headed back. We didn't we're coming out uh the turnpike across to Harrisburg up to Carlisle. We get on eighty one, we're gonna run down eighty one all the way down to Tennessee. to Knoxville. We get on there, we're just a little ways on to 81 and the thing starts overheating. I mean steam everywhere. It's raining, it's night, it's horrendous. So what are we going to do? I don't know. I'm not a mechanic. We're looking at alongside the interstate cars and trucks flying by. And he says, well, we'll just loose the cap so there's no pressure And uh we can run down there like that. And we ran that whole way. We were stopping all the time, checking that, putting water in, checking it, putting water in. It took us about 20 hours to go a 14-hour trip. And um You know what? I could care less. As long as I got to where I was going. That's all that mattered. I could stop a hundred times. It could be freezing cold in that thing because there's no heat and all this stuff. We could endure all of that because we weren't staying there. We're going somewhere. We I got a home down there. I got a you know a nice a beautiful dormitory room and uh it's great. I can't wait to get there. You see what I'm saying? And so we can endure all these hardships and this pain and all this difficulty of this car barely making it Because our hearts and minds weren't in that car, weren't where we were at. It was where we were going. That's the way it is here on earth. This isn't where we're staying, and people give us a hard time. It overheats and We got opposition, all that. But hey, we're going to heaven. And that's where we're going to be forever. And so let the world do what it wants. Hey, we're just passing through. That's all they got. Think about this. This world is the closest thing to heaven that unsaved people are ever going to see. Think about that. This is the best they're ever going to have it unless they get saved. They die and go to hell. So let 'em do what they want We'll try and win them. We'll try and be a witness, share of Christ. Hopefully many get saved. But we're not going to let opposition and persecution keep us from focusing on Christ and living for the Lord. Does that help? Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless us now. Help us Lord to be faithful. Lord, I know this old world gives us a hard time. I'm glad, Lord, we don't face what our brothers and sisters overseas face and some of the difficulty there and in some of the inner cities. Lord, we ask you to give them special grace. So Lord, help us not to faint when uh somebody's unkind or somebody says something hateful or tries to mess us up. Lord, just help us stay faithful, I pray. I wonder with our heads bound, eyes closed, say, Preacher, that's in my heart. I just want to be faithful to God no matter what. I want to be separated unto the Lord and be his completely. Is there any like that uplifted hand you say, Preacher, that's how I feel Of course, what kind of Christian wouldn't feel that way? So Father help us I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.