Back. Tonight as you as you open up the book, remember we told you last night that Elimelech and Naomi and Melon and Kileon packed up to leave the city of Bethlehem, the tri tribe of Judah, the nation of Israel, to go to Moab just for bread. They got up and they left, and if Bible scholars are right, they were there for five years and Elimelech dies. Now, if you can't feel sorry for Naomi when her husband dies, you have a spiritual problem If you can't feel sorry for a widow, you can't be brokenhearted. You've got the spiritual problem here, not her. But now we can understand her being brokenhearted, can't we? We can understand her weeping, we can understand her even asking questions, we can understand that when she lost her husband, as we mentioned last night She makes a decision to stay in Moab. There it seems to be no plan to ever go back to the nation of Israel. She's comfortable where she is in this nation that the uh worships false gods, and her two sons get married. They married Orpah, Ruth, and Orpa. Melon married Ruth and Killion married Orpah. And after ten years of marriage with no grandchildren, remember In the Old Testament God showed his blessing on a union by giving them children most of the time, but in this case, uh no children, no grandchildren for Naomi, no children for Melon or Kilion, then her two sons died. We can feel sorry for Naomi, can't we? How can you not be brokenhearted about this woman who has lost her husband? She's been left, as the Bible words it, she's been left of her husband and her two sons She's lost everything. We can understand her being sad. We can understand her being brokenhearted. We can understand her weeping. We can understand her being a complete emotional wreck But there's one thing that we can't understand, we can't forgive, and we can't just wipe away. She didn't just become sad, she became bitter. We've seen it happen in our churches, have we not? You've seen some people come to this church right here. They show up, they get saved, someone Leads them to the Lord, going out soul winning, and they begin to grow in the Lord. They walk in every Sunday morning, every Sunday night, and Wednesday night. They smile, they meet everybody, they joke with people, they're having a wonderful time. But then, after a few months, you start to notice a little edge You start to notice them being a little bit different. You start to notice them being more off by themselves, less friendly, less smiley, less all of those kinds of things. Then you watch them as they start missing on Wednesday nights And when you ask them why they're missing on Wednesday nights, you get a very short and a very curt answer. Then you ask them why they start missing Sundays, and you still get another short. And another curt answer. Then they stop coming at all, and when you run into 'em at the shop and save, or bump into them at the Walmart, or the Walgreens, or wherever you're going and you say hi to them and you smile, you're lucky to get any kind of grunt before she tells you how she doesn't want anybody to talk to her about that church anymore. We watched her go from being pleasant to being bitter. Naomi goes from being the pleasant one, that's what her name means, but then she changes her name To Mara. Mara means the bitter one. She's gone from being pleasant to being bitter. And by the way, this woman never even confesses a sin when she says that. When you read what she says, because it sounds like she say I have the sinner bitterness. But she is blaming God even when she says that. Why call you me Naomi? Call me Mara, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me In Naomi's own autobiography, in her head, there is one villain, and that is Jehovah God. She talks about him in such a negative way. And I understand people want to reach out and try to give her credit for telling Ruth about the Lord. And again, she may have told Ruth about the Lord. But the woman that comes back from Moab to Jerusal to Judah is not telling anybody anything positive about the Lord. Oh, he's afflicted me. I went out full. He brought me home empty. The Almighty had testified against me. He's dealt very bitterly with me. He's taken everything from me It's always God's fault. As I told you last night, she's never thankful, she's never grateful, she doesn't pray in the entire book, and she doesn't praise God in the entire book If you're inclined to really like Naomi and to read all the little devotional books that are about her, again, I'm going to ask you to defend verse 15 of chapter 1. But by the time we're finished with this message tonight You may see some things about Naomi that you haven't seen before. And you're going to see how this woman, this pleasant one, this woman named Naomi goes from being pleasant to bitter. I want to preach a message tonight titled This, How to Go From Pleasant to Bitter. in five easy steps. Every single one of us in this auditorium, no matter how long you've been saved, no matter how faithful you have been, you're still just five steps from going from pleasant to bitter. No this we're not, we're gonna start in verse eight, as Naomi recounts what we said last night, the law of the Levere. We're gonna skip Fruit statement of surrender, because that has nothing to do with Naomi. Look if you will, beginning in verse eight, Naomi said, Unto her two daughters in law, go return Each to her mother's house. The Lord dealt kindly with you as you have dealt with the Lord, with the dead, and with me. The Lord grant you that ye may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband Then she kissed them and they lifted up their voice and wept. As I mentioned last night, she's saying a lot more than just moving back home and getting married. She'll tell you that in a minute And they said unto her, Surely we return with thee unto thy people. And Naomi said, Turn again my daughters, why will you go with me? Are there any more sons in my womb that may be your husbands Turn again, my daughters. Go your way, for I am too old to have an husband. If I should say I have hope. If I should have a husband also tonight. And should also bear sons, would you tarry for them till they were grown? Would you stay for them from having husbands? Nay, my daughters, for it grieveth me much, for your sakes, that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me They lifted up their voice and wept again, and Orpah kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruth clave unto her. And she said, Behold, thy sister-in-law is gone back unto her people. Notice she doesn't say, and unto her mother's house, and unto a husband that she's going to find in Moab, that's not what she says. She's gone back to her people and unto her gods. Return thou after thy sister-in-law. Skip down to verse 18. After Ruth's incredible statement of surrender, finally Naomi's going to stop trying to get her to leave. When she saw that she was steadfastly minded to go with her, then she left speaking unto her. So they two went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came to pass, when they were changed come to Bethlehem, that all the city was moved about them, and they said, Is this Naomi? An an entire parade for Naomi. The whole city is there to welcome her back. Don't you think whatever's going on in your life that she'd feel a little bit better if the whole city recognized you still fifteen years later and came out to see you But anyway, not Naomi. And she said unto them, Call me not Naomi, call me Mara, for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. I went out full and the Lord has brought me home again empty. Why then call you many omen? Seeing the Lord hath testified against me, and the Almighty hath afflicted me So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitus, her daughter-in-law with her, which returned out of the country of Moab, and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning. of harv uh barley harvest. Let's have a word of prayer as we look at how to go from pleasant to bitter in just five easy steps. Dear Lord Hemenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Again, Lord, we thank you for our time together. in your house. We thank you for what you've done already in people's hearts. And Lord, we ask that you bless this message. Father, I realize this message is a hard message. And Father, I pray that your people will take it and apply it to their hearts as you would have them to do. Father, do what only you can do in our presence tonight. In Jesus' name, amen. If you want to go from pleasant to bitter, the first thing you have to do, number one, if you're taking notes, is focus on your lack. Focus on your lack. As I told you last night, there is no evidence anywhere in Scripture that Naomi and Elimelech and Malon and Kileon consulted the Lord, went to a priest, offered a sacrifice, set out a fleece or anything like that. They were leaving a place where there was no bread. Now, they probably said, our sons need bread. We're going to go someplace The only thing in this book, as you read the entire first chapter, that Naomi is consumed with is the lack of bread or the presence of bread. No bread in Bethlehem. Bread in Moab. When she hears there's bread back in Bethlehem, then she goes back to Bethlehem. She's completely focused on what she's missing. Now we're all sometimes guilty of that. You'll have someone that comes to the church and said, Well, nobody's even nice to me there anymore. So-and-so hasn't shaken my hand in weeks Oh, I gave such and such an idea and they didn't even listen to me. Or they'll blame the pastor. That pastor, he talks to everybody else, and he's friendly with everybody else. For some reason he's decided that I'm not his favorite anymore and he doesn't talk to me. They'll blame God. When Aunt Cindy was sick I asked the Lord to heal her and God didn't do it. And it's all God's fault that I don't have a sister, my aunt anymore. He'll go down through the list and we become completely focused on what we're missing. We're focused on our lack There's examples of it all through the Word of God, but let me give you a personal example. We have one daughter. We lost a son in 1995. We have one daughter by the name of charity Charity is absolutely the d apple of her daddy's eye. She's had me wrapped around her little finger since I first saw her little finger, if you know what I mean She is absolutely my uh the the the the the the the the one person in the entire world that controls me. Even my wife, I tell my wife what to do, my daughter tells me what to do And don't tell my wife I said I'd tell her what to do, please, if you would, keep me out of that doghouse. I'm just joking about that anyway. We have one little girl. We raised her up in church every night. She did her homeschool in the back of our trailer or the back of our truck or in the back of our van. She did her homeschool in the back of somewhere all the time She was in church every single time the doors were open, even when no one else was in church. She was in church when the the uh uh the pastor was sick. She was still in church. She's been in she was in church an average of four hundred times for most of her uh most of her life. She grew up in church. She finally left and went away to Bible college. She got great grades in Bible college. She graduated with honor with a degree in elementary education. Then She got married. I was the type of guy that was going to be the evil father-in-law. That was my plan. I was going to be the father-in-law from all the jokes, if you know what I'm saying Like the young man that shows up at a man's house to pick up his daughter and go out on a date. He walks in, the dad is sitting in his easy chair, he says, Sit down, son. The young man sits down. The dad says, Son, I want you to understand. I want my daughter back. at eleven. Not eleven oh five, not eleven oh one. I want her back at eleven. I don't want a phone call from you at ten forty five telling me that you broke And you're going to be late. I don't want you to tell me that something came up and you got stuck in traffic. I want her here at eleven o'clock. There will be no excuses. for her being a second after eleven o'clock. Do you understand me, son? The young man, scared to death, said, Yes, sir, I do. The dad then reached down and picked up a shotgun shell that was right beside of his chair. He grabbed it and he threw it very hard at the young man's head. The young man, being young, moved out of the way. The shotgun shell went past him And he looked at the older man and he said, Sir, what was that for? He said, Son, they go a lot faster at eleven oh one That's the kind of father-in-law I was going to be. I mean, I had it all planned out. I used to jokingly say, my daughter is four years old, she's down in kids' club, and in about 40 years she's going to start dating. But no, she had to go and find Micah. Now, I have to admit this about Micah. If I could sit down with an iPad and an app and design a son-in-law, I would design Micah. Except for two things I would design a son-in-law that could sing. Last January, my son-in-law called my wife on her birthday, and he sang what I can only assume was Happy Birthday If I didn't know the words, I would not know what he was singing. He didn't have anything even close to the tune. It was absolutely horrible. I wanted to plug my ears, but he sang, Happy Birthday. I would, if I were designing a son-in-law, I'd design one that could sing. I would also design one that didn't eat like a child My son-in-law eats like a child. Do you know what his favorite nighttime snack is? Dry Cheerios. You think about that for just a second. You go to a restaurant on Sunday afternoon. You got there, you sat down, and next to you is a family with seven kids At the end of the table with the family with seven kids, there is a high chair. In that high chair is their 14-month-old child And you wait for it because it's Sunday afternoon, it takes a long time, and finally food, you've been waiting for your food forever, and finally that thirteen or fourteen month-old starts to get a little restless. It happens because they're young. She starts to cry. Everybody in the restaurant can hear. People are looking over at them. And so that mom reaches down in the diaper bag, does she not? And she picks out a little Tupperware about this big around with a they almost always have a fuchsia or pink colored lid, maybe even blue, but those are the two colors you always see. And she opens that thing up And she sets something on top of that high chair tray, and that child stops crying and starts picking it up. Do you know what she set on that high chair tray? Dry cherry yos. That's what my son-in-law eats Hamburgers with nothing on 'em, uh gr uh chicken nuggets and cheese br a and pizza. That's about all the guy eats. I'll tell you some things though. It's not just what he eats, it's what he doesn't eat. He doesn't eat vegetables. Now, some of you would say a hearty amen, myself included, to not eating vegetables. I still want someone to set me down and explain How someone looked on the ground and saw something growing out of the ground and said, hmm, let's eat that broccoli right there. And then someone else looked and said, Hmm, let's not eat that grass. How did they make that decision No one can explain it to me. When did green beans become a thing, but I can't eat daffodils. You know what I'm saying? But they decided which ones I'm supposed to eat and which ones I'm not. He doesn't eat vegetables. I'm with him on that. He doesn't eat fruit, bananas, apples, oranges. I took him to Trinidad with me and gave him a mango right off of the tree. He almost threw up. But whether you can agree with the fact that he doesn't like vegetables and he doesn't like uh fruit, you might be a little bit amazed at this one. My son-in-law doesn't like Chocolate. Not at all. Not milk chocolate, not dark chocolate, not white chocolate. He doesn't even like Arisi's peanut butter cup. I have some serious questions about that, I have to be honest. She married this young man there expecting our first grandson in June, and I'm not the least bit excited about that. But the fact is she teaches in a school, he's an assistant pastor, they work together in this youth group, and if you looked and get with any objective uh criteria, you would have to say that by God's grace and with his help My wife and I did a pretty decent job raising charity. We don't take any credit for it. The Lord gets it. That's the only one we ever had. And we'll go to some churches and I have it counted, so please don't think I'm talking about anybody in this room. You see this family come walking in with twelve or thirteen kids and the littlest ones are being led around by the oldest ones. The the the the the smaller children are wearing dirty clothes and they have messed up And they're wearing dirty diapers and they walk in and it's obvious that the parents don't even know where they are. And it's an easy thing for us, my wife and I both, to look and say, why did he only give us one And he gave them so many. You start focusing on your lack, that's step one toward bitterness. We find it happening in the Word of God, don't we? Remember when Lazarus died and Jesus shows up? And Martha, four days later, Martha comes out and says, she could have said, wow The Son of God is here. She could have said, Wow, the Messiah is here. The miracle worker is here. She could have said any of those things. But the only thing she focused on was what she was missing. And so she said to the Savior's face, Lord. If thou hadst been here, my brother would not have died. You start focusing on your lack. You're well on your way to bitterness. Jeremiah is sitting in a prison just for preaching the Word of God. The Book of Lamentations, he says in chapter three, he starts going through all the things that he's suffering through. He says, You've made my bones brittle. You've made my skin thin. He said, You put a target on my heart and shot arrows in my heart. And then he caps it off by saying this one. Think about how graphic this is. Thou hast broken out all my teeth. With gravel stones. Picturing Almighty God holding Jeremiah down, filling his mouth up with rocks, and making him chew till he spit out all his bloody teeth It's an easy thing to start focusing on what you're missing. To start focusing on the person that doesn't shake your hand, the person that doesn't smile at you, the person that doesn't compliment you when you do something at the church The person that doesn't walk up and hug your neck, the person that seems just a little bit aloof, it's an easy thing The truth of the matter is, all of us are susceptible to focusing on our lack, aren't we? That's step one. First thing you see about Naomi is they're focused There's a famine in the land, and they're focused on the fact that they have no bread. She's focused on her lack. But secondly, you've got to forget the Lord Once again, as I mentioned, there's no passage that indicates that that Naomi is going to is praying, that Naomi is seeking God's will, that Naomi is asking for God to bless what they're going to do. No, none of those things. Naomi and Elimelech just leave. No mention. The only mentions that you get of uh from Naomi about the Lord are those that we talked about, the whole bless your heart kind of things. Lord bless you as you go back and worship a false God. Please understand this. God's not going to bless that whether you say Lord bless you or not. Naomi's never talking about the Lord. She never praises him. She never praises See, Christian, as long as we stop and remember, when we start getting just a little bit bitter, when we start looking around and seeing what I'm missing, and I start being a little upset that God hasn't given me what He's given some other people. If I'll stop at that moment and remember the Lord, it'll change everything. If I look and say, I have no bread, I can say, but wait a minute, he delivers bread. He dropped manna out of heaven. He can certainly meet that need. If you stop and remember the Lord and remember that even if someone wasn't nice to you, you still have a friend that shaken Closer than any brother, you still have the Holy Spirit living inside of you. Even if someone doesn't uh isn't as friendly as they ought to be. The fact is you still have him, and if you remember him, that'll stop bitterness in its track every time. We find examples of that, don't we? There's Jeremiah sitting in that prison. He's in prison for preaching God's word exactly like God told him to preach it. And he said all of that about putting a target on my heart and shooting arrows in my heart. He broke it has broken out all my teeth with gravel stones. But then all of a sudden, it's as if Jeremiah has a complete reset. He says Therefore, these things call out of my mind. Therefore have I hope. What? You just talk about your bones being brittle. You just talk about the Lord Putting you in travail. You just talk about the Lord making you spit your teeth out while you chew up rocks. Now you're talking about hope all of a sudden These things call out of my mind, therefore have I hope. It is of the Lord's mercies that we're not consumed. For his compassions fail not. They are new every morning. And then he says this: great It's thy faithfulness. No matter how much you want to focus on your life, if you'll stop and remember the Lord, you'll stop bitterness right there in its tracks. A great example of that is found in the book of Psalms. It's a psalm, it's not by David. I forgot for just a moment who it was by. I'll have to turn to it to tell you. It's a psalm of Asaph. Listen to this in Psalm 73. Asaph said this Behold, these are the ungodly who prosper in the world. They increase in riches. Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and have washed my hands in innocency. For all the day long have I uh have I been plagued and chastened every morning If I say I will speak thus, behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me. Until I went into the sanctuary of God. Then understood I their end. Here he is sitting there saying how how well everybody's doing. I've done all this for the Lord and I've gotten nothing out of it. They're getting richer and richer by the moment. It's just terrible. I'm going to start complaining. I'm going to start being offended. I'm going to start offending others. And then he said, But wait a minute. When I focused on the Lord, it changed everything. Number one, you want to go from pleasant to bitter? Step one is to focus on your lack. You get consumed by what you don't have. See, the content person doesn't have everything he wants. And the bitter person doesn't have everything they want. But the content person focuses on what he has. The bitter person focuses on what he lacks. Focus on your life. Number two, forget the Lord. Now here's the one. Here's the one that once you cross this path, you're on your way down. You've got to follow your own logic. Now let's examine Elimelech and Naomi. Let's look, if you will, at the syllogism here. I'll add one extra step to the three-step syllogism. Number one, we don't have bread Number two, we need bread. Number three, they have bread in Moab. Therefore, we should go to Moab You want to follow your logic. How many times have I heard something like this? Well, Brother Harper, we're leaving the church My husband has got a promotion. He's going to be the vice president of this company. And so we're moving to such and such a town in some place far far away from here. And you'll ask him a question like this. Well, have you found a church there yet? No, we can't find a church there. We've been checking. We've decided we're just going to go Online. Now understand. If you're at home because you're sick, you under I'm not criticizing you at all. If you're at home because you got off work and It's 715 and you've logged on to watch the message. I'm not talking about you. But if you just decided you'd rather stay at home than get dressed and come to church, remember the Bible doesn't say Not forsaking the watching online of yourselves together as the manner of some is, not forsaking the assembling of yourselves together, as the manner of some is. You can train to be a good Christian at home by watching online, or at least that's what you've been told. Did you ever notice that when a military takes someone to train them, they don't do it uh on distance learning? They have them, they want them there If we're going to be onward Christian soldiers, we need to be in the house of the Lord every time we can. So what happens? The church is an hour and a half away. You take the job because You're going to get more money, and number two, you need more money, so therefore, we have an opportunity to make more money, we're going to take it. Isn't that the logic? Doesn't it make good sense And after one or two times of driving an hour and a half to Sunday school and church, now you stop going altogether, you watch online, and before long you just keep you just give up watching online, don't you? The simple truth is, logic, watch me carefully, is the opposite of faith. So, Brother Hart, are you telling us not to be logical? No, no. I'm saying be biblically logical. I'm saying logic itself is the opposite of faith. Logic looks down at an empty plate. And says, there's no bread there. I've got to go get some bread. Faith looks down at an empty plate and sees bread. Faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Faith sees bread where there is no bread It's that mustard seed of faith that moves mountains. Remember Matthew 17 and verse 20, because of your unbelief, for I say unto you, if you have faith as a grain of a mustard seed, you shall say to this mountain, remove hence to yonder place, and it shall uh uh it shall move It shall move and uh nothing shall be impossible unto you. Or Luke chapter 17 and verse 6. If you have faith, it's a grain of a mustard. Say, You shall say to this sycamore tree, be thou plucked up by the roof, be thou planted in the midst of the seed, and it should obey you, and nothing shall be impossible unto you Without faith, it is impossible to please God. Free that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him. See, logic would have told the shepherd boy not to go down into the valley and face a giant. Logic would have said to Jer uh to Joshua, walking around the city is not going to knock the walls down. Logic would have said to Daniel, the easiest thing to do is to just go thirty days without praying. Logic would have said to Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, if you don't bow, they're going to throw you in a fiery furnace, so you better go ahead and bow. The logical thing to do would have been to bow every single time. Faith is what we're supposed to have. I love that old poem. I heard it over thirty years ago, and the first time I heard it, it it was emblazoned in my mind. It's called Doubt and Faith, and it goes like this Doubt sees the obstacles Faith sees the way. Doubt sees the darkest night. Faith sees the day. Doubt fears to take a step, while faith soars on high. And doubt questions Who believes? And faith answers. I. Understand logic Will destroy us. Our logic is based upon what is best for us, not what is right with him. They're going to follow their logic. Their logic is flawless. Nalon and Kileon are sickly and wasting away. They can't go without bread. Understand, not everybody left Judah. Not everybody left Bethlehem. Not everybody left when the famine came in. They stayed and they formed Gideon's army and defeated the Midianites. They did it because they stayed right there and they had faith to believe that the God who has always provided will provide one more time. Naomi doesn't come back until you can see bread She never had the substance of things hoped for and the evidence of things not seen. Follow your logic. You'll never follow faith. Logic tells a young man, you could never be a missionary. Logic tells a young lady, oh, you could never serve the Lord. Logic tells you that the more you come to church, the less overtime you can work, and God's not going to take care of you Logic tells the person if you put money in an offering plate, that's less money than you have to spend. Go down through the list. You put your logic above faith, you'll fail every single time, and you're well on your way to bitterness. Notice, number one, you have to focus on your lack. Number two, you have to forget the Lord. Number three, you've got to follow your own logic. But number four, You're going to feel left out. I'm sorry, you're going to face the loss. I said the wrong one first. You're going to face the loss. She has lost her husband. She has lost her two sons She's lost it all. Immediately she draws the conclusion that so many backslidden, bitter people have drawn that if they lose something, it's God's fault. If they get something, they earned it Oh, the Almighty hath afflicted me. The Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me. The Lord has testified against me. I went out full and he brought me home empty. Notice how God is the bad guy. She never even uh asked herself the question that maybe God is trying to get her attention. See, the Lord does some pretty incredible things, some backbreaking, heartbreaking things to get people's attention, doesn't he? Wasn't it a fellow by the name of Samson that they took out they took hot pokers and put out his eyes and took him down to Gaza and bound him with feathers of brass just to get his attention? Wasn't there a fellow by the name of Jonah who spent three days and three nights in the belly of a great fish that God had prepared to swallow him up? Wasn't it a fellow by the name of Peter that the instant he denied the Lord the third time, God told the rooster to crow? Isn't it a fellow by the name of Thomas? You want to talk about a person we mentioned him earlier in the week. You want to talk about a person that seemingly has a good reason to be bitter, it's Thomas You miss that Sunday and the Lord shows up. What does the Lord do in front of everybody? He says, Thomas, you want to stick your hands, your fingers in the nail prints? Want to thrust your hand into the side where the so the spear went? If Thomas were like most of us And Jesus did that in front of Peter and James and John and Andrew and Philip and Bartholomew. He would have said something like this, well, he didn't have to do that in front of everybody. The Lord does some things to get our attention, doesn't he? Can I remind you of this? That until Samson's eyes were put out And he was bound with feathers of brass and taken back to Gaza? Was this one here? He said, Are you going to make me let me die after I killed a thousand Philistines with a jawbone? But once his eyes were put out, watch me carefully. Samson saw God better Once his eyes were gone, than he ever did when he had vision. It's there standing between those two middle pillars, he looks towards the heavens and said, Oh, Lord God Remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes. Let me die with the Philistines, is what he said It's in the belly of that great fish that Jonah says, I will lift up mine eyes unto thy holy temple. I will pay that that I have vowed. God put Jonah in that great fish's belly and God put Samson, had Samson's eyes put out, and had him bound in pet fetters of brass and got his attention. When the rooster crowed when Peter denied the third time, you know what the Bible says? And the Lord looked And Peter went out and wept bitterly. Peter's never the same after that. It's Thomas Standing there when the Lord says, Do you want to stick your fingers in the nail, Prince Thomas? Remember what Thomas did? He fell at his feet and he cried and said, My Lord and my God God has used some pretty drastic things to get our attention. Once we've gotten bitter, we decide that that's just God being bitter. God being evil to us, God beating us over the head as a mean uh creator. But no, what did he say? Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth Naomi says it's all God's fault. She never at one time, not for one moment, takes any of the blame on herself She never says I shouldn't have left in the first place. I should have prayed before I left. I shouldn't have been so focused on what I was missing. I should have stayed right here where I could worship Jehovah maybe go without bread for a day or two or even a week or two, but still be right here where I can serve him. No, she doesn't do that. It's all God's fault. He's done the afflicting. He's testified against her He's been bitter toward her. He brought her home empty. You gotta face the loss Christian, God will continue even once you've gotten bitter, He's going to continue to try to get your attention Notice, number one, you've got to focus on your lack. Number two, you're going to forget the Lord. Number three, you're going to follow your logic. Number four, you're going to face the loss. But then lastly, you're going to feel left out. Your Bible's probably still open to Ruth. We're going to go back to chapter 4. Then we know what's happened in the intervening times. Naomi has finally asked. Where Ruth is gleaning and Ruth tells her, and now all of a sudden Boaz has been entreated to be the kinsman to buy back all that was the Limelex and all that was Malon's and all that was Kileon's Oh, we read about it last night. Now, Naomi has a son-in-law, sort of. He's not really her son, except through the laws of the nation of Israel. He's married her daughter-in-law. Now watch what happens, please. You're in chapter 4. Notice, after Boaz has announced that he's going to marry Ruth the Moabitus. Let's read verse ten. Moreover, Ruth the Moabitus, the wife of Malon, have I purchased to be my wife to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance? Let the name of the judge be not cut off from among his brethren, and from the gate of this place, he are witnesses this day. And all the people That were in the gate. And the elders said, We are witnesses. The Lord make the woman that is come into thine house like Rachel and like Leah, which too did build the house of Israel, and do thou worthily in Ephraim and be famous in Bethlehem. Let thy house be like the house of Fairaz, whom Tamar bare unto Judah, of the seed which the Lord shall give thee of this young woman. So Boaz took Ruth. She was his wife, and when it went in unto her, she the Lord gave her conception, and she bare a son. And the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord, which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. That his name may be famous in Israel, and he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thine own age, for thy daughter-in-law which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath borne him. And Naomi took the child. Laid it in her bosom, grandma, and became nurse into it. Stop right there and look up. I don't know anybody's background in this auditorium, but I feel pretty certain that either somebody's, some of you are like this, or you know people that are. Your daughter comes home And she says, Mom, I'd like you to meet uh you have to meet Billy. You look up on Facebook about Billy You've decided some things about Billy just from his pictures, just from the things he posts, and you follow him on Instagram and X and all those places, and you've come to the conclusion that Billy is lazy He's shiftless and he's not going to take good care of your daughter. You don't like Billy. You try subtle hints to get your daughter to break up with Billy and it's not working. The more you try, the more she falls in love with Billy. Finally, she brings him home to meet you, and you realize that every single fear that you had is grounded. You understand that this guy is not the guy for your little baby girl However, all of your griping and complaining, it does no good at all. And she marries Billy. When you call up and Billy answers the phone, you don't say, may I speak to Cindy, you say, May I speak to my daughter. And every now and then, Billy will call you Mom. You absolutely hate it when he calls you mom. You don't want him to call you mom. You don't even want him to be married to your daughter, but you're stuck with this thing now You continue to gripe to your husband about it, and every now and then you make little snide remarks about believing to your daughter When he calls up to your house when your daughter is there, he says, Is my wife there? And you think that's the worst thing in the world you've ever heard in your life. But then the phone rings. Oh, it's been a few months. You've had a few conversations now. It's been now a a few months since you found out the news and Billy calls up and says Mom, your teeth crit just a little bit. And then Billy says, We're on the way to the hospital. Cindy's in labor. You get all dressed and get ready to go. You get to the hospital and you walk into the room, and there's your daughter. And there stands that low-down, dirty, good-for-nothing, shiftless, halfway dishonest guy standing there, holding a baby wrapped in a receiving blanket. And he looks at you, and for the first time he doesn't say, Mom. He says, Grandma? Your heart already melts. He says, meet your grandson. He hands that little baby to you. And aren't babies just the smartest people in the world? They know exactly how to just get right inside there, don't they? You're holding that baby in your arms, and for the first time Your son-in-law isn't lazy anymore. He's not shiftless. Maybe you judged him wrong. For that just few moments, it might not last for more than an hour But for that hour, everything is right in the world. That's what just happened to Naomi. For that one hour, you're thanking the Lord for everything that He's given to you For that one hour you forget everything. We have Naomi standing there. The women are excited. Oh, we gave you Boaz, redeemed everything. Your daughter-in-law is better than seven sons. Then they hand that baby to Naomi. And she holds him and becomes nurse to it. And then look at the next verse. And Naomi said, Bless the Lord, the great God. I went out full, he brought me home empty, and now he has filled me back up. He's replaced my sons with a son-in-law named Boaz, who's going to restore everything that my husband ever had. The God that had afflicted me has now given me a grandson He's now restored my old age. He's been a nourisher of my life. She says, Dear Lord, thank you so much for everything that you've done. Thank you for being so gracious. Lord, I'm sorry I was so bitter. Lord, please forgive me. That is Not what she says. Do you notice as Naomi is holding that baby what the next verse says? And the women. Naomi doesn't even thank God for her grandson. She can't praise him when he has filled her back up He can't sh she can't praise him when he pours out his blessings on her, restores her husband through Boaz, restores her sons. her sons through Ruth and gives her that grandson that she never had. Even at that moment, she is still so bitter she can't praise God and she can't thank him If you're a grandmother right now, you're not liking Naomi very much. What I'm trying to tell you is this. Once you get so bitter that you feel you're left out, no matter what God does for you, you'll never thank Him for it. The sad thing is, you and I both know people like that. The even sadder thing is There are people in this auditorium that you are already focusing on your lack. And if you don't come back to God and you don't start remembering Him and you start you stuck don't start uh uh putting your focus on him instead of all the things that you're missing. If you don't stop and say, Thank you for all the things I have, instead of complaining about what you're missing, you're gonna end up keeping on going down that path of bitterness until you're so bitter you're just like Naomi. She couldn't even thank him as she's holding her grandson. The women gave him a name, Obed. The women praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, you've got a son uh a son, uh uh uh I'm sorry, uh a redeemer like Boaz. Praise the Lord, you've got a daughter-in-law like Ruth. The men at the gate are rejoicing. Oh, may she be like Tamar. Twice in this book, all the people of the town rejoice for Naomi. Neither time does she rejoice. When everybody shows up and says, Is this Naomi? By the way, for those of you mad at me for saying that she's bitter, I'm not the one that said she was bitter. She did. She changed her name. Wouldn't it be a great thing if we did that? You have a couple comes to the church, they're here visiting for three or four months, Bill and Cindy, they're sitting on the second row Bill and Cindy finally come forward to join the church and Pastor says, Well, we're so excited to have Bill and Cindy join the church. And Bill says, No, so Pastor, we've changed our name My name is now Disgruntled Member, and my wife's name is She Who Splits Churches. And Pastor says, All in favor say aye, and everybody goes, What? She changed her name to bitter, not me. What I'm trying to tell you is this. This woman has gone so far down the path of bitterness that no matter what God does No matter what God gives her, no matter how God blesses her, she still won't thank him. She still won't praise him. She doesn't even utter his name. Every one of us is susceptible to that. If you're in your seat right now and you're focused on Somebody who hasn't said hi to you in a few weeks. You're focused on the fact that you cleaned the church and nobody announced it from the pulpit. You're focused on the fact that what you someone you thought was your friend now has another friend. You're focused on your lack, you gotta stop it right now. It ends up where you don't want to go. You can always stop it. By just remembering the Lord. Wouldn't it have been one of those fairy tale endings, like it is for Ruth, by the way. Wouldn't it have been a fairy tale ending? If the last words out of Naomi's mouth were, Thank you, Lord. But she's so bitter She just feels left out, even holding her first grandson. To have every head bowed and every eye closed, no one looking around. It's a scary thing to go down the path of bitterness. One of the problems is, I'm sure, that this woman Naomi that was so pleasant when she left. I don't know that she ever planned to be bitter. I think if it asked her if she was bitter, she would say no. It creeps in. It creeps in like a cancer in our souls. And every one of us is susceptible to it How many would say tonight, Brother Harper, right now I have to admit, no one I have to confess, no one in this room is looking but me. Brother Harper, I can think of some people toward whom I am bitter right now. Lord convicted my heart about it tonight. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? Thank you. I see your hands. Thank you, but put your hands down. Now how many would say, Brother Harper, I'm not bitter? I mean, I don't believe I am. But I am a little focused on my lack. I am looking around at what I don't have And I want to remember the Lord and help have him help me to be content. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? Thank you. Every one of us needs to pray that God will guard our hearts and help us from those five easy steps. Just a moment we're going to have a word of prayer and then we're going to stand. We're going to ask you to step out of your seat if you raised your hand. The reason I asked two questions tonight, I usually only ask one. I don't want someone to feel self-conscious. Not that you should feel self-conscious at the altar, but I don't want anybody sitting the pew saying, Oh, I guess so and so is bitter. Because it's often the most bitter that don't move. You do what the Lord's laid on your heart tonight. Don't let anything stop you. Dear Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you for our time in your word. Father, we thank you for the cautionary tale of Naomi. The wonderful tale of surrender of Ruth. Oh Father, help us. Help me not to take those steps. Guard my heart, Lord. Help me to be content. Help me be focused on what I have. What you've given me, how good you are, even when I go through the valley. Father, I pray that you'll bless this time of invitation. Help your people as they step out of their seats. In Jesus' name. With your head still bowed and eyes still closed, let's stand all over the earth.