Right, how about that? And um uh and then uh forty states and twenty seven countries The number one sermon downloaded 39 times. Anyone want to take a guess? How in the world could you possibly know? James Smith catched the COVID. He did that on Wednesday night when I was gone. 39 times out on Ben DeWitt Road. I don't know what that's about there, but That's where he lives. And then a whole slow others, Brother Matt Treesice got in on that. Uh so uh uh let's see, the number one state Not w not New Jersey again. West Virginia. Tell you something's going on in West Virginia. New Jersey was the second one, 41. And then a whole slew of others. Then the number one country was United Kingdom and New Zealand. There was a couple in here. Angola. That's in, is that East Africa? Where's Angola at? Somewhere in Africa. There is actually seven sermons into Ang Angola and then Switzerland, South Africa, Kazakhstan, several in Kazakhstan, Uganda. Um, Japan, Martinique, that's one of the little islands down there. I'm hoping they call me and ask me to come down and preach for them down there. Oman, Saudi Arabia, Singapore, St. Martin, again another one. So uh I don't know if you guys appreciate it, but that stirs my heart. Just our little church up here, going out all over the world. It's an amazing thing 1 Samuel chapter number, 2 Samuel, I'm sorry, chapter number 1. And I'm going to read, I'm not going to read the whole chapter like I did last week. I'm just going to read the first 12 verses. The Bible says, now it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites. And David had abode two days in Ziglag. Now remember, Ziglag was the little town he was hiding in from King Saul when he went back over with the Philistines to get away from Saul. The Amalekites came in while he was away, devastated, kidnapped his family, stole all his stuff. David comes back, prays, God says, go get him, you'll recover everything. He goes, They slaughtered the Amalekites, brings all his stuff back. Verse 2. And it came to pass on the third day that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul with his clothes rent, earth and earth upon his head. And it was so that when he came to David, that he fell to the earth and did obeisance. What does it mean that he did obese? Anybody want to take a shot? What does that mean? He worship. It's uh it's a form of worship. It means to it's not means he's worshiping as God, but he's bowing before him. He's he's showing r incredible respect, uh reverence to him. He's he's it means to fall prostrate. And David said unto him, verse 3, Whence comest thou? From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. And David said unto him, How went the matter? I pray thee, tell me. Now you remember, Israel and the Philistines were at war right now. They had They had uh uh thing uh uh things that escalated and war broke out between Israel. So he says, how tell I pray thee, tell me. And he answered that the people are fled from the battle And many of the people also are fallen and dead. Now look at this. And Saul and Jonathan, his son, are dead also. So Israel was devastated. The Philistines just slaughtered him. And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan, his son, be dead? And the young man that told him said, as I happened by chance upon Mount Gilboa, behold, Saul leaned upon his spear. And lo, the chariots and horsemen followed hard after him. And when he looked behind him, he saw me and called unto me, and I answered, Here am I. And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I answered him, I am an Amalekite. And he said unto me again, Stand, I pray thee upon me and slay me, for anguish has come upon me, because my life is yet whole in me. So I stood upon him and slow him, because I was sure he could not live, after that he was fallen. And I took the crown that was upon his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them hither unto my Lord Then David took hold on his clothes and rent them, and likewise all the men that were with him, and they mourned and wept and fasted until even for Saul and for Jonathan his son And for the people of the Lord and for the house of Israel, because they were fallen by the sword. Started this last week. How are the mighty fallen? Let's pray and we'll pick up where we ended last week. Father, I ask you to bless now. our time in your word, our study of the life of David. I ask that you would help us learn from these experiences and these events that are recorded in your word for us. Help us to grow in our faith, our commitment to you. I ask, Lord, with again tonight with all my heart, you fill me with your Holy Spirit, and that you would be the preacher. I yield my will, present my body anew, that you would speak to us and help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Brother Dave, I'm going to switch over to this mic. There we go. Last week we pointed out, we started, we pointed out that uh David is said to be a man after God's own heart. And what I suggested last week was, am I on, can you hear me? I don't think. Oh, can you hear me? Okay. What? Couldn't hear you, I couldn't hear you. Um I suggested last week that if David is a man after God's own heart Then we ought to see reflected out of the life of David the heart of God, right? He's a man after God's own heart. If David's heartbeat is in tune with God's heartbeat, then there's some things we can learn about God when we observe the life of David. And we saw that in the book of Acts with Peter and John, that the enemies of God, the Pharisees who hated Christ, hated Christianity and the gospel They took note that Peter and John had been with Jesus. There was something about their behavior, there was something about their demeanor, there was something about their countenance maybe, the way they talk, the way they behave, uh that uh they saw Christ reflected in them. Now King Saul was not so much And we pointed out some things about Saul that he said that he Saul said earlier, he says, uh, I've played the fool. And we pointed out different ways that King Saul played the fool. Now I want to look here at this event that we just read. Now this is fascinating to me. I don't know if you're going to get anything out of this tonight, but I sure enjoy studying this. And looking at this in greater detail than I ever had before. And I have two points to the message. We're only going to get to the first one tonight. And it's this, I want us to notice here The messengers report to David. Now, while I was reading through here, I was trying to get the background of what we're reading here. If you'll remember, David had fled to the Philistines to get away from Saul. He shouldn't have done that, but he did. Uh the Philistines, war breaks out between the Philistines and Israel, God's people and the enemies of God's people. And so David is kind of stuck between a rock and a hard place here. Is he going to go with the Philistines? and fight against his own people? Or is uh what's going to happen? Well the Philistines rejected him. They said, no, no, no, you're not going to the battlefield with us. We don't trust you. We get in the middle of the battle, you'll turn on us and become uh and r and uh reconcile yourself to Saul. So they kicked him out. He comes back to his hideout, Zaglai, and the Malachites, while he was gone It's a three-day journey. While he was gone, the Amalekites came in, who's an enemy of both Israel and the Philistines. By the way, everybody hated the Amalekites. They were just hateful And so they come in and they uh kidnap David's family, they steal all his belongings, and they burn the city down. Uh pretty much their standard operating procedure for Amalekites It's just what they do. And so David comes back, they're devastated. He prays, as I said Uh God sends them after the Amalekites. He regains everything. He gets his family back. They're all good and safe. He gets all his possessions back. Every last detail that they stole. He gets it all back So they get back here, they're cleaning up the city, no doubt, they're rebuilding and and just get getting straightened out after this uh tragic, this terrible thing that happened, and this fella shows up And he comes walking into the city, finds David, and he gives this account here. Now, apparently the battle between the Philistines And the Israelites under the leadership of King Saul was very, very brief. In fact, that battle that took place while David's back here re cleaning up Zaglag, that battle that takes place, the best I can tell, lasted one day. Now come with me if you would back to 1 Samuel chapter 28, and this is where I get that it lasted one day. This is when King Saul, God's not answering King Saul's prayers. God says, I'm done with you, you've been rebellious, your heart is hard. and no prayers answered. So Saul goes to a medium, uh, what would you call it? Uh uh a medium or um fortune teller. type woman, which God strongly forbids, by the way, God still forbids that stuff. And uh he goes there and lo and behold, whether however this plays out Samuel, who has already died, the prophet, she conjures him up somehow, or she's fooling him and acting whatever that is. That's who's talking here. And look here in verse number 18. Because thou observest not the voice of the Lord, this is 1 Samuel 28, because thou observest not the voice of the Lord. nor executest his fierce wrath upon upon Amalek. Therefore has the Lord done this thing unto thee this day. That's why you're not getting your prayers answered. Now look at verse 19 Moreover, the Lord will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines. Now look at this next statement. And tomorrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me. So wherever Samuel was, that's where Saul was going. And the Lord also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines. So he's told here that tomorrow, 24 hours from now, you're going to be dead. You're going to be dead. So this battle with the Philistines was incredibly brief, which is kind of uncharacteristic because they were just constantly fighting. And yet I tend to think that King Saul, he's out of sorts with God. His people are demoralized. We noticed that before. David is not there. He's his main guy. And so they're just easy. They're easy to be defeated. And so it was a very, very brief battle between Israel and the Philistines. One day. But uh I got thinking about that. Now I want you I don't know how your imagination is. Sometimes I get mine gets carried away But I tried to picture the battlefield. Think about it. They're not using tanks and machine guns. They're using arrows, spears, and swords. So what does that tell you about the type of combat? It's hand to hand. It's up close and personal. And you're having swords, razor-sharp swords being slung around. And you have spears being jabbed, and you have arrows coming down on you. And I don't know about you, but in my mind, I see that battlefield as a bloody Horrific chaotic mess. And when it's all said and done, and the and the it the the battle's dying down, now however big a f field this was, this battlefield was pretty probably pretty big good size. But whatever it is, you have you have dismembered bodies laying around. You have blood everywhere. No doubt there's people who are mortally wounded, moaning and groaning. Perhaps some folks that are trying to get up and make their way back. But whatever it is, it would be the one of the most horrific things you and I would witness, no doubt. It's a horrific place. And so this messenger shows up into Zaglag saying he's come from this battlefield. That he was there. He saw this. It's interesting, I'll just do a little aside here. It's interesting, it's sad, I should say, that when King Saul, God's rejection of King Saul, had a profound impact. Upon the people of Israel. What I'm trying to get at is this. There was a lot of men that died that day on the battlefield that wouldn't have had to, if Saul would have just been right with God. If Saul had just trusted God and obeyed God, a lot of these boys and men would have gone home to their families, but they didn't. And what I take away from that is ungodly leadership has a profound impact on those who are under that leadership. And people who are leaders, and I don't want to I don't want to get political, I don't that's not my intention at all, but I tell you, whoever runs the show is responsible and has a profound impact on people Turn with your me if you would. Keep your place here. Turn with me if you would to Proverbs. We end up in Proverbs so often. But as I was studying this event here and Saul's actions, I thought of Proverbs chapter 29. Way at the back of Proverbs and verse number two. Proverbs twenty-nine and verse two Now he's speaking about authority. King Saul was the God-ordained authority in Israel at that time. Verse 2, and when the righteous are in authority, what do the people do? They rejoice, it's good, they're happy, things are going well. But then he contrasts. But when the wicked beareth role, and I think we could, in many ways, Saul would qualify for that description, wicked, but his attitude at least. When the wicked beareth rule, the people do what? Would you agree with me? There's probably a lot of mourning going on after that battle. A lot of wives, husbands don't come home, a lot of mothers or boys don't come home. Brothers, sisters, brothers, or family don't come home. I tell you, our actions have consequences. And Saul can get so caught up in his bitterness and his anger and his hatred towards King David, he failed to see what he was doing to the people around him. And what it was costing those who followed him and trusted him. And um, I don't know, it just struck me As uh imagine that battlefield and the and the consequences of Saul not having God's blessing, God's presence on his life. It is very it's important That we stay close to the Lord. Now, I want to look at this messenger that shows up here in Zaglag, verse 2. Came to pass on the third day that behold a man came out of the camp from Saul, and then it describes them a little bit, with his clothes rent and the earth upon his head. So I'm going to look at this messenger's report here That he brings back to David back from the battlefield. Then probably next Wednesday, we're going to notice David's response to that report. But I want us to look at this report. First of all, this is the first thing I notice here. This guy is a curious messenger. There's something about this guy that just raises a lot of questions in my mind. Notice if you would, I read verse 2, verse 3 says, and David said to him, Whence comest thou? Where in the world you come from? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped. Now, look at verse 13. We find a little bit more about this fellow. And David said unto him, this is after he gives the report of Saul's and David's death. We'll look at that here in a bit. David said unto the young man that told him, Whence art thou? That's the second time he's asking him, where do you come from? He apparently didn't look like an Israelite. Something about this fella brought questions to David's mind. So he asked him again, whence Whence art thou? And he answered, I am the son of a stranger. That's an interesting statement. We'll look at that. An Amalekite. Now, what do we know about the Amalekites? Yeah, they're terrible people. I talked about them here a few minutes ago, but he says, I'm an Amalekite. These are people that hated Israel. These are people, really, if you study them, they hated everybody but themselves. They were ruthless, violent They had uh, if you'll study a little bit about them, the little we can find out about them, they were absolutely without morals. I mean, godless in every sense of that word. There's a reason God told King Saul previously, wipe these people out. They were extremely dishonest, and their whole world revolved around themselves. They were perhaps the most selfish people you could possibly imagine. So this guy's an Amalekite. Now what do you think, what do you think entered David's mind? When he finds out this guy is an Amalekite, what was his last dealings with the Amalekites? Just three days earlier, this guy's people had pillaged his, his, David's people had kidnapped his family. It's only a miracle of God they didn't kill them all, rape and kill them all. He stole everything. It was God's intervention. He recovered everything. And this guy says, oh yeah, I'm one of those people. So there's just something in my mind, and I think in David's mind, as soon as he sees him, and when he uh engages this guy a little bit, there's questions going up in David's mind. Uh, who in the world are you? He says, I'm a son of a stranger there in verse 13. Now I thought, what does that mean? What does he mean by that? The best I can come up with, one of two thoughts here. There may be others But when he said, I'm a son of a stranger, perhaps he meant that he is an orphan. I don't know who my father is. I don't know who my parents are. They're strangers. They're out there. I don't know. I'm just a poor waf with nowhere to go. I think that he has a motive for coming across that way. We'll see here in a minute. Or the word stranger there is sometimes used to refer to somebody that's unfaithful You get in the book of Proverbs, it talks about the strange woman, the adulteress. And so maybe he's saying Oh, maybe he's saying I'm just an orphan. I don't have any parents. My parents are strange. I don't know who they are. Or maybe he's saying I'm an illegitimate child. I don't know what he means by that, to be honest with you, and smarter people than I do perhaps can figure it out. But I do have a suspicion what he's trying to accomplish. I think he's trying to garner pity from David. I think he's saying that so that David might Be sympathetic towards him. And we'll see why I'll explain here why I think that is the case. But it's kind of strange that this Amalekite of all people would show up and would be concerned about the internal affairs of Israel and who's going to be king of Israel. It just seems Strange that out of the blue this guy shows up. He's got he's got King Saul's crown and King Saul's bracelet And apparently King Saul wore a bracelet on his arm. You know one reason I don't wear bracelets? Because King Saul wore one, and I don't want to be like King Saul But I just think it's a little curious that an Amalekite of all people shows up out of the blue. He's got King Saul's crown. He's got King Saul's uh bracelet here and he comes to David and he's concerned about David uh having this crown There's a lot of things implied in that. One being, apparently, it was known outside of the nation of Israel. That David was going to probably be next in line for King Saul. Why would he show up to David with the previous king's crown? In fact, King Saul knew it. He mentioned that. Jonathan knew that. And now we find out that even apparently, at least some of the Amalekites, suspected that David was next in line. So my first thought is I'm studying this messenger, this Amalekite messenger. We have no name on him. And the first thing I thought, there's a lot of questions about this. This is a curious fella here, that he would show up. Then the next thing I notice on this guy, he has a questionable report Now let's look at this report that he gives to King David. Why in the world he's showing up to King David and with all this we don't know. But here's the report he gives beginning in verse 4. David said, Well, how went the matter? I pray thee tell me. And here's his report. The people are fled from the battle, meaning the Israelites, people of Israel. The people are fled from the battle. Many of the people are fallen and dead. And here's the word. And Saul and Jonathan, his son, are dead. Now, I'm picturing in my imagination, my mind, When he makes that statement, I think this Amalekite fella, his eyes are glued on David's face. He's wanting to see how David responds to this news. This is Saul has been chasing David for a year and a half now, trying to kill him. I mean, every way he could, he had the whole army out of it. This guy knew that. Everybody knew Saul was out after David And he comes to David and he says, Saul and Jonathan are dead. I think he's watching to see how David responds. And David said to the young man that told him, now again. David's asking a lot of questions with this fella. I think there's something in David's mind is not jiving. There's something here And he asked him, he says, well how, first he said, where do you come from? Now he says, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan be dead? How do you know? David's curious. And the young man that told him said, As I happened by chance upon Mount Gilboa, behold, Saul leaned upon his spear. And lo, the chariots and horsemen followed hard after him. And when he looked behind him, he saw me. I was just happened to be there. He saw me and called unto me, and I answered, here am I. And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I answered, I'm an Amalekite. And he, King Saul, said to me again, Stand, I pray thee, upon me, and slay me, for anguish has come upon me, because my life is yet whole in me So I stood upon him and slew him because I was sure that he would not live. He could not live. After that he was fallen And I took the crown that was upon his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and I brought them hither to my Lord. Now how does it sound to you that he anticipates David to respond to that? How is the Samalekite anticipating David to respond to this message he just gave him? Yeah! Oh! That's wonderful! What a guy! You killed my enemy! And you got his brought his crown to me and his brain said, oh, for he's a jolly good fellow. David doesn't respond that way. We'll notice that next week. But I said all that the way I said it because I really believe there's a lot of questions about this guy's account of what happened to King Saul. By the way, David said, how went the matter? Let me back up. I got a little ahead of myself. In verse 4, David asked him, how went the matter? That's the first thing he asks. That implies to me that all the bitterness that Saul had towards David. And all the injustice, that's the big word today, all the injustice that David experienced at the hands of King Saul. David did not allow that to turn him against the office of the king of Israel or the people of Israel. That's an expression of concern on David's part. How went the matter? I sense genuine concern in David's question How went the matter. I tell you, we must never allow the failure of an individual or individuals to sour us Against the office of the church, in the church, pastor, whatever, or the people of the body of Christ I'm telling you, I can't tell you, and I I hate to say it, but I have come across so many people where a pastor failed maybe And the people allowed that, they allowed themselves to get bitter against that, and now they hate pastors. I'm telling you, you talk about prejudice. And this took me a little while to get used to. This was all the way back when I was in Indianapolis, a youth pastor, but I had the title pastor. I was Pastor Dennis. And I'd get out and visit, and it wasn't overwhelming, but it was more than just a few times. I'm a pastor, and people would literally hate me They know nothing about me. I'm a nice guy. They knew nothing about me, but because that title pastor was there They hated my guts. And I've run into it here over the years, not so much anymore, because people are learning what a nice guy I am. But we have to be careful. Somebody says or does something, treat us unjustly or treat us unkindly And then we then we just become bitter at that whole class of people or the church. I ain't never going back to church again. I got burned there. Well, try pastoring for a while So I just look at David and just that one little statement, I can hear the empathy in his voice. How did it go? How did it turn out? David has shown over and over his respect and his compassion for Saul. And now he expresses it again And so, but there's questions. There's a number of questions about this guy's account of what happened. And I don't know if we're going to get to all these tonight or not. I really wanted to. And apparent contradictions. There's three accounts of Saul's death. 1 Samuel chapter 31, I think it is. Chapter 31. We have an account in 1 Chronicles chapter 10 of Saul's death, and now we have this guy's account here. And there are quote-unquote contradictions In Samuel 31 and 1 Chronicles 10, that account and this fellow's account. They don't mesh. And so some have suggested, first of all, the reason for these contradictions in these two accounts. One, they say, well, the Bible's just full of mistakes. Anybody ever tell you, I don't believe the Bible because it's contra it has all kinds of contradictions in it. Anyone ever hear that? If somebody ever says that to you, hand them a Bible and ask them to show you one I've done that a number of times over the years, and I yet have somebody be able to say, uh, right here's one. You know why? Because there aren't any there. So some say, well, it's a contradiction. You know, usually that answer is the result of two things. One, a bias against the Bible, or two, a laziness to actually look at it and see what it says. And so we reject the suggestion that the reason for the two accounts don't line up. We reject the re- the suggestion that the Bible is full of contradictions. That doesn't fit. Another suggestion is that this boy, this Amalekite fellow, that shows up, his story doesn't match the other two accounts, and the reason being is he's filling in details. That the other two accounts don't give us. He's just telling more about what happened than the other two accounts. I have a reason I don't believe that's the case The third suggestion is the Amalekites lying. Anybody want to guess which one I lean towards? And not just because he's a Malachite, although that is a pretty substantial reason to suggest that. I I have several reasons, real quick that I want to give them to you, why I believe This boy's lying. Because there's contradictions here that are irreconcilable. Now we have God's account, God's account of Samuel's demise. Look at chapter 31 of 1 Samuel. Just come back a chapter. Verse 31, verse 1. Now the Philistines fought against Israel. Now this is that brief one-day battle we referenced a minute ago. Now the Philistines fought against Israel, and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines and fell down slain in Mount Gilboah. And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul. Now pay close attention to the details. And upon his sons. And the Philistines slew Jonathan and Abinadab and Melchikah. Saul's sons. And the battle went sore against Saul. And the archers hit him, and he was sore wounded of the archers. Then said Saul unto his armor-bearer, Draw thy sword, thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised, the Philistines, come and thrust me through and abuse me. So they're not just going to kill him. They're going to treat him bad. But his armor-bearer would not. Now that's a question, why would he not? Well look at that For he was sore afraid. Why would he be afraid of that? Therefore Saul took a sword and did what? Fell on it. What did he do? He killed himself. He took the sword, the armored bearer wouldn't kill him, so he took the sword, put it on the ground, and just fell on it. Alright? Verse 6, so Saul died. Is there any ambiguity to that statement? He died. All right. And his three sons and his armor bearer and all his men and all his men that same day together. Now come over if you would to 1 Chronicles chapter 10. This is the other account. Now what I just read is God's account of what happened. It doesn't say somebody said this. It's not somebody else relating to somebody. This is the word of God saying this is what happened. First Chronicles, we have the exact same thing. It is God Saying, this is what happened. Look at 1 Chronicles 10, verse number 1. Now the Philistines fought against Israel. The men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, fell down slain in Mount Goab. Gilboa and the Philistines followed hard after Saul and his sons, and the Philistines slew Jonathan and his brothers And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him, he was wounded of the archers. And Saul said to his armor bearer, Draw thy sword and thrust me through therewith, lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me But his armor bearer would not, for he was sore afraid. And Saul took a sword and fell upon it. Here we have a second account, verbatim. And when his armor bearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise on the sword and died. Question: When did the armor bearer die? We're doing a little CSI here. After Saul was what? Dead. Alright? So the armor bearer is alive when Saul dies. Right? Alright. How many people like CSI stuff? That's what we're doing. So Shaw died and his three sons and all his house died together. And all when all the men of Israel that were in the valley saw that, they fled, and Saul and his sons were dead, and they forsook their cities, fled, and the Philistines came and dwelt in them. Alright, that's God's account. Now let's come back and look at this fellow's account. What he says happened Verse 4 through 10, 2 Samuel 1. Now we just read that. Now let me show you some what I see contradictions between these two accounts. How many folks are still with me? How many people say this would make a great TV series? First of all, in God's account, 1 Samuel 31, 1 Chronicles 10, what we just read, those two accounts. In that account, there's no word about an Amalekite finishing Saul off. It's not there. In God's account, and by the way, again, in 1 Samuel 31, 1 Chronicles 10, it's not somebody else relating to somebody what happened, it's God telling us directly what happened. So it's not somebody's interpretation. There's no account of somebody killing King Saul. He's committed suicide. Very clear. This guy, however, suggests that he killed King Saul. King Saul fell on his sword. He's still alive. He sees him, says, Come and finish me off. There's none of that in in God's account. So that's strange. Number second thing I notice here, in God's account, what was King Saul's motive for taking his life? Did you notice? I tried to highlight it when we went through. Why did King Saul say I he said to his armored bearer, kill me? The armored bearer says, I ain't killing you. Yes. His concern was that the Philistines would not be the ones killing them, and then who knows how they might torture him, what they might do to him. But in the Amalekites' account of this reason for wanting him to kill him, did you notice what he said? What was the reason? The Amalekite says that Saul told him to kill him. It's because my life is still in me. I'm in anguish. I looked up the word anguish, it means I'm suffering. I'm in a lot of pain. Put me out of my misery is basically what the Amalekite says that Saul said But the Scott's account doesn't mention that at all. That he was just wanting to get out of his misery Um so there's a little contradiction there. And then I see a third one. The armor bearer is alive when Saul is dead. When Saul is dead, the honor bearer is still alive. Because when he sees that Saul is dead, then he kills himself. Now the question is, my question was, why did the armor bearer not kill King Saul? When King Saul said, Slay me, they're going to abuse me. Uh quick, kill me before they get me. And he says, I'm not doing it, I'm not doing it. He was afraid This armor bearer is a hardened warrior. He's the king's armor bearer. This guy's not a coward. He's probably had his share of men that he's killed himself. So it's not like some novice guy rookie just showed up and I'm afraid to kill someone. That would be me, probably. Exactly. His fear was not afraid of killing someone. His fear was to touch not God's anointed. There's no doubt about that. And so, and this guy is alive when King Saul finally does die. Now, the Amalekites account is Saul's wallowing around in mis in anguish and he sees this Amalekite and says, hey, come and kill me. You're not going to ever convince me that that's That sh uh armor bearer would allow an Amalekite of all people to kill God's anointed. There's no way in the world if he's not willing to do it. He's not going to let some uncircumcised Amalachite do this. And so it just doesn't mesh. The Amalekites account and David's account just don't mesh. There's another reason What in the world is a young Amalekite doing wandering around on the battlefield in Galboa during the battle? If you read God's account, the battle's still going on when David when Saul kills himself, when he kills himself There's still a battle going on. There's still arrows flying. There's still heads being chopped off. There's still spears being stabbed through people all around. And you read the Samalekites account, he says, Well, I just happened to be there. In fact, he says that. Well, I just happened to be wandering around the hillside of Gilboa, and lo and behold, here's King Saul wallowing in pain. You're back cat you're catching on to what I'm saying. Probably present for the Philistines. That could be, but the Philistines hated them just as much. Right. No, not exactly, but you're you're rumbling around the edges of it. I happened by chance. Now here's the thing that I thought, this Amalekite, he is equally hated by the Philistines and the Israelites. So he may be fighting for the Philistines, as you suggest, but I highly doubt it. Knowing the Philistines, they would have killed him right along with everyone else. Get this down. Everybody hated the Amalekites, they had no allies. And so he says, well, I just happened to be wandering in the middle of a battle, arrows flying all around, and I just happened to see the king there. Oh imagine that. I don't know, there's just a lot of questions. Um I mean you're making me get way ahead of myself, but I have a sinking suspicion this guy showed up after everything was said and done, saw what happened, and he's a very cunning Shrewd fella, and he says, aha. Here is an opportunity. I think that's what happened. Now, you made me do that, so but I gotta go back and give my rest of my contradictions here, because I studied a lot to come up with these. Why would Saul want an Amalekite of all people to take his life? He's no better than the Philistines. And my sixth contradiction I noticed, why did the Amalekite Why did the Amalekite take Saul's crown and Saul's bracelet? Why didn't he go to the Philistines? And say, hey, here's the guy you guys were fighting. I I killed him, and here it is. Why didn't you go to the Fozy? He'd have been a hero, a war hero. Yay, for he's a jolly good. They would have responded that way, probably more so than David, which we see won't respond that way So my point I'm trying to make here is there are so many things about this amalekite account of Saul's demise to David Then so many things that are different than God's clear account of what took place. So I said all that to say this. I'll tell you what my thinking is about this contradiction. The old boy's lying through his teeth He made this up. He is shrewd, he is cunning, and he knows exactly what he's doing. Now, I gotta give you the rest of this because we'll never get through here, but let me real quickly I notice the third thing here. First of all, he was a curious guy to show up out of the blue. Number two, he had a very questionable report about what happened. I think David's very suspicious. And then last of all, he had a cold indifference. This whole account that he gives here, if you'll read it carefully, guess who that account is about? This Amalekite's account to David. About Saul's death. But guess who is, guess who this whole thing revolves around? The Amalekite. So me, I, I was this, I did this, I, me, me, me, me, me. This guy was in love with himself. Self-love, I put this down. Self-love is the nucleus of our sin nature. All other attributes of our sinful fallen nature revolve around our love for self. Our love for ourself energizes all other sins. And this Amalekite, it was all about him. It was his opportunity. Here was an open door for him to gain advancement, at least in his mind, and who knows how David might reward him. And what David would do for him. There was absolutely no concern for the death of King Saul. There was absolutely no concern about how it may impact David. It was all about the Amalekite. And I tell you, there's a real caution for you and I there. We have got to get ourselves out of the center of our lives. Paul says over and over, die to self, die to self, die to self. Jesus said, Jesus says, humble yourself. He that exalteth himself shall be abased. Boy, this guy's going to find out real quick. But he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. And so this Amalekite, I believe he's lying. I believe he saw an opportunity that he could advance himself and lift himself up. He had no concern about who the king was or how it affected anybody He just wanted out for what was him. And if we're not careful, we think that exact same way. By the way, we see an extreme expression of that in our cities right now. That's what this is about. So let's learn to die to self. Surely we'd never get to this extent, but I tell you, that self-love is in the heart of every one of us. We have got to mortify the deeds of the flesh. We have got to die to self. Father, I ask you to help this account here of this fella. You'd help us grow and humble ourselves and die to sell. And Lord, just walk with you and be honest in our life and serve you in Jesus' name Heads bowed, eyes closed, how many say, preacher? I know what you're talking about, that self-seed. I know what you're talking about, that nucleus, the self-love. Anybody here know what I'm talking about? And we gotta die to self. We've got to put that down, mortify that. And God helps us, but we gotta make the decision. Father, bless the invitation I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand again.