Bible's there. Appreciate so much all the music around here, the choir and children, the specials, congregational singing is tremendous. And praise the Lord for it. It's good to have uh Pastor Grant's mother and sisters in for a few days and harass him and and give him a hard time. We're glad for that James chapter four, we're looking at the first couple verses here. The Bible says, From whence comes wars and fightings among you, come they not hence, even of your lusts, that war in your members. Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain, ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because you ask not. I'm entitled this. It's been going, I guess we're in our third installment now on this, but um How to End a War. Let's pray and ask the Lord to bless. Father in heaven, we thank you for the Word of God. I thank you for the book of James Lord, we've been in this for a good bit of time now. I trust, Father, that these messages are helping folks. I ask that you would challenge us tonight. I pray we would be a peaceful people. I pray, Lord, that we would be, as you teach us in your Beatitudes, that we would be peacemakers. And God, you could use us to bring peace to the hearts of people, and we could promote peace in homes and communities. And Lord, you would just use us. I present my body to you anew now. I yield my will to you. I ask with all my heart, Lord, you fill me with your Spirit and speak through me and help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. We pointed out first of all from verse number one the reality of wars. Notice again he says there from whence come wars and fightings among you. He's stating that in such a way that there's obviously wars and fighting among them. It's going on. It's uh part of it. There's fussing. And uh we took an entire message that night to look at the Bible and notice that The history of mankind is a history of war. There's been fightings in homes, in communities, between cities, between nations, between men, between brothers uh since right as soon as sin was introduced um to mankind. So the reality of war, even within the Christian community, within churches Uh there is sometimes fighting and fussing and all these things going. So it's a reality. It's part of the world. It's part of mankind's experience. And then we noted, we began, I believe, last week, on the reasons for wars. Why are they wars? And he tells us here again in verse number one, from whence come wars and fightings among you Where are these coming from? And then he he asked the question, but he does it in such a way he's really making a statement. Come they not hence, even of your lusts, that war in your members. I think he gives us here in these two verses uh two reasons there are wars. We noted last week, as I said, the first one is because uh of the lusts of our flesh And we notice that underlying cause of most war is because of selfishness, because of our sinful nature and our sinful desires, and we looked at that. Now, there's another cause for war, and this is what I want to get to tonight. I believe he gives us a second reason there's wars and fightings among us and and I feel strongly about this one. Of course anything the Bible teaches we don't feel strongly about the but this one strikes home for me First reason uh there's fightings and wars, people can't get along, communities can't get along, nations can't get along. First one is because of the lust of our flesh, we have a sinful nature But there's a second one here we might not think of, and if you would notice verse 2. We read it. In the middle of the verse he says, you fight in war. Alright? Yet ye have not, because ye what? Ask not. So the first reason is the lust of our flesh, our sinful nature. Second one that he points out here is the lack of prayer A lack of prayer. Now we don't might be, we might not think uh of prayer being a factor in peace, but I'm going to show you from the Bible that it is a very important factor. In fact, prayer can end a war. I believe that. Um you can be, you or I could be a great Bible scholar. We can memorize the uh great portions of scripture and we Emphasize, encourage memory very much, scripture memory. You can uh be a great Bible scholar, you can be an expert on the doctrine of Christ. You can be a very gifted leader, maybe within the church, and be able to inspire people and stir their hearts and challenge them. You may have all these gifts, all these abilities, but without prayer, we are powerless. Without prayer, we are we have, as far as any uh long-term influence is concerned, uh we are powerless. Here's the problem. You fight in war. He says, ye fight in war, yet ye have not. So there's obviously something here we're wanting. There's something here we want to have. There's something here we want to be treated in a certain way. We want to possess a certain thing. We want to have a certain relationship. We want certain things to be in place. There's something we want. And we fight and we war to get it. And we can never get it. And that's why war and fighting is such an ongoing thing. Maybe I'm with a co-worker and I can't get along with a co-worker, and I fight with that co-worker and I fuss with that co-worker and we go to war, so to speak And that war never ends. I cannot obtain it. I cannot get what I'm after by fighting and warring. And he says you do not have what you're wanting, that you're fighting for and you're warring for. You don't have it because you Do not ask for it. Here's what I think he's telling us, and this is a source of problem. We are looking for to man to do for us what only God can do for us. And we're expecting from our spouse or from our co-worker or from our pastor or from a church member or we're expecting from someone else, we're looking to them and expecting them to do things for us. that it is impossible for them to do, only God can do that for us, and thus frustration. And then we demand it from them. And then I demand to be treated this way, and I demand to be loved this way. And I demand to be respected this way and I demand to be given this and I demand to have this, that, or the other, and that old sinful nature, that lust of flesh, takes over, and I have to have it, and I'll get it one way or another And God says, no, no, you have not, not because you fight in war. That's the problem. You have not because you ask not. You're not praying. And anytime I speak or teach on prayer, I'll tell you it's one of the most convicting subjects for me personally in the Bible I probably have more books. I should put it this way, maybe I have as many books and sermons on prayer as any other subject in the Christian life in my library. I preach sermons on prayer, but you know, I'm never satisfied with my prayer life. It's one area that is such a challenge. I always think of what John R. I says, and I probably quote this every time I preach on prayer Um I like the reference this quote. He says this, little prayer equals little blessing. I think he put it this way, little prayer equals little power. Much prayer equals much power. No prayer equals no power. I don't know about you, but that challenges me. I tweaked it a little bit for the subject we're on tonight and for this passage of scripture. I put it this way: little prayer produces little peace. Much prayer will produce much peace. No prayer produces no peace. You say, Brother Leatherman, what does prayer have to do with being at peace with someone? What's the connection? I'm glad you asked. If you would, turn with me to Philippians chapter number four Very important passage of scripture, Philippians chapter 4. And I want us to notice the relationship that prayer has with peace. Philippians chapter 4 and verse number 6. Philippians 4, 6. Now if you haven't gotten there yet, just look intelligently at your Bible as if you actually are. And I'll read it and uh we'll get along here. Philippians chapter four. Actually I want to begin reading in verse number four, simply because I like verse four. Rejoice in the Lord always, and again I say rejoice. That's a good verse, isn't it? Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand. Now look at verse 6. All of a sudden the power of God came upon us. Verse number six, look at this. Now pay attention to the wording here and and consider the subject at hand. Prayer And war. The reason there's war is because we ask not. We don't pray. Look what he says. Be careful for nothing. Now that word careful there, you understand, has the idea of being worried, all upset about it. Don't get upset about things Don't be worried about things. You know what verse the Lord's had on my heart and mine for about a month now? And uh I don't know, it just keeps coming back. And uh Mark said a song was on his heart. This verse has been on my heart Be still and know that I am God. Be still and know that I am God. And that's kind of the idea here. Be careful for nothing. But in everything, by what? Prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, don't forget to be grateful. And in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your requests be made known unto God. What's he saying? He's saying, ask for it. What is your request? What is it you have not? What is it you're desiring? What is it you've been fighting and fussing over? What is it you're wanting? Don't get worried. Don't get worked up about it. Pray about it. Now look what the result is, verse 7. And the what? Peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Do you see the correlation between prayerlessness and fussing? I'm wanting something, I'm desiring something in my life, maybe in my in a relationship or in a work setting or in a church setting or a ministry setting. There's something I'm wanting, there's something I'm desiring, I'm requesting. And I can't get it, and I'm fussing and fighting over it, and I'm demanding it, and I'm hollering, and I'm yelling, and I'm being stubborn, and all of that And I can't ever get it. And the Lord says, the reason is you're not asking for it. And he says here, if you'll let your request be made known with thanksgiving, be grateful. The peace of God, he says, and the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep Shall settle your heart, shall keep it, bring it down, so it's all not so worked up, and you're all not so fired up and at war and in combat. And that peace of God will keep your heart and your minds through Christ Jesus. You know why there's no peace in the nations of the world? Because there's no peace in the hearts of man. Until there is peace in man's heart, there will never be peace in man's world Um the reason there's no peace in communities like Baltimore, Ferguson, and you could name many, many others. You know there's a whole lot of shooting and killing going on we don't ever hear about. in cities and neighborhoods and communities. The reasons there's no peace in the neighborhoods of our cities and in the streets of our cities is because there's no peace in the hearts of the people who live in the cities. If there is peace in the heart of man, there would be peace in the streets of our cities. The reason there's no peace in many of our homes is because there's no peace in the hearts of the people who live in our homes. See, the problem with war and fighting, the problem with fussing and going on, all this going on, the problem isn't between man and man. That's not the problem. The problem isn't between Brother Kenton and I, if we were fussing and we were fighting. The problem isn't between us. The problem isn't between man and man. The problem is between man and God And when my relationship with God is out of tune, when my relationship with God is out of whack, it's going to directly affect my relationship with the people around me. 1 John teaches that. I say if I'm in fellowship with the Lord, I'll be in fellowship with my man with my neighbor, with a fellow man. So he says here, whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not even of your own lusts? Yeah which war in your members, ye lust and have not. Notice that last part of verse 1. He says, which war in your members. You don't have any peace in your own heart You lust and have not, you kill and desire to have and cannot obtain, you fight in war, yet ye have not because you ask not Prayerlessness. Prayerlessness. I put down three things that prayerlessness is. Prayerlessness, number one, is sin. Be very f very very blunt. If I don't pray, I am sinning against God Say, brother Leatherman, where do you come up with that? I'm glad you asked. Turn with me to 1 Samuel, way back in the Old Testament. 1 Samuel and chapter number 12. Just to help you out, first Samuel is right before Second Samuel. Just trying to help the deacons there a little bit 1 Samuel chapter 12 and uh look with me if you would at verse number 20. Samuel, the great prophet Is addressing the nation of Israel, and they messed up, as they often did over and over and over. They messed up, and um God's dealing with them. And he says in verse 20, and Samuel said unto the people, Fear not Ye have done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. Let me just throw this in here free of charge. Listen, if you mess up, don't drop out. That's what he's telling them there. Listen, you've done all this witness, but don't stop uh don't uh don't stop being faithful. Be in your place, get back there, get back up, confess it, forsake it, get back on your feet and go on. I had a person years ago tell me I can't go to church, I'm backslidden. I said, Well, come on out, you'll fit right in with a lot of people. In fact, the best thing for a backslidden person to do is to go to church. I can't re I s I can't read my Bible, I'm backslidden. If you're backslidden, you better start that might be why you're backslidden Because you're not reading your Bible. So he says, listen, fear not, you've done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following the Lord. Stay in your place, get back up, and go on. Serve the Lord with all your heart. And turn ye not aside, for then should you go after vain. things which cannot profit nor deliver, for they are base. If you drop out, you messed up, and you drop out, you're going to end up worse. For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased the Lord to make you his people. Now look what Look what Samuel says. Well, I have this highlighted, underlined, circled in my Bible. Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. But I will teach you the good in the right way, and only fear the Lord and serve him with truth. You notice what he says there. God forbid, and I've pointed this out many times over the years, but he says, God forbid that I should sin against who? the Lord in ceasing to f uh to pray for you. How many people believe that I ought to pray for my wife? How many people believe preacher ought to pray for his wife? How many people? About a third of the crowd. I guess that's not bad. Of course I ought to pray for my wife Now my thinking is this. If I don't pray for my wife, and I do, but if I don't pray for my wife, my thinking is this. Let me back up How many people would say it would be good for Kathy if Pastor prayed for her? She would benefit from that. That would be good for her. How many people would agree with that? And if I don't pray for her, it looks in my mind, if I did not pray for her, then I would be sinning against her. Because I wouldn't be lifting her up before the Lord and asking God's protection to strengthen her and touch her body and lead her and give her wisdom and the things I pray for her. If I didn't pray for her, it looks like I'd be singing. But Samuel says, no, no, no If I don't pray for you, I'm sinning against God. God has commanded us over and over and over and over and over that we are to pray for one another. We're to pray for our enemies. We're to pray for our brothers and sisters in Christ. We're to pray for those that serve the Sunday school teachers. Joy had a great testimony in the other Sunday school teachers. We're to pray for the preachers and the evangelists that come through. We'll pray for those that uh have different roles. God tells us to pray and pray and pray and pray and pray. And if I don't pray, I'm living in sin. If I am prayerless, I am living in sin. I am disobeying a clear, direct command of God. Now that's putting it very bluntly. It's sinning against God. If I'm not praying for my children, I am sinning against God. If I'm not praying for my parents, I am sinning against God. If I am not, and that Pies to the young people also If I'm not praying for my brother or sister, if I'm not praying for my church folk, if I'm not praying for those that are antagonistic towards me, God has commanded us. Here's the amazing thing. Why would God have to command us to pray? Looks like we would be eager. All the promises were given. Amazing resource that prayer is. Suppose that I was a multimillionaire. Now I'm going to stretch your imagination here. And I said to you, listen, anytime, anytime, I mean it with all my heart, anytime You need something, I don't care what it is to pay off a car, to buy a new house, whatever it is, anytime you need something, I want you to come by. I have what you need. I'll gladly give it to you And you say, I wonder if he means that. And somebody goes up and says, Bo Leatherman, I'd like to buy a new pickup truck. How much is it? Uh $25,000. There you go. So he comes back to church. He won't believe it. Preacher meant that when he said that. Look at my new truck, he paid for it. How many how many times do you think I'd have to get up and command you to come and tell me when you need something? If you knew that would happen? And every week I said, listen, I'm telling you, I'm instructing you, come and see me when you need something. And nobody would do it. I don't think that would happen. But that's the way we are with God. How many people here ever had a prayer answered? You've ever prayed and God answered prayer. How many people say you had more than one prayer answered How many people would say, you know, I probably lost track at some point? How many people here, be careful, how many people here really pray like we should? Why does God have to keep commanding us over and over and over, pray, pray, pray? Why does he set it up in such a way that it's sin if we don't pray? But it is. We're disobeying God. And so one of our problems in getting along and fussing and fighting is we're sitting against God because we're not making it a matter of prayer. So prayer is sin. I put that down. Failure to pray is direct or disobedience to God, and one of the consequences of sin is conflict. Can I throw this out to you? This is a little convicting, but prayerlessness really is an indicator of the fact that I don't love God. Not like I should. I'm not praying. If you've got someone you say you love, but you never talk to them, you never interact with them, you never spend time with them, probably a good indicator that what? You really don't love them as much as you say If I'm not praying to God, that's an indicator that I really don't have as much love for God as maybe what I think I do If I'm not praying for my brothers and sisters in Christ, it's a pretty good indicator I don't love them the way I should. And remember what the greatest commandment is, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy mark uh heart, mind, soul, and body, and the second is like unto it, love thy neighbor as thyself. So prayer is a pretty good indicator as to my love for the Lord and my love for others around me. So Prayerlessness, first of all, is sin. Second of all, I put this down. Prayerlessness, I'll have to explain what I mean by this, but prayerlessness is stifling. Prayer will calm a troubled heart. We saw that in Philippians. I'm worked up about something, I'm anxious about something, I'm careful about something, I'm all worked up. He says, listen, don't be careful for nothing. Don't get all worked up about that. You come and pray. And the peace of God will calm that troubled heart. Prayerlessness rather than calming a troubled heart, if I don't pray about this situation, if I don't pray about this conflict, I don't pray about this need that I'm trying to get. I don't look to the Lord for that, and I'm looking to man for that or my own abilities. Rather than calming the trouble heart, it incites it. And I get more worked up because I cannot get from others what I need to get from God. When I neglect prayer, I cease to grow in my faith. It stifles my spiritual growth. It stifles my spiritual health. It deteriorates. Prayerlessness and backsliding go hand in hand. I never dealt with anyone or worked with someone. They say, well, I'm backslidden. I say, well, how'd you how did that happen? How'd you get in such a backslidden state? Well, I was praying too much. Nobody's ever said that No, a lot of times when somebody's out of whack or they mess up or something, we'll talk and different things going on, they're out of fellowship with the Lord, one of the first things I ask them is, are you reading your Bible and praying every day? And guess what the answer is? 99. 999% of the time. In fact, my experience has been 100%. Are you reading your Bible and praying like you should? Guess what the answer always is? No. Because prayerlessness and backsliding go hand in hand. And I found that backs when I'm in a backsliding state, I'm more prone to getting a fuss. When I'm backslidden, I'm more prone to go at it and fight and pull the dukes up. And prayerlessness And backsliding go hand in hand. I cannot grow spiritually if I do not pray. I cannot develop my faith in God if I do not pray. I cannot be a peacemaker as I'm instructed in the Beatitudes to be. If I do not pray. Prayerlessness stifles me spiritually. It indicates an unhealthy soul. If I'm not praying, it indicates I'm living in the flesh. And it is the lust of the flesh that causes fours and fightings among us. And the last one I put this down. Number one, prayerlessness is sin. Number two, prayerlessness is stifling. And I just put it this way. This is my thinking. Prayerlessness is silly. It is silly for a Christian not to pray. Prayer is the greatest resource we have that is known to man. Prayer can change, alter the course of nations. Prayer can change the heart of a king Prayer can change circumstances. Prayer can stop storms. Prayer can provide rain. Prayer can bring food from nothing. Prayer can alter The Course of Nations. Why in the world would we not pray? Prayer is one of the greatest peacemaking tools that God has given man. Listen. Before a nation goes to nation, you have two nations are going to go to war. My if I was um who would be in charge of the Secretary of State? Well would we be with uh in a w in a relation between nations, I think it's Secretary of State, is that right? Would that be right, Pastor Grant? He's a political expert. Just say yes. Okay, thank you. If I was if I was Secretary of State and there's a war about to break out, I'd go get those two leaders. First of all, I'd go through the Romans road with them and try and lead them to Christ. If I was able to lead them to Christ, then I'd get them praying together. And you know what I think? If we could get people praying together, it would avert a lot of fighting. Praying it. Can you imagine if if Saddam Hussein and who was in charge then, George Bush, they got together, had a little Bible study, got on their knees at an old-fashioned altar in independent fundamental Baptist church and prayed confess their sins, sought the Lord, and ask the Lord's wisdom and direction, I bet you a lot of lives have been saved Uh I've tried over the years if we have somebody in the church, this doesn't happen as much as it used to, but sometimes we have some folks in church and they go at it buttheads Their personalities or whatever are just rrr rrrr and they're just going at it, going at it. You know what I try and do if I can? I try and get those two praying together. And I found that if I can do that, if I can get them on their knees praying together before long, they'll end up being buddies And it's silly not to pray. It can meet my needs, it can solve, it can bring peace, it can change circumstances, it can change me. How foolish it is not to pray. I got up early one morning and I rushed right into the day. I had so much to accomplish, I just didn't have time to pray. Problems just tumbled about me, and heavier came each task. Why doesn't God help me? I wondered. He answered, You didn't ask. I wanted to see joy and beauty, but the day toiled on, gray and bleak. I wondered why God didn't show me, he said, but you didn't seek. I tried to come into God's presence. I used all my keys at the lock. God gently and lovingly chided, My child, you didn't knock. I woke up early this morning and I paused before entering the day. I had so much to accomplish that I had to take time to pray. Before you go to war. Before you get when you feel that getting all worked up and that temper coming up and that you want to say something and you want to do something and you before you do that. Stop and think about it. What's that going to produce? What's going to be the result of this? How's this going to work out? How is this going to solve anything? How much better if I be anxious for nothing, if I just be still and take this holding to the Lord and say, Lord, I'm asking you To fix this. I'm asking you to give me that which I feel I need, the request in my heart. I'm telling you, that would end a lot of wars Because two of the reasons there's war. Number one, the desires of our sinful nature, the lust of the flesh, and the lack of prayer. The lack of prayer. This week could be a peaceful week for us, for every one of us. We'd have peace in our hearts if we learn to cast all our care on the Lord and pray to Him. I like what we've been doing, I keep saying this every Sunday night, I like what we've been doing the last month or so on Sunday nights, and just finishing out the Lord's day as we go into a new week, just finding a place, an old-fashioned altar. And just coming and say, Lord, here I am for this coming week. I want you to direct me. Maybe there's some challenges. You know they're out there Thursday, Tuesday, whenever. Sometime I know I'm going to have to face that. It's going to be tough. Maybe a Sunday night, say, Lord, help me to be prepared for that. Prepare my heart and mind. Fill me with your spirit. Maybe there's someone we're going to be witnessing to and talking to. We know that's coming up. Ask the Lord to give us wisdom now. But let's ask the Lord to do this, to help us to be prayer warriors and not neglect the prayer. You have not because you what? Let me let me do this. We're going to give the invitation. How many folks have something you really, really, really want God to do? And it comes to your mind immediately. As soon as I say that, something comes to mind, something I really want God to do. How many people are like that? You have not because you Ask not. Why don't we come and ask God? Now some of you no doubt already are. Stay at it. But maybe tonight would be a good night after a message like this. Say, Lord, this is it. I'm asking you, please do this for me. I'm asking you, Lord, change my thinking. God, do this, that, whatever it is. Let's bring it to the Lord. Father in heaven, thank you for your challenge and your word. Thank you for the tremendous promises of answered prayer. Tremendous resource we have in coming to your throne boldly and let her inquest be made known unto you. You promised us, Lord. You promise. The peace of God would rule in our hearts, and we want that. We ask your will to be done. Let's stand together with our heads bound and eyes closed. Let's