I was standing in the bathroom, I was shaving, and I just happened to glance at the clock, and it it clicked 6. 14 a. m. On April the thirteenth. And my mother said that that's when I was born at 614 in the the morning. And so this thing hit me. I'm 35 years old. Just just now hit it. So if I'm going to have three score and ten, half my life is gone. I just I just peaked. And now I'm starting down the other side. And I made two decisions. That's as over 32 years ago. I made two decisions that day. Number one That I was not going to be envious or jealous of anybody else uh friends, co-laborers, other preachers, whatever. I was just not ever going to be envious or jealous of what God did for somebody else You know, the Bible says, rejoice with them that rejoice. And the other decision I made was, I'm not going to be intimidated. I don't want to be I don't want to be abrasive, I don't want to be mean spirited, and I don't want to be um I don't want to be a troublemaker, but I'm not going to be intimidated by what anybody thinks, says, or does it And um I still feel that way even 32 and a half later. Amen. And I don't mind being old. I don't like the aches and pains that go with it Uh when I was here last year I was carrying uh they call it a giant size kidney stone. And I was living on uh I was living on the the pain pills because I was gonna finish running my meetings through the late fall before I had anything to dealt with it. And I had it blasted in December. It was a blast And I didn't know what pain was until after they blasted and put a stint in there and then two weeks later pulled that stint out and I thought I was going to die. But uh anyway, so then they turned right around this year and uh had uh uh blockage around the heart, they had to do open heart surgery And I didn't much like that. Especially the recovery from it. But uh anyway, in spite of all that, and I'm not I'm not trying to trying to to pour my or try to get anybody to feel sorry for me. But uh in spite of that, I don't mind being old. I wouldn't be young again if they paid me I'm I'm too close, I'm too near home, you know? And uh boy the thought of having to back up thirty or forty years and Phew, dog. I I do the same thing. Nothing like preaching and all of that. But uh yeah, I'm just uh I'm glad that I'm getting there. The truth of the matter is, you're about as near to the end as I am. Because I believe Jesus is coming pretty quick. Amen. You see, you've been saying that for a long time. I know that, and every day when I get up, I'm a day closer. So he's coming. So anyway, enough of that. I want to speak to you this morning on this thought. How How to resolve uh how to solve problems and resolve conflicts If you're a Christian and you're making any kind of halfway effort at all to live for God, you're gonna you're gonna run into some problems. If you're not a Christian, you're still going to run into problems. It's recorded in the book of Job that a man is born in a trouble as the sparks fly upward And so it's just a part of life. And the thing to remember about problems is it didn't take God by surprise. It takes us by surprise But there isn't anything that comes into our life that doesn't first of all come across the desk of God. And so everything that happens to us is either ordained by God or allowed by God. Satan couldn't touch Job until God allowed it. Amen. That's when nothing comes in. So that teaches me one thing, that helps me understand one thing, and that is this, God's not concerned about the circumstance. He's not worried about it. He's concerned about our response. How we handle it. Amen. Say, well, I I hope I'll uh get enough character to do right. Well if you don't have the character now, you won't do right when the trouble comes. Because all trouble is, is a revealer of character, you know And then not only are we going to have trouble, problems, but we're going to deal with people all our life. And there's going to be there's going to be a problem with conflict. Now I'm sure here in this beautiful location where you are uh in America and as nice as you people are, most of you probably country people and they're the best. You probably never have any conflicts in your church You probably never have anybody that gets out of line or tries to tries to to uh uh back bite the preacher or slip a shiv in his back or whatever. Preacher friend of mine came by just right after I had the quadruple bypass a few months ago and he and he gave me a knife And uh he was sort of a Sammy Allen persuasion. He he loved pocket knife collecting. So he gave me a knife, you know, one of those, what we used to call switch blades And uh he said uh and he had pastored the church for four to three years, and he had had some real problems right at the end. and some people just rose up and and uh uh uh turned against him and and uh so we were talking about that and that's how he's doing it and he's uh uh when we don't make it in the in uh the pasture why we we go into conference work and become evangelists. But uh uh He said, he said, one of my men said, Preacher, uh, as many knives have you given out over the last 30 or 40 years, it's no wonder that you got one back. And he did. He got it in the back. But anyway, uh I have a preacher friend who said this. In fact I just had a preacher the other night uh over in uh Westminster, Maryland that said this. He said, You know, I would really enjoy the ministry if it wasn't for people But the truth of the matter is we wouldn't have much going for us if we didn't have people. It wouldn't be much to do. So so we're gonna we're gonna have we're gonna have problems And we're going to have conflicts. As much as we try to be peacemakers or whatever. And so there's some Bible principles given here in Genesis chapter 16. that help us if we uh can get a hold of them and understand them and then just apply them to our life, how we can solve or uh solve our problems and resolve our conflicts. And uh so I'll read this portion and I'll go back and make a few comments and I'll be finished. And chapter 16, verse 1, now Sarai, Abram's wife, bear him no children, and she had in handmaid an Egyptian whose name was Hagar. And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold, now the Lord hath restrained me from bearing, I pray thee, go in unto my maid, it may be, that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearken to the voice of Sarai. I ought to make a comment there, but I won't. And Sarai, Abram's wife, took Hagar, her maiden Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband, Abram, to be his wife. And he went into Hagar, and she conceived, and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes. And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee. I have given my maiden to thy bosom, and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes. The Lord judged between me and thee. But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thy hand. Do to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she fled from a phase. And the angel of the Lord found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness by the fountain in the way to Shur, and he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid. Interesting, he didn't call her Abram's second wife. Called her Sarai's maid. Well, she had been for ten years. Whence cameest thou, and whither wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai. And the angel of the Lord said unto her, Return to thy mistress and submit thyself unto her hands. Now, by way of introduction, let me say this: When you think you've got a problem, Examine that sits that situation and make sure that what you call a problem is really a problem. Now here's why I say that. It it it must have gone something like this. And I think, if I remember right, Sari is around 80 years old and Abram's about 90 years old. when this happens. And so she she wakes up, she wakes up one morning, she looks at her husband, she says, hey bunny, we got a problem. How's that? Well you know God God promised you we clear back in Genesis 12 and we'll go back and read it again. God that went way over our heads God promised you a son years ago. It's what we call today the Abrahamic covenant And said, you know, here I am. I'm so far up in years and and the old Grey Mary ain't what she used to be. And uh I'm uh I'm not gonna be able to have that baby. So we've got a problem Well then she come up with a she come up with a solution that the world's still paying for today. And so uh the solution that she came up uh with uh was wrong and the the first reason is because she didn't really have a problem She thought she did. Do you know that God knew how old she was? He did. Not only that, but he knew her physical condition. But not only that, he had a plan. And the truth of the matter isn't, I think I preached on chapter 17, it was last year, year before last, uh, God got his way. You know what his plan was? He was going to supernaturally restore to this elderly lady the ability to have a child. is going to be done in a miraculous way. But but that's God. He is the God of the supernatural. Amen. And so what I'm saying is she didn't really ha have a problem. And when you go coming up with a solution to a problem that's not really a problem, you know what you're going to end up with? You end up with a bunch of problems. And that's exactly what happens. So you just make sure that what you call a problem, make sure that it's really a problem. Because if it's not, you're gonna have them. If you get you get a solution to a problem you don't really have. That makes sense? Alright now. So when you when you've determined that you that you definitely have a problem There are some things here in these first eight or nine verses that we see that we ought not to do, and then there are two things that we must do. In order to solve problems and resolve conflicts. We have both situations here. We have problem and we have conflicts. I mean these two gals get into it. After ten years as a servant, one that Sarai uh uh was so pleased with Hagar was a wonderful serv. They picked her up when you know when Abe uh Baxle went down into Egypt, uh that's where they got Hagar. And she'd been with him for ten years and uh uh she had just been a model servant. But I'm going to tell you, they're throwing rolling pins at each other the time we get through about the first five or six verses. You know, my old grandma said that you can't put two women in the same kitchen. And there's definitely some truth to that. Amen. So uh so we have problems here and we have conflicts here. So uh notice the resolution of it. How to solve. First of all, let me say this If you have a problem, don't go to the world for the solution. You see, see here was her solution. Her solution was, honey, the only way I can figure this thing out, uh that God's going to be able to do what he wants to do. That sounds odd. But that's basically what she's saying You're going to have to take a second wife. You're going to he she said, you know, you're going to have to marry Hagar. Now where'd you get the idea that it's all right for a man to have two uh two wives at the same time? Now I'm not I'm not talking about divorce and all that. I that's an issue that your pastor uh instructs you on. Uh but I know one thing No matter what side of the fence you are on any of that stuff, nobody in their right mind that understands the Bible believes that it's right for a man to to have two wives living in the same house with Where'd she get that idea that it was alright? Well they were living in a polygamous society. So all around them There were people, there were men that had multiple wives. And so she she probably said this, because he probably said, well, no, wait a minute. I don't know. And she probably said, honey, it's accepted. Everybody's doing it You know? No. No, huh? You don't find that in the Bible. You listen? Are you listening real good? Huh? No, when you have a problem, don't go to the world for solutions because you'll end up with more problems than you had to start with. Amen. Alright, now here's something else too. When you have a problem, don't blame somebody else. Now, this is going to knock the stripe off your candy. And I don't like to say it, but I do have to be honest. I don't preach for the liberals and the charismatics and all that where I could get by with dishonesty. I have to be honest. Because I only preach the Bible believers You you want to know the source of most of your problems? Is look in the mirror. Well that hurts, doesn't it? Huh? You know some people can never they can never swallow that And they go through their whole life blaming others for their problem. Huh? I had a man work for me in a long ago, this guy and and he's doing a tremendous uh ministry today for for God. And he was a great worker, sacrificial, soul winner, and all that. But he had a problem. He had a temper. He had he had not lost his temper, he still had it. And it would just it would just break out every once in a while. Ben when it didn't, he was as strong as a mule ox to start with. And he's from South Alabama. And uh uh uh he he would uh every once in a while, man, something would happen and he'd fly off the handle and and you just had to get out of his way. I mean he was gonna start throwing boulders at you And so he'd come off, he'd sit down, he'd say, preacher, I'm sorry about that. He said, I'm I'm just thin-skinned. He said, uh, I got that from my dad. Then I called him by name and I said, now wait a minute. You mean to tell me that when you go out to the judgment bar of God at the great at the judgment seat of Christ You you w when he nails your height about this thing about about your temper and you know and all that, your only defense is you got that from your dad. Your dad's not gonna be standing there with you Huh? No. It's not your dad's sin. It's yours. You got that? Huh? See? And so she says, she says to Abram when this thing starts when it starts going south, and it goes south. Because as soon as Abram marries Hagar Her whole attitude changes towards Sarai. Now, now Sarai is despised in Hagar's eyes She's been a faithful, loyal servant for ten years, not now. Not now, why? You know why? Because she in her mind she's as good as Syriai now. The truth of the matter is, in her mind, she's better than Syria. Because she's going to be able to have a baby, and Sarai never did. Huh? And so, boy, there's that conflict. Did you ever see two women fight? I mean fight. Now just play around. I mean fight. Brother, it is absolutely the best entertainment you will ever have in your entire life. 'Cause they they don't know anything all about rules and all that kind of stuff. They just scratch, pull hair, good night, man. I be were we ever round Pinochetti over in the inner city, Philadelphia This guy's got a church right in the King Kensington Fishtown area, which is a pretty rough area of Philly. And uh the in the earlier years when I was I've been going in there since back in the eighties And we could we could step outside the church and we could watch it right there in the s right there in Susquehanna Avenue. And uh a a and and the fellas fighting and all of that. It was interesting 'cause sometimes it was nice fights. Uh but I'll tell you, buddy, the entertainment was when two women got in. And so that's what's going on. I mean the sparks are flying down at Acent now because these two gals had it. So what does Sarai do? She said, you know, that's all your fault. My wrong be upon thee, she said. Don't you get sick and tired of this welfare mentality in America? Now I'm for helping people that need that need, but I'm against helping people uh that uh uh could could fend for themselves. Huh? My wrong be upon thee. No, no, no, that's not the way to solve the problem. By blaming somebody else for it. And then here's something else we don't want to do. And that is this. We don't want to run from the problem. Look what Abram said. Of course Sarai come to Abram and she said In verse 5, she said, My wrong be upon me, I've given my maiden to thy bosom, and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes. The Lord judged between me and thee. Man, she gave him an ultimatum. She said, one of us is going to hit the road because of what you've done Never mind the fact, Sarah, that it was your idea. Don't confuse me with facts. They're your fault. So you go to church. It's either her or me. One of us is getting out of here. So look how godly uh strong leadership uh Abram uh had He said it in verse 6. Abram said unto Sarai, I behold, thy maid is in thy hand, do to her as it pleaseth thee. You know what he said? I'm not getting involved. I'm gonna stay out of it. Huh? And we used to say this, you know, go stick your head in the sand, you know. And that's what he's doing. No You can't duck your responsibility, huh? Hey, you work this thing out. I'm I'm I'm staying out of it You know one of the things, now I'm saying this because I'm because I I I just know. No, I don't know That you don't have conflicts here. But you know one of the things that compounds problems in churches When when there when there is a situation uh comes up and some people take take a stand against the leadership or whatever, if they've been in the church for a long time or been in that community for a long time, they've got friends in that church. church who are on the other side. But they won't take a stand because of Friendship. Am I g am I making it clear enough? You understand what I'm saying? Yeah. And so sometimes people just they don't stand for the truth just because they don't want to hurt Friends, feeling. But you know what? If you're gonna be a real friend to people, you've got to tell them the truth. Now you don't have to be mean-spirited about it, but you've got to tell people the truth. Amen. See the best thing in the world you can do for a friend if he's wrong is to take your Bible and do it in love, but do it and explain to the guy. Amen? Huh? Uh so and I'm sure it's not not here in the mountains uh uh that you wouldn't have this problem, but out on the east coast where I spend a a lot of about seventy percent of my time uh throughout the year. We have a lot of people out there that that uh that we call church hoppers. There'll be a there'll be an issue come up in the church And there'll be people who uh who won't who who won't take a stand for the truth. They just say, well, I I I I just uh I'm I'm gonna go find a church that doesn't have any problems I got one preacher friend in Del Mar, Maryland, he preached a sermon one time entitled Church Hoppers That Ought to Be Flushed It's rather crude, but there is a point well taken there, you know. That uh No, no, no. What I'm saying is What I'm saying is you you can't you can't you can't just just divorce yourself from your responsibility. Abe the truth of the matter is scripturally speaking, Seriai is right. Abram is a leader. Now he forfeited that in allowing Sarai to talk him into doing something he shouldn't have done, but she is right. She said, Hey, you do need to straighten this up because you are the head of the home. So really technically she was right. And Abram is ducking his responsibility Let me tell you some of our problems. If they're not dealt with, they will not go away. You know what they do? They compound. They multiply. They fester. They get worse. Amen. So we can't go stick our head and say it somewhere else. I hope this thing's going to blow over because it doesn't do it. And since you brought this up, let me just say this. How many parents, uh, in raising their kids Overlooked so many things that the children did that were out of line and didn't receive the proper discipline. And their thinking was, well, they'll grow out of it. They grew out of it all right. Yeah. Into something bigger. That's right. You know, something worse. Something that's going to hurt more people. Amen. So he said, Now, well, you you handle this thing. No, no, no, no. No, if it's your responsibility, you handle it. Alright? Now, let me just throw this in. I've got a couple minutes. Let me just throw this thing in. Now, what should we do? Uh when we have a problem or when we have a conflict uh with other people. Notice, well, and then and then when Hagar, uh, here's what she did. She took off and uh she fled. And uh The angel of the Lord found her and said in verse 8, Whence cameest thou? Where are you going? What are you doing out here, girl? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress. So she just flat run from the problems. Once you run from your problems, you'll be running the rest of your life. What should I do? Notice the advice, the counsel that the angel of the Lord gave to Hagar. In verse 9, two things. The angel said unto her, return to thy mistress and submit thyself unto her hands. You know what she said? You know what he said? You go back and face that problem. You go right back there. And you submit to the authority that God put over you. Here's how we say it. We even sing it. Trust and obey. For there's no other way. And so if I've got a problem or if I've got a conflict, uh then the last thing in the world I need to do is to run to some kind of worldly counselor or co- psychological. I better find somebody who knows something about the Bible. Because the Bible is going to give me the right counsel, show me how to handle that problem, how to resolve that conflict. Amen? Amen. And I finished on time. What do you think about that? Huh? Yeah, amen. Yeah. Just don't don't let that out that I finished on time. That was a lot of good help for advice in a brief period of time.