Psalm chapter forty I want to read just for one verse, verse number four, Psalm forty verse four. The Bible says Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside. I've entitled it the message tonight is How to Be a Blessed Man. How to be a Blessed Man. Let's pray together. Father, I ask you to bless now as we finish out this Lord's Day, the final Sunday of 2025. And I pray that you would just speak to our hearts from your word. Lord, I have no doubt I speak for everybody here, everybody in the sound of my voice. That we want to be blessed. We want you to bless us in our lives, our personal walk with you. God, we want you to bless our homes. Lord, our children, we want your blessing on our church. And God, so we ask that tonight that maybe you would show us, your Holy Spirit would show us from this passage. uh how to be blessed, how to make that happen. How we can experience that. Lord, I don't I can't do it of myself. It has to be your Holy Spirit And so, Lord, I yield my will to you, I present my body anew, and I ask with all my heart that you fill me with your Spirit And that you speak through me, Lord, your word, to our hearts in a way that would help us. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We're studying the book of Psalms chapter number 40, and we're down to verse number 4, and this verse number 4 is a transitional verse. He's making a transition from his personal testimony. Verse number one, I waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of a horrible pit And set my feet upon a rock, established my going. Then last week we preached on verse 3. And he put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it in fear and shall trust the Lord. So he's testifying So, what God did for him, he had found himself, and we believe we we uh elaborated on this quite a bit, he found himself in a horrible pit and a miry clay. We don't know what that was, but God got him out of it. God brought him out of it. And like we pointed out last week, God changed his life through that horrible pit, through that miry clay. And so he's testifying to what God has done for him. And by the way, Psalms also tells us, I think it's Psalm 107, I I might not have the reference correct. But it says, Let the redeemed of the Lord say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy. Every one of us ought to testify to God's goodness in our life. God does something for us, we ought to testify. Let it be known. And so that's what David's doing. He's testifying to what God did for him, got him out of that hard place, changed his life, established him, settled him And he's giving that testimony. But now, verse number four, he's making a transition. And now he is going to praise God for his faithfulness. And he's referencing God's blessings. If you would, notice in the last part of verse 3, in the first part of verse 4, there is what I'm calling a hook that hooks these two together. Anybody here when you were young you had a little train set? Remember back in the day you put the Christmas tree up and you put the train set around. Anybody here ever do that when I was little? And um I always strap firecrackers to it and blow up and derail it. It was great. And um But those little train sets, if the one train would back or the one car would back up to the other, there was a little hook there and they would ch and hook together. Anybody know what I'm talking about? There's a little hook here In verse number 3 and verse number 4, that connect these two together. He's testifying God's goodness. Now he's praising God's faithfulness and God's blessings. But notice what the hook is here. He says in verse 3. Uh he put a new song in my mouth, even praising to God. Look at this. And many shall see it and fear, and shall what? Trust in the Lord. Then you get to verse 3, and he says, Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust. So there's a carryover here. He's saying, listen, God did such a work in my heart. People saw it. People saw what God did for me and get me out of this horrible pit. And they put their trust in the Lord because they saw what God did in my life. That's the power of a personal testimony. Just testifying what God did for us. They saw what God did, and they said, we want to trust that Lord. Then verse 3 he says, and blessed is that man. Those that saw what God did in my life, how God delivered me, they put their trust in the Lord. And blessed is that man that puts his trust in the Lord. So there's a carryover here. There's a transition, but they're connected together. Now, here's my question. He says, Blessed is the man that trusteth in the Lord. What does it mean? What does the Bible mean when it refers to a blessed man? What does it mean to be blessed of God? Well, the word blessed itself means has the idea of happiness, joy. But it's more than just a world's version of joy. It's more than just a world's happiness. I believe blessedness is the heavenly version of what we call happiness. Or this way, the purest form of happiness there is. Purest form of happiness. So much of our so much of the world's happiness is dependent on circumstances. Is dependent on situations. I got the presence I want, I'm happy. I didn't get the presence I want, I'm not happy. But the blessedness of God, to be blessed of God, means that I have a deep-seated pure joy or happiness down in my heart and soul that doesn't matter whether I got a present or not. Completely independent of my circumstances, my situation. When the Bible talks about being blessed, it isn't necessarily talking about wealth. We say, boy, God's uh man there they got all that money. God sure blessed them. Do you know sometimes wealth can be a curse? Sometimes wealth, rather than helping someone, destroys them. And there's nothing wrong with wealth in and of itself. We say this all the time. There's men and women throughout scripture who are incredibly wealthy. But blessedness is not is not necessarily wealth, prosperity Blessedness isn't necessarily being very, very prosperous. It isn't necessarily being popular. Oh, she she's just blessed with with beauty. Do you know sometimes beauty can be a curse Can destroy a person, proud. Satan, did you know that Satan was the most beautiful being that God created? And he became proud. The Bible says he was perfect in beauty and became proud. And now I'm telling you, he's the ugliest being that God ever created. So blessedness isn't necessarily popularity. It isn't necessarily wealth or prosperity. Blessedness, being blessed of God, doesn't necessarily mean I'm going to live a life of comfort. It is possible to be greatly blessed of God and yet be in deep poverty. I know this, I've seen it firsthand. I can take you to people. I can take you to people and uh introduce you to people who are living in deep poverty that are some of the happiest people I've ever met in my life. Every every Christian every Christian ought to go on mission trips to third world countries for various reasons. One, to see real Christianity But I tell ya, I've been introduced uh uh numerous times to people who living in un uh in abject poverty and are as happy and blessed of God, rejoicing in the Lord greatly uh to be blessed of God, it's possibly blessed of God and and have and live in poverty. You say, boy, if I just had a bigger house, if I had a nicer car, if I had a bigger income Now the way that then I would, then boy, what a blessing that would be. You know, you can be blessed with the car you have. Say it's a junker, it's a conquer. You can still be blessed. I was in Bible college, my first year of Bible college, I didn't have a car. I sold my car to L Pay for College when I went down And I had a English racer bicycle. Anyone remember the curved handlebars? And uh I mean it was cool. And um I had that and uh about the second week down at Temple, somebody stole it. So I had no no form of transportation. But I can I tell you this, those years in Bible college, no car, somebody stole my bike, I'd get in by on a couple bucks. I'm here to tell you, those are some of the happiest days of my life. Just the joy of the Lord, in the will of God, being blessed. You can be in poverty and still be blessed of God. You can be blessed of God and yet be in great trials Go through great difficulties and still have the joy of the Lord, the peace of God, the blessings of God in my heart and soul He says, blessed is the man. It's possible to be blessed of God, and yet nobody in the world knows me. Might be the least popular kid in school. Might be, uh might be nobody in the world know me, but yet I can still be blessed of God. Are you with me? The blessings of God, what the world defines as being blessed, and what God says are being blessed, are often two very different things. It's possible to be blessed of God and yet be in poor health. Yet be in poor health. I met some folks that live in pain and sickly, and yet they have the blessings of God all over them. Yeah, you ought to go you ought to go to nursing homes sometime You ought to go visit some folks and uh and uh you go in there and you want to be a blessing to them and you come walking out and uh your heart's blessed. I mean how many folks here remember old brother Charlie Ross? Anybody remember Charlie Ross, Sharon's husband? Well uh a veteran, uh lost both his legs. I remember he had diabetes real bad. He's been with the Lord a number of years now. But um back when he found out uh he was going to lose his first leg, they told him that they were gonna have to amputate his leg. And he was down at Bethesda or one of the military hospitals downstate And um and uh they were going to do surgery and I said and I and I wanted to drive down. I wanted to be with him before he went back to have surgery. And I drove down there and um found out where he was and and um got up there. I wanted to get there before he went back for surgery and they took me up to his room And um he was in there and I knocked on the door, I came to the door, knocked on the door, he's in there. Now they're about to amputate his leg the next hour, so they're going to amputate his leg. Knocked on the door, come in, he looks at me, and I thought it would be, oh preacher, they're gonna cut my leg off. That's what I was expecting And I come in there trying to think, God help me say encouraging words, give me encouraging verses and something I walk in as soon as he saw me. Preacher! Anybody remember Charlie? He'd sit back there on preaching and he'd say, Praise the Lord! I'm telling you that guy was so excited. Oh man, I didn't expect to see you. What a blessing. And uh I said, well Charlie, I want to come down, you're going to lose your leg, you know, they're going to do this. And I just want to encourage you. He goes, I'll I'll get a new one someday. He had the blessings of God on him. And then he found out he was going to lose the other leg. And he was at a different hospital, that one. I can't remember which of the hospital is downstate. So I might have been in Mortonsburg maybe. And uh I went down and uh same thing. I went in there, man, he's losing his second leg. Hill this time he'll be discou first one ah one leg. Second leg, uh boy, he'll be discouraged now. He's really gonna be down. And I walk in there, same thing, preacher leather bed! Hi, this is my preacher. And uh we had a big time and prayed, and I walked out of there, and I thought, good night, I want a little bit of what he has He's been with the Lord all these years. By the way, he got his new legs. My point I'm trying to make is this. I can be blessed of God regardless of what my circumstances are. I can be blessed of God regardless of what the situation I find myself in. The blessings of God are not external, they're internal. It's what God puts in my heart. It's what God puts in my soul. A peace, a joy, a happiness, a pure Not a worldly flimsy superficial happiness, but a pure heavenly happiness that God puts in my heart David said, blessed is the man. And then he lists three things that make a man blessed Now, I got looking at this, and I've done this a number of times over the years. I got studying what the Bible says about being blessed And I've found that I may be missing something here, but I found about every place where it talks about a man being blessed, there is a condition attached. Just about every time. Psalm chapter 1. Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the godly, nor standeth away in the sinners. James chapter 1 verse 12, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he has tried, he will receive the crown of life. Matthew chapter 5, blessed are the poor in spirit. Almost every time you go through Scripture, the blessings of God are always have a condition. on them. Something on my part, a responsibility on my part, so that God can bless me. Now, God, we said this before in previous messages, God is kind to everybody. Amen? To the good and the evil. He sends rain on the just and the unjust. God is kind to everybody. God is good to everybody. But if I understand my scriptures correctly, God doesn't necessarily bless everybody. Not everybody has this deep-seated, pure, heavenly joy in their heart and soul. I'm talking about even believers. We live in a day and age where believers are just as frustrated as the world in a lot of ways. Believers are in some cases just as miserable as the world Just as unhappy as the world. Why is that? A Christian, a child of God. Because there's conditions to being blessed of God. And you could do a Bible study. Paul, David gives us three right here. He mentions, blessed is a man, and then he mentions three things That are true about this blessed man. So let's look what they are real quickly. I got a couple minutes. Look at verse 4. Blessed is the man that what? Maketh the Lord his trust. I put it this way: one condition is I must decide to trust the Lord I must decide to trust the Lord. I think a key word in that little phrase that I just read, blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust, I think a key word there is the word maketh. That's something I do. That's on man's end of being blessed. Blessed is the man that maketh. That word maketh, I got looking it up, means to deliberately put something in place. The emphasis on deliberately. Deliberately puts something in place. Deliberately sets a direction. He maketh the Lord his trust. He deliberately puts his trust in the Lord. It means to deliberately establish a position. He says, the blessed man says, I am deciding that I am going to position my trust in the Lord. So a key word here is make it. That's what you and I do. Now I got looking at the word trust. We use that word a lot. We read it in the Bible. Our coins say in God we trust, our money says In God we trust, what does it mean to trust in God? What does it mean to make the Lord deliberately set my trust in the Lord? The word trust simply means this. It is uh it means to have confidence. It means to have security, a place of refuge So what he's saying here is the man that has this heavenly happiness in his heart and soul that's not dependent upon circumstances and situations. He has the peace of God, the joy of the Lord. He has the pres presence of God's uh joy in his life. It's pure happiness He has an air, and it's uh one reason is is he puts his confidence, his trust, he deliberately puts his confidence in the Lord. My confidence is in the Lord. It's a deliberate decision. Trust is not an emotion. It doesn't just happen. Trust is a decision. Do you ever have somebody say, listen, just trust me, just trust me I make a decision. Am I going to trust them or not? Am I going to put my confidence in or not? God looks at you and I, whatever our circumstances are, whatever our condition is, whatever our situation we find ourselves in. And he says this, just trust me. You want my blessing? You want the blessedness of God in your heart and life? Trust me. Decide you're going to trust me. David said, Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust. He makes that decision. Um a doctor operate I had um a couple years ago uh I had the retina tear off the back of my eyeball And uh we were it was actually in a wild game dinner one year, and I was up there MC and making announcements, whatever I was doing, all of a sudden I all this stuff was in my in front of my eye, I thought it was bugs flying by and here it was in my eye I was like, ah. And so I went through Sunday, Monday morning, I went to the eye doctor, and they said, that's serious. Your retina tore off. We need to do and they did laser surgery on me. And uh Uh you guys don't even look like you care at all all this trial I went through. It's like some sympathy or something here And uh the doctor, in so many words, I mean he's gonna put a laser in my eye. He's he called it welding, he's gonna weld my eyeball. He says, Dennis Leatherman, trust me. So I make a decision. I go blind. Or do I trust this guy? I trusted him. Then he fixed it up. It's beautiful. About a year or so later, we're down in Alabama on vacation, down in Gulf Shores, Alabama, where I'm very jealous of. And um And lo and behold, the other one tears. Go to the emergency room. I called my eye doctor. They said, you need to go to the emergency room now. I said, well, I'll just drive home and you can fix it. I want you to fix it Um and they said, No, you go to the emergency room right now or you're gonna lose your eyesight. So I went to the emergency room, they said, Oh, we gotta do this right away and they sent across town And um there was a guy there, and he had just moved into his office. There's boxes stacked everywhere. He's moving stuff away. He says, trust me, come on. And he welded my eyeball. Trust me, trust me, trust me. God says to you and I, regardless of what our circumstance, regardless of what our situation, he says, trust me. And David, under the inspiration of God, says, that man is blessed of the Lord. It's a decision I make to put my confidence, my trust in the Lord. I learned when I when we moved here, I got out knocking on doors and talking to people, trying to win souls. And I found that a lot of people in our community know about the gospel. A lot of people in our community believe the gospel's true. Jesus died for them, was buried, and rose again. I found a lot of people in our community know that you need to be saved. If you're going to get to heaven. A lot of people know that. But I came to a conclusion. Not a lot of preachers and churches, and again, I'm not trying to be critical of others because Lord knows I got my hands full here. But I come to the conclusion there's a lot of churches, a lot of pastors that will preach the gospel, but will never press for a decision. You follow what I'm saying? Oh, you need to be saved. Oh, Jesus died for your sins. Jesus rose again. We need to be saved. But they'll never press to say, and you need to decide to trust them as your personal savior. See what I'm saying? And so they know this, but they never Made a decision. They never made a conscious decision that I'm going to put my trust in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of my sins, for the gift of eternal life, for a new life and a home in heaven. And David, again, there's a key word here. David says, Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust. Apparently he knows God is trustworthy. He knows that God can be trusted. But I've got to make a decision that I'm going to trust him. It doesn't just happen. It's not some emotion I have. Get in a plane, Pastor Matt's a pilot. He says, come on in, hop in, trust me. No fly you. I've got to make a decision. Make a decision. Trust is more than just believing a truth. It's placing my confidence in that truth. It's more than just believing God, it's placing my confidence in the Lord By decision. Number one, if a blessed man needs to decide to trust the Lord. Number two, notice again here in verse 4, he says he's he um blessed is the man that maketh of the Lord his trust. And all right, there's something else here. And respecteth not the proud. So I put down, number one, I need to decide to trust the Lord. Number two, I need to display no favoritism. Display no favoritism. Now I get the term favoritism from that word respecteth. I looked up the word respecteth. It means to admire. It means to look up to with admiration, to put and keep my eyes on. Um respecteth, he says, and respecteth not the proud So what does he mean by the proud? These are self-willed people. These are people who are defiant against God. I don't need God. I don't need your Bible. I don't need church. I don't need the people of God. I don't need any of that. I'm just fine. And he says the blessed man is one that is not going to admire people like that They may be very popular. Often they're very successful. It's a dog eat dog world and these guys are looking out for number one and they rip and claw and climb their way to the top and we say, oh, look how successful they are. I tell ya, in God's eyes, it might be the guy driving a little jalopy that works under a an old car and and uh greasy hands and just getting by, but he loves God and he lives a pure life and he's kind and compassionate And God's blessings are all over 'em. That may be the one that's more uh to be admired than the great popular one. You follow what I'm saying? I'm not going to let that influence me. People that are self-willed, people that are proud. That's not who I want to follow. Take your Bible if you would. Turn with me to Psalm chapter, keep your place here at 40. Go to Psalm chapter 101. Now he's saying the blessed man isn't gonna let uh the uh the Hollywood crowd or uh the ungodly people that are out there that everybody looks at everybody admires them oh she's something else oh he's wonderful and they're as ungodly as can be And they're proud and self-willed and defiant against God. Look at Psalms 101. Look at verse 3. I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes. Pretty good advice there, huh? Look at this. I hate the work of them that turn aside, and it shall not cleave to me. Now we're going to look at that phrase turn aside later. Come with me to Psalms 101. Psalms one verse chapter one verse one. Psalms one one. Psalms chapter one verse one. See everybody nobody shouts out, oh you got it right, preacher. They only shout out, You got it wrong, preacher Psalms 1:1. Here's that word blessed. Look at this. Blessed is the man. Now he gives a list of three things. The man that's blessed of God has this joy, this, blessed is the man, look at this, that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly. Nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. You know what he's saying here? He said, I want God's blessing on my life. I'm not going to allow myself to be influenced by proud, defiant, ungodly people. You follow me? Um I tell ya, there's uh we live in a world of man worship. Before I got saved, and uh maybe some of y'all did this, and I'm not certainly not proud of this in any way, shape, or form Or I got saved, uh put posters up in my bedroom around of uh these ungodly musicians and movie stars and Ungodly people put it all around and oh they were just what I wanted to be like, you know, and God saved me. I said, I don't want to be nothing like that. And David says, God tells us in his word that blessed is the man that regardeth not, respecteth not the proud. If I'm going to see God bless me, I cannot allow myself to be influenced by those who disregard God. Let me give you one more here, real quick. Come back to Psalm 40. And he gives one more. Three, number one, decide to put my trust in the Lord. Number two, display no favoritism. Don't let this world influence me. Guard my heart from this world, my life. And then number three, look here at the last part of verse four. He says, And respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside unto lies. Turn aside to lies. I put it this way: distance myself from the foolish. Number one, decide I'm going to put my trust in God. My confidence is in the Lord. Number two, I'm going to disregard these proud, self-righteous, ungodly people. I'm not going to let them influence me. And number three, I'm going to keep my distance from people that act foolish, that play the fool. Look at what it means. That word turn aside. I found this interesting. That word turn aside means this. to drift out of the way or to swerve off course To drift, they they turn aside, they drift off of the right course, the way they should be, the way they should live, and they just drift off, or they swerve aside They're negligent in the in the direction that their life is going. They just let it happen. They don't discipline themselves. They don't have any convictions. They don't have any standards. It's just whatever comes along and they'll drift over here and then they'll swerve over there. It reminded me as I was studying that word and how it's used. Remind me, do you ever follow a car And it's over here on the shoulder. Then it crosses that yellow line over here. Then it's back on the shoulder here. Then it'll slow way down. Then they'll ghost feet. Anybody know and talk about? What are they probably doing Drunk drunk, or something else. And you watch, you'll see cars all over the place and if And by God's mercy you somehow get around them and uh they're going like that. And that's the idea of this turn aside. Not just drive not driving a car and not paying attention and just drifting and swerving, but living their life that way. They're just so distracted by meaningless stuff, and every little thing that comes along, they'll forfeit their convictions and they'll forfeit their standards and they'll disregard what's right and what's wrong, and they're foolish. Says, Nor such as turn aside to lies, a falsehood, dishonesty He's talking here about people who don't care about what is right and what is wrong. He's talking about people who don't care, are careless with what is true and what is false. These are people that have no convictions. These are people that have no standards, no Bible standards, no Bible convictions. Just whatever I think is okay is okay, and whatever I think is that. And they have and uh they turn aside to lies. I tell you, every Christian ought to establish some Bible convictions. Every Christian ought to have some Bible standards. Now make sure they're Bible convictions. Make sure they're Bible standards. But you ought to have them. I like what Dr. Lee Robertson. I heard him say it a hundred times probably or more. He would say, young people, get you some convictions. Get you Bible convictions Get them in your life, what's right and what's wrong, and what's true and what's false, and you hold to the Bible can get you convictions. And he says, if you don't have your own convictions, borrow mine till you get some. It's pretty good advice. You know why he said that? He wanted young people to have God's blessings on their life He wanted them, he wanted us to be blessed of the Lord. I challenge Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church myself. I'd like to believe I have some Bible convictions. Study the Bible. I believe to some extent at least that I understand what is right and wrong, what is true and false, not my own reasoning, but what this book tells me. Every Christian here, from the young people all the way up, you ought to establish Bible convictions, Bible standards about what I'll allow and what I will not allow, what I will do. And what I will not do, what I'll get involved in, and what I will not get involved in. And make sure it lines up with the Word of God. Do not turn aside. Swerve off into falsehoods and un and untrue things. Distance myself from the foolish. I tell you, you hang around people, you you hang around uh people that have no convictions, have no standards, you're gonna find yourself dropping your convictions and your standards. Foolish. Foolish. So to be blessed, blessed is the man, I want I want God's peace in my heart. Say, preacher, do you have it all the time? No, not all the time. Sometimes I put my trust in myself. Sometimes I look at my circumstances. I let it get to me. Worry. Can I get a witness? Anyone there? I want to be blessed of God. I want the joy and peace of God regardless of what happens. Regardless of my health. Regardless of my standing, regardless of my circumstances, I want God's peace. And I've got to make a decision. Listen, this is what we need to do. We need to decide I'm going to trust the Lord. I need to put aside, keep my distance from folks that just play the fool. Disregard, proud, arrogant. Ungodly, the people that are define against God, disregard them. To be blessed, there's a positive and there's a negative. Deliberately trust the Lord and distance myself from the proud and the foolish. Amen. Let's pray. Father, I ask you'd help us. Lord, I want your blessings on my life. I want your blessings on our church, each and every person, family that makes up our church And I pray you'd help us to put our trust in you. Help us to humble ourselves, not be proud, not admire the proud, but Distance ourselves from the foolish. And to be the people you have to speak, so you can bless us. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder There's some folks here who say, preacher, I'm I'm in a situation, I'm in a circumstance, and it's got me worried, but I'm just going to decide. I'm going to make this conscious decision. To put my trust in the Lord. I'm just going to trust Him. Is there any like that here? A situation, circumstance. I'm just going to trust the Lord. God bless you. Hands all around. My hands raise Sometimes I have to come back to that over and over. No, Lord, I'm going to trust you. No, Lord, I'm going to trust you. I wonder if there's some say, preacher, I know I've allowed maybe some people um family or whatever, and we're not hateful, we're not unkind, but you say I've allowed them to influence me in ways I should not Maybe through TV or I don't know whatever. You say, preacher, I need to be a little more careful. I don't want to swerve. I don't want to be reckless. I want to make sure my convictions are placed. My standards are in place. So you say, preacher, pray with me that I'll guard myself from this influence. Any like that by the uplifted hand. God bless you. And that influence can come in any number of ways. Music, oh, just any number of ways. But I want to hold to my conviction. I want to hold to my standards, graciously, kindly, but trusting God. Father, bless our invitation now tonight. I pray in Jesus' name. Amen.