When I was saved back in nineteen seventy nine, I immediately became captivated by the Bible. Um Uh I would begin reading just from immediately, I got say the Monday night, Tuesday, I had this book out, I was reading it, I'd take it to work with me and on the lunch hour I go in my car and get away from the other guys and I just read it. I was just fascinated by it. I was captivated by what this book taught. And uh what it was saying in the evenings I would read, and in fact um um a family member came shortly after I got saved within the first week or so And they said, um, they said to my dad, what in the world uh has gotten into they called me Denny. Uh what in the world has got into Denny? Dad said, what do you mean? He says all he's doing is reading his Bible, reading his Bible, reading his Bible. I was fascinated by this book. As I read this book, and uh and by the way, that fascination has not died away I still love this book. Amazing book. But as I as a new Christian, I began reading the Bible and I I saw that the Bible accurately told me what I was As I read this book, I was learning things about myself that before I didn't understand. And now the Bible was revealing to me what my heart was like and why the things Why I did some of the things I was doing and what was happening to me. The Bible accurately showed me what my problem was. My problem was sin. And I needed a Savior, and how Jesus had forgiven me of my sin and given me a new life, and the Holy Spirit dwelling in me was changing me. And uh bringing peace to my heart and giving me purpose in life. I was captivated by what this book said. Um this book taught me and showed me who God is. Now, even before I was saved, that's as messed up as I was, I always knew there was a God There was no doubt in my mind there was a God. I I remember one time in particular I was at uh a party, it was just constant, but I was at this one guy's place and And uh a couple of the fellas um started talking about how ridiculous it is that people believe in God and how evolution is so obvious. Now here are here's 18-year-old dopeds our authorities on the origin of man and uh the existence of God and all that. I mean they just had it down. They just knew for sure. But anyway, I'm sitting there in my The life that I completely destroyed, but down in my heart and soul, I knew they were wrong, that there is a God. I could see that in creation. So my point is this, I never struggled with the existence of God. That never was an issue to me in my heart and soul I always knew there was a God. By the way, I believe those guys and others like them in their heart and soul know there's a God. God has put the awareness of his existence in the heart of man. And so uh I'd never I never struggled with the existence of God, but now as a child of God, as a Christian, I'd read the Bible. I started learning who that God is And the Bible was showing me and teaching me what God is like, that he is holy and he is powerful, that God is active. In the lives of men. And God is active in our world and He is moving and working. And I was captivated by this. I was fascinated by this. I read in the Bible of leading up to my salvation, what salvation is and how to be saved. It it became obvious to me very early on, there is no other salvation than Bible salvation. If somebody claims to be saved, but they did not do what the Bible says needs to be done for salvation, they are not saved. There is no salvation outside of Bible salvation. What I'm trying to say is this. Very, very early on, I became convinced. That the Bible is the absolute true record of God. God has given to us this book. This is absolutely true in every word. And we can trust it and we can depend on it. Now, as a 19-year-old boy, I trusted Christ. I'm reading this book. I'm learning about God. Changes are taking place in my life amazingly. And the church I was at, they announced they were going to have a prophecy conference. I thought, that's wonderful. What in the world is prophecy? Gotta be good. The church is doing it, but I don't know what it is. And so I was introduced, very early on in my Christian life, I was introduced to Bible prophecy. Now, what Bible prophecy is, very simply, in this context and in a prophecy conference context, what Bible prophecy is simply the Bible's teaching on what the future holds. The Bible's teaching about what the end of the world will be and how it will transpire and how it will be carried out. I learned. In that prophecy conference and in the years since, I learned that this book, God's Word, the Bible, answers the questions we have about the future. The Bible has the answers to the questions about the future. Now, when I was young, back in the days of Abraham Lincoln and all of that. It's amazing how young older people are becoming. You know it? I saw a picture of my high school uh bunch of people that graduated with me from high school, a picture on the computer, made a picture of them there. I thought, good night, they've all gotten old But back in the day, I don't know how it is now with this modern stuff, but back in the day we had math books in school. And the ones I had, in the back of the book, it had the answers to all the equations. Anybody remember that? That was great. Problem was if you got caught looking at it, you got in big trouble. And so if you got stuck and you could get away with it, you'd go to the back of the book. It had all the answers there. How many people recognize the name Louis Lemour? Anybody recognize that name? Oh, I've read I think I've read every book Louis Lemoore wrote. Great Westerns. I haven't read a fiction book in decades, but back Uh I didn't have anything to do in Bible college, and uh I just worked full-time, took classes, full-time worked, full-time ministry. Uh so I would read in my spare time, I read Louis Lemour books And uh I love Louis Lemoore books. They were just fascinating. Western. And it always happened this way. The hero, the good guy He would always get in a pinch or some situation and you're trying to think, how in the world does he get out of this He's up some canyon and the cliffs are real high and the bad guys are coming in after him. He's got five bullets left. There's rattlesnakes and there's Indians And I'm reading it and I'm like, how in the world does he get out of this? You know what I would do? I'd go to the back of the book. Oh, he made it, praise the Lord. Well, like those math books with the answers in the back of the book and like the Louie Louis and they always got out, you know. I don't know why I worried, because they always got out of the screen. But I go back to the book and you find out that he made it. We can go to our Bibles and we can find out, hey, it's going to be all right in the end. The Bible tells us what the future holds. This book is true. This book is history. Much of it is history before it happens. The record of history. Our text is clear. These verses that we looked at, particularly the second time, or we're going to look at here again. The Bible is very, very clear, especially in this text, and there's others that verify it. That the world is not going to last forever. This world, as we know it, is not going to last forever. The world, this planet As we know it, it's going to come to an end. Look with me again. Now look at it very clearfully. Verse number 10. For the day of the Lord will come as the thief in the night. Now look In the which, we're in verse 10, in the which the heavens shall pass away with a what? Great noise. How many people have ever heard of the Big Bang Theory? Ever hear that in science? The Big Bang. The Big Bang, as the quote unquote scientists refer to it, talk about what? The beginning, right? The beginning of the universe. The start it all began. This is I'm not a scientists anyway, but as I understand it, uh they suggest that all of matter, everything in existence was in the size of a pencil tip, just the tip of a pencil and somehow this big bang happened and boom and the whole universe exploded and uh everything now. Uh I think that's basically the theory and the big bang and everything came into existence Well, I do believe in the Big Bang. The Bible teaches the Big Bang, but it doesn't, it's not the beginning of the world. It's the end of the world. Look what it says again very carefully. The heavens shall pass away with a great noise. That phrase great noise has this idea, a very big bag Kaboo! In fact, I wrote in the margin of my Bible the big the real Big Bay. And so the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, shall pass away. And the elements shall melt with ferment heat. Notice he says the elements, the very makeup, the molecular structure of everything it is, is going to melt away, be dissolved. This is absolute incineration. Ceasing to exist in a coherent form as we understand now shall melt with fervent heat the earth also And the works that are therein shall be burned up. Seeing then that all these things shall be what? Dissolved? What manner of persons ought we to be in all holy conversation, God, looking for, hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat This world's not going to last forever. This world is going to come to an end. God's going to burn it up. The very elements are going to melt. Now, here's my question. How in the world do we prepare for that day? How in the world do we prepare for the end of the world? Now, I'm not trying to brag or anything, but I've already survived five ends of the world. 2000, they said Y2K was going to bring end of everything. I'm here to tell you I survived. Y2K. Praise the Lord In 2012, they said the Mayan calendar was going to bring the end of the world. Everybody's all worked up. I'm glad to tell you I survived the end of the world 2012. And uh this is a joke, y'all aren't getting it, but um I'm very proud. You are it's just not funny. I I can understand that. But the point is there is going to be an end of the world, and I just want to give you a few tips, a few tips on how to survive the end of the world. Here's number one. Number one. I believe it's important that we understand God's schedule. That we understand God's schedule. One of the best things we can do to prepare for the end of the world is understand from the Word of God how things play out. How this is going to come about? What is the schedule? People want to know, is the world going to end? And if so, when and how? Well, the Bible tells us some of these things. I found that people take three different attitudes concerning Bible prophecy, concerning future events Three different attitudes. The first attitude is this indifference. Indifference. Some people could care less As to what the future holds. They have no interest in. They are living for here and now. They are living for what's taking place now. They adopt, they may not say this, but they adopt this philosophy of life that's expressed in the scriptures several places. It's this idea: eat, drink, and be merry, for tomorrow we In other words, I'm not worried about the future. I'm not thinking about the future. I'm not concerned about the future. Oh, I want to do is eat my full fill, uh have the best time I can. I'm just gonna go for it here and now because I don't know what the future holds. I don't care what the future holds. I just want to be sure that I'm getting my way and having a big time today. It's indifference. It's indifference. No concern about preparing for the future. No concern about preparing for eternity and where they're going to spend uh uh forever. No concern about facing God's judgment, the day coming when every one of us are going to stand before God And give an account of ourselves. They just push that out of their mind. They just don't uh don't I'm not gonna worry about that. I'm not gonna concern myself about that. I'm not going to think about that. All I want to do is make sure I'm having a good time today. All I want to do is make sure my belly's full today I'm not going to think about the future. I'm not going to think about heaven and hell. I'm not going to give a concern about my accountability to my creator. I just want to live for today One of the tragic attitudes that people have towards the future is total indifference. Complete indifference Uh my wife led a very, very elderly lady to the Lord several years ago and she asked her, she goes, had you ever given thought about where after the lady professed faith in Christ Kathy asked her, had you ever given thought to eternity and where you were going to go when you died? You know what she said? She made this statement, and this is the way a lot of people are. I just put it out of my mind. I refuse to think about it. Now how foolish is that? I'm glad the lady got saved, amen. But to live a whole life And just say, I'm not going to think about the future. I'm not going to think about eternity. I'm not going to I'm telling you, folks who are indifferent to the future are pay a heavy, heavy price. This world, I mean just you let's exclude the spiritual aspect out of it, people today who are living financially just for today and not thinking of tomorrow running themselves so far in debt that the rest of their life they'll be slaves to their lenders. Boats and their health and uh so many other areas, we're just doing what I want today, what enjoy today No thought for the future. No thought about the consequences of the decision I'm making now. No thought about what the tomorrow holds. I don't even think about it. Just eat, drink, and be merry today What a tragic, foolish way to live. And yet there's many, many folks like that, and they pay a heavy, heavy price. Then there's other folks. They're indifferent to the things of the future as far as spiritual things are concerned, as far as the things of God are concerned. Oh, they might put they might invest their money very wisely. They understand someday I'll retire. I want to make sure I have money up. They'll put stuff up and put money up for the grandkids and make sure that their schools paid for or whatever it might be and they'll prepare financially for the future. Many times they'll prepare physically. I want to be in good shape. I want to live as long as I can. They'll do all these things on a temporary basis But yet they give little or no thought to their soul's future. They give little or no thought to the fact that someday we're all going to stand before God And so one of the best ways to prepare for the future is to understand what the future holds, how it's going to play out according to the Bible. Now, some people have the attitude they're just indifferent to that. I don't care. I don't care. I just want to have a good time today. Now, there's a second attitude that some people have. Some are just indifferent to the future. Other folks have this attitude. It's fear. I'm scared to death what the future holds. Somebody said that one of man's greatest fears is fear of the future. They lie in bed at night and wait and worry and tremble and are stressed out because I don't know what tomorrow's going to hold. I'm afraid. of what's gonna happen next week. I'm afraid of what's gonna happen. Back in twenty eleven, uh for September, we had the attacks on our country and It was not long after that, a month or two after that I did a funeral for a young fellow that passed away. It's not anyone in the church here's outside the church I had um uh I had had interaction with the family. They knew me, they considered me their pastor to some degree. Anyway, they asked me to do the funeral. I did the funeral for the young man and um One of the young ladies, probably late 20s, early 30s, afterward came out and she was sobbing. So after the service was all over, she came out and she was sobbing. And uh it wasn't, I could tell right away, she wasn't sobbing in sorrow so much, but the look on her face was absolute fear. And she pulled me aside. She said, Pastor Leatherman, I am so scared. I said, what do you mean? She goes, I'm afraid of what's happening in our country. I'm afraid of what's going to happen. I'm afraid. She must have used that phrase, I'm afraid. 15-20 times in our little conversation. And all of it had to do, what's gonna happen? What's gonna happen? What's gonna happen? Now she had assured me that she had trusted Christ, and I tried to give her some verses and console her. But the fact is, one of man's greatest fears is a fear of the future. What's going to happen down the road? Um uh the government thrives on this. The government can take some potential global warming threat, the world's going to be covered in water, and they'll take some fear the future and they will take that and exploit that to gain control over your life and my life, to gain control and reduce our freedoms and take away from us the liberties because there's this awful thing lying in the future and they'll play up the fears of man. And if we don't do something now, we're all going to be dead in ten years. And so the government plays on those fears. And you and I, I'm not trying to be political this morning, but you and I are losing precious, precious liberties Because the government plays on the fears of men and women about what the future holds. I'm telling you, I I I'll suggest you, it's better to trust God than trust the government. Amen? Or not? And so the government plays up these fears and they foster them and they nurture them in society. You have to be afraid you need us to protect you. And so the government plays up these fears. Folks in scams will play up these fears Oh, your social security's gonna be got you've got invest money here. Oh, and they'll play it up and I'm telling you there have been millions and millions and millions of dollars have been quote unquote stolen from people because these scam artists got them scared of something that's going to hold in the future The government plays on this. Scam artists play on man's fears of the future. Hollywood thrives on this. Some of their biggest blockbuster movies have been movies about some awful apocalypse in the future, some horrific event. A meteor is going to strike the earth and we'll all be dead in 39 seconds. And don't make these big movies. And boy, people go see it and just play on our fears. Um fear of the future. Fear of the future. Um Hollywood capitalized on this. Uh Y2K back in the year 2000 was a big thing So one attitude that people have for the future is indifference. I don't care. I just want to have a good time today. Eat, drink, and be merry, party, live it up Because I'm not worried about tomorrow I don't care. The other is I'm scared to death What's tomorrow holding? Oh no, a meteor is going to hit us. I saw a report, it's been a number of years ago. The big headline, the sun is gonna burn out Run out of fuel. I thought, good heavens, I need to pay my electric bill or something before I got reading the article, guess when they say it's gonna run out of fuel? Six hundred billion years from now or something. I said, Oh well I got time Fear. But there's a third response, and this is what I'm getting to. And that is this: facing the future with hope and with confidence. I know what the future holds because I know who holds the future. I know what tomorrow holds. I know how this thing plays out. The Bible tells me very clearly And when I understand that God is in control and that he has a very carefully laid out plan for the future, that he is a very carefully laid out plan for me, this world, and infinity beyond. When I understand that God has it all in hand, I can face tomorrow, I can face the end of the world with confidence and peace and hope and assurance. Hope, blessed hope. If you would, take your Bible and turn with me to Titus chapter number two. Just a few pages earlier in your Bible. Titus chapter 2. I'm just joking when I tease on the deacons, I got convicted because I gotta deal with them, you know, and so I need to stay 'em nice. Titus chapter 2, and notice with me verse number 11. I'll begin reading there. Titus chapter 2. If you come back, you get to Hebrews, and just before Hebrews. Yeah Philemon and Titus. Verse eleven. Titus two verse eleven For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men. Teaching us, look at this, that denying ungodliness And worldly loss, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly in this present world. Now look, looking for that, what's the next two words? Blessed hope And the glorious appearing of the great God and our Savior, Jesus Christ, who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works. These things speak and exhort and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee. Did you catch that there in verse number um uh verse number, where's the blessed hope? Uh verse 13. Looking for that blessed hope. He's talking about a vent in the future. The Lord Jesus Christ comes back And he says, You and I, as believers in Jesus Christ, you and I that understand and are convinced that the Bible is exactly what it claims to be, the very Word of God We face the future. We face the events that are coming up. And ultimately the end of the world. We face all that with a real hope, a blessed hope. That God is in control. That God has a plan. And when it's all said and done, it's going to work out just beautifully for his glory. A blessed hope. A blessed hope. Jesus in Matthew chapter 16 and verse 3, he rebuked the Pharisees very, very sharply. Now we won't take time to turn there, but he says this to him. He says, you see the sky at night. Now of course I'm putting this in my own words. He says, you see the sky at night, that it's red And you know that red at night is the seller's delight. But he says, uh you guys can see read that at night when it's red. You know that the next day is going to be nice. And he says, if it's red in the morning, shower, take warning. It's going to be a rough day. This is his rebuke. He says, you guys. You put your time and attention and concern on what tomorrow's weather holds, what the future weather is He says, but you cannot even discern the signs of the times. In other words, he's rebuking them that they are so concerned about the weather's future They gave little or no concern about what God has planned in the future. And he rebuked them sharply. I'll suggest to you, there's a lot of Christians. Pay a lot of attention to what tomorrow and next week's weather is going to hold. And I look at it, I check it every day. It changes every day. But um look at the future. Some I'm talking to some Christians, pay a lot of attention what the future stocks are, they're going up or down, all that, and there's nothing wrong with that. But what I'm saying is this. We ought to pay very careful attention to what God's future holds. What God has planned for us. And when we understand what the Bible says, about God's schedule, about how things play out. My point was this: understanding God's schedule. When I look what the Bible says about how things play out in the future, I don't have to fear I can face it with confidence and assurance when I'm trusting him and living for him. Now what does the future hold? What is God's schedule? Now I'll be the first to admit a lot of details are not given in the Bible. But God does give us a very clear outline of how the end times play out And if you study it carefully, and I'm not going to get into depth now, I just want to give you a general outline of what the Bible teaches leading up to the end of the world. And when we understand it and we think and act accordingly, we don't have to be afraid of the future. We can be prepared. Now, what is the next event on God's timeline? In this outline of future events, what's the next event? Well, most of us understand the next event is the rapture of the church. The word rapture is not found in the Bible, but the teaching is there. If you would turn with me to 1 Thessalonians, just very quickly. And we're not going to go to all the verses in this outline, but I do want you to see this one. 1 Thessalonians. If you're in Titus, again, go to your left. Go towards the beginning of the book. You get over there, and uh you get through uh Timothy, and then you come back to Thessalonians chapter 4. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 And notice verse 16. 1 Thessalonians 4 and verse 16. Now this is the next event on God's calendar. Look what it says. 1 Thessalonians 4. 16. For the Lord Himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with a voice of the archangel, and the trump of God. Look at this And the dead in Christ shall rise first. That's the resurrection of the saved. Out of the graves. Now look at this. Then we which are alive and remain shall be. What's the next two words? Caught up. I circled that word those two words caught up in the margin of my Bible. Rapture. That word caught up has the idea, that phrase caught up has the idea of snatching very quickly. And so the Bible teaches that the next event in God's prophetic calendar is the rapture of the church. In other words Every saved person, every person accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, in a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, when the trump of God shall sound, the archangel shouts In that moment, boom, we're going to be caught up out of here and go into the presence of the Lord, and so shall we ever be with the Lord. That's the next event. You say, Brother Leatherman, when in the world is that going to happen? I don't know. The Bible doesn't tell us. Jesus said it's going to happen like a thief in the night. We can't anticipate it. And when some yard bird writes a book or comes out with some announcement that he knows when the rapture is going to take place, he is mark them off as a numbskull. Bible's very clear. No man knows the day or the hour. We do not know when the rapture is going to be. In fact, it could be before I finish this sermon. It could be before you get home tonight. It may not be for another hundred years. We don't know. But that's the next event in God's calendar. It is the the Bible term, the theological term, it is eminent. At any moment it could happen. No more events have to take place, no more prophecies have to take place, we don't know when it'll happen. And so that's it, but this is my point. The rapture is not the end of the world. It's not the end of the world. That's when you and I are caught out of here. The rapture introduces the seven-year tribulation period. We've heard about that. Some of that stuff Hollywood likes to take and pervert and and use to make money and make some amazing stories. I'm telling you, you do not need to embellish biblical truth. It is amazing enough in itself. The seven-year tribulation period is going to be the most horrific time that this earth has ever seen. The judgments of God upon the physical planet, the judgments of God upon the people on this planet, and uh the horrific violence. And death and destruction is beyond our ability to imagine at this point in time. At the end of that, and by the way, seven-year tribulation period, that is not the end of the world. It's not the end of the world. At the end of that seven-year tribulation period, and by the way, there's no more prophecy, nothing has to happen for the rapture to take place. It's all it could happen at any moment But I am saying this, the setup for this tribulation period in my mind is taking place before our very eyes. Everything is placed. The governments, the nations, the armies, the layout, all of that is right in place. It could happen very easily. Uh the rapture could take place today, go into the tribulation period very very easily. No changes, nothing has to happen. But the end the tribulation period is not the end of the world. At the end of the tribulation period The nations of the earth are converge on Israel. Is anybody here amazed at how much Israel is in the news? I I don't know. I'm not trying to say anything more than it amazes me that Russia is on the doorsteps of Israel. Prophetic Bible students have been talking about that for years and years and years and years. And there they are There they are. At the end of the tribulation period, it's going to be the battle of Armageddon. You've heard of that. Nation armies of the world converge on Israel. They're about to wipe Israel out in one swoop. Boom The Bible says that the God, Jesus Christ Himself, is going to appear and split the eastern sky. And we're going to, those of us that are safe, Going to be with him, and come back, and Jesus is going to intervene. And I'm oversimplifying what the Bible teaches here, but basically, he's going to speak a word, and the armies of the world are going to be slaughtered in a moment Just speak a word. It says, out of his mouth goeth a sword. It's the word of God. He'll speak a word. Ho! At that point he sets up. And by the way, the Battle of Armageddon is not the end of the world. That introduces a 1,000-year period of time of absolute peace Of absolute tranquility, godliness. Jesus Christ Himself will establish Himself as Now this sounds bad, but it's really good. He will establish himself as dictator of the world, ruling from Jerusalem. Now my idea is this, and what I've been saying for years, the best form of government is dictatorship. But only If the dictator is perfectly flawless, absolute wise in perfection, and just and righteous in every degree. In other words, only if the dictator is Jesus Christ. And he's going to rule the world from Jerusalem, and the nations of the world will serve him, and it's going to be an amazing period of time for 1,000 years. But that's not the end of the world. Toward the end of that 1,000-year reign of Christ, and towards the end of that period, Satan is going to be loose for a bit, and he, believe it or not, in a perfect environment, an unbelievable environment, nearly perfect environment. He is going to raise up an insurrection against Jesus Christ. You know, some people, no matter how good they have it, it is never good enough. Some people and young people and older people like I'm just amazed sometimes the opportunity and how God has blessed some of our teenagers and they are absolutely miserable God has given them so much. And oh I just want to die. Good heavens, what does it take? What does it take to make you happy? What has to happen before you're satisfied? And here you have an element of the world's population for 1,000 years is living in prosperity and peace and absolute blessedness. And they buy in to the lie of the devil that God has not been good enough to them. And they're going to rise up in insurrection against them. Again, Jesus will speak a word, it's over. In a matter of moments, that insurrection is quelled. The end of the 1,000-year reign, that is when our text that we read a few moments ago in Peter, that is when that takes place. God burns up this place in earth, the heavens, they melt, the very elements that make up matter are burned up, they're melted, they cease to exist, and at that point he creates a new heaven. And a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness. And I'm telling you, we studied this in Sunday school last year. I'm telling you, that new earth That new heaven is going to be amazing. It's going to be amazing. So If I understand how things play out, it takes away a lot of the fear. I'm a little more confident. Alright, I know what the next event is going to be. I know there's not going to be some meteor going to hit the earth. and destroy the earth. I know that's not going to happen because God has laid it out exactly how the end of the world's going to be. You see what I'm saying? It's not going to be some disease that kills all of mankind and we cease to exist. No, no, no. It's not going to happen that way I'm very confident. Very sure God has laid it out for us exactly how it's going to and that takes away some of the fear That gives a lot of hope, a lot of confidence. I see how that is. If I go sometimes, I'll preach somewhere in a meeting or whatever. One of the first things I like to ask the preacher for is do you have a schedule of the service? Can you tell me how things are going to play out tonight, when my part is? And so I can sit there, I feel a little more confident. I know what's going to happen. I know when I step in and when I it brings a little bit of confidence here. We look in God's word, we see how the future lays out. Takes away a lot of the fear. I'm very confident. All right, I'm going to be raptured out of here. I don't have to worry about the tribulation here. I look forward to the millennial reign. Someday this earth's going to be burned up. It's going to end to the world. But God's going to have a new earth and a new heaven And I'll be able to live there with Him. See what I'm saying? So one of the ways to prepare for the end of the world is to understand God's schedule. Now let me give you two other tips very quickly Not just understand God's schedule, but number two, accept God's Savior. I'm here to tell you, if you're here this morning and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, You are not prepared for what the future holds. If you don't know for sure that God has forgiven you of all your sin And save you from His judgment that you have a home in Heaven someday. If you don't have that settled, you are not prepared for the future You must know, we must know that we've trusted Jesus Christ as Savior. I studied this Bible very carefully. You know what I found out? This Bible teaches that today is the day of salvation If you're here this morning or you're under the sound of my voice and you've not accepted Jesus Christ as Savior, whether you're five years old or you're ninety-five years old, if you've not accepted Jesus Christ as Savior You need to be saved today. There's no promise of tomorrow. Proverbs 27:1 says this: Boast not thyself of tomorrow, for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth. This past week there were several people in our vicinity were killed. I saw a car wreck. Uh uh where was it down Kittsmill or somewhere down that way a guy was killed. His car Car for whatever reason went over head-on to turn up. You know, when he hopped in that car, closed that door, started that thing up ten, fifteen minutes before it, he never had any idea he's going to be in eternity in just a few moments No idea, no idea. I was talking somebody was talking, I don't know anything about this, but somebody was telling me about some fellow was driving a tractor, had discs up The disc caught the the guardrail or something and flipped that thing around and rolled that tractor over and the guy went out into eternity. He had no idea when he climbed up on that tractor and fired that thing up that before he got to his destination, he'd be in eternity. My point is this, if you don't know Jesus Christ as Savior, you are not prepared for the future, let alone the end of the world. Let alone the end of the world. We are all now sinners. We are without Christ under the judgment of God And that sentence has already been declared. Read John chapter 3. That sentence has already been declared. We are just waiting for it to be carried out unless we accept Jesus Christ as our Savior. Then we are pardoned from all our sin and the judgment of sin, and we have eternal life. And so, number one, we understand God's schedule. I encourage you Study the Bible and find out what future events hold. Number two, accept Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. The worst thing that can possibly happen to a person is for them to die in their sins, to die unforgiven. You say, what about that rapture thing? Let me say this. I'll just hit this briefly. If the rapture takes if you're unsaved And you've heard the gospel and you've had an opportunity to be saved, and that rapture takes place, you will never, ever, ever have another opportunity to be saved. Thessalonians lays it out very very clearly. God sends those who heard the truth of the uh the love of the truth. That had knowledge of the gospel and they rejected it, and the rapture takes place. He sends strong delusions and they believe the lie of the devil, and that person will never be saved. Now, there's millions of people out there. If the rapture happens that never heard the gospel, they have opportunity, and many of them will be saved. But those who heard the gospel and had opportunity before the rapture and rejected it, the rapture seals their faith. And they're left behind to be lost. And so, uh, my point is this, the most important thing in the world, in preparing for the end of the world, is know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior. If you're not saved today, you need to be saved today. And by the way, those of us that know Christ as Savior, we need to be about winning others to Christ Meaning to be doing everything like that Titanic going down and sinking. We ought to be scrambling to get people into the lifeboat of Jesus Christ, scrambling to get others saved, into the family of God, before uh it's too late. Number one, understand God's schedule. Number two, accept God's Savior. Number three, last of all, acknowledge God's sovereignty. This is what I mean by that. The word sovereignty is a big word. It simply means this that God is supreme power That God is ultimately in authority. He is the absolute owner of everything. I've got news for you. God owns this world. This is my father's world. God owns this world. Hey, the United Nations doesn't own this world. Uh duh uh they never will either, brother. Uh they think they do, but they don't. Uh uh the governments don't own this world. God owns this world. I got some other news for you. God owns this world, and God owns you and me. God owns us. You say, Oh yeah, I'm my own. No, you ain't. That's good talking right there. I just want everyone I just try and make it very clear. I are a college student, so I just want you to be aware of that. College graduate. No, you don't know yourself. I don't know myself. We are the creatures. God is the creator. Try and exist one second without God. You'll be dead in a moment. Every breath say I'm a self-made man. Ha! Everything you and I have is given to us by the grace and mercy of God. Every breath we take is the grace and mercy of God. Every time that heart beats, you and I have no control over that. That is God keeping you and I alive. That is God that has that brain functioning like it needs to be. I'm telling you what, man is awfully arrogant when he thinks that he is the one that owns himself. No, we don't God is sovereign. He is the ultimate owner of this world and your life and my life. And the fact that this world will one day end And the fact that this that one day we're going to have to stand before God, even as Christians, stand before Jesus Christ and give an account of how we lived our lives as Christians Stop and think about that. Not my own. I've been bought with a price as a Christian, and someday, and I believe we ought to keep that in the forefront of our mind. Someday. Could be very soon I'm going to have to stand before Jesus Christ and give an account to him as to how I lived my life as a Christian, how obedient I was to his instructions, how I trusted him and obeyed him with my life. Not to determine whether we're saved and going to heaven. That's settled when we trust Christ, but determine his blessings, his reward. The Bible says some some folks are going to be ashamed at that day. Shame. I need to recognize to prepare for the end of the world, I need to acknowledge God's sovereignty over my life. The fact that someday this world's going to end, everything I see is temporary Everything I touch, the things which are seen are temporal. It's all going to pass away. The things which so many Christians are living for and investing so much into is temporary. And we're going to stand before God someday. That ought to affect the way we think about ourselves and our world. That ought to affect how we live our lives and our behavior and our actions. So many Christians are investing so much time and effort and finances into something that is not going to last. And I ought to say God is the ultimate owner, God is the ultimate one in concharge. Someday he's burning all this up. He's having a new heaven, new earth. I want to recognize that and I want to invest in him. I want to invest my life. Into my Lord and Savior and into eternity. It should have a profound effect on how we think and how we live. It ought to have a profound effect on the values that we hold and the priorities we have in life. This world is temporal. Everything we see is temporary. And it's foolish to invest in something temporary. How foolish to hold on so tight to things that are going to dissolve one day. There's a poem in our hymn books I came across a week earlier this week. Treasures. It's written by a woman, Martha Snell-Nicholson. Martha Snell-Nicholson was a Christian lady, at least she lived in Oregon. She had five incurable diseases. She was bedridden 30-some years of her life, and she wrote some of the most beautiful, godly poetry that has ever been written. She understood that this life and the things of this world are temporary. And things are eternal. Look what it says. This one by one, he, God, one by one, he took them from me. All the things I valued most until I was empty-handed. Every glittering toy was lost. And I walked through highways grieving in my rags and poverty. So I heard his voice inviting me: Lift your empty hands to me. So I held my hands toward heaven, and he filled them with a store of his own transcendent riches, till they could contain no more. Now look at this. At last I comprehended, with my stupid mind and dole, that God could not pour his riches into hands already full. Do you get the message there? So many of us as Christians were holding on to the things of this world and we're investing in things of this world, and we got our lives and our hands just full of something that at very best is temporary. Someday it's going to all be burned up. When God says, listen, I have something so much better for you. Peace and purpose. You can invest in something that lasts beyond this world, into the new heaven, new earth, the glory of God. Winning souls to Christ. How do people recognize the name Cori Tenboom? Recognize that name? Cory Tenboom was a Dutch Christian. And the World War II and the Nazis took over. And her and her family, her parents and her family, she was a young girl at the time, they wouldn't protect Jews from the Nazis. They would hide them in their house. And scores and scores, maybe hundreds, of Jews were able to escape because of their bravery and their commitment. One day they got caught. And Cori Tenboom and her family were taken to a prison camp, Nazi prison camp. Her and her sister were particularly together is primary part of the story. And um horrific, horrific conditions. I mean, you should read it. It's just hard to fathom the depravity of man to do this to a fellow man. They were systematically raped. Head shea lights. Horrific. Yet they trusted God And Corey Tenboom and her sister understood that the darkness and the valley they were going through was temporary. But all this was going to pass away and there's an eternity out there to live for. Her sister made this statement. In the prison camp, in those horrific conditions, she said this. Something to this effect. She said, There is no pit so deep and so dark that God cannot come down and be with me in that pit. If anybody knew what they were talking about, it was the ten booms. Corey survived that. She came to the States, she lived out west. She's with the Lord now. I heard recently on the radio, I was out of town and on the radio, I was listening. And the fellow that was her pastor back years ago when she came to the States, he was her pastor. Can you imagine pastoring Corey Kendall? And he said, after service one time, they were in the back, and kids were running around, and she came up to them. They were talking a little bit, and she said, Pastor, let me give you some advice. He said, what is it? Let me read it to you correctly. This was his advice. And she he said, I've never forgotten this. She said, we must learn to hold the things of this world very loosely in our hands. When we grip things tightly, then it just hurts all the more when our Heavenly Father pries our fingers loose. To take those temporary things away from us. She said, hold the things of this world very loosely. I think I'm preaching to some Christians this morning. You need to lighten your grip on this world. You need to take your hands off. And you're so wrapped up and you're so committed and you're holding so tightly. To something that is not going to last. And you can open those hands up and God can give you a peace and a purpose that transcends this world. And that when this is all burned up, I'll still have my investments in eternity. Am I making any sense? How many of us as Christians need to lighten up our hold on this world? And he said, you know, I need to invest more in the Lord, in the things of eternity, in winning souls, in living for God, and not living for this world. I think there might be some this morning, you need to start thinking seriously about what the future does hold. You've been eating and drinking and making merry, not giving any thought at all about eternity. You better settle that. Better make sure you trust in Christ. And then those of us who have trusted Christ We say, you know, I'm going to live for him and not for this world. Father, I ask you to help us. Lord, this has been a challenge to my own heart, my own walk with you. To live for and invest my life in eternity and the things of God and not so much of this world and the here and now. With our heads bowed, eyes closed, how he would say, Pastor Leatherman I know I'm saved. There's no doubt about it. I've accepted Jesus as my Savior. I know that's settled. But I'm living my life. So much of my life is invested in the here and now. So much of my attention is on temporary things and not on the things of the Lord, not on the things of eternity. And you'd say, preacher, pray for me that I could lighten my grip on this world I can lighten my grip. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Many hands all around. I'm telling you, that'll change the way we think. Change the way we live our lives We understand that what all the things that are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. The things of God Some here this morning say, preacher, I know someone that's not saved. You say, I'm not trying to be judgmental, but I know they're not saved. You say, preacher, I'm so burdened for them. I want them to be saved. I want them to know Christ. Will you pray with me, preacher, that God will bring them to Christ? God will help me be a witness to them. Is there any like that? The uplifted hand, preacher, I know someone, I'm burdened for them. Maybe a family member, a friend, a coworker. Somebody dear you, God bless you, many, many hands. I want to challenge you to pray. Put old-fashioned orders a good place to pray for loved ones Ask God to give you boldness. Ask God to give you witness. Ask God to give you a testimony that has an impact on them that they'll seek Christ. One last question. Does anyone here say, preacher, I've never trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior? I need to do that I need to do that. I need to know I've trusted Jesus Christ as my personal Savior. Is there any like that? Pray for me, preacher. I don't know that I've ever trusted Christ. I'm concerned about it. God bless you. How about it? Any others? Any others? Now, Father in heaven, you know our hearts. We ask you to help us, help us, Lord, to hold loosely to this temporary world and be prepared for what you have planned in the future in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.