The two don't have it. No, he created us so that we would have fellowship one with another, so that we would love him and he could and would love us. Um in many ways, uh my and I don't mean I don't in any way, shape, or form want to bring man God down to man's level, but in many ways I think God is He created us in his image, in his likeness, and uh and wh like just like we want to love and be loved. God wants to love and be loved. And that's what He has created us for, so that we can love Him and He can love us back. To have that fellowship with each other so that we could interact. Go all the way back to Genesis, and we're going to end up there before we're done here tonight. But um uh Adam and Eve interacted with God. They talked to God and God talked to them and we can use our imagination a little bit and they they sh I'm sure they shared their thoughts with God and God would speak to them and they interacted, they had fellowship, they had a relationship with each other. God has created us to live in His presence In Malachi, he says that God hates putting away. Now that's in the context of marriage. But I think the principle applies to our relationship with God. God doesn't want his us to be separated from him. He doesn't want there to be sin between us and him and some distance between us. He wants us to be together. He wants us uh to be in uh in each other's presence. And that's one of the most tragic things about sin As devastating as it is, and the hurt that it brings to our hearts and lives, and the consequences of so many areas where sin is, I'm telling you, we cannot hate sin badly enough. It is so devastating. And one of the most tragic things about sin is this. It affects my fellowship with my Creator. It affects the very purpose that I exist. It hinders the fulfillment Of my reason for my existence. That's why. That's why when we live in sin, even as a believer, even as a child of God, if I allow sin into my heart, and you know this is true, we all know this is true If I allow sin in my heart and life, there's a little bit of emptiness there. Right or wrong? There's something is not right. Something is missing. We know. It affects our relationship. It affects our very purpose for being. Because sin, one of the most tragic effects of sin is this. It breaks my fellowship with God. The very purpose of my existence is to interact with God, to fellowship with God, to be in his presence. And when sin is allowed, when sin comes in, that is broken. And that's the tragedy of it all. I think one of the saddest events, perhaps the saddest event in all the Bible, is when Adam and Eve decided to disobey God. Sin and that that beautiful, unhindered, perfect fellowship was severed. And then heartache comes in. And we see the consequences. So that's one of the tragic effects of sin. It separates us from God's presence. It breaks our intimacy with our Creator. The very purpose we exist. And it's broken. And now here we are. With this emptiness and that and that purpose is gone And uh that that ability to be able to live out the reason I'm created and all these uh uh uh desires that God has put in my heart for God, it's broken And thus we have a world full of frustration. We were a world full of anger. We were a world full of emptiness. Because sin has broken the very thing that we were created to uh do you follow what I'm saying? Everybody know what I'm saying? Take your Bible, keep your place here, we're gonna come and look at this, and I'm only gonna get started tonight, but come back to Isaiah Isaiah expresses it pretty well in Isaiah 59. Now here he's talking to the nation of Israel, but the statements here apply to mankind in general and also applies to a Christian. who is out of fellowship with God. Isaiah chapter 59. Give me a chance to find it there. And uh I have these verses underlined in red ink in my Bible because I think they're Pretty significant. In fact, I bracketed this whole section out. Isaiah chapter 59 and verse number one. Everybody there? Isaiah 59, look at verse number one. Behold, the Lord's hand is not shortened that it cannot save. Neither is his ear heavy that it cannot hear. So from this verse, no trick question here, it's very obvious what the answer is. In this verse, is God able to save man? Yes. His hand isn't shortened that it cannot say. Let me ask this. Is God able to hear and interact with mankind? Sure. The idea of hearing tells me there's communication going on. There's interaction going on. There's a relationship going on. There's fellowship here He said, the problem isn't that I'm unable to. The problem isn't that I don't have the facilities, the capabilities. But verse 2 tells us what the problem is. But your Iniquities have separated between you and your God. Your sins have hid his face from you that he will not hear. And then he goes down and he expands on that. But that's the tragedy of sin. Because sin is in the world, and particularly for unsaved persons, but it's a result of sin, we have, I like using this phrase and I've heard Years ago, I don't know where I ever heard it the first time, but I like this phrase. We have a God-shaped hole in our soul A God-shaped vacuum in our very heart. Because the very thing we were created for, to interact intimately with God, Walk with him and talk with him and interact with each other. Sin has separated us from that. And thus there's this vacuum. There's this emptiness here. That's why people growing up And they push the Lord out of their life, and they push the Word of God out of their life. And without fail, I've been doing this long enough, I've been doing this all the time, for many, many years, and without fail, When a person pushes God out of their life, salvation or whatever it may be, they push God out of their life. They always, without fail, there is an emptiness in their life. There's an emptiness in their soul. You can see it in their eyes, and their countenance becomes aggravated. They become frustrated. They'll make statements like this. I don't want to live anymore. I hate everything. I hate everybody That to me is screaming out, God is not in my life. There's emptiness here, there's frustration here. The very purpose for my existence is not being fulfilled, and I'm angry, and I'm frustrated, and I'm mad at everybody and everything. That's the tragedy of sin. It produces emptiness. It produces loneliness. It makes a person lost. Jesus repeatedly throughout the Gospels would refer to unsaved people as a lost sheep. They're out there separated from the shepherd. They're away. They're in darkness. There's fear. They're alone. A lost sheep. So that's the tragic consequence of sin. And all through the Bible, from Genesis to Revelation. It's a record of God calling man back into fellowship with himself. Right in Genesis chapter 3, and like I said, we're we're going to turn here in just a moment. In fact, go ahead and turn there But in Genesis chapter 3, the Lord says to Adam, Adam, where art thou? Question, did God not know where Adam was? God knew where he was. God wasn't trying to gain information. Let's look back there. God's not trying to gain information from Adam. Boy, I wonder where Adam got to. I can't find him anywhere God knew exactly where he was. What was God doing? God was giving Adam the opportunity to what? Come back. Adam and Eve had sinned, and they hid themselves. Look at Genesis chapter 3 and look at verse number 8. Verse 7, and the eyes of them both were open, and they knew that they were naked, and they showed leaves, fig leaves together and made themselves aprons And they heard the voice of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day. And Adam and his wife did what? Hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God amongst the trees of the garden. Separation. And the Lord called unto Adam. He called unto Adam and said unto him, Where art thou? That wasn't God trying to gain information. They weren't playing hide-and-seek. You know what this was? I suggest to you, this was God saying, Adam, come on back. Adam, here, I'm here. Where are you? Come. I believe it was a call for God, uh, from God, for Adam to be restored. To the Lord. And we won't turn there, but you go all the way back to the end of Revelation. You know what the Bible says? The bride and uh the spirit say, Come! Come. And at the end of the book, God is calling man back. Come back to me. Come back to me. Come back and let me be to you the very thing I created you to need. Let's restore that relationship, restore that fellowship. And so the whole Bible, from Genesis to Revelation, is God calling man back to himself, back to himself. Now, come back to James if you would. So you say, all right, preacher, I agree. Unsaved people need to come to the Lord. They need to come and trust God. You're absolutely right. But you know, even as a Christian We can get in such a condition that we are not in fellowship with God. The book of James is written to believers. Remember chapter 1? Brethren, brethren, brethren. These are two believers. And here you have saved people who have gotten themselves in such a condition that they're out of fellowship with God. Now we Important to point this out and I'm working on a message. I'm gonna preach some point down the road um at some time. But um uh it's important to understand there's a difference between having a relationship with God and being in fellowship with God. How many parents do I have here? Raise your hand. How many parents you are related to your kids? I hope so. That would be good. They wouldn't be your kids if uh if you weren't related to 'em. So I have a relationship with my boys. My relationship. That never changes. There's nothing to do. You cannot unborn a kid. No matter what happens, no matter what they do, you're stuck with them. They're your kids. And uh they're there. So the relationship doesn't change, but our fellowship with our kids Can change, right? Tragedy is some of us, I'm talking to some folks perhaps, we're not in fellowship with our children. Still my kid? But we don't we don't share things. We don't have that same fellowship. We don't fellowship with each other. And that's true spiritually. It's possible for a child of God, a Christian. I don't ever lose my relationship with God, it'll always be my Heavenly Father. I'm born into the family of God. You can't be unborn. That fellowship with God, I can allow myself to be separated from God, get a distance between God and I. And get out of fellowship with them. And that's what James is addressing here. He's writing to believers. And they're apparently out of fellowship with God. There's apparently some distance between them and God And so he says, draw nigh to God, he says there. Now one other thing I want to touch before we start looking at this, and I'm just going to introduce it tonight. But there's something else we need to be aware of. Whether we like it or not, whether we're aware of it or not, the moment we got saved, we got involved in spiritual warfare. Do you see that in verse 7? We preached on this. Submit yourselves therefore to God and resist the submit to God, resist the devil. That whole verse screams of conflict. Between God and the devil. Warfare between God and devil. Read Ephesians chapter 6 and so many other passages of scripture. There is a spiritual warfare goes on For every lost soul getting saved. I'm telling you, I'm telling you, I am positive of this. That young man that trusted Christ this morning, there was a spiritual warfare going on for his soul leading up to the moment he trusted Christ. I guarantee it Thursday night, Brother Grant was able to lead two young people to the Lord. I'm telling you, there is a spiritual warfare going on for the salvation of those kids' souls. There's no doubt in my mind. You say, well, preacher, I'm saved. I'm not involved in that warfare anymore. Oh. We just got on the other side of the devil now. And I'm telling you, there is a spiritual warfare going on. Devil can't get us in hell, but he can sure do everything he can to mess us up and keep us out of fellowship with God. And so we are involved in a spiritual warfare, whether we like it or not. Say, hey, that little temptation to sin, that little giving in to sin, you say, oh, it's not that big a deal. I'm telling you, in the spiritual dimension, it is huge. It is victories for either God or the devil. It is victories for either right or wrong. And we think it's so incidental, we think it's so inconsequential, when in reality it is It's a spiritual warfare going on and our actions uh have tremendous consequences. And tragedy is we don't see it till many times uh long way down the road. So verse 7 brings it out. Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil he flee from you. We're involved in the spiritual warfare and Satan is constantly drawing us away from the Lord, constantly drawing us. to get us out of fellowship with God, constantly pulling us away from that closeness to God that we should have, and God wants us to have, that He created us to have as Christians And Satan is just constantly drawing that away, drawing it. He'll use he is uh Satan is clever. Anybody find that out? Anybody here ever get tricked by the devil? You don't want to talk about anybody? What was that little song we used to sing? Devil is a mean. Oh that mean old devil is as sly as a fox. If I could catch him, I'd put him in a box. I'd put him in a box and what? I'd lock the door and throw away the key for all those checks he's played on me. That's pretty good singing there, I'll do it. Thank you very much. Somebody appreciates. I'm telling you, he's very clever. And he can get us, he can take things in life and get it up in our head and get a thought in our head and get us so twisted out And get us so bent out of shape and get us so clouded in our thinking and make us absolutely useless for God and get us so far from God we don't even realize it. until it's tragic. You follow what I'm saying? We are involved in a spiritual warfare. And we've got to be careful about that. He's pulling us away. This promise given here, but God giveth more grace, verse 6. God uh reads this about, but giveth grace to the humble Then as a result of that, he goes down this list. I listen to him, submit to God, resist the devil, draw nigh to God, cleanse your hands, be afflicted, humble yourself. All part of that maintaining my walk with God, having victory over the devil. Now, I've broken these down, and I just and uh I see what time it is. I just want to give you this first one. Look at verse number eight. First part, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Draw nigh to God. This is my first point. We'll get the others later. A conscious decision has to be made That statement, draw nigh to God. That is deliberate action on my part. That is a conscious decision I am making. Alright, I have got to get close to God. I have got to draw nigh to God. Adam was hiding. Adam and Eve were hiding in the trees. They had put on these vegetarian garments. And they're hiding from God. And uh God says, Where art thou? And Adam has to make a conscious decision Am I going to try and keep hiding from him? Or am I going to respond to the call of God? Am I going to go get back? Praise the Lord. Adam went and responded. And he was restored. So there's a conscious decision here, a deliberate consciousness. This is what I'm trying to say, emphasize tonight If you and I are going to be close to God, if you and I are going to be right with God, it's not just going to happen. We're going to have to decide. That I'm going to do what needs to be done for me to get close with God. I'm talking to some folks, I have no doubt, you're just sitting there waiting for God to make you right with him. That ain't going to happen I have got to take the initiative. I have got to make the decision. I am going to do what needs to be done so that I can be right with God. God does not save people against their will. And God doesn't make a backslidden Christian right against their will. I've got to decide whether I'm going to get close to God. He says, draw nigh to God. The ball is in your court. The decision is for you to make. There's a conscious decision. It does not just happen by chance. It does not happen by accident. You have somebody that's right with God. You have somebody that's close with God. They're walking with God. The presence of God is all over them. That didn't just happen. They didn't accidentally get into that condition. They made some conscious decision that I have to make There's some changes in my life. There's some actions I need to take. There's a certain way I have to think. And I want to do that so that I can be close to God. Draw nigh to God. It's a conscious decision. The word draw nigh has the idea of approach, getting close to. It's translated throughout the New Testament as being at hand. It says the coming of the Lord is at hand. The whole idea is this. It's within reach. It's very close. It's right at hand. Where's that salt shaker? Oh, it's right there. Oh, okay. It's at hand. It's not. It's right there. And so he says, draw nigh to God. Get close to God. Get near to him. Eliminate the distance between you. It's like this. As I was studying this, I got this impression: get intimate with God. Now, when he says draw nigh to God, he's not talking about getting close to God physically. You and I can never get any closer to God physically than what we are right now. God is omnipresent. He's everywhere all the time. Hey, whether you're aware of it or not, whether you give it any thought or not, you are right now in the presence of Almighty God. You can go out in the ocean. In fact, Nehemiah says you can go to the farthest star. You're still in the presence of God. We cannot escape the physical presence of God. He's everywhere So when he says, draw nigh to God, get close to God, he's not talking about in physically, he's talking about relationship-wise. Did you ever say this to somebody? Oh yeah, so-and-so, we're tight. Anybody know I'm talking about that's cool lingo for you older people. I'm I'm up on all the really cool lingo. I say that stuff all the time, don't I? So cool people say cool lingo and so but we're tight. What does that mean? Means we're really close to each other. We're close. This, uh somebody's personal space Anybody ever hear talk about that their own personal place? Do you ever get in an elevator? Maybe you're up at Ruby, this is me, I go to Ruby tomorrow, get in the elevator, and there's one other person on the elevator and you get on it closes. What do you do I stand on one side, they stand over there. We put a little distance. In fact, I've got a study on that. That was pretty interesting. The first area, you and I are now, with you to me, we are now in public space. You are in my public space. That's fourteen feet or more. I don't know how they came up with that figure. Fourteen feet. You're a little close there, Tom. So that's 14 feet. This is our public space. Then the next level, I'll use Kathy on this, is social space. That's within four feet of each other. So we're this is socially. We're talking, we're somewhere at a fellowship hall or whatever and we're out at Ron and Connie's and they have a children's activity and we're standing there talking. This is social. Then the next level is personal space. I knew this was gonna happen. Uh is one point five feet. So that's where we're sta come up here. That's where we're standing, like this. This is this is personal. And then there's another level. is the intimate space and there's no measurement between that. That's where we're holding each other and hugging. That's intimate. So you have these different levels. You get in an elevator and there's one other person there. You're not intimate with him, you're not personal with them. You give a little distance. Now if you get on the elevator at somebody, maybe Jerry's on there. Hey Jerry, go over, shake his hand, I'll stand beside him. And we're a little closer. We're getting nearer to each other because of our relationship. We're a little close to each other. I get on the elevator and no one else on, and Kathy's on there. And he'll be I'm not gonna tell you what happened then. But it's none of your business But uh that's the idea when it says draw nigh to God. Not talking about physically close to him But in my relationship with him, in my interaction with him, our love for each other and our commitment to each other, our understanding of him, I'm drawing closer, I'm getting tight With God. Uh a person can be sitting I g uh person Mark can be sitting in uh in his living room and have the cat on his lap And Jackie be in the kitchen uh two cats now. No wonder he's sick He's turning into one of those weird cat people, you know. So the cat sitting on his lap And Jackie's in the kitchen or somewhere else, but he's closer to Jackie than he is to that cat. You know what I'm saying? I mean as far as their understanding and their relationship. You can't have a relationship With a cat. And uh, but uh, but uh you see you follow what I'm saying? And so when he says draw nigh to God, it's not like all right, I've got to go somewhere and get very, very close, I've got to go to church because that's when I'm really close to God. No, no, no. It's not what it's talking about. It's talking about my understanding and my love, and our relationship is very close. We're intimate in our understanding and our love and commitment to one another And so notice the order. Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Someone says, that's backwards. God has to get close to us. Then I can get close to him. No, no, no. No, no, no. Who's in the relationship between you and I and God, who's the offending party? Who's the one that uh is the offending party? It's us. We've sinned against God. I got news for you. God has never sinned against you. I hear this, I don't hear it so much, but I used to hear it. I had someone in in the church years ago, someone was coming to church time, they said this, I just got to forgive God. I said, you're nuts. God's never sinned against you. God's not the offending party. We are the offending party. We are the one that has to draw nigh to God. The offending party is the one. That has to be. God does not have to be restored to us. God has done nothing wrong. We are the ones that need to go to him. We are the ones that left him. We are the ones that sinned against him, not vice versa. There is nothing more that God needs to do for me to be right with him. It's on my part. I must decide. Hey, you know, I'm not right with God. As a Christian, I'm out of fellowship with God. I'm not near him. And I need to recognize that, and I need to make a conscious decision to correct that. And do what I need to do to draw nigh to God. Now, the moment I do that, the moment I do that Then God steps in and he says, all right, that's the case. I've been waiting for that. I've been watching for you to draw nigh to me. I've been waiting for you to draw nigh to me. I've been waiting for you to make the decision, to get things right, and acknowledge your sin and get us close together again and close. I've been waiting for that. I've been waiting for that. And the moment I make that decision, boom, then God decides, all right, I'm getting nigh to you There's a beautiful illustration of that in scripture. There was a daddy had a boy. The boy took his inheritance and ran off to a far country. Did daddy go running out after that boy? No. It's his decision. He sinned against me. He's taking that, he's gone. But in that far country, in the pig pen, the boy came to himself. He says, my father's servants have homes to live in and food to eat. Of course I'm putting my words. He says, I'm going to go back and just ask Daddy, just let me be a servant. Just let me be a servant. And if you read that very carefully in the Gospel of Luke, it says, while he saw the boy was afar off, that daddy went out. As soon as that boy made the decision, I'm going to make things right, Fatty's going out there. He's got the robe, he's got the ring, he kills the fatty calf, he makes a big boy party, my son was lost, and he's found. And that's what this verse is saying. If you and I, maybe I'm talking to some Christians here tonight, church members, and we're out of fellowship with God. We know we're not right with God. We know we're not right with God. And some of us are sitting back, and the reason we're still not right with God is we're waiting for God to do what we need to do. We're waiting for God to make us right. No, no, no. God's waiting for you and I to draw an eye to him. And the moment we do that. Then God steps in. The moment we humble ourselves, then God gives us, verse 6, what's it say? Grace. We humble ourselves, God gives us grace. We step neck proud. I ain't making that right. I ain't making no changes. I'm not confessing my sin. God says, I'm resisting you. You humble yourself, I'll pour out that grace. I'll give you everything you need to make things right. But you've got to make that decision to draw nigh to me. You draw nigh to me, I'll draw an eye to you. How do you get closer to God? No matter how far I am from God, I have an open path back to Him. No matter how badly I sin. I have an open path back to God. I confess my sin as a Christian. I acknowledge it. I humble myself, and God pours out the grace, and he brings me back. So how do I get close to God? Let me give you a couple suggestions and we end. Number one, I ought to read my Bible every single day. Say, preacher, that's all you ever say. I know, because we need to read our Bible every day. You know I found out Kathy prepares a meal every day. And we ought to read our Bibles every day. That keeps me close to God. I'm humbling myself, the Lord teach me, show me what I need to know. Show me, show me, Lord, teach me, help me We're going to pray. God, you're right, I'm wrong. God, I'm the offending party. I'm the sinner. Show me. And God pours out his grace. Faithful to church, assembling ourselves together, helps us How many people found how many people have ever found that when you go to when you leave church, a lot of times you're closer to the Lord than when you came? Anybody? Almost always for me That's drawing nigh to God, getting close to God, let him deal with my heart. Getting sinful stuff out of our lives Getting junk. He says here, we'll look at it later. Purify your hand. What? Cleanse your hand, ye sinners. Purify your heart. Get that junk out. And then being a witness. Being a witness, this is pretty neat. He says in Matthew, brother Hummel referenced it this morning. He says, go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptize them in the name of Father, Son, Holy Ghost, teach them to observe all things whatsoever command you. And lo I am With you always. Presence of God. You say physically, Jesus is right there. No, he's always right there, whether you're witnessing or not. But he's with me in the sense that we are closer together. I found that when I'm out, when I'm genuinely burdened trying to reach other people for Christ, I'm in closer fellowship with God than I'm when I don't. Say, oh I'm not right with God. One good thing to do is go soul with Him. I'll stir you up. All right, I got quit. Father in heaven, help us to draw nigh to you, Lord. Help us to do our part. Take the action on our end. And you promised us, God, that you will draw nigh to us if we take that first step. If we'll do these things. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, I wonder how many tonight would say, preacher, I really want to be closer, Lord, than what I am. I need to be closer, Lord. I know I'm not where I should be. And you'd say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me take that first step. God will help me make that decision, all right, I'm going to do what I need to do to get things right with God. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? God bless you. Bunch of hands all around. That's what Sunday is all about. Getting close to God, close to God. Now today ends the Lord's Day. We had a good day today. God bless. We used to go into a work week I just like this thought. Finding a place to alter and saying, God, help me get close to you this week. Help me stay close to you. Show me what I need to do. Give me grace to make these decisions. And God will help us. And may we go into this week, end out the day strong, go into the week strong for the Lord. And see him do some great things. Father, bless our invitation, I ask in Jesus' name. Let's stand together.