First Samuel chapter tw chapter 30. And uh again I want to begin reading in verse six. We looked at verse six last um uh week when we were on this. Am I turned on, Jamie? I'm not Sure. Am I good? All right. Verse six. We started in verse six. We ended with verse six last week. I want to pick up there this week and come down through verse ten. The Bible says, and David was greatly distressed. For the people spake of stoning him because of all because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters. Now if you remember the situation behind this, David had got reasoning in his own mind And um he disregarded God's promise and God's clear instructions for him to stay in Israel, stay in Judah, and he went to the Philistines to find safety from Uh King Saul. Anybody you all remember that? We've been looking at that. Over there it worked fine for a while. He had his little scheme going. He wasn't disloyal to Israel. He wasn't disloyal to King Saul. He was just looking, using them for security from King Saul. And meanwhile he's just kind of uh raiding these little towns and stuff in out of way places and helping the cause of Israel. Nevertheless, they're going to go now war breaks out with Philistine and Israel and David's stuck in the middle. wanting uh one guy's wanting him to uh Akish is wanting him to go to war against Israel, the Philistines saying, No way. And so David's in the middle. They boot him out and he comes back to his town and if you remember the little town of Zaglag there He found that while he was gone, there was no warriors there. They were all gone. It's just the women and children and households. And uh the Malachites came in and just devastated the place, burnt it to the ground, took everything, and took the ladies and the children, took the people as prisoners, which was very uncharacteristic. Because the Amalekites were known for just slaughtering everybody, just leaving nobody behind. And so uh David comes back, and that's the context here. Now look, let's pick up here uh at the end of verse 6. But now he's all distressed about that and boy the people are talking about stoning him. But David, look at this Encouraged himself in the Lord his God. Boy, what a statement. I underlined that in my Bible. And David said to Abathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, I pray thee, bring me hither the Ephod. And Abathar brought thither the Ephod to David. And David inquired at the Lord, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? Shall I overtake them? And he, the Lord, answered him, Pursue, for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all. Now look at verse 9. So David did what? He went. He acted on God's promise. He went, he and the 600 men that were with him, and came to the brook Besor. where those that were left behind stayed. But David pursued, he and four hundred men, for two hundred abode behind, which were so faint they could not go over the brook Bezor. The reason they were faint, we're going to look at this probably next week's message, but the reason they were faint, we believe, is they had been up uh with the Philistines fixing to go to war. That was a three-day journey. And so they've been traveling three days, they get back home, the town is devastated, there's no resources there, there's no food, there's no nourishment, so they've gone several days you know, without so there's a group of them just can't go on. So but anyway, uh what my message tonight is this how David dealt with distress How he dealt with this whole situation. And I think we can learn from this. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless now our study and this portion of your word What a man David was. And I pray we can learn from this. He made a terrible mistake, but God, the lessons that were learned So please fill me with your Spirit, Lord. I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. I pray with all my heart, Lord, you please fill me with your spirit. Teach us tonight. Help us to deal with our distress and our troubles in a in a biblical way. And we ask this now in Jesus' name. Amen. I want to make two statements here to begin the message tonight. First one is this there are events that take place in our lives that alter the course of our lives. Now I want you to think with me. We're going through life, something happens, and sometimes it happens throughout our life many different times. But something happens and it alters the course of our life. Now, can you think of any what would be some Instances where something comes into a person's life and it alters the very course of their life. Can you think of anything? Somebody, this is group participation Ah children coming into the home would be uh uh would be altered. I'm telling you, kids in the home changes your life more than getting married does. No, those kids uh what is something else, James? Joining the military, okay. Um uh I I Put two subcategories under that. Some are events that are out of our control. We don't have any control. They happen and they change our life. What would be something like that? Betty? Death of a spouse, death of a child, death of a parent, maybe a young child, their parent is killed, uh alters your life. I have no choice, I didn't ask for this, I had no say in it it happened, changes the whole course of your life. Can you think of anything else? An illness, I had that, where some of you have some a cancer shows up maybe and you might have to lose a body part or something and you and uh it changes your life. I'll I'll give you the list here that I have here. uh a lost job. Maybe you've worked a job for years your whole life, just before you're about to retire, then boom, the place goes out of business and uh you're scrambling around there. Uh other ones I put down, death of a loved one I had that was said. What about uh uh un an unfaithful spouse? Come home and find out everything's packed up and gone. Boy, that'll change your life. Um uh a parent uh uh is uh dies or something, the death of a parent, death of a spouse, something like that. So some things come into our life, we have no say of them, we have no control, it just happens And man, my life is never the same. I'm completely changed. Now some things happen, events come into our lives that change the course of our life. that are a result of decisions we made. For instance, adopting children. That would change your life. Making the decision to get married would change the way the course of your life. Can you think of any others? Something I choose, I make a decision, and my life is never the same. Getting saved, that's I had down. Getting saved, uh change your life, never the same. Joining a church, she said, could uh change the course of your life. Um getting a job, taking a job in Hawaii. Maybe a job is offered. Maybe, maybe Maybe a church calls and offers the pastor a position in the Caribbean somewhere on a nice island and uh and uh that would change your life forever. Uh these types of things How about make a decision to sin, to disobey God, step out of the will of God, and boy, the consequences change my life forever. Now here's my first statement. I've said all that to get to this. Things happen in life. Sometimes not a choice we make. It just happens outside of our control. Maybe it's something I decided Good or bad, it changes the course of my life. Now my second statement is this, how I respond To that change determines the quality of life I'll live with that change. Follow what I'm trying to say? Um if uh uh you know a spouse dies, let's use that for an illustration, if the spouse passes away, how I respond to that Would very much I can't change the the I can't alter the course how my life has changed with that spouse being gone, but how I respond to that Would be a huge factor on my quality of life after that event. Do you follow what I'm trying to point out? You know, a spouse divorces, come home, they're gone How I respond to that, I can't control that. That's happened. Not what I would have chosen, but it's happened. And how I respond to that will very much determine the quality of the life I have after that event takes place. How about if in David's case here He leans on his own understanding and he makes a decision to go out of the will of God, to disregard God's promise. and step deliberately out of the clear will of God for his life, and he goes over to the Philistines. Now that's that has the potential of completely altering his life. It had devastating consequences However, he responds to it in a proper way, and it enables him to not have his life, the rest of his life destroyed But he can still be used of God. You follow you follow where I'm going with this? Maybe somebody, maybe I'm talking to somebody, made a decision, said it was wrong, I know it was, I was stupid, I made this decision And man, my life hasn't been the change, but how I respond to that sin, to that failure, that poor decision, how I respond to it afterward Can determine the quality of my life even after I've made a bad decision. Alright? So I think that's, I'm trying to set the stage here for David's situation, David's circumstance. He got over here and now, you know, he's getting away fine being out of the will of God for a while, but now, man, his family has been taken captive. For all he knew, up to one point they were dead Uh his all his possessions are gone. The people have turned against him. And so what's he going to do? You just give up? I've seen people just give up. You know, something bad happens and they just flat out give up and they quit. They just quit and their life is miserable. Some people uh get bitter You know, something happened, I made a mistake, or somebody did something, it cost me. My mother died or my wife died or my husband died, whatever, and they get bitter. I was talking to somebody just in the last couple weeks Somebody in their family died. And they said I was so bitter at God for seven years. I blame God. They took somebody from me. And you know how we respond to these life-changing events determines the quality of our life. David made the decision to follow his heart, disregards God's promise, and he had tragic consequences. David's in a position, as far as I can tell, he's never been in before. He is totally alone. He's out of the will of God. He hasn't prayed for a long time. We're going to look at that here in a little bit. His uh uh he's away from his nation that he loved, the nation of Israel. Um his king has turned against him, now his own men that he's been Tutoring and working with them, they've turned against him, his family is gone. I mean, you talk about the bottom of a barrel, that's where David is at. However The way he responded to this, I want to say, is an example for us in whatever situation we're in. Everybody with me? You follow where we're going here? Now look at this. I think it's very helpful. This helped me. Number one, what did David do? When he's in this position, he's never been here before, everything is gone. He is completely distressed. What did he do? Number one, I hope you'll write these down. Number one, first thing I noticed he did, he shut up. He shut up. Now you say that's awfully rude. But uh look with me if you would at verse number six, the first part. Now again, I say this often, but sometimes you can learn a lot by noticing what the Bible doesn't say. Verse 6, it says, and David was greatly distressed. Alright, we got that. Why? For the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and his daughters Now, David's lost his wives, he's lost his household, he's lost his possessions, now everybody else has lost theirs, and now it says they spake of stoning him. And I got looking at that phrase, they spake I looked that up, the people spake. It means this. They were saying this constantly They were incessantly saying, we're going to stone David. We're going to stone David. In fact, it implies this, that it escalated. As more and more people were saying, I can't believe David got us in this mess. We need to stone them. Yeah. And they're getting louder and louder, and they're getting more boisterous with this statement. And it's building, it's building. David's hearing all of this. And in fact, that word the people spake, it's also used some places to describe this: a person making a vow. So these people, they're serious. They're serious. They say, we're going to stone David. He has messed us up. He's got us in this situation. Our wives and our sons and daughters are going and uh we're going to kill them and it's escalating. More and more people are saying this, and it is building to a what's the musical term? Crescendo. Crescendo crescendo. I mean it is escalating. But notice what does David from just to that where I read, just that phrase, what is David saying back to them? Look what the Bible says. We don't have a record of him saying anything. He's kind of like Joel tonight, just sitting there not saying anything. I see no record of David responding to what these people are saying they're going to do to him. I don't see him engaging them. I don't see him uh uh trying to uh react to what they're saying or doing He just shuts up. He doesn't say a word. David says nothing back to them. You know what I found? Sometimes the best thing to say is nothing. How many people ever learned this? Sometimes it's best just to keep your mouth shut. I mean, David is in a bad spot. And I don't know about you, but uh to me it seems like the sinful nature, our old fallen nature, when people are saying stuff like this And they're threatening us and they're railing against us and they're blaming us for everything and they're turning against us. The sinful nature's automatic tendency to respond is what? Throw it right back at them. Oh yeah? Well you guys, and just go back and forth. But David doesn't do any of that He doesn't blame anybody. He doesn't defend himself. He doesn't excuse anything. He doesn't try and argue with them. He doesn't try and reason with them. He just keeps his mouth shut. Turn with me, if you would, to Proverbs chapter 13. Proverbs chapter 13, while you're turning there, when we get distressed, when we get to the end of our rope, when we get uh uh really stressed out. And we start running our mouth, and people are all angry at us, and people are saying stuff, and we open our mouth and start running our mouth. You know what I found out, and I hate I wish I could say this wasn't from experience But sometimes we end up saying things we really don't mean. Yes or no? In fact, sometimes we end up saying things that hurt people worse than what the whole thing was. Do you ever get in an argument with somebody? And after it's over, you don't remember what the argument was about, but you sure remember the stuff that was said. The words that were said hurt more than what the original issue was Sometimes we get distressed and we get worked up and we get overwhelmed with our circumstances. We say things we don't mean. We say things that hurt. We say things that discourage other people. We say things that we regret. Anybody ever have to do this? You come back, somebody's all mad at you and carried on, and you got mad and responded back. Then afterwards you come to them and say, Listen, I'm sorry I said what I said. I didn't mean to say that. Anybody know what I'm talking about? I get ashamed of how I acted and what I said. David doesn't do any of that. And what an example, what a tremendous response to him being in distress. I'm telling you, sometimes the best thing in the world to do is just keep our mouth shut. Look at Proverbs 13 and verse number 3. I have this underlined in my Bible. It says, he that what keepeth his mouth keepeth his life. That word keepeth there means to hold back in restraint. The idea is a a person riding a horse and they have the the bit and the bridle and they're holding it and they're holding that powerful horse back and they're restraining that horse. They're keeping that horse from going forward. They're holding it back. Boy that thing's prancing around and they're holding back on the reins It's kind of like when I take our dog for a walk. The dog weighs a hundred pounds. He's stronger than I am. And I'm taking him for a walk. And inevitably, we'll go up the road here. There's a rat, there's two rabbits that live right over here. And brother, we get to that spot, I have got to keep it the dog in restraint. I mean pulling and hooking and I'm holding on with all my might. That's the idea Of this word keepeth. Look what it says. He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life. Look at this next statement. But he that openeth wide his lips shall have what? Destruction. The word keep it there, as I said, means to hold back to restraint. The word destruction is interesting. It has this idea to be to totally break down. To be ruined and to be end up in dismay. I put in the margin of my Bible, beside that verse, I put this there years ago. I don't remember the circumstance, but I put this. Just us That was for me. Just hush. Come over to chapter 21 of Proverbs and look with me at verse 23. Now remember, David just, these guys are railing on, they're going to stone them, they're going to kill them. They're vowing before God. We're going to kill you. David doesn't say a word. Chapter 21 and ver chapter 21, yes, and verse 23. Here it is. Whoso keepeth his mouth And his tongue keepeth his soul from trouble. The word trouble there means distress, vexation, anguish. This, I think it's very important that we learn to not respond to things sometimes in a situation like that. It's very important. But let me say this. See if see if I can get you to agree with me on this. It's very difficult. I think people have found when things get hot, it's hard to keep the mouth shut Man, we just be sometimes before we even think. But David is able to restrain himself. David is able to keep his tongue. and not engage the people and not react to them. David was not in any, here's the thing, he was not in any emotional condition to be engaging them in a conversation. The worst time to try and solve something is when you're all angry. The worst time to try and uh deal with something is when you're emotionally all out of sorts and crushed and overwhelmed and distressed That's the best time. Just be quiet, give it a little time, let it settle down. I always advise people, when you're in an overwhelming situation, circumstance, whatever it may be, a life-altering circumstance Best thing is to do is don't make any major decisions right away when your heart and life and mind is overwhelmed. Whatever it may be. Just calm down, be quiet, hold off, and wait on God. So the first thing I have here that David did in this situation was he shut up. I notice something else he did. Number two, it's this. He looked up. He looked up. Look at the last part of verse 6. I'm going to read down again through verse 8. But David encouraged himself, but the sentence doesn't end there, he encouraged himself what? In the Lord. Ah. Little different than uh back when he was saying to his own heart Now he's looking away from his own reasoning and he's looking up to the Lord. David encouraged himself in the Lord, and David said to Abathar the priest, Abiathar the priest Ahimelech son, I pray thee, bring me hither the Ephod. And uh Abathar brought thither the Ephod to David. We'll look at that Ephod there. And David inquired at the Lord. I underlined that. And saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? Shall I overtake them? And God answered them. The Lord answered him, Pursue, for thou shalt surely overtake them without fail. Recover all. So David looked up. Verse number six, it says, but David encouraged himself in the Lord. You know, there are several times in the Bible where that word but comes in, and boy, it changes everything. But God, over and over, but God. We were talking about Bob Gray, Brother James. He had a message, but God And it was really good how God changes things, turned things around. So, but things changed. This is the first This is the first record we have of David praying for a very long time, at least for a year and a half Maybe a little longer. We don't have no record of David praying. Now he might have prayed over his food. God is great and God is good, and we thank him for our food. He might have done that. But as far as Getting on before God and seeking God. This is the first record. I'm telling you, a year and a half without prayer is devastating. A year and a half without prayer. I put this down. Neglected prayer leads to a troubled heart. Neglected prayer leads to a troubled life. We have got to learn to pray. We have got to learn to seek God in decisions we make, situations we are in. is just go to the Lord, seek the Lord. And so we have David is coming back to an old habit that he had gotten away from. And uh he's seeking the Lord. Look at verse 6. He encouraged himself. What does it mean when somebody uh is encouraged? What does that mean? Alright, that's one of the definitions is to strengthen. Strengthen your resolve. What else? If somebody you're going to encourage someone, what are you going to do? What does that mean? You're lifting them up, you're strengthening them, lifting them up. It means to renew, regain strength, to regain courage. David encouraged himself in the Lord. He says, listen, you can handle this. God can help you. You can get through this. God will see you through this. And so he regains courage, he renews his strength, he revives his hope, he's encouraging himself in the Lord. This is not hopeless. And so he's encouraging himself, but in the Lord, not in his own heart, not in his own reasoning. Oh, I can figure this out. I'll come up with a solution. No, there are no solutions. But he looks to the Lord and it changes everything. I keep quoting this passage, uh this verse as we're studying this, Proverbs 3, 5, and 6. Trust in the Lord with All thine heart, and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways acknowledge him. He shall direct thy paths. You know what David's doing? He's acknowledging the Lord here. Saying, Lord, I need you. I don't have an answer to this. I don't have a solution to this problem. God, I I'm at wit's end And Lord, I'm acknowledging I need you. And God steps in instantly and says, all right, here's what you should do. And God gives him direction. And then he mentions the ephi there. And I don't want to spend a lot of time on this, but that's an interesting garment. It was worn, uh there was one for the high priests Very ornate. It would have a, it was kind of like a vest. The part would hang down the front, part would hang down the back, and it had these buckles here that held the two sections together. There was two very uh two gems And on these were all the names of Israel were listed on this vesture, this vest type thing And then there was one for the one for the high priest who was very fancy. I believe there was one for just the common everyday priest, not quite as fancy. But they would always wear this when they would approach God It was always put on when they were going to come before the Lord in prayer. And so David had a priest, and they had one of these ephods with them, and he calls him. And now what's the significance? Why didn't David just go and pray to the Lord? I think there's a little bit of significance here. Now this is just my take on it But I think it is i I think it implied humility on David's part. Lord, uh I have nothing of myself to bring. A lot of Bible scholars suggest that the F represented the righteousness of Christ. That we would put that on, not that we are worthy to come before the Lord, not that we are righteous can approach a holy God, but we put this ephod on that represents the righteousness of the coming Messiah. And I think it implied humility on David's part. I think it implied uh it was acknowledging uh uh the fact that um uh uh he had no righteousness of his own It was worn when they come to God in prayer. It was symbolic of humility and seeking God's favor. So, David's not just coming looking to the Lord, but he's doing it in the right way. He's doing it in the right way. There's one, there's, you know, it matters how we do things. I mentioned this, I think, Sunday. It's a right way and a wrong way. And David's being very, very careful. I've been away from God. I haven't prayed in a long time. I'm going to do this right. Get the F od We're going to humble ourselves before God. We're going to approach him the way he instructed us to back in Leviticus. And we need God's favor. And so he's looking for God's direction. Then, last of all, I noticed, number one, he shut up. He kept his mouth shut. He didn't engage the people. He looked up, and then last of all, I got this down three, he got up. He got up. Look at verse 9. So David went. He went. He and the 600 men that were with him. Now I think it's interesting. He says, so David went, he and the 600 men that were with him, they went out after these Amalekites. Now, what were those 600 men doing just a few verses earlier in verse 6? They say, we're going to stone them. We swear we're going to stone you. You got us. And man, they're all worked up. David doesn't engage him. He looks up to the Lord. He prays. He gets direction from God. He steps out and says, Fellas, we're going after them. God gave us the okay. He says we're going to take them. Let's go. Now, this is the way I see it. Those guys are, we're gonna study. Huh? We're going after them. God said, we'll get everything back. Yea, for David, we're going with you. I tell you, when a man gets a hold of God, let me put it this way, it's a whole lot easier to follow somebody when they get a hold of God and have direction from God than when they're out there just kind of winging stuff on their own. Right? These people, uh something happened. Uh David the change of uh of attitude in the hearts and minds of David's men. I put it down this way. Prayer changed David, which changed the men's attitude about David. They could trust the man who was now trusting God. Before they said, boy, David got us in all this. Mate, David got it. Now it's no longer about David, now it's about God. What God's leading them to do, what God's directing them to do, what God has promised that he would do. Trusting God does not mean inactivity on our part. David didn't just say, all right, I'm not going to fuss with him. I'm going to look to the Lord God. We need your help. And then just sit there. Then you get up and go. You get up and act. Let me put it this way. We fight the battles, but God gives the victory. I remember years ago, fella, I've used this before, but um I've used all my illustrations before, I think, but uh he was got saved. And uh baptized, and you know, doing all right, but he was just kind of lazy. And uh um one day he called me up, it was a weekday, he said, Pastor Lim, I said, Yeah, he says, I really need a job. I said, Yeah, we've been praying And he says, um, I've read this verse in Timothy here. It says uh in the New Testament here, he says, if a man doesn't work, neither should he eat. He goes, what's that mean? I said, Dave, I think it means you should work. If you want to eat. He goes, that's what I thought And he says, I've just been praying here. God give me a job. I said, You need to quit just laying on the couch watching TV, praying to get a job. You need to start go out actually looking for a job while you're praying for a job And he goes, yeah, that's what I think so too. And God got a hold of him. He really turned out to be a pretty decent Christian. But uh, you know, sometimes we just pray, God save so-and-so, God save them. And we should do that. But you know, maybe part of God's saving them is you and I getting up and witnessing to them. David said, you know, can we recover all this? God says, yeah, you recover it, but you've got to go and do it. I'll make sure it happens. I'll give you the victory and you'll recover everything. But You're not just going to sit here and do nothing. You're going to get out there and go and go after it and do it. David prayed, and then David pursued. I read about this week, I read about um Lady, her name was Gladys Aileyward. Aileyward, A-L-Y-W-A-R-D. Gladys Ayleward. Back before World War II She was from England and um God stirred her heart to go to China as a missionary. And um she didn't have much encouragement, she didn't have any real Bible education or anything, and didn't have a lot of money And uh so she didn't get much support, but she saved up what she had, and um usually they would sail around to China. It was a lot safer than going across the Trans-Siberian uh trip across there, but it was a lot cheaper to go across land. And so she did that. It's very dangerous with thieves and everything, but she did that and got safely to China and um got us got in with some missionaries there and established and became a uh did uh uh uh quite a work, very, very successful and established some ministries and worked with the young ladies there. And she had an orphanage Well, World War II was beginning to brew about 1938, and Japan, I think it was right around then, Japan uh began attacking China. And we're actually invading up into China. It was a very, very dangerous time. She had an orphanage, this Gladys lady had an orphanage of uh 50 girls. And the the Japanese were coming in, they were going to be killed, they were executing Christians, and she knew they had to flee if they were going to live. And the only way to flee was through this mountainous pass. And so she got the girls together and they prayed, and uh they uh started to make their way uh through this range of mountains, and just as they were leaving, another orphanage from another province over showed up, all the kids. And there was 50 more. So she has supplies. She's doesn't know how she's going to get 50 kids through this mountain range. Now she's got a hundred. And uh she was very discouraged, she said. And uh they started up and they're trying to find safety, they're making their way through these mountain passes, and after many fatiguing days and toilsome nights Gladys found herself in total despair. She was overwhelmed by the circumstances, overwhelmed by the danger, and overwhelmed by the needs. And the girls picked up that Gladys was afraid and discouraged and giving up. And a 13-year-old girl Came up to her and reminded Gladys of the story of Moses leading the children of Israel through the wilderness. Little 13-year-old girl said, Moses led the children of Israel through the wilderness. Gladys, in her despair, said, but sweetheart, I'm not Moses. Began to cry, and the little girl said, Of course you're not, but Jehovah is still God. Isn't that amazing? She got through the mountain pass, saved those girls' lives. She um went back to England, I think, for a while, then ended up back later on back in China, and if I remember correctly, she died there But here's the thing. I'm no David. Maybe you think I'm no, I don't have the faith of David the man of David. No. But the God that David looked to is the same God that you and I can look to. And regardless of what mess we're in, regardless of how bad we may have messed up, or how overwhelming we may be, we'll just keep our mouth shut, look to the Lord, and do what he says. God can get us through it and see us through also. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us to follow David's example. He kept his mouth shut, Lord, and he looked up, and then he got up and went and did what you said. And I pray you'd help me and all of us to do that same thing, regardless of big or small our issues may be But just to trust you and follow your leadership. I wonder with our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many like me would say, preacher, pray with me that um I can learn to Keep these lips in control. Keep this tongue in control. Any like that? Preacher, I need that. My hands raised. Goodness How many would say, preacher, my prayer life, I need to get my prayer life back where it needs to be? I need to pray like I should. Any like that? Maybe some of us have spent a long time. Maybe we need to get that settled. And then maybe God's dealing with you, showing you, you know what you should do. We know what we need to do. We just trust God and we do what he says and look to him for the victory. Any of you here like this, say, preacher, I know exactly what God's leading me, I know what God's instructing me. And you'd say, pray with me that I'll just trust him and do what he says. Any like that? God bless you. God bless you. We know. We just have to do it. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask. Have your way in Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together, heads about, eyes are closed