Your Bibles please, the book of 2 Samuel. Once again, it's such an honor to be here on this particular day celebrating your pastor and Mrs. Pastor's uh thirty-second year. And I know with her health issues, I think I can say this, I'm sure she's watching at home. She wants to be here more than anybody else wants to be here. So you just keep praying for her. We pray for her as we as we travel. My wife and I both pray for her on a regular basis and we've seen good days and bad days and that we rejoice in the good days and pray more when we have the bad days, but Just keep praying for your pastor's wife. Your pastor could not do what he's done here for 32 years without his help me at his side. So keep praying for her. 2 Samuel. You're in the book of 2 Samuel We're going to be in the 23rd chapter of the book of 2 Samuel. 2 Samuel chapter 23. David is coming to the end of his life. And David's reign is about to end. He's going to turn the throne over to Solomon. Remember, we may rehearse this one another time this week, that the nation of Israel, as the twelfth tribe, nation of Israel, before it was divided only had four kings. There weren't a whole bunch of them. We read the book of Kings, we read about lots of kings. We read kings over Israel and kings over Judah, but neither of those were the whole combined nation of Israel Ra uh King Saul was the first one chosen. Remember, God didn't choose King Saul. God let them choose King Saul He said, They they have not rejected thee, he said to Samuel, They've rejected me, that I should not reign over them. And so King Saul was an abysmal a selfish, self-centered, and even self-righteous individual. And finally his kingdom is rejected and the Lord has anointed the man after God's own heart, this man by the name of David, as a young teenage boy anointed to be king over the entire nation of Israel. Most people regard him as the greatest king that God's people ever have. And as you get to 2 Samuel chapter 23, David again is coming to the end of his reign. And we're going to see some last words by David, and then we're going to meet some people that aren't very often mentioned in your Bibles. Matter of fact, only twice for a great many of them. We're going to meet those men called the mighty men. whom David had. Understand, there were lots of men in David's army. Think about this. At one time in the book of First Chronicles They numbered the people under King David and found out there were 300,000 in the army. That's who was in the army at that time. So over the forty years, thirty-three years over uh the twelve tribes of Israel and seven years over the uh over the uh nation uh the tribe of Judah David would have had hundreds and hundreds of thousands of people that came and went through his army over the years. And so when you get down to thirty-seven that are singled out as the mighty men whom David had, they're pretty special individuals, aren't they? We would call them the SEAL team six. We would call them the Congressional Medal of Honor recipients. We would Give them bronze stars and silver stars and all of that kind of stuff. But as you get to these men, I want you to notice some things about them And then I don't want to preach a message. And ladies, I don't want you to be offended when I give the title. The truth is every person mentioned in this chapter is a man But the same principles that apply to men apply to ladies in this passage of Scripture. I'm going to preach a message entitled How to Be a Mighty Man for God. And by the way, again, how to be a mighty woman for God would be the same exact principles that make sure a mighty man for God in this passage of Scripture I'm going to have you mark your Bible here in 2 Samuel chapter 23, because we will turn back to another passage here in just a moment, and I want you to come right back to here. 2 Samuel chapter 23. Look with me, please. at verse one. And I want you to notice something so sweet that the Lord does here. It actually has nothing to do with the message, but I can't read this chapter without go starting with verse one. The Bible says this, and these be the last words of David. Then the description. David, the son of Jesse, said, and the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob. And watch this. And the sweet psalmist of Israel said, Don't you find that just uh so uh I can't think of a better word other than sweet David used so many of those 75 Psalms that he wrote just to praise and honor and glorify Almighty God. And now God turns around and uses those 75 Psalms to give glory to David. That's as gracious as it gets, isn't it? Now we're going to start meeting these guys now, beginning in verse 8. Notice what the Bible says, as the Bible gives us this list. These be the names of the mighty men whom David had The Tecmanite that sat in the seat, chief among the captains. The same was Eden, the Easnight. He lifts up his spear against eight hundred, whom he slew at one time And after him was Eliezer, the son of Dodo, the Ahuite, one of three mighty men with David when they defied the Philistines that were gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel were gone away He arose and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword, and the Lord wrought a great victory that day, and the people returned after him only to spoil And after him was Shamah, the son of Aege the Heraim. And the Philistines were gathered together into a troop where there was a piece of ground full of lentils, and the people fled from the Philistines. But he stood in the midst of the ground and defended it, and slew the Philistines, and the Lord brought a great victory. And three of the thirty chief went down and came to David. I want you to notice this thirteenth verse because there's a a great specificity in this thirteenth verse that you if you if you miss it you miss a great point here. Watch what it says. And three of the thirty chief went down and came to David in the harvest time unto the cave of Adulam, and the troop of the Philistines pitched in the valley of Raphahem. And David was then in an hold And the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem, and David longed and said, Oh, that one would give me drink of the water of the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate. And the three mighty men break through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem that was by the gate, and took it and brought it to David. Nevertheless, he would not drink thereof. But poured it out unto the Lord. And he said, Be it far from me, O Lord, that I should do this. Is not this the blood of those of the men that went in jeopardy of their lives Therefore he would not drink it. These things did these three mighty men. Now skip down. I want you to we're going to skip a bunch of them. Of course, we're not going to preach on all thirty-seven men, but I do want you to see the last one Look if you will at verse thirty nine, a name that you and I do not associate with great military victory. Matter of fact, we associate him with great betrayal Uriah the Hittite, 30 and 7 and all. How to be a mighty man for God. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. The Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. Lord, we thank you for our time together. Thank you for the wonderful report of this morning. Thank you, Father, for the faithfulness of a pastor and his wife at a church. And Father, how you've blessed their ministry here, and we thank you for that. We pray, Father, for another 32 years, if that be your will. Father, I pray that you just help us tonight as we look at your word. Help us tonight as we see what these men did. Father, we see some things in them that should convict us and should spur us Father, help us tonight in Jesus' name. Amen. As in this passage, so many times when you read about some uh person that the Bible singles out that has done something great They did one of three things. You'll find it's almost universal. They did one of three things. They either stood up, they spoke up Or they stepped out. All three, all thirty-seven of these men are going to do one of those three things. I want you to notice when we meet the very first ones. I want you to notice if you're going to be a mighty man for God, the first thing you have to be is you have to be, if you're taking notes, number one Delivered. You have to be delivered. And if we're going to understand about deliverance, we've got to understand first who got delivered, and secondly, who did the delivering, aren't we? I want you to notice some things about these men that we meet right here in this passage of Scripture. First off, they're a bunch of nobodies. As a matter of fact, their names are mentioned only most of them, only one other time in the Word of God And that's another listing of the mighty men whom David had in First Chronicles. The fact is they're not their stories aren't told any place else, but in the two listings, for the most part Nobody's naming their kid Shama, nobody wants to grow up and be like the tecmonite that sat in the seat. You never seen a little uh young man say, well what do you want to be when you grow up? Well I want to be the tecmanite that sat in the seat. It doesn't happen. They're a bunch of nobodies. If it weren't for these two passages of scripture, nobody would even know who they are. But not only are they nobodies, but they're nobodies from nowhere. They didn't come from significant families. One of them, his dad's name is Dodo. Yeah. If he accomplishes something for Almighty God, he will be known for the rest of his life as a dodoite. There's an ahoite, there's a techite Techmonite, there's an Ezenite. How many of you heard all those wonderful stories about how God blessed the Techmanites throughout the Word of God? We don't even know who these tribes are, these cities are, these regions are. The Bible doesn't even tell us if that's the name of their family or the name of the region that they're from. We just know that they're a bunch of nobodies and they're from nowhere. Can I tell you something before I take another step I am so glad that these people are in the Word of God. I know some preachers out there that their dad was a pastor and their grandpa was a pastor Their great grandpa was a pastor, and everybody in their family has been in the quote unquote family business, and they've been preaching, and they come from that lineage, and they went to Christian school or homeschool today went off to Bible college and we're trained there and I praise God for every single one of them that I know But I'm also encouraged that you didn't have to go to the right school, you didn't have to be in the right place, you'd have to be with the right family, you didn't have to be from the right region for God to be able to use these men. I'm thrilled that God uses nobodies from nowhere. I'm thrilled that you don't have to have the right pedigree to surrender to Almighty God and have Him use you. These are a bunch of nobodies from nowhere. But There are nobody from nowhere who had accomplished nothing. The Bible was clear. Remember there in verse 13 I told you to watch the specificity of this verse. Because we find some of these men that are mentioned in this passage of Scripture came to David in 1 Samuel chapter 22 Go ahead and turn back to 1 Samuel chapter 22 with me. Mark your place there in 2 Samuel chapter 23. I want you to see these men who are getting delivered. These nobodies from nowhere. The Techmanites and the Ahohites and the Adenos and the Shamas and the Eleazars, people that are mentioned no place else But then I want you to notice what they were before they came to David. Look if you will, 1 Samuel chapter 22. Notice what it says. David therefore departed thence and escaped to the cave A dualum. Same place. And when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither to him. Now watch who came to David, and everyone that was in distress And every one that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him, and he became a captain over them, and there were with him about four Hundred men. Notice those three words. I love it when the Bible alliterates itself. It saves me the time. Notice what it says. These men that came to David, watch what how they're described. Everyone that was in distress. Now the Hebrew word there for distress means they were basically surrounded by inabilities. Now every man in this room, if we if we went around and most of most most guys wouldn't have any problems with this, we said, I want you to stand up and tell everybody one thing that you do better than most people. Every man could stand up. Some would say, well, I'm I'm a good organizer. Some would say I'm a delegator. Some would say I'm good with my hands. Some would say, well I'm pretty smart Some would say, I I I I I can I can uh do numbers and and all that kind of stuff. Yeah, we would be able to stand up. By the way, uh Greg Ciano, the former coach of the Rutgers Scarlet Knights uh football team, he said that every man thinks he can do two things well. Grill and coach football. Every one of us would be able to stand up and tell something that we do well. However, you wouldn't be as quick to be honest with this, but maybe we could get your wife to do it for you if you wouldn't be. But if I had you stand up and tell me something that you don't do well Something that when it hits your plate, when it's part of your list of things to do, you just dread it for days upon end. You don't like it at all. With me, I am not handy I am the opposite of a handyman. I can't change light bulbs without watching a YouTube tutorial. That's how bad it is. I am just terrible at that. My daughter used to come to me when she was little and she had these things called littlest pets. How many you guys anybody know the littlest pets? They're still around. She would come to her littlest pet. I found out so many years later, twenty years later When uh we pulled them out from under the bed to show charity that we still had them, she named every one of those one hundred littlest pets. They all had their own individual name So she would come into my office. Her my my office was here, her bedroom was here. She'd come in right before bedtime and she would have tears flowing down her cheeks and she would say, Daddy, this was broken Lula's pets were $1. 79. I would say, sweetheart, Daddy will fix it. And I would take her in, I would tuck her into her bed, I would kiss her good night. I would go outside, I would get in the car. I would drive to Walmart, I'd spend a dollar seventy-nine, I'd get that littlest pet, I'd unwrap it I'm not silly. I'd unwrap it, and when she woke up the next morning there was that littlest pet sitting there all repaired and brand new and even clean. My daughter thought I could fix anything Until she came to me and she said, Dad, I think my iPad is broken. I'm like, You're on your own, honey But the truth is I can't fix things. I had a deck put on the back of my house. A pastor friend of mine did it. His name is Joe Young, and he told me what to buy, and so Lowe's backs up and unloads all this lumber in my backyard I looked over there in my backyard, and you know what I saw? I saw a big pile of lumber. You know what Joe Young saw? He saw my deck. He could see how it was going to turn out. When I get one of those bookshelves that you put together or something like that, did you have all the little pieces? And I finally get them together, if it weren't for the picture on the front, I could never do it And even after I get it done, it takes me about twenty minutes to convince my wife, No honey, they always have extra pieces in those things. But the truth is, I can only imagine I get so frustrated when I have to put something together or fix something like that. I have to do it because that's what a man does, right? But I just frustrates me to know in because I'm not good at it. What this passage is saying, they were surrounded by things that they're not good at. They were surrounded by things that they couldn't conquer. In other words, their whole life was surrounded by ineptitude. It was surrounded by failure. Everything they did failed. If they tried to run for office, they lost. If they tried to start a business, it went bankrupt. If they tried to invent something, it didn't work. Everything they did failed. They were in distress By the way, if everything you do fails, the next one's going to be true, aren't isn't it? They were in debt. Oh, you remember what that was like, some of you? Some of you may still know what it's like when you have more month than you have money But can you imagine these men sitting there at the table watching their children eat just a meager dinner, realizing that there was nothing in the cupboards for tomorrow? They were in debt and they were in uh they were in distress and they were discontented. That just means frustrated. I if everything you do fails, if you've got more month than you've got money every single month And you don't know how you're going to provide for your family? Wouldn't you be frustrated? Wouldn't you feel like you're banging your head against the wall every place you go? That's who these men are. Nobody's recruiting these men. No one's trying to get them to sign up for for anything. Nobody went door to door and said, Boy, we sure would like you to come and help King David as he starts a new army. Nobody did that. Nobody wanted them. They were nobodies from nowhere who'd accomplished nothing. That's who they were. And the devil comes to you and he says, that's exactly what you are. You're sitting there right now and the devil's telling you, yeah, you do one thing well, but everything else you're a failure at Notice who got delivered. These men who were nobodies from nowhere who'd accomplished nothing. But notice who did the delivering They came to the anointed king. When they come in 1 Samuel chapter 22 and find David at that cave in Adullah, understand David has already been anointed by Samuel as the next king of the nation of Israel. He was already prophesied as the next king of Israel. In first Samuel chapter thirteen and verse fourteen, when Samuel told Saul the Lord has sought for a man after his own heart, God already knew who the next King was going to be. And by the time you get to 1 Samuel chapter 22, after King Saul has tried to kill David more than one time, David is already the anointed king over the nation of Israel. But although he's an anointed king, he's an alienated king, isn't he? They don't go to him in the palace They don't go into the throne room. He's not sitting on a throne with a scepter in his hand, a crown on his head. No, he's in a cave, sleeping on the ground. drinking dirty water, wondering where his next meal is going to come from. He doesn't have instruments of music playing for him. Nobody outside of just these four hundred men in his family is acknowledging that he is the actual king that he actually is. Kinda you have to work hard not to see salvation in this, don't you? You kinda have to twist and turn not to see the symbolism here That you and I were just a bunch of nobodies from nowhere who'd accomplished nothing. Matter of fact, the only thing we'd accomplished was sin. Even when we thought we accomplished something good, it wasn't Because all of our righteousnesses are as filthy rags. The very best thing we can ever do, the purest thought we can ever have, the greatest and most selfless act that we can ever do is still considered by God to be filthy because it comes from the heart and the mind of a sinner. Here we were, bunch of nobodies from nowhere. We accomplished nothing. And we came to an anointed king. We came and trusted our Lord and Savior, who is in fact the anointed king of heaven and of earth. First Timothy chapter six and verse fifteen, which in his time he will show who is the blessed and only potentate. the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. That's who we came to. That's who we trusted for our to be our Savior. That's who we asked to uh change our wretched souls and wash them in the blood of the Lamb. We came to the anointed King. But understand, in this world today, he's an alienated king, isn't he? His name is mentioned more times in cursing than it is in reverence. His name is mentioned in derision more times than it is in devotion. What I'm trying to tell you is we came to an anointed king that the world does not look at and say he is the king of Kings and Lord of Lords. We know that he is, but they don't regard him as such, do they? But just like these men who'd accomplished nothing, who were nobodies from nowhere. and came to King David, who's the anointed alienated king. I love what happens. And he became a captain over them. Immediately he didn't say, well I'm going to have to see your resume I'm gonna have to check you out for a little while. I'm gonna have to see if you're gonna stick to it before I accept you. No, immediately he accepted them, because that's what our Savior said too, isn't it? Isn't it? He that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out. Amen Yeah. Thank you, Lord. Notice we see the first thing you gotta be if you want to be a mighty man is you gotta be delivered. Secondly, please, you've got to be dedicated. Go back to our text in 2 Samuel chapter 23. 2 Samuel chapter 23. We're going to start looking at some of these men. Notice what they were dedicated to do. I want you to notice this first one, Adino the Easternight Notice what it says about him. Let's read it again in verse eight. These be the names of the mighty men whom David had, the Tecmonite that sat in the seat, chief among the captains, the same was the Dino, the Easnite He lifted up his spear against eight hundred, whom he slew at one time. I want you to notice that the first person that we read about was dedicated to be firm when others falter. It doesn't tell us, when it talks about Adino, it doesn't tell us where everybody else is. Now for the next two men, it's going to tell us where everybody else is But this does not say everyone else has fled. It doesn't say that everybody else has gone away. It just says he got up and went out and killed eight hundred with a spear at one time. Now, everybody else was could have still been there. We don't know. It looks to me like what happens in this passage of scripture is a Dino gets up and all the tents for the nation of Israel are there, their battle is in array, all their swords are sharpened, their spears have a fine point, and their their armor is polished, and a geno gets up and says, Alright boys, it's time to go fight. Everybody else said, Nah, not today. We have a whole lot of Christians who are willing to acknowledge that we're in a fight that aren't willing to roll up their sleeves I've heard a phrase over a thousand times. And I know what the preacher is saying when he says it. I'm not one of those that goes around and criticizes all the preachers in all the world, but I've heard this phrase from pastors at least a thousand times. Here it is. Well, Brother Harper, you gotta choose your battles. Now, my great uncle Warren pastored a church in West Virginia. His church, Davis Memorial Baptist Church, split down the middle. A new church, Sugar Creek Baptist Church, was planted about a mile from my my great uncle's church. Alright? You know why their church split They had a church vote on whether to put a new clock on the back wall or the front wall That's not worth fighting for. If the ladies of your church want to paint this wall antique white and somebody else wants to pay it Navajo white, that's not a hill that you die on. Understand what I'm saying? I know what they're saying oftentimes. when they say you gotta choose your battles. But here's the thing about that phrase that I've heard so many times. Every time I've heard it, with no exceptions, they were talking about a battle they didn't fight. They were talking out of battle, but they chose not to fight. See, understand, we're not choosing our battles. We're picking our surrenders. We're looking at a battle and saying, No, I'm not going down there. It doesn't even tell us that there is a whole bunch of Philistines. We know there's at least 800. We don't know how many People in the army of Israel were there. The Philistines could have been badly outnumbered, but they didn't want to fight. I love that he kills eight hundred with a spear Think about that for just a second. Because what we read is we picture the end of the battle, right? Excuse me for being graphic, but we picture eight hundred corpses lying on the ground, and there's a dino standing there with the spear That's not how this works. If there are 800 people against the Dino and he's got a spear, he's not throwing it and then running over and getting it back so he can throw it at someone else. He is thrusting it through individuals, isn't he? Now, think about the strength it takes, the physical strength it takes, just to thrust a spear eight hundred times. The strength it takes to do anything eight hundred times. He did that 800 times, not just thrusting the spear, but thrusting the spear so with so much force that it would kill a man, and then pulling it back, excuse me, through the same man. But The Philistines weren't standing there in a nice, straight, orderly, single-file line, waiting for their turn to die. One, two. That's not how it happens. As he is thrusting a spear through number one, he's still fighting seven hundred and ninety-nine with a sword in his other hand. One and then Two, I killed number two. Now I got only seven hundred and ninety eight I have to fight. The Philistines didn't just stand there and draw numbers like you do in a deli and say, Well, I'm number seven, I'm gonna go soon That's not what happened. This guy just kept fighting and fighting and fighting and fighting. And the simple truth is nobody is fighting with him. One lie the devil has, however, is that if you're fighting, that you're the only one fighting If you're fighting, then you're all alone. Understand, you've never been in a battle all alone. Amen. You've never been in a battle. where you were going to be defeated as long as the King of Kings is fighting on your side. But he was firm when others faltered. Nobody else went out to fight but him. Notice, not only we do we learn to be firm whether it is false or we need to learn to fight when others flee. It's not just deciding not to go It's deciding to go the other direction and run away from the battle. There are some that are just on the sidelines watching. Every now and then they might root for you if you win a victory But there are others that when they see the enemy they say, Whew, there's too many of them. We better go. That's what the next two guys are about. Watch what it says. First we have Eliezer in verse nine. After him was Eliezer the son of Dodo the Ahite, one of three mighty men with David when they defied the Philistines that were gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel were gone away He arose and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary and clave unto the sword. His hand literally stuck to the sword. In other words, when they pulled they tried to pull the ha sword out of his hand, skin came with it. You have to hold a sword. With a lot of force for a lot of time for your hand and the sword to almost meld into one entity. This man stood up. Everybody else fled. Everybody else was afraid. Everybody else said there's too many Philistines and not enough of us. We're going in the opposite direction. But Eliezer gets down there and fights and fights and fights and fights until when he's done, you can't Tell where he ends and where the sword begins. Now you and I, if we wrote that today, we would say, boy, oh boy, Eliezer sure won a great victory. But that's not what the Bible says. He fought until his hand was weary and his hand claved unto the sword. And watch this, it uh in the middle of verse 10. And the Lord wrought a great victory that day. I'm going to say this because I met a few guys over the years, and I'm not calling any names or anything like that. I've met a few guys that seemingly want to take the credit for everything that the Lord's done. When we stand up and say I've done this and I've accomplished this and I've been this and I've all of those kinds of things, you've got to understand something. Yeah, I mean you can actually tell facts about where you've been, like the Apostle Paul about all of his beatings. But the simple truth of the matter is, it's the Lord that gave us strength to win in the first place It's the Lord that gave us strength to overcome those persecutions. It's the Lord that guided and directed. And it's the Lord that won the victory. But there's something else nestled here, isn't there? The Lord clearly tells us He won the victory through Eliezer's hand. Right. But you wouldn't know who Eliezer is if the Lord didn't tell you about him. True. So isn't that an amazing thing about God? He wins the victory. He empowers the soldier. He empowers the Christian to be a conqueror. And then even though he gave them all the power, he still lets us bask in some of the glory. Notice the people return after him only to spoil. After the Eleazars fought when others flee, then we find Shama who fights when others flee. Shammah goes out and defends that piece of ground full of lendels, and watch what it says about him. It says that the people fled from the Philistines at the end of verse eleven. Once again, everybody else woke up that morning and looked out and said, That's a whole lot of Philistines I'm going that way. You can fight if you want to. And uh Shammah defends that piece of ground full of lentils, and then it says it again, doesn't it? And the Lord brought a great victory. Truth is, there are a whole lot of people willing to come behind you and gather up the spoils when you win when the victory is won. But we need to be careful to make sure we give God the glory every time he does something through us. If we'll do that, God will make us more victorious. He knows he can trust us with victory. Notice, you've got to be firm when others falter. That's what we see with Adino. You've got to fight when others flee. That's what we see with Eliezer and Shamma. But you also got to be faithful when others are faithless. Think about that for just a moment. The last name mentioned. What a name. By the way, I love this name now more than ever. I don't know if you know this or not, or if you follow on Facebook or anything like that. My new, brand new, three-month-old grandson is named Uriah. I love that. He was born a week late, so my little brother Philip called him Uriah the Late Tyke He's absolutely adorable, I have to tell ya. He's he's much better looking than any of your grandchildren. And it and and and and if if you want to argue about it, we can argue about it later, I'm just telling ya. But everybody told me, well, you're gonna love being a grandpa, right? And I was ready for that. But I'm telling you what, first time I held him, I melted. I mean I I I I had no strength in my muscles, my joints were dissolving. It was just an amazing feeling He's amazing. His name is Uriah. He's the last person mentioned in this chapter, isn't he? Uriah the Hittite. Oh, we know the story of Uriah. We know what's happened. It's the time when kings go forth to war and David tarried yet in Jerusalem. And there he is, getting up from his bed. Don't you find that interesting? In the evening. In other words, David has been in bed all day Either that or he's taking his third nap today. David is not planning for the battle that's going on. He's not uh sending orders to Joab out on the battlefield. He's not concerned about anything. And he goes for a walk, and we know what happened. He saw Bathsheba. He has an affair with Bathsheba and she conceives David's got a problem now because one thing I think we skip over because we constantly interpret our Bible like it took place this year, stoning was still the law for someone who's committed adultery David's life is in danger. David decides instead of confessing and asking for forgiveness, which God does provide him when he does confess. He's gonna hide it. He sends for Uriah who's away fighting. I think it's interesting, don't you, that Uriah isn't an Israelite Uriah is a Hittite. It's a different nation. It's a Gentile nation. Uriah comes back and David wants him to go and spend time with his wife, and then seven months later she can have a premature baby, and no one will know the difference At least in David's mind. Uriah, however, sleeps at the steps. David asks him the next morning, why didn't you go home? His first answer, I find this amazing, his first answer is the ark. The visible manifestation of the presence of God is on the battlefield. David wanted to be where his sin could be covered. Uriah wanted to be where God was. Uriah the Hittite. He wasn't one, watch this now, he was not one of God's chosen people. Did you realize that? I want some Calvinists, I'll say that term out loud, I want some Calvinist to explain to me how this guy that wasn't chosen is ended up in David's mighty men's list. Could it be because whosoever will may come? Could it be because the Bible is true and God hasn't sentenced anyone to hell? They either go to heaven or hell because they accept or reject Jesus Christ. Heard a preacher say one time, and it's one of the most uh uh uh uh just uh intellectual, but it wasn't intellectual. He didn't he doesn't preach to be intellectual, he just everything he says is intellectual. He says, I just know that I have a God that's so sovereign he can give me a free will. That's just pretty good right there. I don't care who you are. Uriah said, I won't be where the ark is. I want to where the be where the people of God are. He said, All of Israel and Judah are encamped in the open fields. And my Lord Joab and the servants of my Lord abide in tents You want me to go down to my house and spend time with my wife? He said, As the Lord liveth and as thy soul liveth, I will not do this thing. David sits down and writes a letter. Dear Joab, kill Uriah. Love David. Letter says, put Joab in the forefront of the hottest battle, then retire ye from him. And I know we look at that and say, well, David and Joab got together and killed Uriah. No, it is so much bigger than that Uriah has been betrayed by his wife. He's been betrayed by his king. He has been asked to carry the letter, detailing the way he's going to get killed and deliver it to his commanding officers. Joab is going to be part of this conspiracy. But think about this. Uriah, they knew this about Uriah, that if they put him in the forefront of the hottest battle, he wouldn't say anything about it. He'd just go and fight They also knew he would fight until he heard retreat. Because as a loyal soldier, retreat is just as much in order as attack is. So if they blew the ram's horn, the typical retreat sound, Uriah would have retreated with everybody else. How do you get everyone else to retire from Uriah without Uriah knowing that he's supposed to retreat? In other words, there had to be some kind of signal that everybody but Uriah knew He's not just betrayed by David, not just betrayed by Joab, not just betrayed by his commanding officers. He's betrayed by his fellow soldiers. When the servant comes back and tells David, says David, uh, we lost a lot of men today. David doesn't say how many. David doesn't say how many flag-draped coffins am I going to stand over? David doesn't say because they the servant actually says that this city they've got besieged, they actually opened the gate the b the the uh the Defeat was so decisive. They opened the gate, they came out and engaged us in the open field, and then ran back into the city And then he says, Uriah the Hittite is dead also. And David said, Well, you win some and you lose some. Look it up Just try harder tomorrow. See, if Uriah the Hittite had his eyes on David He'd have been betrayed. He'd have quit. He'd have thrown up his hands and said, Forget this, I can't trust anybody. If his eyes were on Joab, if his eyes were on his fellow soldiers, if his eyes were on his wife. He was trusting all of those people and putting his faith in them. Uriah would have died the most tragic person in the Word of God. It's a believer. But his eyes weren't on any of those. His eyes were on the ark. I'm going to tell you something. I don't care who the men are Every one of us has men in our lives that are significant, that we love, that we we look up to. I would say we even respect, even go so far as to say revere. But understand this, you put your eyes on men, I promise you this, no matter how good that man is, no matter how wonderful his intentions are, he will eventually let you down. David, the man after God's own heart, let Uriah down. But Uriah still trusted. Uriah's eyes were on one person and one person only. His eyes were on the ark. This Hittite that didn't grow up knowing about Moses and Aaron and Joshua and the walls of Jericho, didn't know the Red Sea, didn't know the Jordan River, he didn't know any of those things. This Hittite, this Heathen was more interested in God than the man after God's own heart was when he's in his sin. He was faithful When everybody around him was faithless. I'm telling you, you keep your eyes on Almighty God. You keep your eyes on him and him alone, because he alone will never fail you. Notice, you've got to be dedicated. Number one, you've got to be delivered. We saw who got delivered and who did the delivering. You've got to be dedicated to be firm when others falter, to fight when others flee, and to be faithful when others are faithless But last and please, I want you to see you've got to be devoted if you want to be a mighty man. David is standing there in that cave of Dulam. And that's in a very dry part of the nation of Israel. And he's probably I'm uh this I'm this I'm guessing here, he's probably got some water in a cup and there's little what we what we often call floaties floating around in the water It's not clean water, it's not filtered water, it's not spotless water, it's not out of a well, it's come down over a cave, and he's got a little cup of it, and he's looking at this lukewarm or even warm water, and he goes, pfft Wish I had a glass of water from the well in Bethlehem by the gate. Can you picture it that night? There's there's a a fire place, there's a fire there in 300, and 95 guys are at that fire Maybe even some of David's family are there. But off over here, where there's no fire, there are three guys around the fire. Three guys that are just sitting there whispering. And one of the other guys has wandered away from the fire. That's why there are 396 over there. So one of the other guys has wandered over. And he hears those three guys talking. And one of them says, Did you hear what David just said? Yeah, I heard that. He wants some water from the well of Bethlehem. Yeah, heard that too. And then the third guy says, Well let's go get him some water. Our interloper says, hey guys, wait a minute. The garrison of the Philistines is in Bethlehem. I mean, they have whole armies there. There's 150 soldiers guarding the gate Yeah, you don't want to go there. There's too many obstacles. And I can see these three guys go. So? You don't become a mighty man shying away from a battle, do you? They slip off that night. They go, if Hollywood wrote this story, it would be a completely different story. They would spend about three months watching the city of the Philistines, the Phili City of Bethlehem, seeing when the guards changed and seeing when the the one guard that Is the weakest has taken his position and they would wear a black outfit and put stuff all over their face and they would climb over the wall and they would slip down in or they'd dig a tunnel for few months and finally pop up, get some water, and then slip right back out. That's what b that's what uh boy Hollywood would do it. But it's not what it says. They break through the host of the Philistines In other words, and by the way, again, the Philistines didn't go, whoa, there's three Israelites. We better go ahead and surrender. No, David says this. This is the blood of those men that went in jeopardy of their lives. In other words, they stood outside and said, Fellas, we're coming in and getting some water for King David. And they said, Hey, there's 150 of us, there's only three of you. They said, And your point is? Please understand, the Philistines didn't throw down their swords and surrender to these three Israelites. They fought They bled. They've been cut. They've been wounded. They've been cleaved. They might even be missing fingers, toes. Might have large sc bleeding places on their face and their body. By now someone's told David about it. David didn't ask them to go do that. David didn't even suggest it. He certainly didn't order it. But David is waiting. Probably that one guy that was eavesdropping told David first thing the next morning, and so David's been watching, waiting for these three guys to come back, hoping that they're going to make it. This was not a battle for the Lord. This was just doing something for David. Imagine him watching. looking over the horizon and sees three forms coming over the horizon. They're leaning on each other and limping bandages all around them. They get closer and closer and closer by now. Those other 396 men have gathered around, all of David's family has gathered around to watch this moment when these three mighty men walk into the camp of David. This little leather pouch. David, this is this is for you. And David says, Oh, no, no, I'm not worthy of that level of dedication. I'm not worthy of this. The men say, David, we were in distress and debt and discontentment. Nobody wanted us. Nobody loved us. But we came to you. You held out your arms and became a captain to us. We became your people. We got you some water. You wanted water. David said, No! I'm not worthy of this kind of dedication. But can you picture him? But you are. And he pours the water out unto the Lord. Let me ask you this. What do you think David could have ordered, especially those three men, to do? He literally ordered Uriah to his death. And Uriah obeyed. He didn't even order these three men to go get him water, but they went and got him water. What do you think David could have said? Oh, I want you to take a spear spear and kill 800 men. Adina would say, Yes, sir. I want you to take your sword and fight until your hand is weary and your hand cleaves to the sword. Yes, sir. Shama, I want you to defend that ground full of lentils. Uriah, I want you to go in the forefront of the hottest battle and fight up against the wall. That's what I want you to do. And every single one of them said, Yes, sir. What do you think David could have asked them to do that they would have said, whoa, that's too much I don't think there's anything, is there? Then why is it that their anointed king could ask them for anything and they would have done it But our anointed king. We're so quick to say no. The Lord says, I I just want you to Be in church three times in a week? Lord, that's an awful lot right there. You know how busy I am? I mean Wednesday's the only day That I can do such and such. And I'm so tired on my weekend after working all week that that Sunday night service is just too much to ask for. Oh, I expect you to read your Bible every day. Meditate therein day and night. Whoa, Lord have mercy. You know how you know how busy I am? Do you know how much stuff I have to do? You actually want me to spend like hours every day? Reading your word? I want you to pray without ceasing. Come on. Without ceasing. Don't you know how much that is? Don't you know how busy I am? Don't you know how many things are on my list of things to do? No, Christian. What we need to say is Yes, sir Lord. I remember when I was just in distress and debt and discontentment and you rescued me and you reached me, reached down and pulled me up out of a pit and you put my feet on solid rock. Lord, anything that you want me to do, I'm going to do it because the Bible says, as Paul, the Apostle Paul writes, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Holy accepting unto God, which is your extraordinary service. Giving him everything is just reasonable. You want to be a mighty man for God? You want to be a mighty lady for God? And you've got to be devoted. You've got to be willing to do whatever He tells you to do, wherever He tells you to do it. You've got to let go of your life and say, Lord, it's all yours. Many of us surrendered when we were teenagers. I say this often. It's a whole lot different story surrendering everything you have when you're fourteen. Because by the way, you don't have anything when you're fourteen. It's a completely different story to surrender when you're fifty. Some of us surrendered our teenage lives and we haven't surrendered our adult lives. Are we ready to be devoted? You want to be a mighty man? Want to be a mighty servant of Almighty God? Do you want God to take note And includes you among the 37 out of maybe a million soldiers that he had? You've got to be delivered, dedicated, and devoted. How about you tonight? Let's bow our heads and close our eyes, no one looking around. With our heads bowed and our eyes closed with no one looking around just for a moment. I wonder how many would say, Brother Harper, I'll give I'll give the pianist a signal when it's time to play, but for right now, just in the silence of the moment. How many would say, Brother Harper, I know I'm saved. I know I've trusted him as my personal savior. I have been delivered. He took me from being a nobody from nowhere who accomplished nothing and turned me in. to one of his own. And I want to uplift my hand right now just to praise his name for that. If you can say you can say that, would you slip your hand up right now all over the auditorium I know if I died today, I'd go to heaven. Jesus is my Savior. Heaven is my home. Slip your hand up and hold it up for just a moment. Thank you for put your hands down. If you couldn't raise your hand tonight, there's time for it. Want to ask the question, how many would say, Brother Harper, I couldn't raise my hand? I don't know. If I died today I'd go to heaven, but I'd like to know it. I'd like to be sure of that. Would you slip your hand up right now? No one's looking but me. No one in the entire world's looking but me As a Christian, how many would say, Brother Harper, hearing about the dedication and the devotion of those mighty men, the Lord used those men to convict my heart tonight. If that's you tonight, would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? Hold them high in the air. Thank you so much. You may put your hands down. Those men stood up. Spoke up or stepped out, every one of them. Tonight during the invitation, it's your opportunity to do those three things. We're all going to stay in here in just a moment. Some of you are going to step out into an aisle. You're going to come to an old-fashioned altar and speak out to Almighty God. You truly want to be a mighty man or mighty woman for God. That's not something you do from a seat in comfort. We have a word of prayer and then we'll stand. We ask that you bless our invitation tonight, have your will and your way in every single heart. Help us to do what you Would have us to do in Jesus' name. With your head still bowed and your eyes still closed, let's stand