Deuteronomy chapter number six. I want to thank Pastor for this opportunity. I know he's not here right now, but I never take it lightly when he asked me. I I like our pastor. He's a great man of God. He's been a good help in my life. I trust he's been a good help in yours as well. And I thank him for this opportunity to allow me to speak here in this evening. I trust that it blesses your heart. This is something the Lord's been laying on my heart the last couple weeks. And I trust that it's a blessing to you as much as it's a blessing to me. Deuteronomy chapter number six in your Bibles. Follow along with me as I read Deuteronomy chapter number six. I'm going to read verses six through nine of Deuteronomy six Deuteronomy 6 6 says, And these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart. And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, when when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand And they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes, and thou shalt write them upon the post of thy house and on thy gates. Let's pray and ask the Lord's blessing on the message. Father, we love me and thank you for this day, and Lord, I thank you for your blessings to me each and every day. And Father, I ask the Lord that you just uh fill me with your Holy Spirit's power Lord, I thank you so much for laying this up my heart, and I pray that you'd help me to be able to explain it the best I can, Father. Lord, I pray that be your word speaking through me as we come to this passage. And Lord, I pray that you God and direct us in your will. Father, I pray that you use me now to spread your word. I pray your word would speak through me tonight in Christ's name. Amen. So on December 25th, most of the time when you come around this time, you usually hear the passages of Luke chapter number two, Matthew chapter number one. Which I understand that. You know, it's the Christmas time we usually go into the Christmas story, which is understandable. You know, pastor was talking about, you know, it's the great time of the year. You know, we have the Christmas tree, the presents, uh we get together with families, great time of fellowship. That's one of my favorite times. But you know, as he mentioned this morning, if all that is, if that's all Christmas is to you, it's a very empty Christmas. Christmas is centered and focused around the Lord Jesus Christ. And though I stand here and speak tonight, and most of us, I feel like I'm preaching in a choir tonight, know that truth, that the focus is on the Lord Jesus Christ, there's a number of people out there that's that's not what Christmas is to them Christmas to them is about, you know, Santa Claus. Christmas to them is about getting stuff. Christmas to them is maybe it's just only about spending time with family. And they missed the point completely about Christmas. Now, not only that, a lot of Christian homes, they know what the true meaning of Christmas is, but that's what a lot of Christmas is to them as well. They know what the true meaning behind it is the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ came, that He came to die for our sins, but yet they live their Christmas out like it's just another holiday to celebrate here in the America. Why is that? I believe the passage here is the reason why. I love what Pastor mentioned this morning. I know he did it at halftime on the football game yesterday, but he took a time aside where he and his family got together And they got in the Word of God and they read the Christmas story together. With something the pastor calls family altar time. How much time do we spend with our family in the Word of God? Now if I pause in sum apart's message, forgive me, the Lord worked on my heart to change the message a little bit. I was going to explain why we should have it, but like I said, I felt like a preacher in the choir here. We know we should have it. But the Lord laid on my heart how in the world we should have family altar time. This passage here, I believe, is very clear how we can have a family all through time. I love the book of Deuteronomy. You know, it's written by Moses. I've come to this, I think of some excuses that people give why not to have family all the time. Maybe it's because, you know, they go to church. Hey, we got enough Bible at church. You know, I believe the people of Israel here got heard they heard the word of God a lot from people that were above them. I'm sure Moses shared it with them. Those who were in authority in those days, in their nation of Israel, this is God's chosen people They got to hear the word of God, but yet the Lord comes to them and says, you need to have this time in your home where the word of God that I teach you is taught in your home. Now think about that. Even though we have church, God still thinks it's important that we ourselves might say, oh, three messages a week, four messages, five messages a week. God says you still need that in your home. I think of devotions. Oh, we all have our personal devotions. That's our idea of family all the time. We just all do our devotions and we get enough Bible. You know, like I said, this is God's chosen people. They spent time in prayer. In fact, a lot of times they were required. This is something they had to do. They spent time with their God individually, but yet God still came to them and mention this passage, that they were to spend time as a family in the Word of God. You know, we as individuals, no matter who you are, Maybe you're here today and you have a wife or a husband. Maybe you're here and you have children. Maybe you're here and you don't have any of that. This still applies to you. Whoever is in your household can still spend time in the Word of God together Now the question is how can we do that? This passage I believe lays out pretty clearly. And you know what? Since a small cloud crowd, I'll try to get some participation out. Number one is There needs to be a change in yourself. Can you say that with me? There needs to be a change in yourself. Yourself. Look with me if you would at verse number six. Verse 6 begins, and these words which I command thee this day shall be in thine heart Before you ever have a family all the time, before you ever get together and you know spend that time with the family, there's got to be a change in your own life. Now, that includes salvation. Like I said, many of us here, I know most of you here, I know your testimony. Salvation is part of your life But I'm not just talking about salvation. I'm talking about allowing the Word of God to change your life. Do you allow that? Do you allow an opportunity there? I think of the idea of standards that the Word of God has. Do you mold your standards around what God's Word says? Do you allow the Word of God to change it if it needs fixed? Or do you just do what you feel like? Do you try to interpret the Word of God in a way that fits you better? If we are going to have the family altar time we need, we need to first of all be able to Willing to change herself. I like what Psalm 119. 11 says. That word have I hid in my heart. Why? Why did he put it in his own heart that I might not sin against thee Hebrews chapter 4, verse 12 teaches us that the Word of God is quick and powerful. If you will let this book change your life, it will. But you've got to be able to be willing to get in it and read it and study it. If you don't know what's in it, you can't allow it to change your life and you can't certainly share it with others. This book needs to change yourself. So first of all it needs to make a change in whom? Yourself. The second individuals I see here is the family. Can you say that with me? The family. It goes on. Okay, so we got thine heart. Then it goes on and says, Thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. Second group here. Apparently Moses here speaking to some parents, some leaders in these homes. Moses says, you know what you're going to need to do? And in fact, this is God speaking. He says, you need to teach these children. I see a number of words here. I marked them in my Bible. The first one there is teach. You know, we look at our Bible and we come across some words and we say, you know, I gotta look that word up. That's not a word. You don't really have to look up. We use it in our language here today. The teach simply means to instruct somebody, to guide them. I love 2 Timothy 3. 16 Which teaches us that the Word of God is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness. You want a profitable book to be able to instruct somebody in. This is the book. Proverbs teaches this book is profitable for instruction. You know, I was thinking about the home, you know, thinking about living in the home. And you know, many of us we we instruct, we teach certain things in our home. I think about eating properly. You know, we teach they teach our children is taught to eat properly. I think of respecting their elders. I think of maybe something as simple as learning to drive. Now I'm not against any of that. I'm glad children are taught to eat properly. I'm definitely glad they're taught to respect their elders. And I sure hope you teach them to drive properly. But you know, if that's all you ever teach them and you never share the Word of God with somebody, if you don't share the Word of God with them, they're missing out. You know, you can share with them knowledge. And the Bible is very clear we do need to share knowledge. But if that's all they get, they're going to be just like a lot of people in this world today, full of knowledge, but never understanding the truth. You need to be able to explain this book. This has God's wisdom for you and also for the individuals in your household. And you need to be able to, number one, like I said, with yourself, take the time and understand it, but then explain it, instruct. Not only do I see the word teach, but I also see the word talk. You know, it's a very interesting thing to think about. We talk a lot. I know a lot of the some people in the church, I look out and they're quiet, but I'm sure back at home, they're just like any other quiet individual I know, they're very w open. They like to speak. We like to talk, but what do we talk about? You know, we hear it around this time of year, football. We love to talk about football and what's going on in the football. I was happy with the football game on Saturday, a couple of them actually You know, we talk about, you know, what we're going to do with our lives down in the future. We talk about that. But how much do we talk about God in our home compared to all that? Think about that. You know, it's getting to a point in our world that if we talk about God, people look at us like we're weird. The only place God should be spoken of is in a church house. When we're doing something with the church. That's not the case. God says you need to talk, speak it. You know, think what a difference it would make in your home if you talked about as much about God as some sport that you like. What a difference that would make in somebody's life. And by the way, what really convicted me about this is it says to talk, but you read down through that chapter or that verse there, it says to talk. Let me get back in my place here. Talk of them when thou sittest in thy house and when thou walkest by the way and when thou liest down and when thou risest up. Basically what is he saying, evening, morning, noon. Talk about it. How often does your family hear you talk about God? I'm not talking about here at church, I'm talking about in your home. Do they hear you speaking? It may not be just at that time where you sit down and you talk about it, family, all the time, but just throughout your day, your family needs to hear you speaking about the Lord. So we got yourself, you have the family. And then it goes on, the last one. It says in verse 8, and thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thy hand. And they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes, and thou shalt write them upon the post of thy house and on thy gates. The last one I see here is others. You have yourself, you have family, others You know, I'm all for family altar. That's what I want to see here. You know, we should have that time where we teach the Word of God, where it's taught in home, but God did not intend for it to stay there. You know, he wanted it to be spoken. He wanted the family to take time and speak of the word, but then he wanted it to go out. You look at Hebrew history and you study what's being talked about here. A number of the Pharisees would do that literally. They would take the box and put the little verse inside. They would put it on their hands. They would put the verse inside this box and they would carry it around with them. Now a lot of times we say they took it too literally. You know that's not what it's talking about. But you know, when you stop and think about it They may have took it too literally, but some of us don't take it serious enough. They're more willing to be able to display the Word of God to others than what we are Now, am I saying you need to go home and put John 3. 16 wallpaper up? No. I mean you can if you want to. But what I am saying is the fact that others should be able to look at us and know we're Christians. Others should be able to look at our families and know, hey, these people love God. You know, there's a number of ways you can do that. By the way you talk, which mentioned here, by the way you walk, your actions, the way you dress. You know, we need to be able to display Christ to this world. Now, Family Altar. It needs it yourself involved, it needs your family, and it needs others. Now why in the world have Family Altar? I want us to understand the importance of it. There was a man. This illustration was used down in Pensacola. I wish I could remember the preacher's name. But this man, as a young lad, as a boy, was a very poor family. You know, it was this time of year, uh uh Christmas time, he would see all the other boys gather around at the school and they would come bring their gifts. You know, they would go open their presence there and he couldn't go. Finally one year he was able to convince his mom, Mom, I want to go open a present. I want to go, I just want to go hang out with them. They get to go open their gifts. So his mom wrapped up a Bible. You know, she didn't have him behold on mice wrapped up in the little brown paper she had and tied it with a string and sent him on his way As he got there, then you know they were calling out the boys' names. The boys were coming up and they had some really nice gifts and they were playing with it. Finally, his name was called. He came up, he got that brown paper unwrapped and found that Bible At that time you heard one of the kids snicker, is that all you got? I mean they got these fancy toys. They got, you know, the cool stuff, and he's just got a Bible. You know, he had some boys mock him. He later went home crying. His mom saw him crying and asked what was wrong, and he explained And what the story, what made a statement in my mind about the story was the fact that his mother told him, you got the Word of God, and that's all you need. The story goes later on that this preacher one day saw a man, you know, he was rugged, he was homeless on the street, and if I understand the story correctly, that man was somebody who was one of those boys who opened those presents. You know, that boy opened that present, that old man who's now homeless, and got some fancy toy, but Sally did not get what he needed. I don't know what you got for Christmas. You know, if you got something that you look at and some material object and you love it, that's great. But you know, if that's all you get, that's not what you need. The word of God is what we need. I love what Joshua 1. 1. 8 says, and I'll conclude with that verse. At the end of the verse, it says, Thou shalt make thy way prosperous and have good success. Joshua was commanded to obey the law of God. Why? Not to, you know, do whatever he wanted to, but because he so he could have good success. Well I look at Joshua and study the book of Joshua. I see a man who is a great military leader. I look at Moses, I see a great leader, but Joshua is military. You look at some of the strategies used, I thought, man, this guy's fantastic. I love him in our army But you know, you look at the story of the Battle of Ai, and when that city they lost the battle to somebody they shouldn't have even lost. When they went without God's power, you saw his true weakness. You know, without God, even though he was a great military leader, he was nothing. That's why he needed God in his word and his life, so he could be successful. You know, this Christmas, not just this Christmas, I'd love to have the idea of you know everybody leaving reading Luke chapter number two on Christmas Day, but how about each and every day of the year? You know, why don't we take a time where we set aside and say, you know what, we're going to do what Timothy says. We're going to take that Bible, which is profitable to us, and we're going to share it. You know, we're going to start with myself, we're going to do those personal devotions, and then we're going to share it with them, and then we're going to take it to the world. If we can do that, we can have good success. Why don't we have those times in God's Word. Father in heaven, I love you and thank you so much for this day. Lord, I thank you for the opportunity to speak. And Lord, I thank you for your blessings to me each and every day Father, I thank you so much that you clearly lay to us out in your word the fact that we can have a time where we get together and we study the Word of God. Lord, I pray that you help us to make that choice, to do what is right. Lord, I pray that we would spend time with our families in the Word of God With heads bowed and eyes closed, how many in here would say, you know what, Brother James, I want to make a commitment to God that I am going to share my word with God my family. If that's you, you say, you know what, I want to share hit my word or God's word with my family. If that's you, would you raise your hand and say I am I'm willing to make that commitment I see those hands. Thank you. One last thought though. I know most of your testimonies, but if there's anybody here, I can never preach this without asking this question That change that needs to be made in your heart of salvation, if that's not been made in your life, this can be no help to you. Is there anybody that's here to say, you know what, Brother James, I don't know 100%. For sure I'm safe. I don't know I'm going to heaven. If that's you, I want to pray for you. Is there anybody like that at all out there? Anybody at all? Father in heaven, we love you. And Lord, I thank you so much that we can have family altar. And Lord, I pray that you help us make that choice. Word, I pray that you God and direct us in your will, in Christ's name, with heads bottom