I'd like for us to read together Job chapter 13, verse number 15. Would you read that together with me? Everybody got it there And uh altogether, ready? Let's read it. Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him, but I will maintain mine own ways before him. My father was a truck driver and he told me years after I got saved, he told me many, many times, that uh going through dark times in his life and heartbreaking times, he'd be out in the truck And God would bring this verse to mind. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him and maintain mine old ways before him. I was reading through the book of Job here about a week or so ago in my devotions. I was reading through, and I got to chapter 13, verse 15, and I had to stop and pause. And think about, Dad, and think about the truth of this verse. And I felt the Lord leading to preach on this this morning. So I'm entitled How to Respond to Trials. How to respond to trials. A lot of things I don't know about just about everybody here, but one thing I do know is all of us face trials in life Am I right or wrong? Anybody here ever been through a trial? Sure, sure. Some of us are going through them right now. And so let's ask the Lord to help us know how to respond When these trials come to our lives. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, we come to you again this morning with grateful hearts for the privilege to have a Bible in our lap To be able to sing these hymns and hear this beautiful music. What a joy it is to be a part of a local church. And we ask now, in this hour, that you would open our hearts and minds to your word I pray, Father, that your Holy Spirit would move in our midst this morning and challenge us, encourage us, instruct us, that we can grow in our faith Lord, that we can walk with you and be the men and women you've created us to be, that you've saved us to be. Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew With all my heart, I ask, Lord, you'd fill me with your Holy Spirit for this hour, and you would speak through me, and that you would help us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. The Christian life is a is sometimes hard to explain. It's kind of like a paradox in some ways By that I mean this. There are two opposing truths in the Christian life. For instance, on one hand, when we trust Jesus Christ as Savior, God gives us a supernatural peace in our heart and minds. Does anybody know what I'm talking about? Trust Jesus Christ as Savior. I remember so vividly. Back in 1979, I trusted Christ as Savior And something inside me changed. There was an immediate change. A peace settled in that I never knew before. So the Christian life is a supernatural peace. Not as the world gives, does God give us this peace? Jesus said in John chapter 14, verse 22, he said, My peace I give unto you. If you're here this morning or you're tuned in online and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I'm telling you you are missing out on a supernatural peace that this world will never give you So the Christian life is an amazing thing in the sense that God gives us a supernatural peace down settled in our hearts and minds. The Christian life is a life of unexplicable joy. Joy unspeakable and full of glory. I tell you, I enjoy laughing, and I bet before I was saved, we'd laugh and we'd cut up and we'd yuck it up. But I tell you, when I trusted Jesus Christ as Savior, I experienced a joy that I never knew before. A settled heart joy that I never knew before. An inexplicable joy. The Christian life is a life of spiritual abundance Jesus said in John chapter 10 and verse 10, I am come that you might have life, and that you might have it what? More abundantly. And my what a what a life the Christian life is, to have victory over sin, have the presence of God in my life. And what an amazing thing. So on one hand, in the Christian life, we have this supernatural peace, this joy, and this abundance in our spiritual, our heart and soul. But on the other hand The Christian life is often one of troubles and trials. Paul said that he had troubles on every hand. I doubt seriously there's one Christian in here this morning that uh has the walk with God that the Apostle Paul had. Probably the greatest Christian that ever lived, perhaps. But yet he said, I have troubles on every hand. There's a peace in his heart, but there's troubles on every hand The Bible, the Christian life also is one of spiritual struggles and spiritual warfare. How many folks this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen. How many folks here you have ever experienced that spiritual warfare going on in your life? Anyone know what I'm talking about? It is like an ongoing thing There's a struggle, there's a warfare down inside our heart and soul. And so we have peace and we have joy and we have this abundant life, but at the same time We're we have troubles on every hand. We have a spiritual warfare going on. And if you'd have said this to me back early in my twenties, early in my Christian life That fear would be a factor in my Christian life, I wouldn't have believed it. But here I am 40-some years later, and you know I found out there are fears on every hand And that bothered me for a long time. Why do I struggle with fear? Why do I uh have the uh the the the issue of fear? Why is that even an issue in my life? And I got studying the life of Paul And did you ever notice, reading through Paul's writings, how many times he refers to fear? He says, within were fears. I'm afraid. He uses that reference over and over and over. Listen, if Paul struggled with fear, don't be surprised when you and I struggle with fear. So on one hand, we have peace, we have inexplicable joy, we have an abundant life, but on the other hand, there's troubles. There's spiritual warfare and struggles going on. There's uh fears take place, trials, sorrows, heartaches You say, preacher, why is that in the Christian life? Jesus said, he says, in this world ye shall have tribulation. I might be talking to somebody that just recently trusted Christ as Savior. And maybe you have the idea that, well, now that I'm saved, now that I've trusted Christ, there won't be any more troubles. There won't be any more There won't be any more fears. It's just going to be joy and singing and happiness and prosperity from here on out. I'm telling you, that is not biblical truth Fact of the matter is, the Christian life is a paradox, joy yet with struggles. Now, the easiest part of the Christian life is rejoicing and praising God when everything's going good. Man, we can come to church and sing and lift our voices up. We can smile. We can be a blessing and happy with everybody. And man, we're just uh uh on top of it when the bills are all paid When our health is good, when our wife is happy, huh? When the husband's not being a knucklehead Man, we can smile then and boy we can praise God and rejoice and all that. That's the easy part of the of the Christian life is to Rejoice and be happy and praise God when everything's going good. But I'll tell you what the most difficult part of the Christian life is, is to trust God when everything's going bad. Is to respond properly to trials and difficulties. One of the most difficult aspects of the Christian life is to respond scripturally. To adversity and and uh uh troubles and trials that come in our life. I don't know about you, but I I still have, and I'm preaching to Christians this morning primarily, but I don't know about you, but I still got an old sinful nature in this body of mine. And difficulty comes and trials comes and and uh uh uh uh uh adversity comes And that old sinful nature wants to step up and take in and respond in a way that's not scriptural. I'll tell you where the challenge is in the Christian life, is to be sweet and be a blessing and trust God and walk by faith even when nothing makes sense around me. You follow me? That's where the challenge is. That's where the difficulty is to be uh to respond spiritually mature to life's difficulties I put it this way, being pleasant when circumstances are unpleasant. Anybody here ever wake up grouchy? Sometimes you let them sleep. Man, the circumstances are unpleasant, and you know if we're not careful, we become unpleasant. To be pleasant when circumstances are unpleasant, to be an encouragement when I'm discouraged. That's a challenge. I mean, I uh you know something's going on, and man, I'm discouraged. And if I'm not careful, I'll allow my discouragement to spill out, and I'll become a discouragement to others. But if I can get to the point in my Christian life, if I can get to a sp a level of spiritual maturity where even when I'm discouraged, even when I'm struggling I can get above that and seek to be an encouragement and blessing to those around us. That's tough. That's not easy. So the most difficult aspect, I think, of the Christian life is to deal properly with the trials and difficulties that come into life. To be a blessing when I feel like I'm being cursed. Anybody here everybody here ever been listen listen we're just a small crowd this morning. Let's open up and be honest. Anybody here ever feel like, man, I feel like God's cursing me. Anybody ever been there? So man, what in the world? And yet seek to be a blessing, even when it seems to feel like I'm being cursed. Being patient when it seems like God's forgotten about me. I don't know about you, David. Before you get too critical, David prayed numerous times, Lord, where are you? It's like I can't see you. I don't know where you're at, God. And I'll tell you where a challenge is in the Christian life is to patiently trust God, even when it seems like God has left. And God's left the room. To trust God, that's not easy. That's one of the most difficult aspects of the Christian life I put it this way, to maintain faith in God when it seems like God is nowhere to be found. God, where are you? God, have you left and yet to be able to trust Him and live for Him even in no circumstances? I found in 42 years now of knowing the Lord, some of y'all have been saved lot longer than I have. But I found in all these many years, sometimes God puts us in dark places. Sometimes God puts us in places we can't see, two feet and spiritually we can't see two feet in front of our nose. Well, you say, why does God do that? I think one of the reasons is God puts us in dark places so we learn to hear his voice and follow him even when we can't see where he's leading us. To trust him in the dark, to let him lead me and direct me even in the valley of the shadow of death. Trust God and let Him lead me. That's tough. That's tough. Sometimes God puts us in the clouds so that we will learn To simply live by his word, not by the way things appear. I don't know if you know this, but Pastor Matt is working on getting his pilot's license. Did anybody know that? In fact, I think he's got a certain level where he can fly solo. Is that correct? He can fly solo now. And so um uh he says, Preacher, one of these days I'm gonna fly you to your meetings I said, Amen. I can't wait. But he was telling me the other week, he said, one of the things he has you have to be able to do is to be able to fly just by the instruments. And you get in clouds and you can't see anything, and you have to trust those instruments 100% when you can't see what direction you're going or anything around you. What a beautiful picture of the Christian life when God puts us in circumstances where nothing makes sense and we don't understand what's happening and where is this leading? What's going to happen to me? And we simply take God at His word and trust Him. That's faith. That's faith. Dr. Creed preached on that last Sunday night a little bit. God puts us in clouds so we can learn to trust him. He puts us in darkness so we can learn to hear and follow his voice. God puts us through trials to test, to prove our faith, to strengthen it and develop it. God tests our faith sometimes to reveal our spiritual maturity. I have a tendency to think I'm a lot better Christian than what I really am. I think that's typical of Christians. And we think our faith is stronger than what it really is, and we think, oh yeah, I've got this. And then God puts us in a test, and I find out I'm not as great a Christian as I thought I was. And my faith isn't as strong as I thought it was. Peter was that way. The Lord said, Peter, you're going to deny deny meet three times and Peter says, I'll never deny you. I'll die before I deny you. And he said, Before the cock crows three times, you're going to deny me three times You know what Peter found out? His faith wasn't as strong as he thought it was. His commitment wasn't at the level he thought it was. He wasn't as strong of a Christian as he thought he was. And when the test came, and when everything he believed, and everything he saw, and everything he anticipated fell apart. And Jesus, his Messiah, the one he had committed himself to, is nailed to a cross. He found out how weak his faith really was. So God puts us in trials and He tests us sometimes to reveal to us the level of our faith and to reveal to us our Spiritual maturity. He puts us in trials and difficulties and heartaches sometimes to show his power. I found that God is able to bless even in the midst of difficulties And in the deepest pit, God is able to bring us up out of it. Were it not for the trials and difficulties of life, many times I would not have seen the love and power and wisdom of God. Because he puts us through trials. Trials are often unpredictable. In fact, one of the things about trials of life is the fact that so many times we can't anticipate. Uh when they happen. Uh they're unpredictable in their arrival. Anybody here ever in your life you're going through and things are going pretty good, you know, and finances are in place and you know the homes in in place is is uh is peaceful and things, and all of a sudden, out of nowhere, boom, your world's turned upside down. Unpredictable. In their arrival, come back to chapter 1 of Job with me. I want you a little phrase I want you to notice. It's mentioned twice in chapter 1 and once in chapter 2 Now we know the story of Job, a good man, a godly man, big family, very wealthy, prosperous. And as a result of an argument between God and the devil, I'm using that term argument loosely there. Job goes through the darkest days that a person has ever gone through, I think. But notice how it unexpectedly showed up In verse number 6 of Job chapter 1, notice what it says. Now, look at that next phrase. There was a day For the day before things were fine, all of a sudden today everything is upside down. Come over to chapter 2, and chapter 1 and verse 13. And there was a day. Chapter 2 and verse 1. Again, there was a day. Brother, what a difference a day may make. What a difference a day made. I look back over my life. And there's certain days that stand out in my mind where I got hit broadside and never saw it coming. Can I can I get a witness? Anybody know what I'm talking about? How many folks are thinking of a particular event? You never saw that thing coming out of the blue, all of a sudden there was a day and you got slammed. Anybody? Sure. Car wreck would be one Trials and difficulties and heartaches and testings from God are so unpredictable. Many times we don't know when they show up. They show up out of the blue. Sometimes they're unpredictable in their source. Here, Job, we'll see here in a little bit, but Job is doing fine. He's got a family, a happy marriage, beautiful kids. He's praying for them. They're walking with God. And he gets hit with all of this, his possessions are gone, his children, and one day all his children are killed. And the thing that gets me is in chapter, is it chapter 2, down there at verse number 9. Look at chapter 2 and verse 9. Then said his who wife unto him, Uh oh Then said his wife unto him, Job, you're going to be good. You're a good man. God's good. You're going to get through this. God's going to see you through this. Is that what she said? Job, it's going to be alright. I'm with you. I'm right beside you. Thick and thin. I'm going to stick with you. Yes? Not what she said. He goes, why don't you curse God and die? I don't know. I'm speculating here now. I would guess Job did not see that coming. Here's someone he trusted. Here's someone that was dear to him. No doubt he loved his wife with all his heart. They had raised children together. They had worshiped God together. She turns on him and basically says, Why don't you just commit suicide? I'm telling you, trials are unexpected. In their arrival, they show up out of the blue Sometimes they're unexpected on the source of where the trials. And then his friends show up a little bit later and they turn on him. I don't guess he ever saw that coming. Sometimes it's people who we trusted. Sometimes it's people that had been a blessing to us, an encouragement to us, and for whatever reason they turn and we don't see it coming They break our hearts. They hurt us. I think of all that Job went through, I can't help but think that all that he went through, verse number nine of chapter two, is probably the most heart-wrenching. Most heart-wrenching. Trials are often unpredictable in their arrival, in their source. Sometimes they're unpredictable in their intensity. Well, I never thought it I never thought it would get this bad. I never thought it would be this hard Sometimes they're unpredictable in their duration. I mean it just went on and on and on. You think, when do I ever get out of this valley? When do I when does the light ever come on again? That's where Job found himself. No one understood how difficult trials can be like dear Job did. Now think with me, put ourselves in his shoes. Ten children, every single one of them taken in one day. I can't imagine. We have folks here and folks in our church that have lost children. I can't imagine the heartbreak and the wrenching, a heartache of losing a child. And to lose every single one of them in one day. Just that in and of itself would be devastating. And then all his possessions, everything he owned is gone, taken, destroyed. Um His wife, as we mentioned, turned against him, advised him to commit suicide. His friends turn against him and begin accusing, accusation after accusation. I don't think anyone understood how difficult trials can be like Job did. And if you would, come back to our text. And notice this statement that Job makes. Now I painted a dark picture. And this is a dark picture. This is a deep valley. This is a trial like none other. But in the midst of this, Job makes this powerful statement Of how he's going to respond to the most heartbreaking, difficult experience he'd ever had in his life. Look at verse 13. Though he slay me Yet will I trust in him. But I will maintain mine own ways before him. I see three ways that Job determined he was going to respond to these trials in his life. Number one. Was this? He recognized the hand of God. He recognized the hand of God in all of this. Look at verse 15 there. Though he slay me, he's referring to the Lord. He didn't know what God was doing, and he didn't know why God was doing this, but he knew one thing: God was in control, and God was allowing this. One of the great lessons in the Christian life is to learn that nothing comes into my life that does not first pass through the permissive will of God. God has allowed this. Job looked at his circumstances. He looked at his physical health, the boils on his uh covering his body, his wife walking away, back turning her back on him, his friends throwing accusations, ten fresh graves with his children in, the devastated property that has been taken from him. And he says, I recognize that God's hand is in all of this. One of the great lessons we can learn is that The things that God allows, the things that come into our life, both the good and the difficult, come to us first through the permissive will of God. And I want to remind you this morning. We say this so glibly, and I think sometimes it doesn't really register us, but I want to remind us this morning that God loves you. And God is wise, and God is good, and anything that God allows into my life No matter how heartbreaking it is, no matter how difficult it is, no matter how dark it may be, it is a God that loves me. A God that is all-wise, a God that is perfectly good, that is allowing me to go through that. Job said, though he notice he didn't say, though my wife slay me He doesn't say, though my friends slay me, though the Sabaeans slay me, though the Chaldeans slay me, doesn't say that, though he does. God, he might even slay me He trusted God. You know Joseph understood this principle? Joseph understood that everything that God allowed into his life It would came through the permissive will of a holy and good and pure and just God. Keep your place here, but turn with me if you would to Genesis chapter number 50 Now, how many people are familiar with the life of J Joseph? Anyone familiar with his experience? Remember a coat of many colors? His father favored him above the other 12 brothers, 11 brothers His brothers get jealous of him and kidnap him and they're gonna kill him, throw him in a pit, they're gonna kill him and tell their dad that a beast kit slayed him. And uh then there's a caravan coming by. They sell him as a slave down to Egypt. Anybody remember the story? You with me? He gets down to Egypt. Working for a guy Potiphar, the treasurer there of the king, a high-level political man. His wife comes on to Joseph and Trying to make advances. Joseph recused. She accuses falsely accuses him of raping her. Unjustly thrown in prison as if he was guilty and he was not guilty? In prison, forgotten, two other fellows show up and have their dreams and say, listen, when you get back to Pharaoh, you tell him I'm down here, I'm innocent. He forgets about him for two years. You talk about heartache, you talk about difficulty, you talk about trials, you talk about testing your faith in God, Joseph's been through it And when it's all said and done, he's number two in Egypt. And hundreds of thousands, maybe millions of lives have been saved because God used him to set up the de how to deal with the famine. Remember the story? And his brothers come down and find out who he is, and Daddy dies, and then the brothers come and look what Joseph says to them in Genesis chapter 50, verse number 20. He's addressing his brothers. Well, let's look at verse 19. They come and say, hey, listen, Dad said when we died that you should forgive us. Well, I don't know that Jacob ever said that, but notice how Joseph responds, verse 19. And Joseph said unto them, Fear not. For am I in the place of God? That's where we mess up sometimes. We put ourselves in the place of God. We start making judgment on people and things. He says, I'm not in the place of God to judge you. And then verse 50, what a classic statement. But as for you, you thought evil against me. But God meant it unto good, to bring to pass as it is this day, to save much people alive. He's saying, oh yeah, you mistreated me, you lied about me, you were going to kill me, you sold me as a slave, I've been mistreated all these years, you meant it for evil. But God is in control. And God worked all this out for good. I think that's what Joseph is saying. Do he slay me? God can do that. God's in control. God is good. He's the one ultimately clawing the shots. Though he slay me, yet will I trust him. Joseph understood this principle. There was no bitterness on the part of Joseph We don't read of any anger on the part of Joseph towards his brothers that treated him so badly. We don't see any hatefulness on the part of Joseph. Now I think he might have struggled a little bit with it there when he was messing with them with uh their money and everything. Everybody remember that? I think maybe Joseph was struggling about maybe, you know, giving them a hard time But I don't see any hatefulness on the part of Joseph. I don't see any anger or bitterness or unkindness towards his brothers in any way. He treated them like kings. He learned that God's in control. God allowed this. God is good. And God is wise. God takes care of that. When we fail to see God's hand in our trials, we tend to lash out. When we fail to see God's hand in our trials, we tend to get discouraged and bitter. And angry and hateful. But we see God's hand. It changes our perspective. We see that God is The hand of God in all this, it changes our perspective and say, all right, it's going to be okay. God's allowing this. Most of you know that when I, as a teenager, my parents divorced. Spent my years in a broken home. As a result of that, my daddy got saved. And I've often thought, Dad and I talked about this so many times over the years. Say, why in the world did God allow that? Why did God allow the home to break like that? I don't know that it was God's will. But God allowed it. You know what conclusion we came to? If that home had not broken, we were content in a religious environment, unsaved? Decent house, we have a pretty good income, a pretty good lifestyle. We often wondered if that home hadn't broken, we might have lived our whole lives content with being unsaved and died and ended up in hell. But God allowed that. For us to go through a heartache and difficulty and trial and regret And as a result of that, every single member of my immediate family has made profession of faith in Christ. And that may have never happened Had we not gone through that difficulty. You follow what I'm trying to say. God's hand. God's hand. You say, was it God's will? I can't say it was God's will, but I know this: God allowed it I like what Dr. Crete said last Sunday night. All things work together for good. Even the broken home, even the tragedies that Job went through and Joseph went through. I want to challenge you this morning. Whatever value you're going through, whatever trial facing, just stop for a moment and look for God's hand. What is God doing? Though he slay me, he's the one that's allowing this. So number one, Joseph recognized the hand of God in his trials. Number two I notice this that Joseph relied upon the wisdom of God. He recognized the hand of God. Come back to chapter 13 there of Job with me and look again at verse 15. Though he slay me, all right, this God's the one calling the shots here, yet will I trust in him That word trust means to patiently anticipate good, to have confidence in. He says, though he slay me, God's the one that's allowing this, God's the one that's calling the shot, but I trust him, I have confidence that he knows what he's doing and that he'll be good to me, and there's a purpose and a plan. Trust. He relied on the wisdom of God. I think Job obviously struggled with trying to make some sense out of what in the world was happening. You know how we are sometimes? If I can just know there's a reason behind me going through this, I can accept it a better. But when we don't see any reason, we don't see any purpose, it doesn't make any sense to us, that's when we struggle And Job said, I'm just going to trust him. I know he has a reason. He has a purpose. He has something he's accomplishing. Job struggled with trying to make some sense out of what was happening to him, but he submitted to God and he trusted that God in his wisdom and God in his goodness was not just being hateful. But God was accomplishing something. One of my favorite preachers over the years, and I don't agree with him on every area, but Dr. Charles Spurgeon, great preacher of years gone by over in England. And he made this statement, just a tremendous statement. He said, God is too good to be unkind. And God is too wise to make a mistake. When we cannot trace his hand, we must trust his heart. And that's tremendous. Say preacher, I'm going through what's God doing to me. I don't know what God's doing to you, but I know this, he's not being unkind. Say, preacher, what in the world is God? God makes some sort of mistake. No, no, no He's too wise. It's not a mistake. It's not unkindness. We just have to, in the darkness, trust his voice and have confidence that he knows what he's doing. He has a plan and a purpose behind all of it. And God will work it out. Faith. Faith in God. Trials can drive us to God, make us stronger, help us become an encouragement. Oftentimes when folks come by and they'll meet in the office and they need to talk and they're going through some difficulties or trials. One of the places I love to go is 2 Corinthians chapter 1. And there it says, just to summarize it, there it says that God will comfort us in our troubles, so that we can then comfort others when they go through the same trials I go through. How many people, when you're having a difficulty, would love to have Job come by, sit down, and tell you it's going to be alright? Wow. Actually you do. Just read it. He wrote it to you there. He's Job. Job can sit down and say, listen. Nobody's been through a darker storm than I've been through. Nobody's been through a deeper valley than I've been through. And I'm here to tell you, you can trust God. In the darkest valleys, the most difficult storms, you can trust him. You can trust him. Number one, Job recognized the hand of God in all that was happening to him. Number two, he recognized that he relied on the wisdom of God Trials can drive us to God, become stronger, enable us to be an encouragement, a help to others that go through the same thing, or troubles can drive us away from God Become bitter, become angry and hateful. And I've seen it happen both ways. I've seen it happen both ways. Somebody goes through a difficulty, somebody has a setback or a disappointment or a heartache. And man, they get angry. And they get bitter and they lash out at everybody around them. Become so hateful and they withdraw into this hateful bubble. Just eat up with anger. That's a terrible way to live. That's a terrible way to respond. But it's natural. But I've seen other folk who go through just as deep a valley and just as difficult a trial and just as heartbreaking experience. But they see God's hand in it. They say, God, I'm going to trust you. I don't make it doesn't make any sense to me. I don't understand it, but Lord, I trust you. And I found they've become a great blessing. Great encouragement. I tell you, the people that have been the greatest encouragement and blessing and help to me in my Christian life have been people who've been through terrible heartaches and trials. And they learn to trust God. When I was down in Bible college, we had a bus route into the inner city projects. I mentioned it often over the years and We would go in there and I'm I'm telling you the poverty and the crime, the gangs, the drug abuse and prostitution, just awful these inner city ghettos and we would run our buses in there and bring in boys and girls and bring them to Sunday school on Sunday afternoons, afternoon Sunday school. And we would go out every Saturday without fail. We'd spend three, four, five hours, and we'd just knock doors through there. The funny thing was, is uh we go in there And uh w uh they always told me, they said, make sure you carry a big Bible with you so they know that you're not with the police or the narcotics division or something. You don't get shot So when they told me that, I got the biggest Bible I could find. And it's a big family Bible. I'd I'd always have my I would carry my Bible. I'm a Bible, I'm a preacher. And um they respected us in a lot of ways sometimes Sometimes. But in the middle of all of that, we came across this dear old lady, Anna Nixon Tate. I mean you don't you can't understand the poverty. And around her, we'd walk in the in the little there wasn't any grass, the grass was all just wore out. Beer cans everywhere, drug syringe needles, we'd find them all the time. We try to pick them up so the kids wouldn't get in them. And we go up to Mrs. Tate. Come in And she the Midas in. And Mrs. Tate was at the time 80-some years old, widowed three times Grew up, she'd tell me about how she grew up in southern Alabama picking cotton. Her parents, I guess, it would have been her parents or her grandparents maybe were slaves down there. Old Mrs. Tate knew Jesus Christ as her Savior. And she'd write us in. Come in, brother. She called me Brother Denny. Come in, Brother Danny. She'd we'd talk a little bit. I said, how are you doing today, Mrs. Tate? Oh, the Lord's so good to me. She couldn't hardly see past her nose. And she would say, Brother Danny, before you go, get your Bible out. I got my big Bible there. Go to Psalms, and she'd say some chapter from Psalms. See, see if I still have this memorized. And she would quote literally a whole chapter from Psalms, word for word, perfect. She said, Lord's been so good to me. She didn't have anything. One Saturday I came by and she said, Brother Danny, the Lord took care of me last night. I said, How's that? Somebody tried breaking in. But I prayed and God protected me. I said, What do you mean? She goes, They were trying to come through my bedroom window. I could hear them trying to pry the window open. I asked the Lord to protect me, and she goes, God protected me I said, well let me go see. I went over and looked and sure enough the screen was all bent out. You could see where they had a screwdriver. They were trying to pry that window out. Now she didn't own anything. The wit the light bulb in her living room was just a bulb. Had bare furniture, just hardly anything. But I'll tell you what Mrs. Tate had, she had the joy of the Lord And she had learned through heartache and difficulty and prejudice and hatred and mistreatment and poverty. She had learned to trust God. And what a blessing she was. I called her. I said, your house is a haven of rest when we're down here visiting and soul-winning. And she'd always have us pray before we left. Job learned to rely on the wisdom of God. Trials can drive us to God and become sweet and encouragement and strong in our walk. Or trials can drive us away from God and we become bitter and angry and hateful. Number one, Job saw the hand, recognized the hand of God. Number two, he relied on the wisdom of God. And last of all, I noticed he remained committed to the will of God. Look with me again at verse 15. Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him. Now look, he makes another statement. But I will maintain mine own ways before him. That word maintain, I got looking up. It means to make a decision or to establish myself. Though he slay me, I don't know what God's doing, he may end up killing me. But I'm going to trust him And I am making a decision. I am establishing myself. Then he goes on and says this: I will maintain mine own ways. That phrase own ways has this idea of the journey I am traveling. of the behavior, the life I'm living, I'm going to maintain that. Now I got thinking, what are Job's own ways that he's What is he saying when he says, though he slay me, I'm going to trust him. God may end up killing me. It's God's call. I'm going to trust him. But I am establishing my behavior. I am establishing my lifestyle. So what is this behavior, this lifestyle that Job is establishing? Come back to chapter one with me, if you would, very quickly. Job chapter one and verse number one is God's description of Job's ways. Of what kind of person Job was, of what kind of life he lived. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job. Now look what God says about him And that man was perfect and upright. And one that feared God and eschewed evil. It means he hated evil, he loved God, he hated that which was wrong. When Job said in chapter 13 and verse 15, I will maintain mine old ways, I'm establishing, I'm planting my feet, that I am going to maintain that description God gave of him right there. In other words, he was saying he was not going to allow his trials to change who and what he was. You follow? In the midst of the trials, Job declared, I am committed to doing what's right. I'm committed to holding to my integrity. I am going to continue to fear God. We're not careful. We can allow the trials of life to get us off track and get us out of the will of God. And get us living for ourselves and not living for the Lord. By the way, was that not exactly what the devil said that Job would do? If God removed his hedge, the devil said to God, Yeah, you put a hedge around, you're taking care of them. You remove that hedge. You let me have at it. You let me have them for a little while. And he'll curse you to your face. Face. Job in the midst of his trials said, God, I see what you're doing. I see your hand in this. I don't know what you're doing, but I I see God. This is you. And I'm trusting you. I'm going to trust in you. And I'm not giving up my integrity, and I'm not going to stop living for you, and I'm not going to stop doing best, doing what's right. I am maintaining what has been established. And Job did it. Job did it. Here's our decision. Trials come into my life, difficulties, sudden, unexpected. Where in the world did this? What in the world's happening to me? Look for God's hand. Alright, God, you allow this. Trust him. Lord, I'm trusting you And you just make a commitment. I'm going to do what's right. I'm going to be in my place. I'm going to do what God tells me to do. I'm going to be honest. I'm going to be the right kind of Person God wants me, don't let it get me out of the will of God Faith does not know what lies ahead, but faith determines to love and trust the Lord. And let him lead through the trial. I don't know what kind of trials you might be going through this morning. I don't know what kind of difficulties folks might be facing. But I know this, nothing has come into your life or my life that God did not first allow. Amen or not? God allowed it So we can trust him. And let's just say, I'm going to keep doing right. I'm telling you, as I'm preaching, I'm thinking of folks over the years. Trial came, difficulty came. They got out of sorts. They got their eyes off the Lord. They got it on their circumstances. And next thing you know, they're out of the will of God. And miserable. And there's other folks here that have been through tremendous heartache and difficulty, but you saw God's hand in it and you trusted him And you say, I'm maintaining my ways. I'm sticking. I'm sticking to what's right. I'm sticking with the Lord. I'm not going to let it derail me. A tremendous blessing, tremendous help. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help help us, Lord, to see your hand in the trials of life. Help us to learn from Job's response. And I pray that we stay faithful and stay true to you. I wonder with our heads bowed and eyes closed, I wonder if there's some this morning that would say, Preacher, I'm facing a trial. I am facing a difficulty And I have a tendency to see the problem but not see the Lord. And you say, by God's grace this morning, I want to Trust the Lord to help me see his hand in this. Any like that at all, I want to see. God is allowing this. God is in control. I wonder if there'd be some this morning say, preacher, I'm just making decisions. I'm going to trust God And I want to, with his help, keep doing what's right and stay the course. Stay the course. I'm not going to quit on God. I'm not going to back up, retreat. I'm just going to stay the course and trust God. Any like that this morning, I'm just going to stay the course. God bless you. Would there happen to be some here this morning say, Preacher, I don't know for sure I'm going to heaven when I die And God's allowing difficulties and heartaches and trials in your life so that you can see how much you need Him And you need him as a savior. Is there any this morning? Say, Preacher, I'm not sure. I'm going to heaven when I die. I don't want to go to hell. I'd like to have that settled. Any like that by the uplifted hand. Preacher, pray for me I need the Lord Jesus as my personal Savior. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our imitation time. Now have your way, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.