More meat in that song. Some of these modern contemporary songs just have nothing to them, but what a good solid song they're appreciate that Jennifer very much. Appreciate Jennifer. Worked hard all this week in Bible time, taught a class. Played piano, carried her little baby around the whole time she was doing, everywhere she went. Uh she was teaching one story with that and holding the baby with this one. Not quite that much, but uh she did a good job. Second Chronicles chapter twenty Turn there, 2 Chronicles 28. Here about the fellow told his wife he wanted to be get a clone made of himself, and she said, Why? So you can make a fool out of yourself again? That wasn't my wife said that. That was not a testimony. 2 Chronicles 28. Our text verse is going to be verse 23. 2 Chronicles 28. Verse 23. I'm going to read this verse. I know James read a moment ago. I'm going to read down through here. When we get to that last phrase, I would like for all of us to read that last phrase together in unison. Alright, but I'll begin the verse. For he sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus which smote him. And he said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria help them, therefore will I sacrifice to them, that they may help me. Now let's read this last phrase together. But they were the ruin of him and all of Israel. I want to speak to you this morning on the subject how to ruin your life. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask now, Lord, that you would use the principles from Scripture to challenge us, that our lives would be exactly what you intend for them to be. Lord, that your will, your perfect will would be done in every one of our lives. We could have your blessings on us, your protection, your provision. Lord, that there would be nothing when we leave here today between our soul and you, our Savior. God, I cannot accomplish that simply in my own means. I have nothing in my heart and mind, no wisdom, ability that's of any spiritual, eternal value. So God, I yield my body to you now, and I present my will to you, and I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, that you would speak through me as a conduit to each of our hearts and minds. Apply your word, dear Holy Spirit, to us and our situations as you know we need. And Lord, we'll give you the glory for what you do. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. I had James read an extended portion of scripture here surrounding our text for a reason, and that was in an attempt in just a small way to get an idea of what the context here is around this phrase at the last part of verse 23, that these gods were the ruin of Ahaz and then of all of Israel. Now who is this guy Ahaz? Uh as I said, we read a little bit about him just to summarize briefly who and what this guy was. He was king of Israel, uh uh but um uh uh But he was the son of a godly man. Let me back up here a little bit. Ahaz was the son of uh let me get the king Jotham. Jotham was a good man. Jotham was a godly king. For the most part, God has says wonderful things about the king Jotham. He pleased God, he lived for God. Ahaz was his son, but Ahaz was a fool. Ahaz took all the lessons he had learned, he had all the principles of Scripture been taught him. The example that's been laid out. Now, his daddy was not perfect, but his daddy was a good man. His daddy was a godly man And this foolish son Ahaz forsook all that his daddy had taught him. All that his daddy had stood for, Ahaz completely neglected. Ahaz completely forsook. Now, there comes a point in each of our lives where we have to decide what we will be as a person. We've got to make that decision. I hope everybody's with me. Everybody with me this morning? Everybody alright? Alright. Amen. Very good. I don't want to wake you up, you're sleeping. I just want to make sure everybody's alright. There comes a point in each of our lives. When we have to decide what kind of person we're going to be, a young person may grow up as Ahaz did in a godly home. May have been brought to s by uh brought to uh church in Sunday school on a very consistent basis. Maybe that child was taught to attend church Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Maybe the child was taught the things of God, the principles of Scripture. Mom and Daddy maybe weren't perfect, but they did their best to try and raise the child and teach the child. There comes a point in that child's life where they've got to decide Whether I'm going to follow in my parents' paths what they taught me and live for the Lord and please God with my life, or I've got to decide I'm just going to go and do my own thing Just because you have godly Christian parents doesn't mean you're going to turn out to be a godly Christian person. You must decide for yourself Now thank listen, if you've got Christian parents, love the Lord, trying to do right, you ought to thank God for that. Amen. Let me try that again. You ought to thank God for that. Amen. The more you amen, the quicker we get out. Let me try that again. Yeah, I know which buttons to push. But the truth of the matter is, it is possible for a child to grow up in a godly Christian home, be taught principles and all that, and then become of age, become their own person, and make the decision I'm not going to live that way I'm going to do my thing. I'm going to do what I want. Read the book of Proverbs over and over. The Bible says that the instructions are to the young person. Heed your parents' instructions. Listen to the teachings of your father and heed the instructions of thy mother. And so nobody. Oh, and let me give the other side of that coin A young person may grow up in an ungodly home. May be drinking and cussing. It may be pornography and rock and roll. There may be blasphemy and God's name taken in rain and filthy language, adultery, and fornication. That person grows up, young person grows up. You know what? That young person can decide I'm not going to be that kind of person. I'm not going to live that way. I am not going to allow myself to be degraded, regardless of the home I grew up. Now, that does not mean the child looks down on their parents. Amen. But it does mean they decide what kind of person they're going to be. And so it goes both ways. We've got to come to the point in our life where we make a decision. What kind of person am I going to be? You know, you know, the you know that the person I pity Is the person that never makes a decision, they get just get washed along with what everyone else is doing. That is sad. Uh uh you know it's funny, you see sometimes I'm out visiting whatnot, and you get some guys, uh some punks, you know, and and boy they're cool, and they all got the same haircut. They've all got the same clothes, they all got the same tennis shoes, they all got the same earrings, they all got the same tattoos. And I come out and say, you know what God wants you to- Ain't nobody I ain't nobody gonna tell me what to do They're doing everything all alike. We just don't want to be like everybody else, but they're all identical. You know, man, if you're gonna be something, be it on purpose. Right? If you're going to be a loser, decide I'm going to be a loser. But we are what we decide we're going to be. Ahaz was raised up in a godly home. He was taught to worship the true and living God. He was taught the holiness. Of God. He was taught the scriptural principles of how to live a life that is pleasing to the Lord. And Ahab, the the Ahaz, the fool. Forsook all of that and walked away from it. Now, with that in mind, look with me at verse 23. And as I read this in my devotions a week or two ago, and that phrase, they were the ruin of him, caught my attention. I underscored it in my Bible. And I got looking at this verse and studying this verse, and notice the first part of verse 23. That caught my attention also as I studied it. It says, For he, Ahaz, the fool sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus. What do you notice about the word gods there? Little G. So this is not the true God. These would be what we call what? False gods. These would be what I would refer to non-existent gods. These were quote-unquote gods that the people of Damascus, the Syrians, had had imagined. They conjured these up in their mind. There were no gods like this. They didn't exist. They were figments of their imagination. And by the way, there is no God named Allah. Come on now. There is no God named Allah. He doesn't exist. It's the figment of a very demented man in the 708 AD, figment of his imagination. There is no God named Allah, and by the way, Muhammad is not his prophet. It's all blasphemous. And so it says that Ahaz, the fool Sacrificed unto the gods, small g of Damascus. Now look at that, and that next phrase is what threw me. He sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus, which smote him. Now, first reading that, it sounds like it's saying what? Talk to me here. What's it sound like it's saying? It sounds like it's saying that the gods of Damascus defeated Ahaz. Right or wrong? Isn't that what it looks like? And I thought, well, wait a minute, how can that be? The gods of Damascus don't exist. They're just figments of their imagination. There is only one God. The true God, Jehovah, Jesus Christ, the Holy Spirit, the great Trinity, there is one God. But here it says that the Gods, non-existent, false imaginary gods of Damascus smote Ahaz. I thought how can this be? So we could study it. And you know what we find out? We know from Scripture, as I just said, and by the way, our own common sense tells us that false gods are nothing, right? Our own common sense tells that. So, how did we get this phrase that these gods smote him? I'll tell you what it is. In Ahaz's foolish mind He had come to the conclusion that these non-existent, imaginary gods of the Syrians are what defeated him. Rather than seeing the fact that he had forsaken the true God and he was bringing judgment on himself and his people, he conjured up in his mind that these non-existent gods had defeated him. In his foolish mind, in his sin-blinded mind, in his rebellious mind, he came to a conclusion that was flat out wrong. And it's amazing to me how a person who is taught the truth How a person who is trained into the scriptures, what is right and what is wrong, can somehow rationalize the most foolish behavior Can somehow justify in their mind the most ridiculous ideas that common sense tells you is absolutely foolish And yet can believe that and have it affect their life. Ahaz was a fool. He worshipped and sacrificed to gods that he knew did not exist. He was taught of the true God. And yet his sin-blinded, rebellious, foolish mind just gobbled up the teachings of the world Just fell for and fell before the gods of this world. And I'm telling you, we see it on every hand in the United States of America in the year 2010. We've got folks, young people, middle-aged, senior citizens, that are doing and believing things that they know better. Amen? They've been taught better than that. And taught the things of God. We know what is true. We know who Jesus is. We know what the standards of right and wrong are. Yet in their foolish minds We're bowing down before the world. And we're following the principles, the failed and foolish principles and philosophies of the world. Rather than following what God has set up. Now here's the thing. God has established a very simple form of worship It is not complicated. In fact, the vast majority of the teachings of Scripture are very simple. They're not complicated at all. Doing right, trusting God, being saved Are not complicated things. Am I right or wrong? It's very simple to be saved. Not always easy, but it's not complicated. But man gets a hold of things and starts twisting the truth and starts changing the things of God into his own reasoning, and suddenly it becomes very complicated. For instance, man decides that salvation by grace, plus nothing and minus nothing, is wrong. Now what the Bible says is not true. We're not saved by grace. You have to have a process, you've got to do this, that, and the other. So man comes up with a very complicated process of salvation. Well, you've got to be baptized, you've got to have your sin you've got to uh go to confession, you have to say the rosary, you have to live it or you'll lose it, you have to this, you have to that, and have to this other, and then you have to that and this, that, and the other. And then when it's all said and done, you ask them, Well, do you know for sure you're going to heaven? No, you can't know that. Uh I had a couple of Mormons come by our house. This was years ago, and I've told this story a hundred times because I really like this story. But um I'll make it short. They come by the house. We live in Indianapolis. And um uh I was fired up. We had just taught on Mormonism in the teen class, and so uh they came by, they said, Um I'm elder Fred and I'm elder Eggbert and uh whatever their names were and uh said where so uh do you go to church anywhere? I was assistant past youth pastor at the church uh uh Thomas Row Thomas Rhode I forget the name of the church. Um and but uh they said, Do you go to church? I go, Yeah, some every day. And we got to talk a little bit, and uh they said, Well, have you ever read the Book of Mormon? I said, Yeah, as a matter of fact, I had to you in college we had to read it. And uh, well, well, I've gone through it and I said, Fellows, let me ask you a question Do you know for sure if you die right now you go to heaven? They just looked at me. They looked at each other. And they said, uh, yeah. Yeah, we know that. Yeah, we know that. I said, great. How do you know you're going to heaven when you die? What makes you sure when you die you're going to heaven? We've accepted Jesus our Savior. Sounds good, huh? I said, is that all? Well, no, we've also been baptized. I said, so you accepted Christ and you've been baptized. That's how you know you're going to heaven. Well no. We've been baptized by the true church and we keep the commandments. I said, really? They said, yeah, all of them, every one of them. So wow, you're the first person I ever met the dad. I said, anything else? Yeah, well, we're faithful to church. And they gave me a list of about ten things they were trusting on to get to heaven. Now listen, the Bible doesn't give us ten different things we trust in to get to heaven. The Bible gives us one thing: Jesus Christ said, I am the way, the truth, and life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me And so man takes things and complicates them. And God says, listen, it's very simple. There is one God. That God is a spirit. And they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. It's nothing complicated about that. And yet man takes things and complicates them. And Ahaz the fool forsook the simplicity of the worship of the Jehovah and began to worship these false gods of the world and got himself in a mess. The Bible says in 2 Chronicles here, chapter 28 and verse 23, that these false gods were the ruin of Ahaz. Now, that word ruin is an interesting word. I got studying that, looking it up, how it's used. And I found that the word ruin has the idea of cutting something down like you would cut down a tree Ahab's life was cut down. His testimony, his purpose for living, the reason God had given him life and put him where he did, that very purpose was ruined. It was cut down. The word ruin means to corrupt and to cause to become unproductive. Because of decisions Ahaz made, because of the the behavior he pursued. He corrupted his relationship with his God. He became unproductive in the things of the Lord and the things that are important that last beyond this life They were corrupted, corrupted, and the word ruin has the idea of just knocking something over. It means this. To make my life of little or no use in the cause of Christ As far as the things of God, the important things of life, the eternal values of life, Ahaz's life was ruined. When he came to the end of his life, he had had little or no benefit to the cause of his God. To ruin a life means to miss or forfeit God's blessings on my life. How sad. To ruin my life means to miss or forfeit God's perfect will for my life. How sad. How sad for a person to be taught that Jesus is the only way of salvation. How sad for a person to be shown from Scripture, sometimes repeatedly, that if they're ever going to make it to heaven, if they have their sins forgiven, they have any kind of relationship with God, they need to trust Christ as their personal Savior, be saved. And yet that person to deliberately reject it, say, no, I'll not trust Christ, I'll not be saved, and to ruin their life, die and go to hell. What a ruin. What a waste. Can I tell you what keeps some people from getting saved? Now don't misunderstand what I'm saying here, please. I'll tell you what keeps some people from getting saved. Church membership. Well, I'm a church member. They know in their heart they've never been saved. They know in their heart they never trusted Christ. They might not admit it to anybody, but down in the depths of their soul, they know they're lost. But somehow, for some foolish reason, they cling to this idea. Well, I'm a church member. They come to their end of their life and find it was ruined. Ruined. End up in hell For a Christian, a person who is saved, to ruin their life means this To live a life that consists of nothing more than what an unsaved person has. Think about that. Child of God, born again, spiritually alive, but I live a life that has nothing more to it than the lost of the world have. What a ruined life. It means for a Christian to live a life That consists of nothing more than what the world can give, and never experiencing the blessings that God can give. How to ruin your life. I read of Ahaz, and I thought, here's a person. Man, tremendous potential. What opportunities, godly parents, king of the people of God, what he could do for the cause of the Lord. And he ruins it all. Ruins it. There's a few principles from this, and we're not going to have time to get over them all. We're going to look at this morning. And I'm praying about If the Lord leaves maybe next week picking up and looking at the rest. But this morning, I want to consider the principles here, considering the path to ruin. How does this happen? How does a person ruin their life spiritually? Well, we know this is true. Sin will ruin any life Right, we know that's true. Come on now, talk to me. Oh, are quiet this morning. Well. Alright, everybody alright? I gotta check. How's your blood pressure? Okay? Everybody alright? Looks like it's low for a bunch of you. Sin will ruin any life. Listen, listen, don't be so stupid To think that you can disobey God and somehow that's going to turn out okay. Come on now, talk to me. I feel lonely up here Sin will take you farther than you want to go. Sin will keep you longer than you want to stay. And sin will cost you more than you want to pay. Now you may not believe that, but I could bring in my office and I could give you example after example after example of 30 flip. 25 years in the ministry of lives that were ruined. Because a person young, middle-aged, older, thought that I can somehow do wrong and it's going to turn out alright I can disobey God, I can forsake the scriptures, I can live in sin, and somehow it's all going to turn out right. It never turns out right. Shit will ruin any and every life, period Now what was it about Ahaz that ruined his life? Let me back up here. I've seen young people grow up in good, godly Christians' home, taught the promises of God's blessing. taught the warnings of God's judgment, yet they forsook it all and ruined their life. I've seen young couples Come on, we like it when we nail the kids, right? I've seen young couples grow up, taught the things of God, godly daddy, godly mama, read the scriptures in the home, taught the things of God. And yet they grow up, they get married, they become their own parents, and they forsake all that God had taught them. They forsake all of it and they ruin their lives and they ruin their children. Let me take another step farther. I've seen senior citizens. Come on now. Say, preacher, you better not preach about senior citizens. They're the ones that give the most money to church Can I be honest with you? I'd rather preach what's right and have no money than compromise the scriptures and be the richest church in town. And the fact of the matter is, I've seen senior citizens grow up, serve God, live for God, and they get to the end of their life and they think, well, I've paid my dues, I've done my thing. And they start compromising on the things of Scripture, and they start compromising what they know is right, and they ruin the last years of their life. Become bitter, become angry. What I'm trying to say is this, sin will ruin every life it gets its nasty tentacles into Am I right or wrong? You've seen it. Look around. Somehow we think, oh yeah, sin ruined that person's life, but I'm going to be able to get away with it. I'm special. I'm different. It's not going to happen to me. Fact of the matter is, be sure our sin will find us out. How did Ahaz ruin his life? What was the path to ruin? Well, the first thing I notice is he had the sin of self-will Look at verse number one with me, if you would, of chapter 28. Is everybody okay still? Everybody alright? Am I still your friend? Alright, good Ahaz, verse 1, was 20 years old when he began to reign. And he reigned 16 years in Jerusalem. Look at this next phrase. But he did not that which was right in the sight of the Lord, like David his father For he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel and made also molten images for Balaam. Moreover, he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnan and burned his children in the fire after the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord had cast out before the children of Israel. He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places and on the hills And under every green tree. He said, I am going to do what I want to do. There is nobody gonna tell me How to live my life. Ahaz determined he was going to live as he pleased. He was going to do what he wanted, when he wanted, where he wanted, how he wanted. Didn't matter what God said. Didn't matter what the Bible said. Didn't matter what the preacher said. Didn't matter what mom and daddy said. I'm going to do what I want. And it ruined his life. I'm not going to be told what I can and cannot do I'm not going to be told where I can and cannot go. I'm not going to be told who I can and cannot associate with. Not by man, not by God. Let me ask you a question. Do you really think it's better to do things your way rather than God's way? You really think so? Do you really think it's better to please yourself than it is to please God? You really think that's going to turn out okay when it's all said and done? You think that's going to be alright? Ahaz says, I don't care what the truth is, I want to do what the world's doing. I want to live the way the world's living. I want to enjoy what the world's enjoying. I want to go to the places the world's going. I know what I've been taught. I know what God has said. I've heard the warnings of his judgment on sin. I've heard the promise of his blessings on obedience. But I don't care. I don't want that. I want what I want. How do you think that's going to turn out? Self-will will ruin any and every life, any and every marriage, any and every home, any and every ministry. Let me throw something out there. Pastor Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, I do not have the authority to run this church the way I want it run. As pastor, I am responsible to run this church the way God says it should be run. Amen? I mean there are some things and there are churches doing this all across the land. We could take some things that God has clearly said we should not do and things we should do. We could take that and alter it. You know what? I'll bet we might get a good crowd And the town might like us a whole lot more. But my concern is not having a bigger crowd or the town liking us. My concern is doing what God says so we're not ruined. Now that's true for a church, it's true for a home, it's true for a life. Self-will, self-will, self- I've seen it over and over and over and over and over through the years. Young and old, I am gonna do what I want to do. I know what the b here's the here's the phrase, James. You're not James, you're more. Where'd James go? There he is. I forget what I was going to say now. What was I talking about? Self-will. I've seen it over the years. Rats. That was a good thought too. Sin of self-will. I'm going to do it my way. We'll come back to that later. What was the second thing that ruined him? Not just self-will, but a stiff neck. Look with me if you would at verse 22. Well, look at verse 19, then we'll come down to verse 22. For the Lord brought Judah low because of Ahaz, the king of Israel. What is God doing here? God's bringing chastisement. God's intervening. What to do, what not to do, what God expects, what pleases the Lord, what displeases the Lord. What brings God's blessing? What brings God's judgment? He's taught all of that. He says, I don't care. I want to look like the world. I want to act like the world. I want to rock like the world. I want to Party like the world. I want to have the pleasures of the world. I don't care what God says. I don't believe that God's going to judge me for doing what I want. I don't think God's going to bless me just because I do what He says. I'm going to do it my way. And because God loves us, God intervenes. And God sends some problems. And God begins to chasten and bring a little bit of judgment. And you would think if someone had some common sense. They would say, man, God's trying to turn things around. I better pay attention. I better listen to what God's saying. I better make some changes. But not Ahaz. The more God intervened, the more God chastened, the more he harnessed heart and stiffened his neck. And it ruined them. Got your Bibles. I'd like you to look at a couple verses. Now stay here, and I'm about done. We'll be out of here by two, I promise you. Turn with me over to Proverbs, if you would. Say, preacher, this is Sunday morning. You're not supposed to preach so hard on Sunday morning. Fact of the matter is, our country is in desperate need of some preaching against sin. Countries being ruined. Look at Proverbs chapter 28 with me, if you would. Verse number fourteen. You know what that word mischief means? This is interesting. Misery, unhappiness. Happiness and hurt. I'll show you a very unhappy person. It's a person that always does whatever they want. Right? I'm doing what I want. I don't care what anybody else says, I'm gonna do what I want, when I want, the way I want, how I want, and I'll show you a very unhappy person. Oh, they can put a smile on they come to church You can call them up, oh yeah, things are great, wonderful, praise the Lord. I tell you what, they're not living the fear of God, they're not living by the principles of Scripture. I know this is true. They're not happy. It's amazing when I was a youth pastor. Guess who the kids were that were always saying, oh, I'm just going to kill myself. Guess who those kids were? The kids that were rebels. Oh, I just hate my life. You all need to be like me. I'm cool, I hate my life.