When what does the Bible say in John chapter one and verse fourteen? And the hymnal says streets, the Bible's right. The children of Israel are going to make a decision whether to go across the Jordan to the victorious Christian life or to stay in the wilderness. And they came unto the brook of Eschol and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff, and they brought of the abroad of the pomegranates Nevertheless the people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled and very great. And all the congregation lifted up their voice and cried, and the people wept that night. And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The land which we pass through to search it is an exceeding good land. They've got figs, they've got pomegranates, they're telling stories of milk and honey flowing. Well, I'd just like to thank the Lord that somebody put $200 on my school bill. I know the difference between many and few. You could smell them coming from about ten miles away if all they're eating is leeks and onions and garlic. The truth of the matter is, once you've purposed in your heart, you're never going to put your feet in the Jordan, you're never going to cross and be a victorious Christian. So we walked in. Please, the book of Numbers tonight. There are a lot of songs that we dearly, dearly love that when you really look at 'em, you find out that what they say is different than what the Bible says. You're going to preach on the topic of music. But you say, Brother Harper, you trying to say we shouldn't sing Christmas carols? And I heard about the streets of gold beyond the crystal sea. Say, but Harper, wait a minute. We've skirted this briefly. And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan and said unto them, Get you up southward, up this way southward, and go up into the mountain, and see the land what it is, and the people that dwelleth therein, whether it be strong or weak, fewer many The ten year old boy gets out, then the six year old girl gets out on one side, then the twin four year old boys get out on the other side. Brother Harper, my wife makes peas and she cooks them with bacon and butter. Brother Harper, would you like some peas? Uh the someone says, Well, I want you to help work with the youth. So I said, Ron, is it okay to drink the water in Japan? There's one topic as you travel in evangelism, you go from church to church, and we've preached in twelve hundred churches, maybe even more than that now. If you stand in the pulpit and say, Tonight I'm going to preach on music. that deep down in their soul they really don't care too much for Christmas carols. When you forget the songs like Wonderful Grace of Jesus, you forget uh songs like uh like How Great Thou Art, and all you sing are Oh little town of Bethlehem and away in a manger and most Christmas carols, although They're sweet little songs, they're almost bereft of any kind of real theology in them, and sometimes they're the opposite of theology. We set two more of them up in September and we set the last one up the last week of October and then went to Japan and came home and everything was already there. How a Savior came from glory. But did you know there is actually a biblical mistake in victory in Jesus? of heaven. The land of Canaan, they suffered defeat. Say, Brother Harper, what do those things picture as we look back at them from the New Testament? Trust Almighty God and step out and when you put your foot in the water, understand that? Now in the wilderness we see it pictures at first the baby Christian, but then it eventually pictures the cardinal Christian who is still getting answers to their prayer. In the wilderness, they still saw answers to their prayers, they still won the occasional uh victory, and they still saw God's provision. Unto the children of Israel of every tribe of your of your fathers shall ye send a man, every one a ruler among them. And what the land is that they dwell in, whether it be good or bad, and what cities they be that they dwell in, whether in tents or in strongholds. by the coast of Jordan and Caleb stilled the people before that before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it, for we'll able to overcome it. But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. And all the people that we saw in it are men of a great stature. land that uh to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be a prey. Only rebel not ye against the Lord. Father, thank you for those that are here, that have been here so faithfully throughout the week. As you get to this passage of Scripture, the first thing I want you to see is the leader's bad advice. You'll notice in chapter thirteen and verse two, the Lord told Moses, To send thou men that they may search the land of Canaan. Uh the the bank's gonna have to get a whole new software system just to handle my checking account. That's what two savers do. And my wife is looking at shoes. My wife says, Don't you already have a set of golf clubs? which one's the spender and which one's the saver, I'm going to buy them a car. They don't have to look at the sticker price. He can have whatever he wants. How many errors were added when we said, well, you got to play through, pray through to whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved? Moses is going to do that right here. Do you think God is sitting in heaven scrumming his fingers on his celestial desk saying, Hmm, I wonder how many Canaanites are over there that we have to be def have to have to defeat? nomadic people or lived in uh towns, whether they dwell in tents or in strongholds. Watch me carefully. Notice number one, the leader's bad advice. And then students would line up on the two outside walls and wait their turn, and then they would step up and give a testimony. She'd step up and she would always have to grab that microphone. spiritualizing that thing. And so when it's not idling right, it feels like it's gonna shut down. You put your right foot on the gas and keep the engine revving while your left foot is firmly placed on the brake so that your car lurches like this and your children look like bobblehead dolls in the backseat They're talking about the Canaanites and the Amalekites and the Jebusites and the Amorites all there, and the Amalekites dwelling by the sea, by the coast of Jordan. Notice number one, the leader's bad advice. Say, Brother Harper, what that's a very negative attitude. Pigtail soup, it's boiling water with a pigtail floating in it. As nasty as those little green balls full of mush called peas. And well, we'll sit there and I'll fill my plate up and I get everything and I've avoided the peas and this sweet, kind little old lady, and I know she's worked all day on the meal, she looks at me and she says it the same way every time. If you gave them a French name they would buy them. And he's never been defeated, so yes, we will always be outnumbered. They started looking at the battles ahead. Watch what they say. I had to draw a difference between his job and who he really is. They're in the bondage and they put sprinkle the blood of the lamb, the spotless lamb, on the doorposts and lentils of their own heart, and they walk out of the land of I can't work with teenagers. And you start looking back at the leeks and the onions and the garlic, and before you know it, you're in bondage again. Do you know nobody ever gets mad at a rah-rah sisbumba message? that are a few years older than me probably cheered something even more different than that. people they have to defeat. Only rebel might ye against the Lord. So big it takes two men to carry a cluster. My wife called him up and she said, Listen, we're going to Japan. Uh we went to Japan. So we got there. She had no idea what I was saying, but we finally found the lemon bread. On the half of the almond is covered in chocolate and around the other half is drizzling chocolate coming down around it. Like he's my uncle in law, if you know what I mean. I'm still the one carrying them. Because it's Japan, I'm not worried about them being stolen. And I would set down the two 70-pound suitcases and leave her there with her carry on. I think the water system in the United States is slightly better than the water system in Japan. throws a shrimp into your pocket and stuff like that and makes the volcano out of the onions. So that he could take back Japanese food with him. hotel room, but they shop daily. Tokyo, Japan, then it was unloaded, then shipped from Tokyo down to Osaka, where they put it on the shelves in a grocery store so that my wife's uncle could buy it and say goodbye to someone who was traveling. Their eyes are puffy. I don't know how to get over there. His blood was shed for me, and I've asked him to save me. evangelical music are afraid you're going to preach something more conservative and uh so you can almost always watch a pastor get a little bit uncomfortable if you announce And the hymnal's wrong every single time. No sooner than she hands it to her, the lid pops off of it, and red liquid goes all over her. And you get up and you start singing one song, and no matter how bad a day you've got, when you start singing this song, you start feeling pretty good. And you've got your eighteen month old in one car seat and your three-year-old young fella sitting there next to her. across the Jordan River. Moses stands there, holds his rod out over the water, God sticks his finger in the water of the Red Sea, and the water is parted with a wall of water on the left and a wall of water on the right, and dry land from one side to the other. Now, I am not a swimmer. that you swim faster and better if you're not carrying furniture. And the sole of their foot touched the water, that's when the water was parted, and dry land from one side to the other. The Jordan River was parted because they stepped in. There weren't any other ships there, and there were no no airlifts that were going to take them across to get from one side to the other. Jordan River isn't a picture of death. They crossed to the land of Canaan. Watching God divide up the land of Canaan. We've got a lot of Christians sitting at a lot of pews that are sitting there in the carnality of the wilderness that never want to put their feet into the Jordan and they're going to settle for the occasional manna and never enjoy milk and honey and figs and pomegranates. As you get to this passage of Scripture, these people are going to choose not to be victorious Christians. Uh because uh we're not going to read lots of names and the names of tribes and things like that. and of the figs. And they went and came to Moses and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh, and brought back word unto them, and unto all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land. I'm sorry, they told him and said, We came into the land whither thou sentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey, and this is the fruit of it. And the whole congregation said unto them, Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt, or would God we had died in this wilderness. into Egypt. We don't see how the water is going to part. and put my feet in the water. Again for our time in your house, Father, we pray for the kids club downstairs. how much I like Moses. Oh, in this beautiful land here close to the Jordan River, it'd be a great place to plant crops. Now, if I came to Pastor tonight and I said, listen, preacher, I got a call from my bank today. See if we can overcome it. which I give unto the children of Israel, of every tribe of their fathers shall you send a man, every one a ruler among them. This is an illustration. Some marriages have two savors. Some of you got that right away. Three of those already? shopping? contradicting the word of God or at least questioning it. Go and see if we can take the land. And they give their scouting report. I'll never forget when I went to uh went back to Bible college at an advanced age. She is she was engaged uh to a young man named Anthony Hipps, all right? It was the last chapel service before we were to graduate. It's Anthony Anthony's turn, but he motions for her to go ahead in front of him. That's all we had at this point. And we know that's a great place though. And you start hearing a car moving in your direction. and never put their feet in that have still to this day, 30 years later, still never darkened the door of the Bible college God called them to go to Then the dad gets out of one side, the mom gets out of the other. I love 1 Timothy 6 and verse 15, which in his times he shall show, who is the blessed and only potentate, the King of Kings and the Lord of Lords. I love that he said when he walked into that upper room with the disciples, all power is given unto me in heaven and in earth. We are always going to be outnumbered. There is a food. Won't eat peas. That same lady you go into the other room after you've tried to eat those three or four peas that you put on your plate, she's going to say, Brother Harper, would you like a cookie? All the other food is on the table, the meat and the potatoes and the bread is all there. the bank was gonna foreclose on his property. Moses told them to go check and see if they lived in tents or in strongholds. You don't find them resting in him. And I I I think I mentioned that the other day. It strikes me that you wouldn't have to be a great military strategist to defeat the Egyptian army. Let's go back to Egypt, because we wouldn't have to be worried about waiting for manna to fall from heaven. Step out. And finally you look at the river and you say, I need to step in, I'm just gonna trust God, and then you say, No, no, I'm happy right where I am. For we are well able to overcome it. Notice what happens, please. See, once you've decided you want to go back to Egypt, you don't want some meddling pastor preach a hard message that says you shouldn't go See, I think sometimes we look at it and say, if it could be dangerous if I put my feet in the Jordan. And my wife's uncle, being my uncle-in-law, he felt the uh the opportunity and the necessity to talk to me. Said it just like that. The next day we were at a 7 Eleven. States of America. Are these chocolate-covered almonds any good? And at this point we don't even realise I'm not even sure they had elevators, but I don't know where they are anyway. two 70 pound suitcases traveling overseas. And I go down the steps as my wife carries her carry-on down the steps. And so he was able to bring three 70-pound suitcases. I picked the box up and I turned it over and on the box the bottom of the box it said, made in Chicago, Illinois from Chicago all the way over to Los Angeles where it was loaded onto a ship where it shipped across the Pacific Ocean until it got to Tokyo Put it in his suitcase, fly the next day from Osaka to Detroit, then from Detroit to Memphis, then from Memphis to Chattanooga, so he could call up his three children and say, Hey everybody, I got the good crackers from Japan. My wife's uncle and his her aunt, Ron and Odessa, started that church in November of uh 1966. They decided to celebrate the 40th anniversary of the church while we were there, because Ron, of course, was there with us, so Dessa's with the Lord. Or you say, Lord, I don't know what you want me to do. A lot of songs that bring a fond memory to our mind, even a tear to tear to eye. Now, I'm not saying don't sing those songs anymore, and I'll give you some examples here in a moment. saying, Glory to God in the highest and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. You can be driving in that van, brand new to you. his head off. And we love these songs. as a picture of death. saying and the Christmas carol says singing, the Bible's right, and the Christmas Carol's wrong every single time. The Jordan River is not the same way. But they are significantly different. Because you have not passed this way heretofore. To be a loser. They still saw manna fall from heaven and quail fall out of the sky and water come out of rocks. of the Lord appeared in the tabernacle of the congregation before all the children of Israel. Give unto the children of Israel. Cross over the Jordan and sneak around and look at the land and say, Wow, these beautiful mountain peaks. Morgantown and down in Fairmont, all around this area here, and I tell every owner of every car lot, I'm gonna pay for the car, you let them just pick it out. holding on to I know whom I have believed and am persuaded that he is able to keep them that I've commit uh that I've committed them against that against that day. The fact is, as you go through the Word of God, you don't find limited atonement. What does Moses say next? Good land and a large, unto a land flowing with milk and honey. It floweth with milk and honey. Now the first time I heard that, I gave a spiritual amen. Then I'm just nodding. I wonder how many young people sat and waited until they could see all the money paid for, until all the tuition paid for, until they could see a bridge across the Jordan. Even though they don't want to go. And he said, it's for the money. Finally they pull up on the lot in their four seat or four forward fiesta and they park the they turn the car off but it doesn't stop running. He doesn't know if they have enough gas to make it to the next church. All he knows is that God has given him a burgeon burden for Kazakhstan or Mozambique or Trinidad. Needs met. But there's milk and honey over there. The size of the armies, the size of the people. Jesus said, Wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be that go in thereat, but straight is the gate, and narrow is the way that leads to life everlasting, and few there be that findeth it. Don't you like peas? peas. that we are always going to be on the few side. You start focusing on how wicked the world is, how bad our society has become, how bad the entire world has become, that things that would have repulsed everybody fifty years ago are now celebrated as acts of heroism. Here's what I do know. You forget that you're a slave. He said, I'm going to be mad at God. Of those people who decided they wanted to go back to Egypt. There's no cemeteries there. They'll never enjoy the milk and the honey. Ron Whitey planted uh he was responsible for the planting of eighty-four churches in Japan and the Bible college that is still going now. And so uh but we were there in June. And I said Roy, you think there's any chance that the train's gonna be late? We've been there for weeks. with Japanese food to take home. Well I'll never forget, preacher, one one picture. I don't believe in make believe or much symbolism, but just for symbolism's sake tonight, just when you put your foot in the aisle Singing on the hillside. full uh uh of uh of red liquid for her to drink as she's going to church in her brand new beautiful little Easter dress But Moses decides to add to the Word of God. Moses has given them the bad advice, isn't he? Over their heads a visible manifestation of the presence of Jehovah God. Peas. Now here these people are focused only, no longer focused on Jehovah. You come to that moment, you have to you say, Preacher, listen, I would I I'd like to help work with the youth, or I'd like to help teach a Sunday school class, or I'd like to help work a bus route, but I'm not sure I can handle it Joshua and Caleb, after Moses and Aaron have stepped in, after the people have decided to make a captain, let us return into Egypt As if he'd gone in his study and said, Lord, give me a message for Bill and Cindy. Every single time the leeks and the onions and the garlic look better and better and better in Egypt. We're going to the train station the next day. Moses is added to the Word of God, has he not? Or bad. After a while of hearing it over and over, I'm just going, men. Nobody has a problem with that kind of preaching. The glory of the Lord falls on him. Now most scholars believe we're talking in the the low millions here. Is it okay to drink the water in Japan? The mass transit system in Japan is the best in the world. The Misko saltine crackers in Japan are the best in the world. Now Ron, everything is in complete Japanese. Others of you are already headed back to Egypt. I'm going to say tonight, Brother Harper. And just let him park the water. To raise uh cattle. The people. That's a good place over there. And uh every single Monday and Thursday during the chapel services, they would bring a microphone down and set it right there And you look at him and you kind of have this moment where you feel sorry for him. And they start growing in the Lord in the wilderness. Watch it. If the Lord delight in us, then He will bring us into this land and give it us a land which floweth with milk and honey. You want to give him that thing, well, you've stopped preaching and gone to meddling now. See, the people that want to stay in the wilderness, the people that never step out, are almost always forgotten people. You've never met one that sits there and say, Oh, there's figs and pomegranates and grapes so big it takes two men to carry a cluster, but I'd like to have some leeks and some onions and some garlic and be a slave in Egypt And he said, No. I don't have a single answer. In this passage of scripture, Moses is going to send those twelve spies. Think about how wonderful that would be. He said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters, for I know their sorrows. He adds to the Word of God. I don't want to do it. Our God, David said this, our God is in the heavens. Oh, let's go back to Egypt. My taskmaster was just like the nicest guy. They seemingly always forgot that they were in bondage when they were in the land of Egypt. They've decided they don't want to go, and so God's now not going to let them go. You've never met a person in your life, I challenge you, that is living over here in Canaan, that looks back with fondness and says, I'd like to go back to the wilderness. Now how many in this auditorium tonight would say, Brother Harper, I know I'm saved. For your word. Even when we can't add it up on paper. They said, listen, over there. Even the ten men that didn't want to put their feet in the Jordan, even the ten men that didn't want to trust God to give them the land, even the ten men that were trying to get the children of Israel to stay in the wilderness, even they said, Hey, over there. I'm not going to do anything new. I said, Ron, can't you get the Bisco saltine crackers in the United States? When reality, what you want for you, even if you get everything that you want for you, you'll never be as happy as you would if you had what he wanted for you. The land of Canaan is not a picture of heaven. They can buy an SUV. Only, rebel not ye against the Lord. He loved Japan, absolutely loved it. There's areas where I need to put my feet in the Jordan and just trust the Lord and stop trying to figure it out on my own. No one makes a bat of peas. My daughter wanted something called lemon bread that someone had told her about. Some of you will leave the night and settle for manna. Be a loser? You'll never know the peace and joy of Cana, Canaan, unless you're willing to put your feet in the Jordan. That's your first foot in the Jordan River. The longer the A is, the more spiritual it is. I heard a preacher say, believe it or not, I I still to this day can't believe I heard him say it. The first place that we were in was the town of Elmore. What I'm saying is Christian, I don't know where you are in your Christian life, but there needs to be times, multiple, and maybe one needs to happen tonight. See Brother Harper, what are you trying to say? But see I know the difference. Notice carefully, please. Every person in Hollywood and every person in the music industry claims that they understand them. By the way, if you've decided you want to go back to the bondage, if you've decided you want to turn to Egypt, understand the one thing you're going to hate more than anything in the whole wide world is hard preaching. When you go inside, everything's written in Japanese. I'm just going to trust you. You lose your blessed accommodations. Mom's worried about the dress. And Moses and Aaron uh fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel, and Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephane, which were of them that searched the land, rent their clothes I know what a few is. And it's easy to say, oh, we can never win. Notice, number one, the leader's bad advice. In verse 30, Caleb still the people before the Lord before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it. You'll miss what God has for you. Our problem is we have our own picture of what our life should be and how it should go. You're saying not to sing Victory in Jesus? Now in every marital relationship, you have two classifications of people. If God says it's good, I don't care what twelve spies have to say. Those incredible stories when they needed twelve thousand dollars by Thursday and on Wednesday night they got twelve thousand and thirty dollars and then Thursday they found out that the twelve thousand dollars wouldn't cover it, they needed twelve thousand and thirty. The cat'll sniff 'em and turn up its head and walk off. But by the way, once you've looked at the battles ahead, you know what you're going to start doing? All right? Don't you think they would enjoy shopping for that car that was being given to them? Amen. And you sit there and you say, I'm not gonna sell out, I'm not gonna put my feet in the Jordan, I'm not gonna surrender to go to Kazakhstan. We we go to sometimes we go to people's houses. We were in Japan for seven weeks, and in the middle of that we went to the Philippines for a week. We sing these songs. How to be a loser. I don't think you need another pair of those. But we're not out hand. Twice in this passage of Scripture, Joshua and Caleb one time, and just Caleb the other, is going to preach a ra-ra-sisboomba message So this box of crackers was manufactured in Chicago, put on a pallet, put on the back of an eighteen wheeler that drove it The place was called the Brook of Eschol, because of the cluster of grapes, which the children of Israel cut down from thence. Then you have the ones that are two uh that are two spenders. Verse 7. Now from over here, we look back and we see the Jordan River there. This belongs to the tribe of Gad. You've seen it happen, haven't you? He's forgotten that he was a slave. I don't understand. The water system in Japan is the best in the world. So I would come to that first set of steps and I would grab two seventy-pound suitcases and I would go down this whole set of steps and set them down I swim like a rock. Thank you for all that it teaches us. See if it's a good enough land. This great man, Moses. Call them Le Sour peas. Let's make a captain. And so the carts are small, so he has two carts and they're overflowing. On Jordan's stormy banks I stand, roll Jordan, roll. It's either put your feet in the water and be a victor, or stay in the wilderness and be a loser. There's not an ounce of truth to it at all. He questions the Word of God. It's flowing with milk and honey. The food was better. I figured it out. They've come up out of the land of Egypt and they've walked across the Red Sea. He says, Go and see the land and the people that dwelleth therein, whether it be strong or weak, few or many. It always makes me mad that they say that. I'm not going to help in any ministry. They were moving from place to place. Finally, we're getting ready to leave. You've left unfinished business in another invitation. The book of Numbers. I'm not going to preach on the topic of music, but I am going to say something about music as we begin. The land of Canaan is the picture of a victorious Christian life. I say, Sweetheart, don't you have enough three inch black heel uh uh heels, black shoes with a sling back on them? So wait well, hard, wait a minute. He says, I don't know what to do. In the land of Canaan, they disobeyed God. Neither fear ye the people of the land, for they are bred for us. Most marriages have a spender and a saver, and sometimes we swap places. He said, Go and see the land that I'm giving you. Now I have a huge problem with this. They said this verse 27. I don't want to put my feet in the Jordan. Number two, the Lord's blessings are available. I can't swim across the Jordan. The Bible says in Hebrews 11, 29, by faith they passed by the Red Sea, as by dry land, which the Egyptians are saying to do were drowned They don't have to ask how much the extra options are. Now in the Japanese shop, they shop daily almost. Alright? He gave his life on Calvary to save a wretch like me. It's a picture of those moments in our Christian life when we have complete trust in Almighty God that He's going to solve the problem, take care of it, and make a way when we can't see a way He is my favorite Bible character, but like every man, he makes mistakes, he sins, and he does the wrong thing. He doesn't say search out men, send out men to search out the land of Canaan to see if we can conquer it. And then on Thursday she came up and pulled the microphone down. This is Joshua and Caleb speaking. They're the ones I said this to somebody the other day. Number two, the Lord's blessings are available. You don't have to be a mathematical scholar to know the difference between many and few. When what does the Bible say? Anthony walked up straight as she's still moving back to her seat and he said this. He's already drowned the army of the Egyptians in the Red Sea and they watched. Let me tell you something about teenagers real quick before we go on. The people are bred for us, their defenses departed from them. Once they're feasting on milk and honey, they never talked about going back to Egypt again. So the pastor put us up in two ski lodges, all right, two little uh independent places that people would rent to go skiing and all that stuff when the snow was in. We were going to downtown Tokyo. Would you slip your hand up, please, all over the auditorium? We enjoy these songs. And here come the priests, the high priests, carrying the Ark of the Covenant, carrying furniture on their back We just know that God wants me to go from the wilderness to the promised land. The two and a half years I was there in school, ev almost every single chapel service, she gave the same testimony, different amounts of money. Oh, look who we have to fight, look who we have to defeat, look who we have to stand up against. And he says, All right, everybody, right now in chapter 14, if you're over the age of twenty, you're not going to the promised land. Dad's worried about the car seats. When they came to the Jordan River, which was overflowing its banks, remember Joshua told them to follow behind by two thousand cubits Look at Numbers chapter 13. You can't have too many commas. They could buy a minivan. This is the fruit of it. Yes, a 7 Eleven. And he said, Richard, the chocolate-covered almonds in Japan are the best in the world. Tears are streaming down their cheeks. As long as we know that. Number one, the leader's bad advice. So I remember going into the first first time. There's a picture of Ron and his wife, Odessa, holding their firstborn Beth Ann in their arms. I know if I died today I'd go to heaven. The hymnal's wrong every single time. I go straight to the bottom every single time. What's what Moses says? See, even the carnal Christian who is willing to settle for being a good enough Christian still looks at the completely surrendered Christian and says, wow. They start seeing God provide manna and God provide water, and they learn to trust him. Because you don't get Japanese food very often in America. It's the first time we went back to the States. All I know is you want me to step out, and I'm just gonna do it. I know I'm saved. And then I've discovered this. How many Christians have followed this exact pattern? I can't work with the youth. And he said this, and he had this way of saying my name in this this type of situation with a little bit of disdain. I don't know what you how you want to guide my life and direct my path, but what I do know is you want me over there. Oh, it doesn't make Moses the most wicked man. You might make a bat of uh uh uh of pinto beans or something like that, but not peas, they're disgusting. They'll never see the pastures in the beautiful land of Cana. I said, Where's your lemon bread? I would not do this in New York City. And Lord, if you don't part the water, I'm willing to accept that. And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which come of the giants, and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight. Did God say anything about the people? We're either going with you or without you. Ron's my only interpreter, and many of the slides have to do with him and his wife starting the church, and so I couldn't ask him all the questions I wanted to ask. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The land of Canaan is a beautiful picture of the victorious Christian life. And I say, But my golf clubs are old. She and her fiancé were graduating in the same class in which I graduated. There's figs and pomegranates over there. And I want so much to look at her and say, of course not. When it comes to peas, I want a few. We're going to be in the thirteenth chapter and the fourteenth chapter of the book of Numbers, so stay with me Every TA guy's nightmare, she would grab that microphone and pull it down. You're sitting here on a Sunday morning, the ushers or the greeters are standing at the door and all that. If it shuts down, you don't know if it's gonna start. Remember the children of Israel being led by a pillar of cloud during the day and a pillar of fire during the night? Well no my crops are growing. The world is always going to be on the many side. Let's go back to Egypt. But we are sitting at the Grace Baptist Church of Kobe Maybe maybe not brand new, but new to you. We don't want to go now. What makes you say that? Would you like a cookie? Everybody, even the ten spies who don't want to go, probably said, Amen. No, no, sing Victory in Jesus, sing it at the top of your lungs. It doesn't say any of those things. Then the mom reaches in the back seat and holds the uh pulls the seat forward so the eight-year-old girl can get out on the other side. I'm trying to say this. No, no. And because of this, when they give their spy report, they're going to gloss over what they were supposed to look at and spend the rest of the time talking about what they weren't supposed to look at In his job he was a taskmaster that beat me, but he really was a nice guy. So my wife had two and a half seventy pound suitcases. Listen to the leader's bad advice. There is rest, the Bible says. Look at all the fruit that we brought back. But y nobody likes those nobody hates those cheerleader messages. Now I've been in co countries, I'm sure you have too, where you don't want to drink the water. We're in Osaka. Start looking at the battles ahead. Let me give you some examples, all right. He wanted them to go over and pick out the land. By the way, once you start adding to the Word of God, very many times you'll actually start It's almost always it wa we I I would say without fail. And there's just this this little bowl about this big. What they're really saying is, why did God bring us out here so he could kill us? Do you know what you find happens more often than not? Nobody has a problem when you say, I'm going to take that mountain. Number two, the Lord's blessings were available. Elmore is a place that gets about two hundred inches of snow every single year. They sell normal stuff like chips and sodas, but they also sell sushi and raw fish in the 7 Eleven And we came into the land where thou sendest us. And some of you are old enough to remember this. Because they were willing to step out. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and And I said to Pastor, one of the first places I want to start is I want to buy you and your wife This great man named Moses is going to take what God said and add his own little spin to it. Notice what he says. And now Moses says, You twelve spies, you go see if the land is good or bad You know the difference, right? I just completely left the A off. We could have a great revival, national revival, lots of people get saved, and we as Christians would be in the majority. Let us go back to Egypt. I don't even like teenagers. We go absolutely crazy in my house for Christmas. But they're theologically incorrect when they start talking about the Jordan River Moreover, we saw the children of Anak there. It's like having too many too much cheese on your pizza. My wife is the spender then. And the people, whether it be strong or weak, fewer many he later says to see if they're You find He is the repitiation for our sin, and not for ours only, but for the sins of the whole world. See, when the Lord wanted her to go to school, she didn't have enough money to pay for it, and her parents couldn't even afford to help her. And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The land which we passed through to search it is an exceeding good land. Finally in 2006, we noticed that a evangelist friend of mine was going to Japan with my wife's uncle. And it's time to turn around. And by the time about the format, so by the time you get to church you had World War III You say, Brother Harper, are you trying to get us to not sing victory in Jesus anymore? Now watch verses 1 and 2. Were it not better for us to return into Egypt? Father, we pray that this last message will be a blessing unto them, an encouragement and a conviction. They could buy a luxury a sedan. You sound almost defeated. Listen, I'd eat my foot if it was cooked in bacon and butter. We will never be outmanned They're all over Japan. But as I'm looking around, there's a box like this. I don't want to step out completely by faith like they have, but I can sure see the way the Lord's blessing them. When you flick them off of your plate onto the floor, even the cat I get down there and realize I've got to do it three more times. I can't boat across the Jordan, and I'm not going to dig a tunnel. Father, have your will and your way in our hearts tonight. You realize the people that said that? We didn't have to fight battles. For those of you that are a little bit younger, that was like a cheer that we would cheer when we were with people my age, and there some of you And Japan keeps building deeper and deeper their subways. Thank you for the lessons. How about the one song, Hark the Herald Angels Sing, which is actually one of the more theologically accurate songs, but it even has a line in it. If I remember correctly, the Lord knocked down the l uh biggest walls in all of the uh land of Canaan without firing a shot. For instance, this is Amen. We all thought that was sweet because it's his fiance. You start hearing it because it's one of those cars, and I don't know if you've ever had one like this. He hath done whatsoever he pleased By the way, if Moses hadn't said anything else, this might have been all they said. I would go back up the steps. That's not Japanese food. You know the Bible doesn't say streets. We pray for those that are not here tonight because they're uh under the weather, sick or just weak, Father. We'd rather stay here in the wilderness. I do find it always interesting as they're going through this and the children of Israel get afraid. Would you slip your hands up, please, all over the auditorium? Even churches with wonderful music are afraid maybe you're more liberal than what they are, more e evangelical than what they are. Those things aren't gonna happen in heaven. That if they pull a penny out of their pocket, Lincoln squints at the light They've been gone for forty days. We are always going to be outnumbered. Alright? No, peas are nasty, sorry. Notice they were looking at the battles ahead. Yeah, he'd have to beat me and everything, and that was just his job. I don't know what he was remembering about it. So I walked up to the little lady there at the counter and I said, Excuse me, ma'am, where's your lemon bread? Me and my wife and my daughter were going into our cabin there next door to us, and I said, uh, Ron He brought less than one, and the rest of it, the other two, were empty. They're the ones that have a thirteenth chapter to their life story Because the very first word, the very first word that God used in the presence of Moses to describe the land of Canaan is the word good. They're the most disgusting things ever. You're going to start getting a defeated attitude. We'll never even know where they're buried in the wilderness. I would then go running back up the stairs. He said, I don't know what they do to them over here, but I know this, you can't get them better than they have right here in Japan. I call the car dealerships all the way over in Cumberland, all the way up He has no idea if he's going to be able to even afford a McDonald's meal for his children. The only thing I have are these weeds right here with these green little balls inside of them. They just did what they were told. They're just forgotten people. Now Ron was ultra platinum diamond something, something with Northwest back then. Eventually the devil will pour you back to leeks and onions and garlic. And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron. This belongs to the tribe of Judah. I know, as you mentioned earlier, the Lamb of God By the time you get to oh victory in Jesus, you're singing to the top of your lungs, and you forgot about your minivan, World War III Well, you ought to look back at the children of Israel. Their defences departed from them, and the Lord is with us, fear them not. And Moses says, Go see the land. Nobody likes them. You don't find them mentioning God in this passage of Scripture. Number two, the Lord's blessings were available. Teenagers don't need someone to understand them. Fear them not. And so he decided to take us to Japan. Please take care of that tonight, but for tonight. Everybody knows the story of the twelve spies. That clear coat. I was twenty-nine I think when I went back, hadn't turned thirty yet. We look back at the land of Egypt and we say, hmm, I'd like to go back there, because the food is better. You want to sit there and act like everything he says was directed straight at you. I've tried to learn to swim swim. How? And my bank told me that they've got a problem with my checking account because I have too many commas in my checking account. And by the way, and I don't think I have to tell you this, but let me say anyway She says, I don't think you need any more golf clubs. He brings the men in in verse 17. I've eaten some nasty stuff over the years, but nothing You didn't have to see him coming. My wife's uncle, I've I'm sure I've mentioned him at least to a few of you. You'll never know peace and joy. What I am saying is this when the songbook, the hymn book, and the Bible disagree, the Bible's right They still saw all of those things, even though they were rebelling against Almighty God. The Lord spake unto Moses, verse one, saying, Send no men that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give They should have said, Well, that sounds like a lot of enemies. No, I'm not defeated at all. How about and it's a long way away, thank goodness, because most preachers, most pastors, if they're really honest, will tell you I mean you've got six to seven weeks every year Well there was rest in the land of Canaan. And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land through which we have gone to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof. He said, Send out men that they may search the land of Canaan He's a a great leader, a great servant of Almighty God, but he makes a mistake I'd like to thank the Lord so only put $150 on my school bill. So what you do is you put when you pull to a stoplight But then he gets up and starts talking. The closest they're going to come to the figs and the pomegranates and the grapes are what they saw the spies carry back. They have a a world headquarters in Japan. There's a regular amen and then there's a spiritual amen. So for the next forty years, if you do the math, that means every day, they're bearing one, two, three, four. Listen to those people that add to and change and remodel, if you will, the Word of God. The reason I mention that is there is a whole lot of songs. All of these wonderful things. That stuff just stays on you no matter how hard you try to get rid of, eh? Do you notice as soon as Joshua and Caleb mentioned sin, they took up stones to stone them? Number three, they were looking at the battles ahead. They have little refrigerators, uh a little bit larger than what you'd see in a dorm or a hotel. Down through the list we could go about all these songs that talk about the Jordan River as a picture of death. It's great, it's better than the wilderness. When it comes to chocolate chip cookies, I want many. Thank you. She starts crying. Conquering land, claiming our inheritance, watching walls fall down, watching the sun stand still To be a loser. The Egyptians would fight our battles for us, forgetting, of course, that God had defeated them And so this is back when you could take If you that that place that calls it the Japanese steakhouse where the guy chops stuff up and And as a husband, you're real proud of those new floor mats that are in the back there You're not coming back from that. And she would step up, she was real short, about the same size as my wife We're going to skip around a little bit just for sake of time She wants to get those shoes. Let's go back to Egypt. I've got a VCR and it still s uh flashes twelve Now, I think that the European mass transit system is actually better than the Japanese mass transit system. We see off in the distance the Red Sea and we look at them as almost exactly the same. They knew they needed to get to that side. Now I have expressed to you this time and back in 2022 Now listen to what they said. The totally unspiritual amen. I was talking to Pastor about this just at the diner just yesterday. But the one that fights on our on our side has never been outnumbered. I found out that was a mantra of his But the chocolate covered almonds in Japan? And I looked at Ron and I said, Ron, is that the first time you went to Japan? After forty years in the wilderness, they're going to walk You know what God is telling Moses to do? What you don't know is he doesn't have any money in his pocket. He said, if I get to heaven and I find out it wasn't a sin to drink a beer I grabbed two more 70-pound suitcases. Mind us of the uh old uh old time when you went to church with your parents or the day you got saved or something along that line I love these. Even the ones that didn't want to go recognize that it's better to step into the Jordan than to stay in the wilderness I told Pastor it's like some farmer was going bankrupt and the I'd like some cookies and a pea After a while you get tired of manna No They're carrying furniture to the overflowing banks of the Jordan River. If the Lord delight in us, then he will bring us into this land and give it us a land which floweth with milk and honey You have spenders and you have savers, alright? They forgot they were slaves when they were in the land of Egypt. There they are in Egypt I see your hands. The Bible says the street of it is of purest gold. Now skip all the way down to verse seventeen with me, please. The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south, and the Hittites and the Jebusites and the Amorites dwell in the mountains, and the Canaanites dwell by the sea. When she walked across the stage at graduation, she didn't owe a penny. And I walked up to him and I looked in his cart and there was a box of Nabisco saltine crackers. In other words, I'm going to preach a message entitled How It's impossible. Doesn't matter how much it is. We we understand there's some battles over there that we're gonna have to face. They come back with a staff, two grown men carrying one cluster of grapes on a staff I'm just saying we're never going to be in the majority. Inside of it are the nastiest things that people eat. We're outnumbered. Now they're forgetting some things. And as you're driving down the road, mom turns around and hands that little girl a little sippy cup Now watch what it says, which I See, listen, the one that fights on our side never lost a battle That'll never help them. But understand this, if the Bible says street Watch this that God has given them Whether he's strong or weak, fewer many. My daughter had two sev two and a half seventy pound suitcases, and I had about three quarters of a seventy pound suitcase. Help us, Father. And someone else could say, Oh, these beautiful pastures over here, they'd be a great place to raise crops I would grab two more seventy-pound suitcases. The three-year-old boy starts laughing. It's not a good picture of heaven Christian, many times in our lives we're going to come to those moments where we just have to step out by faith Ten of them had already decided not to go. You didn't used to have to stay outside of security. Wherefore hath the Lord brought us into this These belong to the tribe of Simeon They get everybody together. See what happens when you add to the Word of God? Look at chapter thirteen. Even though the whole thing is written in Japanese, I'm smart enough to figure that one out. So he is filling two 70-pound suitcases And without being too ugly here, we just don't want the Lord to mess it up. Understand that? You had to just completely and totally And they said one to another, L let us make it a captain and let us return I have to just be willing to completely trust him by faith. He says, Get you up this way southward into the mountain and see the land, what it is. The children of Israel are outnumbered. It's a little ceramic bowl about this big And I know I know somebody's gonna come up to me after the service and say The children of Israel wept that night. They just need someone to love them. Preacher, I'm not gonna So when he took us, he really took us. Start longing for the bondage again. You may put them down. We'll go back to them. If we're out at a department store shopping He could be the pastor driving through Oakland, Maryland in a hot pink Lamborghini for all I care Number three, they were longing for the battles ahead. You didn't have to hear him coming. Mm-hmm. That's what God said. He said, A lot of y'all are wondering why I'm marrying Sandra. I'm going to do this for the Lord. That's not the same rest that the uh we're going to have when we get to heaven. And they returned from searching of the land after forty days And then watch what he says right after that. And surely That's spiritual. But some of you tonight need you just say, Lord. I know if I died today I'd go to heaven. Thank you for convicting so many in Jesus' name. How about this classic example? You can't have it. How many errors are added when we talked about Look how tall those children of Anak are. It's not gonna happen, alright? I'm the saver. But then you go into some house and I talked about this last night. By the way, I've never met a person who stepped into the Jordan that God didn't part the water. But I know there are areas where I need to stretch my faith. There are a lot of songs that we love Now watch the significant difference because it's huge. Let's have a word of prayer before we begin. Then the ten year old and the eight year old reach inside to get their two little kids, the little ones that are still in the car seat. No one likes peas So in 2006, On the outside of the box is an almond The glory is of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth That's when the Jordan River parted She pulled the microphone down. Moses told them to see the people. Do you know what they never mentioned when they said that though? And then they come to that place where it's time to choose whether to step into the Jordan River. What'll help them if someone loves them? So you know what I'm going to do, Lord? How many Christmas songs do you know that talk about the angels Now, as you get to this passage of Scripture Hang on just a second. And I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptian, to bring them up out of that land unto a There was a girl there named Sandra House I'm liking that. You don't want to turn you don't want to drink what comes out of that falsehood. Notice how we swap places. And he starts telling you about getting prayers answered like you and I don't see. They look around and everybody's got rocks in their hand. We were They actually say that And all he wants to do is share that burden with your church. You want to settle for the carnality of the wilderness Number four, they were longing for the bondage again. On the outside, it looks just like a 7-Eleven in the United States. I mean and because of our travel itinerary, we set up two of our Christmas trees in August Now skip down to verse twenty-three. Anthony is standing in this line, her fiancé, ready to give his testimony. You don't find them consulting Him. We would sit around as my my wounds were healing and enjoy lattes together. But we fail to acknowledge just how dangerous it is not to. Because everybody knows if you speak English slowly to someone who doesn't speak English, they're going to know what you're saying. They showed a slide presentation after we had the service and after we ate Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he will give thee the desires of thine heart. I heard an old, old story They didn't see a bridge. We sung that song in junior church. Don't you think the children of Israel should have enjoyed looking at the land that God is giving them? See, if God wanted to kill him, he could have killed him in Egypt easily, couldn't he? Maybe the taste, maybe the camaraderie, maybe the buzz. No, I'm not saying that at all. They can pick out any card that they want. Men. But I've got too many commas. He said, I want you to pick a leader from each tribe to go over there. They're outside of Caesar. That doesn't make peas any good. They've got one line that is actually seven floors down is one of their subway lines. Excuse me. I was sitting there all Regular amen is like this, amen. But then immediately in verse 28, they start talking about all the enemies they're going to face. But then we should go. After uh it'll it'll be sixty years, I believe, this uh this June that they'll have their sixtieth anniversary. It's a little bit more than what Erie and Buffalo would get You say, why do you say that? All of a sudden they've told all about how many It'd make that sound every single time. It keeps to shutter until finally it shuts down But I can't say that, so I have to reach out and take my spoon and get a few He was right about that. The next Monday she came up. You're hearing all that story, and the people start getting afraid and they start crying out. I'd put my laptop over my neck Put our feet in. Then eventually I'm just going, hmm. There's no question about that. Nobody has a problem with that. But there's one topic that you can almost see a pastor get uncomfortable if you mention it I'm the responsible one. So every time we add something to the Word of God, we add an error to the Word of God Just a moment. Let me check something. And the guy says, Well you oughta sell those. I understand the mathematical equation there. Don't you already have And the people Richard. Let's bow our heads and close our eyes. And all the but all the congregation bade stone them with stones, and the glory I don't think I've mentioned him in a message. How many errors did we add when we talk about irresistible grace when the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared unto all men? I'm liking that. But I am smart enough to know that I've seen some swimming competition like the Olympics and stuff like that. It doesn't idle correctly Children of Israel said, Why'd you bring us here to die in this wilderness? One of my favorite songs. They didn't see a tunnel. Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you for this evening. She said, I'd just like to thank the Lord that somebody put four hundred dollars on my school bill. My daughter would grab her carry-on. He said, Richard I'm just going to step out Oh, we love Christmas in my house, but what I am saying is this when the Bible says Have you ever noticed that it's that way every time? And if I don't start giving away money But she knew that's where God wanted, so she just put her feet in Jordan and came You could go to the gate. We're going to have our last invitation of the week. Don't think I'm saying that. Remember this And now all of a sudden, the people of Canaan are too big for God. I didn't say it We were all over the place And she looks at me like this I want to be the spender, she wants to be the saver. By the way, how many errors have been found by adding to the Word of God? And what the land is that they dwell in, whether it be good, I'd like to thank the Lord so only put fifty dollars on my school bill. They're stronger weak, fewer many. They're the best in the world He's never been outmatched. We feel like grasshoppers in our own sight You don't find them even looking for Him Have your will and your way in our hearts. He's just barely got lent down there Nope. They're the terrible things. And I've been all over the world. See, listen, Christian With your head still bowed and your eyes still closed, let's stand all over the auditorium I wonder if they're very strong and mighty men. But lastly, please, they lost their blessed accommodation. They didn't have kayaks Twelve men went to spy on Canaan, ten were bad, and two were good. Don't you think they would enjoy They were looking at the battles ahead. They never said, let's go back to Egypt, because you know Help us, Father, to just trust. The Red Sea was parted before they stepped in And then she would give this testimony. My deep and abiding affection for chocolate chip cookies You just want to stay as far away from it as you can I don't want her to spend that money. We can have a great revival, lots of people will get saved, but we will never be in the majority. Yeah, he's there. And everybody nods their head and says, Yeah, that's good preaching. You can have the worst possible day of your entire life on your way to church. Some of you remember that. I'm sure some d some silly people would buy 'em. Thank you. And the Bible says that when they shut out We pray that you'll touch their bodies and help them He wasn't worried about whether they were nomadic people or dwelt in strongholds. No one looking around. Now watch what he says next. And then a lot of them talk about the land of Canaan as a picture But the last verse says, I heard about a mansion, he's built for me in glory. We thank you He's never been outmaneuvered. We'd go down this whole flight of steps They're awful things I've eat I've eaten cow heel soup and pigtail soup. But during June and July they were pretty cheap, so we stayed in those. May put your hands down And the Bible clearly teaches us Mildly he laid his glory by. See in the land of Canaan they did not attain their full inheritance. That's the last sentence they said Richard Number four, they began to long for the bondage again. And I picked it up and I said, Ron In Jesus' name. I do not know. Some of you even remember when you could go all the way to the plane. Churches with We're fine She would say God isn't worried about that at all. It's time to go She's standing in this line But it doesn't matter in pastors' family. I literally do not know Now I'm just instead of going amen. He's never been surprised. But if I'm looking at golf clubs They never said anything like that. Brother Harper And He'd never taken us to Japan. And they said unto him I often wonder why none of them does this. But that doesn't mean anything. And we all went, mm. Amen He said, No, nobody would buy 'em. And so we're there. That's not what he said. And so by the time they walk in here He's never been ambushed. I'm just going, amen. He didn't say He said, What