How to Sunday. And Sunday school I started a series on how to get the most out of your Bible reading And um by the way, I want to say I really believe that Sunday school series is going to be very, very helpful. Um I think my class is better than Pat's, but um No, I'm kidding. Um not really, but uh n but I really believe this is helpful. No, what he's doing back there is excellent on Creation College. You knew you know I'm pushing that hard and uh learning that and that thing's really going well. But the Lord laid this on my heart. And uh in the Sunday school hour, if you're not in Pat's class and uh I really want to urge you, and if you're not in the habit of coming to Sunday school, I want to urge you come a little early and get involved in this, and I really believe with all my heart that this Sunday School series will help you in your Christian life. How to read your Bible every day, tips to do, what not to do, and how to get the most out of the Word of God. And so I'm real excited about that. And uh I really want to urge folks, and like I said, if you're not in his class, please get in here and I I believe this coming year, if you'll do what we teach, this coming year could literally transform your Christian life. And you see God do some great things in your life. So that was this morning. Then the morning service was how to be anointed with the oil of gladness. Now tonight is how to get wisdom And I didn't plan it this way. It just kinda worked out. How to Sunday. Proverbs chapter four. And by the way, how many folks brought your how many folks have a Bible with you? Good. We're going to use it tonight, so keep it there. I always figure if you're going to make the effort to bring it, we might as well use it and we're going to be all over it. In fact, let me tell you this. Go ahead and find James also Uh Proverbs, I don't mean James down here, the book of James. Uh we know where he is. Go go to James also, just stick a marker in there because we're gonna end up there We're going to be in Job, we're going to be in Psalms, and so just be ready to use it. Alright? So I sent you all over the place. Now come back to Proverbs chapter 4. I'm going to read verses 5, 6, and 7. I had an interesting visit. I didn't say this in testimony time. I meant to, but I went the fellow I was going to visit wasn't home, but I found the house was full of Mexicans. I mean just full of 'em. And uh and so they couldn't speak English, at least they acted like they couldn't. And I was trying to tell 'em I was they were scared to death, you know, when I came up. They just looked scared to death I had the suit on, you know, and uh I told him uh uh I said what's the what was the what's the group cat uh N S INS immigration. And anyway, but no, I didn't say it to him, but it was interesting. I didn't have any Spanish tracks, so we gotta start carrying Spanish tracks. Look at Proverbs chapter four, verse number five. Get wisdom, get understanding, forget it not, neither decline from the words of my mouth. Forsake her not. Now the her there is referring to wisdom. It's a female personification of wisdom. So he's talking about wisdom as if she as if it is a woman. Forsake her not, and she shall preserve her. Love her, and she shall keep thee. Now look at verse 7. Wisdom is the principal thing, therefore, and now he repeats himself, get wisdom. And with all thy getting, get understanding. So how do we get wisdom? Let's pray and we'll see if God can show us from His Word. Father, bless now our study your word. I ask with all my heart you'd fill me with your Spirit And Lord, my my concern tonight is that these truths will help us, Lord, that it's not just something we sit and listen, but you would help us in our lives and uh to be wise and that it would uh uh improve our Christian life and our spiritual well-being. So please uh do that, Lord. Fill me with your spirit. I yield myself again and I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen Would you agree with me that the world is a dangerous place? I mean we have a grass graphic illustration right here with Sierra last night. Never expected that. Uh things can happen physically. This is a dangerous place. And America, believe it or not, is one of the safest places in the world. I was reading an article yesterday, a news article on the ten ten places you in the world you should never go alone. And uh one of them, by the way, Pat, was China. And um just dangerous places And so we live in a day and America is one of the safest and yet there's dangers on every hand. Uh somebody said there was a a girl killed up on Table Rock last night and then there was somebody else somewhere else was uh in Iraq and killed Uh the world's a dangerous place. And not only physically, but the world's a dangerous place spiritually. How many how many folks do we look around and know and uh Satan has made a shipwreck? Of their spiritual life. Just destroyed them. And their lives and testimonies and uh is just ruined because of bad decisions. Because of unwise decisions and actions, wisdom is vital We cannot be foolish and think that we're going to be the people God wants us to be. We cannot be foolish. We must be wise. The Bible says here in Proverbs 7, Proverbs 4, verse 7, wisdom is the principal thing. That word principle has the idea of the starting point, the beginning point. That it's this idea that if you don't start with wisdom, you're going to fail at some point. It's the principal thing. You've got to start here It also has the idea of the highest value. So the idea is this: I've got to begin wise. I've got to begin whatever my endeavor is Um whatever, I'm starting a ministry, I'm starting a new phase of my life. I think of the young people, they're starting uh some of them going off to college next year and uh Brother James getting married here before long, and he's beginning uh parts of our life, uh God says, listen, you've got to start out wise. If you don't make wise decisions at the starting point, you're gonna have a rough time down the road. But it also, as I said, has the idea of valuable. Not only is it the starting point, it's the most important aspect. Of making right decisions. I put this down. Money without wisdom will result in financial failure. We see that in folks that inherit a lot of money. Do you ever see that? Do you ever hear about that? Folks inherit a lot of money. They didn't work for it. They didn't it wasn't their wise spending that acquired it. They simply was thrown in their lap And because they don't have wisdom, it's squandered away and gone in no time. Uh did you ever read the horror stories of uh folks that win the lottery? And they'll win all these millions of dollars. They didn't get it because of wise decisions they made. They didn't get it because of hard work and wisdom. They got it simply by the luck of the draw And you read their stories, and the vast majority end up their lives destroyed, their marriages destroyed, and many of them end up worse financially than what they were before they won it. I've read articles where the people made this statement. I wish I'd never won that lottery. Destroyed my life. So you can have great finances, but if you don't have wisdom Destroy you. It's no good. I put this down. Education and intelligence without wisdom ends up in failure. Uh people have tremendous education and tremendous high intellect, but their lives are ruined. Their lives are a wreck. They didn't know how, they didn't have the wisdom to deal with that information and use that information and education in a successful way. Positions of authority without wisdom Will end up in failure. We see that in a political world. Man, people get in these great positions, great power, and man, that you look at them and you look at their life and the decisions they make and you think these people are fools. And how in the world do they get in a position like this? Now, having said all that, you can turn that around It is possible to not have much money at all, but if you're wise, your life can still be a success. In fact, some of the wisest people and most happiest, the happiest, most successful people, as far as living life is concerned, that I've come across are folks that really didn't have a lot of money. But they did have some wisdom about them. You can maybe not have the great intellect and the great education, but if you've got some wisdom, you can be a success in life. Say, well, uh uh folks, my my parents' generation, uh a lot of them didn't go on and get advanced degrees. My mom went to eighth grade, my dad went to tenth grade, and they didn't have these great education And uh when I went off to Bible college, I referenced it this morning, but when I was in college and graduated, my dad would say stuff like, Oh, I'm just a dummy. I never had an education, I'm just a dummy I said, Dad, you're one of the wisest men I know. Whether you have an education or not is not the is not the I mean it's important, don't misunderstand. If we have the opportunity, we ought to take it, I think. But Just because you don't have an education doesn't mean you can't live a successful, fulfilling life if you have some wisdom. I'm trying to emphasize the importance of wisdom in life. It's possible to not have any position of authority, but yet if you've got some wisdom about you, you can be wise. Proverbs 21 and verse 22. We won't turn to it. Let me just read it. A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty. Now think about that. Here's a city, it's the mightier, and that means invincible. The city is powerful And it is an obstacle to whatever this wise man goal is. This city, this uh impenetrable city, is an obstacle. But because he is wise, he is able to overcome that obstacle. And accomplish his goal. You follow what he's saying here? If there are uh, hey, uh how many folks here you're saved and you know it. Say amen. How many folks here have found this to be true? That there are obstacles in your Christian life for you growing in your faith? Anyone find that out? Yeah. If you find how to live without them, let me know We've got the world, we've got the flesh, we've got the devil, and um and uh you know we've got all these, and so we face these obstacles, but if we can get wisdom If somehow I can get some wisdom when the devil and the world and and situation throw these obstacles up for me Going forward in my Christian life and me effectively serving the Lord, if I can get some wisdom, I can scale the walls of that city, so to speak. I can overcome that obstacle And we don't have to stay defeated. Wisdom truly is the principal thing. Now look at verse 5 here again. Get wisdom. Down in verse 7. Get wisdom. This is my question. I circled those two phrases there in my Bible. Here's the question. How do I get wisdom? Well, I looked up the word get. That's the first thing I do when I'm studying. I look up the words. And the word get means what you think it would mean. It means to acquire, to obtain wisdom. The idea here is, the implication here is, is that we don't naturally have wisdom. Follow what I'm saying? If he's telling me to get it, that means right now I don't what I don't have it. And so we don't naturally have this wisdom that is so important, that's so necessary. And so he says, get it, acquire it somehow. Obtain it somehow. And listen to this. One of the words, one of the definitions of this word means to buy. Buy wisdom? Purchase wisdom? And so the question came to my mind: is it possible to buy wisdom? Can I save up my money and save up my possessions and somehow barter with something or someone and purchase wisdom? That's a legitimate question, especially since the word get has that meaning in it. And so I did a little research. I looked in a Bible. Turn with me if you would. Now here's where I want to use our Bibles again a little bit Over to uh Job chapter 28. Now keep your place here in Proverbs, but Job chapter 28. And uh Job is uh in this back and forth with his three so-called friends that are just making all kinds of accusations against him. And some of the statements they make are legitimate statements. They're just misapplying them to his life. And look at Job chapter 28. And I'm going to begin reading in verse 12. All right, everybody glad they came to church tonight. Say amen. Amen. Everybody glad the Ravens lost? Say amen. Amen. Praise the Lord. Um Don't talk about the stealers. Uh Job chapter twenty-eight and verse twelve. You get me off track here. Look what it says. But where shall wisdom be found? Proverbs says, get wisdom, get wisdom, acquire it, purchase it, to get it some way. So Job asks the question here: where shall wisdom be found? Where is the place of understanding? Listen to this. Man knoweth not the price thereof. Neither is it found in the land of the living. So we don't know the price. We don't know what wisdom would cost. It's not found in the land of the living. The death saith, It's not in me. The sea saith, It's not with me, it cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof. It cannot be valued with the gold of Ofar, with the precious onyx or the sapphire, and the gold and the crystal cannot equal it The exchange of it shall not be for jewels of fine gold, no mention shall be made of coral or pearls, for the price of wisdom is above rubies The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be valued with pure gold. Whence then cometh wisdom? Where is the place of understanding? Job points out here very clearly, God through Job, is that you and I cannot buy wisdom. In fact, if I understand this passage here correctly, he's saying to us If I have the choice between having tremendous rubies and silver and gold or having wisdom, wisdom is the more valuable of the two. Classic illustration of that is who? Who do you think of? Solomon God came to Solomon and said, Hey, whatever you ask of me, I will give it to you. He said, You ask riches, I'll give you riches. You ask wisdom, I'll give you wisdom. Solomon asked God for what? Wisdom. And God says, because you did not ask for great riches, I'm going to give you that too. So wisdom, where I cannot buy wisdom. God says, get it. It's necessary. It's important. Do you know how many lives are ruined because people made foolish decisions? Do you know how many churches have been destroyed? Because of a lack of wisdom in decisions people made? Hey, let's just take it to its ultimate end. How many people have died and gone to hell? Because they were not wise with the information that was given to them. They were foolish and didn't make wise decisions and died without Christ. Wisdom is incredibly important. God says you've got to get it. You're i if you don't have wisdom, you're gonna make decisions that are gonna destroy your life, destroy your family, destroy your future. It's important. So we can't buy it. In fact, he says he can't go to the ocean. It's not in the ocean. It's not in the land of the living. Where is wisdom found? Let me give you. I studied this out. I wanted to find out And uh let me give you some things, how to get wisdom. Number one, real quickly, first of all, I need to understand what wisdom is I need to understand what it is. The word wisdom itself, particularly as it's used here in Proverbs and throughout the book of Proverbs, the word itself simply means to be skillful. If you get through Exodus and that, they'll talk about these different craftsmen that uh uh that put together and made the furniture in the uh in the uh tabernacle. And it says this about them. They were wise-hearted. They were wise-hearted. You know what it simply means? They were very skilled. If they were using a hammer, they were very skilled. They were wise. They knew how to use that hammer. If it was a chisel or a uh you know m working with gold they knew how to what decisions to make when to do it and what not to do it. I was reading about Henry Ford. And uh in his big plan, after they were up and running, and uh there was a problem in one of the machines that of the that ran the big um the big um assembly lines. And all his men worked on it for days and days and days, and finally he had a breakdown and called the guy that made it. He came in there, he was there ten minutes and had it fixed. They said, send us the bill. He got the bill for $90,000. He was there 10 minutes. The story goes that Henry Ford was a real skin flint and and uh he called the guy up, he says, What do you mean, $90,000? You were here for ten minutes. He says it's $1,000 for what I did. He says, but it's $89,000 for the wisdom it took to know what to do. In other words, uh wisdom simply means knowing what decisions to make, knowing what actions to take. to accomplish the goal. Wisdom is a positive term. Would you agree with me? Wisdom sounds positive, right? The negative term that's equal to wisdom would be shrewd. Would be crafty. If you have a thief that is very shrewd, he's very crafty, it means he is skilled at getting that illegitimate gain. He's wise. He can accomplish that. So what does it mean to be wise? God says, get wisdom. Get it. You need it So, what does it mean? It means this: being skillful at making the best choices. Let me ask you this. What do you want accomplished in your life? Answer yourself. Think about it. You and I have X number of days left in our life to live here before we go stand before God. It's all we've got. What do you want accomplished in your life? What goals do you have for your life? Do you just want to go the rest of your life? Just whatever? I don't. So what I need is wisdom, the ability to make those decisions that are going to get me to that goal. Here's the problem. People have a goal they have set in their life, and of course for the Christian, the goal in life would be to fulfill the will of God, right? And so somebody has a goal in their life, maybe God's called them to the mission field or whatever, and uh and they set out, but they don't have any wisdom. And they make foolish decisions, and they never get to the place God intends for them to be because they did not make wise decisions. They were not skillful. In making the decisions that will get them to where their goal, uh where they're trying to get to in their goal. Follow what I'm saying? Um uh maybe my goal is to have a successful Sunday school class. I want to see my kids saved in Sunday school. Alright, well then I need wisdom to know how do I go about that? What decisions do I make? What actions do I take to accomplish that goal of seeing my kids in my Sunday school class saved? Wisdom. Wisdom. It's skillful at making best choices. It is being skillful at using knowledge in the correct way I I like to point this out, not because I like the idea that it's true, but it is true, is you know, we could go down here to the nightclub or the nightclubs at the lake or go to one of the local bars here And uh tonight, no doubt, there's guys sitting at the bar and there's music jamming on the root ju the root um I knew I shouldn't have stopped by there before church. On the uh what's it called? Jukebox, there's music going away and they're sitting there uh drinking and laughing and carrying on whatever And I guarantee you we could go find someone uh and find someone that knows all about the Bible. They could quote verses to us and they could tell us all kinds of stuff. and all that, you know, but they don't have enough wisdom to use that information that they've been given in a way to accomplish what God intends for their life. Follow what I'm saying? So what is wisdom? It's being skilled. God gives me this information, and I'm I'm skilled at taking that information and using it in a way that advances my well-being, advances the cause of Christ and God's will for my life. So the ability to make right choices, to use knowledge correctly, to use the resources God has given me correctly. Uh we were talking, we had lunch, we had a visiting evangelist here this morning, Jim Brady, a good friend of mine, and we went out to lunch after church and we were talking, and he was mentioning somebody that had inherited a lot of money. And God had given them tremendous resources. And he said, this person that they're referencing, he said, they're the kind of person that the money gets in the hand and it's gone immediately. Spends it as fast as he gets it. And he said, you know, it's just they ended up with nothing. God had given them tremendous resources. Could have advanced the cause of Christ, could advance their own life, really, just of a selfish. But rather than using those resources wisely, they just squandered it and have nothing to show. Wisdom is being skilled at making right choices, using knowledge to accomplish the goals has for me. There's another aspect of what wisdom is. And this is important in our day and age. Wisdom is being able to determine what is true. There is a lot of falsehood in the world today. And we need wisdom to know the difference between what is true and what is false. Now listen, don't misunderstand me. I am not suggesting, we I am not suggesting, oh in fact, I'm saying the exact opposite We are we don't have any corner on the truth here at Mount Lake Independent Baptist Church. You understand that. There are plenty there are a lot of good churches out there. that uh maybe don't do everything exactly the way we do, but they understand the truth, they're preaching the gospel and all that. So don't don't think I'm painting us as the only one. But I am saying this Seems like every year that goes by, less and less churches are holding to the truth. And there's so much confusion in Christianity. That people don't even know. You can go to ten different churches, you'll get ten different plans of salvation. That ought not to be If we believe the Bible, the plan of salvation is very, very clear there. So it requires wisdom to know what the truth is. There's so much falsehood out there, so much muddled We were in Indianapolis. There was a couple in the church. Good couple. Grew up in good, strong Bible preaching church. They knew the Word of God. And this fellow Benny Hinn came through. And lo and behold, they got talking, and here they were going over there for some stuff. I said, What in the world? I said, that's as unscriptural as you can get. Yeah, but you never know. Wise person is able to say, you know, this lines up with scripture, this doesn't. This is true. This is not true. And uh they adhere to the truth. So, what is wisdom? It's being skillful at making best choices, using knowledge, using the resources God gives me, determining what is true and what is not true. Second of all, I need to determine my level of wisdom. If I'm going to get wisdom, first of all, I need to know what it is. And number two, I need to understand what is my level of wisdom. We already pointed out that the idea here is that we don't have it naturally. We need to gain it. And there is a sense, and we'll look at this in a minute here, but there's a sense where there is worldly wisdom that people are able to pick up as they go through life, not talking about spiritual life or Christianity Just worldly wisdom and knowing how to get we we we used to call it back home, we'd call it this street smarts. Anyone know what I'm talking about? It's just worldly wisdom, knowing how to work the system. Knowing how to get by in this old sinful world and get get uh take care of myself. Uh so wisdom, uh what is my level of wisdom, spiritually speaking? Well, I think there are very few people in the world that are totally void of wisdom. I bet a few that are in the running. But uh most people have a little bit of wisdom to operate with. Turn with me if you would to James. I mentioned this before. And here James actually mentions these two different types of wisdom Everybody doing okay? Alright? So far? Amen. I'm having a good time, so whatever. James chapter number three. It's amazing. James and Proverbs just go hand in hand, these two books in a lot of ways. James chapter 3, verse number 13. Notice what he says. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Alright, here's a legitimate question. Am I a wise man? Do I have any wisdom? What's my level of wisdom? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness, his works with meekness of wisdom. But look at this. But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, lie not against the truth. This wisdom Descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. So there is one type of wisdom that doesn't come from God. It comes from this world, just getting through this world, and it's characterized by bitterness By being envy, uh, I would say uh uh uh being envious means you're not content with what you have. Has to have what everyone else has. It's characterized by dishonesty, sensuality, it's devilish, it's skill, no doubt about it. Man, they're able to work the system. They can work this world and operate in this world. And man, they're angry and they're jealous and they're envious and they're dishonest and they're sensual, but man, they have worked in it. Then there's another type of wisdom. This wisdom descendeth not from above. Verse 16. For where envying and strife is, there's confusion everywhere. But look at verse 17. But The wisdom that's from above, the wisdom that God gives, the wisdom that He's telling us to get Is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy, good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy So here's you have this wisdom from above that is characterized by persons very peaceable, they get along well. They're very gentle. They're easily untreated. They're full of mercy. Their life is characterized by good fruits. They're not partial. They treat everybody fairly. They're not hypocritical. And so, what is my level of wisdom? Person can be very wise, street wise, but be very foolish spiritually. Um, did you know the devil has wisdom? The devil has skill. You say, what? The devil's not wise. He's a fool. In Ezekiel chapter 28 and verse 12, the Bible says that the devil is full of wisdom. He's very skilled. He's very wise. But not wise with the wisdom of God, but wise for the wisdom in the sense that he has wisdom to accomplish his selfish will. To affort the things of God. This is what I'm trying to say. Listen, the devil is not a dummy. He knows you and I. He knows how to play us. He knows how he knows our weak points. He knows what buttons to push and get us messed up. I mean he was after Peter. It's only the Lord's prayers that kept Peter from getting messed up. The devil's no dummy. But he doesn't have the wisdom from above. And so, what is my level of wisdom? Where am I at? I went through the book of Proverbs. Took some time, went down and looked for characteristics of a wise man. See how they fit in your life. Alright, don't evaluate someone else. And here's another caution We have a tendency to think of ourselves more highly than we ought to. I found I've I've I've worked with some very foolish people who really thought they were wise. And so let's ask the Lord to search our hearts. How wise am I, really? Let me just, and this is just a partial list. It goes on and on and on. But uh a wise person listens and learns from others. In other words, there's an element of humility there. Willing to listen to what others have to say, willing to listen what they can teach me. Second is a wise person does not procrastinate. He's diligent about it. Now evaluate yourself, not someone else, ladies. My wife's having a good time up here. This is great preaching. Doesn't procrastinate. A wise person receives commandments. They don't bristle when they're told to do something or whatever by those men. They receive commandments. Chapter 10, verse 19, it says, a wise person restrains their lips They don't just run off at the mouth. They win souls, 11, Proverbs 11:30. They hearken to counsel, chapter 12. They listen to their father. I thought that was interesting. A wise person listens to their father, or you could say their parents. They listen to them. They walk with wise men. A wise person builds up rather than tears down. When I was in Bible college, I had a short uh work in uh odd jobs for about a year there. I didn't have any permanent work. And so this one guy hired Randy Miller and I to he would buy houses. Now they have fancy words for it and there's TV shows about, but he would buy an old house, he'd tear the thing down, and then fix it up and sell it for three times what he bought it for Well, Tom will appreciate this. He hired me. He didn't hire me to build it up Tom says amen to that. He hired Randy and I, not to put the drywall up and fix it all up and do that. He hired us to tear it down. That was easy. Sure. And uh he said, here's the sledgehammers, here's the crowbars, here's a little mask, and uh have at it. And so we get in there and just get slang in it. And it took no wisdom or skill at all. And me it's a miracle we didn't kill ourselves. But the Bible says a wise man, a man that has some skill, is able to build things up. He's able to build up people around him. He's able to build up His ministry. He's able to build up uh the occupation God has given him, build up his family, not tear it down and destroy it. That doesn't take wisdom. A wise man fears and departs from evil. Man alive, how much fear of sin do we have in the world today? I preached on this a few weeks ago, but man brags about not having fear. That is not wise. We ought to be scared of sinning. Amen? We ought to be afraid of sinning because of what it's going to do to us. Do you read that? Do you see that in the news where that little boy fell off the at the zoo, Pittsburgh Zoo, he fell off that rail, and those wild dogs came and killed him? Anyone see that? You know what that that we ought to be a f we ought to be afraid of those wild dogs. They'll destroy And we ought to have that fear against sin. And the Bible says a wise person, if I have wisdom, I'm afraid of that sin. I don't want to do that. What are you afraid? Let's go smoke a cigarette. What are you afraid? You know, when you're kids? Good answer would be, yeah. I don't want to get hooked on that and get cancer. Yeah, I'm afraid of that. Oh come on, man, let's smoke some weed. Were you scared? Yeah Wise man is afraid of evil. Doesn't drink alcohol. Chapter 20 and verse 1. A wise man keeps the law The wise man turns away wrath. Rather than ticking everybody off, he calms things down and turns away wrath. He keeps his opinion to himself, chapter 29 and verse 11. Well, I just want everybody to know what I think about it. You know what you're saying? You're saying you don't have wisdom Just don't have wisdom. Well I just say what I think and let the pieces fall where they will. Bible says wise man doesn't do that. He keeps his words. He refrains his lips. Now if somebody asks you for your opinion, that's something else. Would you agree with me? All of us need wisdom. Agree with me on that? I went through that list. I got studying this. I thought, man, I need wisdom. I need God to show me. So number one, realize what it is. Number two, evaluate, do I need it? Yes. And then last uh uh thirdly, understand where wisdom comes from. Proverbs chapter 2 tells us it comes from the Lord. If I'm going to have wisdom, God has to give it to me. I'm not gonna get anywhere else. Oprah doesn't have any wisdom. Amen. Dr. Phil doesn't cannot give you wisdom. Uh Vince Gill I was wondering how many people knew who that was. Doesn't have any wisdom. Country and Western singers, the movie stars, all that, they don't have any wisdom. Wisdom comes from the Lord. Amen. I got a nail b you can always tell when you hit somebody between the eyes they get all worked up. But anyway, uh then last of all, understand how to get wisdom. Write this down. Would you number one fear God? The fear of God is the beginning of wisdom. The Bible says that twice. To fear God. I need to understand God's authority over my life and respect that. A person who does not recognize God's authority over their life is not wise. They're running their own show, they're calling their own shots, there's no fear of God. It's not wise. It's not wise. Number two, I've got to desire wisdom. I've got to want to be wiser than what I am. I'll tell you what will help a lot of us if we just stop and say, listen, I'm not doing this right. I need some wisdom here on this. That would help a lot of us in our Christian life. Man, you know, I'm just God, I need you to show me what to do here. Some of us in our finances need to just stop and say, God, I need you to show me how what's the best decisions to make or how to handle this. Some of us in child rearing Just any asset of any any area of life, any facet of life. God, I need you to show me. I want you to give me wisdom. If we're just satisfied just going through shooting blindly, then that's all you're going to get. But desire wisdom, desire it. When I desire to make the right choices as badly as I want money and stuff, I'm on my way of getting wisdom. That's what Proverbs 2, 1 through 9 say. We want it as bad as silver and as gold. We pursue it like we're pursuing rubies and riches. He says, then you'll have wisdom. How many of us, I don't, this isn't true for me, but it was in years going by, wonder how many folks work 40 hours a week at a job that they don't like? Forty hours a week. Get up before they want to get up. Stay longer than they want to stay. Do things they really wouldn't do if they had the choice. But they do it so that they get a paycheck at the end of the week. Right? How many people know what I'm talking about? They're just doing it because they value the money. There's nothing wrong with that. Don't misunderstand what I'm saying here. But when we get to the point that I want wisdom to be able to make right decisions in my life, that my life is what it ought to be, as badly as I want that money And I'm willing to put the time and effort into it and work towards that, getting that wisdom, as much as I am towards finances, God says, then you're on the road to getting wisdom. But if it's not important to you, if having the ability to make the right decisions in life is not important to you, then you're never going to get it. It has to be important. Number one, fear God. Number two, desire wisdom. Number three, read God's Word. Psalms 19:7 says that the Word of God will make wise the simple. If I want to know how to make right decisions, I've got to read the Word of God. Number four, be mindful of death. Now I thought this was interesting. In Psalms 20 verse 12, says, uh and I'm putting it in my own words, and we're not turning there for sake of time, but it says this, it says something to the effect that the wise person Considers uh then the number of their days that eventually they're going to die. Now, at first I thought, well, how does that make me wise? You know That is a powerful effect upon our life that I know I only have X number of days to live. I don't know when it runs out. And I better make the most of the moment I have. I better be wise in how I'm using my time and using my finances and using my resources and what I'm investing my life in. Because there's a day coming when I'm going to die and I'm going to stand before God and give an account of myself. We live in a generation of Christians that have absolutely either forgotten or just put out of their mind the fact That there is a day of judgment coming. And we are going to have to answer to God as Christians. And we are going to have to stand before Jesus Christ at the judgment seat of Christ. And if I am going to be wise, I keep that in the back of my mind in everything I'm doing. Hey, I'm going to have to answer to God someday for this. And Psalms tells us that that gives us wisdom. That we'll treat things a whole lot differently. We'll face things a whole lot differently. We'll make a whole lot of different decisions. Number five, and last of all How do I get wisdom? Number five, ask God for it. James chapter one. Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations or trials or difficulties. Knowing this, that the trying of your faith, when God tests you, the trying of your faith worketh patience. But let patience have her perfect work. That you may be perfect or mature and entire, wanting nothing. And if any of you lack wisdom, let a mask of God, who giveth to all men liberally, and braideth not God will give us wisdom. We're not the this isn't the biggest crowd we we have here on Sunday nights always, but I have no doubt about this. I'm talking to some folks tonight that you're at a point in your life, you're at a situation in your life where you really need some wisdom from God. Now you can do one of two things. You can say, well, I'll just do what I think. Or you can fall on your face before God and say, God, this has dread this has tremendous consequences. I've got to make the right decision. I've got to use this wisely. I've got to be wise. God give it to me. Show me, help me, tell me what's the best decision to make. Ask God for it. Facing situations, struggling with issues, maybe made some bad decisions. God gives wisdom. How many people recognize the name Joni Erickson Anybody recognize that? Journey Ericsson Tada. Anybody recognize that name? You don't hear much about her anymore. She was, when she was 17 years old. She dove into a swimming pool and I don't know all the details, but she hit the bottom of the pool and broke her neck and was paralyzed from her neck down. Uh let me read to you. Now I wouldn't agree and be in the same position everything she is on some things, but let me read to you what she said about that incident in her life. This is a 17-year-old girl. She said, God engineered these circumstances. God used them, her having her neck broke, God used them to prove Himself. uh to m he and his loyalty to me. Listen this. Not everyone had this privilege I felt like there were only a few people that God cared for in such a special way that He would trust them with this kind of experience. This understanding left me relaxed and comfortable as I relied on his love and exercising a newly learned trust. I saw that my injury was not a tragedy, but a gift God was using to help conform me to the image of Christ. Something that would mean my ultimate satisfaction, my ultimate happiness, and even joy, and bring others to Christ. Think about that. Seventeen year old girl just swimming with her friends breaks her neck. And her response is: God is being so good to me that He's entrusting me with this experience to be able to glorify Him and point others to Christ. You know what that's called? Wisdom. She's making the right choice about what God brought into her life Now, what about you and I? What are we facing? We can get bitter, we can make take it into our own hands and deal with it. Or we can say, God, you've allowed this in my life, give me wisdom. Help me make the right choices, right decisions according to your will. I tell you what, if we're not wise Our lives will be destroyed. Our lives will be destroyed. I always say this, but you know, I like deer hunting a bunch of us. I get out there, the only deer I ever shoot are the foolish ones That ignore the odor, ignore all the movement, the noise, and everything else. They just come walking in and let me shoot them. The smart ones, the wise ones, say, wait a minute, this isn't a good idea to walk in front of that guy standing there with a gun. And that's the way Christians are. God gives us all these warnings, God gives us all these resources, and we just And that and we're we're open season for the devil. And our lives show it. Miserable. Empty, wretched. Or we can be wise. Let's ask God to give us wisdom. Father in heaven, please bless. We don't want to be foolish, God, in our lives. We want to be wise. And so stir our hearts and help us in the decisions we face this week. Lord, some of us have financial issues that we need wisdom. Some of us have interpersonal issues we need wisdom. God, so many young people have a future life ahead of them, and the decisions they're making now, God are going to affect them when they're 30, 40, 50 years old. They're going to have to deal with the consequences. I pray you'd give them wisdom. Help us to understand the importance of this. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, there's a f situation, there's an issue issue in my life, and I really need God's wisdom. I really need God to show me. what the right decisions are. Is there anybody like that by the uplifted hand? I have areas and situations like, God bless you, hands all around. That's the first step in getting wisdom is realizing I need it. And then coming and asking God and wanting it more than anything else. God, I have to have wisdom. And God will give it to us Get in his word, follow his leadership, he'll give it to us. Father, bless our invitation now, I ask, in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, our eyes are closed.