2 Samuel chapter number 2, we're going to read verse number uh we're going to begin reading in verse number 4, the middle of verse number 4, and then read down through verse number 7 We're coming back to our study in the life of David. Saul and Jonathan have been killed on the battlefield, if you'll remember, by the Philistines. They were killed. Uh David had gotten word uh about uh their death on the battlefield, and and uh in the first part of chapter two, he seeks the Lord. He looks asks the Lord for direction. uh whether this is the appropriate time to go back into Judah or not, whether uh how he should go about uh uh stepping up onto the throne. And Uh just a tremendous compliment on the faith and wisdom of David as he waits on God he prays. Let's the Lord lead and direct him And then we come here to chapter 2, verse number 4. I want to begin reading in the middle of the verse. If you would notice there, the Bible says there, um in the middle of verse 4, and they told David saying that the men of Jabesh Gilead were they that buried Saul. Now what had happened? Saul had been killed by the Philistines out in the battlefield Uh these men of Jabesh Gilead had heard about that. They made their way out to the battlefield. They got the body of Saul. Uh rather than the Philistines mistreating it, they brought it back uh although it was beheaded, they brought it back and they treated Saul with respect and buried his body. David got word about that. And then in verse number five, David sent messengers unto the men of Jabesh Gilead, and said unto them, Blessed be ye of the Lord, that ye have showed this kindness unto your Lord, even unto Saul, and have buried him. And now the Lord show kindness and truth unto you. And I also will requite you this kindness, because you have done this thing. Now therefore, therefore, now let your hands be strengthened, and be ye valiant, for your master Saul is dead, and also the house of Judah have anointed me. king over them. I want to speak this night, uh uh this evening on uh David honored those who honored God's man. David honored those who honored God's man or I actually have a shorter title for it. And it's this, how to honor a man. How to honor a man. Let's pray together. Ask the Lord to speak our hearts, and we'll look at this brief event in the life of David, but really has a lot of truth here, I believe. So let's pray. Father in heaven, we come before you this evening I thank you, Lord, that we have this avenue, this means of being able to still have our service tonight, reaching out in the homes of our people and many folks around. We ask again that you would use this passage to speak to our hearts, help us to grow in our faith, help us, Lord, to grow and mature in our interaction with others, in this matter of honoring people Lord, I yield my will to you. I present my body anew. With all my heart, I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit and you speak these truths through me And out through the radio waves and into the hearts and homes and hearts of your people. So please bless us again, Lord. Help us in Jesus' name I pray. Amen. I think first of all here, the thing I noticed, I put this down, is that David acts very wisely in his move here with honoring these men of Jabesh Gilead. He's making it clear to the nation of Israel, I believe by contacting these guys, commending them for uh uh respecting Saul's body. And uh he's making it clear to the nation of Israel that first of all, he had no animosity towards Saul In fact, we saw this through his whole interaction as Saul was pursuing David and trying to murder him, really. David fled for his life. He evaded Saul But he never displayed any type of animosity towards God's anointed. And David wants to make this very, very clear to the nation of Israel, now that Saul has been killed, now that Saul is dead David still uh again has no animosity towards him. Now some other folks uh might not have responded this way. Some other folks might not have re uh appreciated the acts of these men of Jilli, Jabesh Gilead in in showing respect to uh King Saul. They might have said, you know, had a bad attitude or whatever, but not David. He's making it very, very clear to all the nation of Israel. And no doubt Saul had still had his followers. No doubt there was many that were loyal to Saul, maybe had a wrong impression of David And in this one act, David's making it clear, no animosity. I respected this man for his position. He was the anointed of God. And uh even in his death, he makes that very, very clear. So David's acting wisely here and makes it clear he has no animosity towards King Saul. But also he's wise in making it clear, I believe, that he had no personal ambition to the throne. David was not coming back into Judah because he craved that throne. He wanted that that authority, that position. No, we don't see any of that any point in David up to this point. No, David desiring that throne He was seeking, he was going to take the throne for one reason and one reason only, because God had anointed him to that position. God had called him to that position. This was not David's personal ambition. He was not out after that thing. He wasn't campaigning like we have in our country, and I want that position, I want to sit in that seat. No no no, none of that was true of David. God had called him, God had anointed him, and so he's stepping up based solely on the fact that uh of God's anointing. So David is acting wisely here in uh contacting these men of Jabesh Gil he added, Gilead commending them for showing respect to the body of Saul, burying it. He's acting very wisely. But I also put this down. David is acting very sincerely I don't believe this was just a diplomatic move on David's part to get him in good graces with the nation, with the tribe of Judah and eventually the nation of Israel. I think David sincerely uh appreciated what these men had done in showing respect to King Saul. I think this uh statement and this response here is a a sincere heartfelt response that uh he was very very grateful for these men. that had shown um respect to King Saul. Now, there's a couple things that stand out to me uh in this passage, and that's what we're going to look at tonight. The first thing uh I see is that um uh he honored these men who honored Saul. The men of Jabez Gilead heard that Saul had been killed They heard that his body was still laying out on the battlefield, uh in the open air, birds and varmins and whatnot. Who knows what the Philistines would have done to it They make their way out there very valiantly, very bravely. They get recover the body of Saul. They bring it back, treat it with respect, bury him respectfully. And David wants to honor these men that showed honor to King Saul. But then the other thing I want to notice here is how he did that. How did he honor these men? And so um it the interesting thing about this is he's been anointed king now by the tribe of Judah, so he had God's anointing previously. Now the tribe of Judah publicly anointed him. He's king. I mean at this point he is king. At least the tribe of Judah is recognizing that. Later on the rest of the nation will. And his very first act of king is to honor those who honored the previous administration, the previous king And I think that's something we can learn from. Now, before we look exactly how David honored them, I just want to take a moment and consider what the Bible teaches about honoring others. About honoring others. Actually, the Bible speaks a good bit about that, about who we should honor and and uh why and these types of things. So I looked up the word honor in the Bible simply means what you would expect it to mean. It means to highly esteem someone or to greatly value someone or to show Tremendous amount of respect. It has the idea of lifting someone up because of a position they hold or certain characteristics they have. Let me read to you Romans chapter 13 And verse number seven. The Bible says this: render therefore to all their dues, tribute, to whom tribute is due, custom, to whom custom is due. Fear to whom fear and honor to whom honor. Somebody says, I don't think you should honor anybody but God. Well, that sounds awfully spiritual, but it's not scriptural The Bible says we are to honor certain people, those to whom it is due. We are to fear certain people. We are to give custom and tribute. That word tribute and custom there in Romans means refers to taxes and things that the government requires of us and um but honor to whom honor is due. So the Bible very clearly teaches us That we are to show honor to particular people. Now, two thoughts along those lines. Number one, we are to give honor to those to whom it is due. Now I got looking up in the Bible, and this isn't, I don't want to spend a lot of time on this, but I do want to bring bring it across this evening. The Bible says there are certain people that we are to honor. Now if we had everybody here and you could respond to me, I would ask you who are some people in the Bible we're told to honor. But you're not here, and so even if you answered it, I couldn't hear it anyway. So I'll just Uh give them to you. The primary people in the Bible that we are instructed, commanded to honor, primarily are people in authority. And I've looked across the board there at that. And we can categorize these various areas of authority that the Bible says we are to honor those who hold that position. For instance The authority in the home we are instructed to honor. In Exodus chapter 20 and verse 12, one of the Ten Commandments, thou shalt honor thy who? Father and mother. Again, in Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 2, the first commandment with promise, thou shalt honor thy father and thy mother. that thine days may be long upon the earth. So one of the first things we're commanded, first areas of authority that we are commanded to honor is the authority in the home. Sometimes a child will say, What's God's will for me? It's very simple. Honor your father and mother. It's pretty much it for your kids Honor your father and mother. You say, What's that mean? Well, one thing it means do what they say. Can I get an amen from the parents on that? Do what they tell you to do. It's honoring your father and mother. Speak highly of them. Respect them Be honest to them. Listen to them. Follow their instructions. And so God commands us that we are to honor certain people. These primarily are people who in authority, and one of those areas of authority the Bible very clearly says we are to honor is the authority in the home, mom and dad, father and mother. But there's another area of authority that we are commanded in Scripture to honor those that hold that position of authority, and that is in government Uh Romans chapter 13, verse 1 through 7. And we're not going to take time to turn to these. I hope you jot them down, maybe take a look at them. Romans chapter 13, 1 through 7, we are told to honor those to whom it is due. That word due means to those who uh uh are um owed that were instructed to honor them. So it has to do with government authorities. Again, in 1 Peter chapter 2 verse 17 says it very distinctly, very clearly Honor the king. That's what it says. 2 Peter chapter 2. I'm sorry. 1 Peter 2 verse 17. Honor the King. We are to honor those who are in government authority. You say, Brother Leatherman, what if I don't like them? Well, we don't have to agree with their policies. We don't have to endorse their lifestyles. But in the position they hold, they are to be treated with honor. Uh about every March uh several of us go down to Washington, D. C. , make appointments, try and meet with our senators and representatives and And anybody down there in authority we can. And uh most of those we meet with, we would be on opposite ends of their policies. We would disagree strongly with just about everything a lot of those that we meet with. However, God has instructed us to honor them for the position they have. So when we go into their office, we sit down with them We treat them with respect. We treat them with honor. We speak to them respectfully and honorably because God has instructed us to. So the Bible says, yeah, there are some people we are to honor, uh those who hold positions of authority in the home In the government, hey, here's another one I found in the Bible where we are instructed to honor those who have positions of authority, and that is in the church. In 1 Timothy chapter 5 in verse 17, it says about honoring the elders, the pastors, those in authority in the church Hebrews chapter 13 and verse 7 and I believe verse 17 again it touches on this matter of those that hold positions of authority in the church are to be honored, followed, respected. And so we have the home, we have government, and we have the church. I thought this was interesting. Those are the three institutions that God established. He established a home in Genesis, he established government in Genesis, and in the New Testament, he established the church This is God's design. These are God's institutions. And he says, those whom he has delegated authority to in these institutions that he established You and I are to honor them, are to honor them. I found another authority in the Bible that we are to honor. You say, Brother Leatherman, what other authorities are there? You got the home, you got the government, you got the church, what other one is? The ultimate authority, and that is God Himself. The authority of all the universe, of all creation, and that is the Lord God. First Timothy Chapter 1 and verse number 17. Unto the King, eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever and ever, above all men. We are to honor the Lord God Himself. Peter put it this way. He said in Acts, he said, we ought to obey God. rather than man. Doesn't say we shouldn't honor man, we shouldn't honor these authority. But God is to be honored above all God is to be honored above all. When we get to the point where we honor a person or a position higher than God, then that position becomes an idol for us. It replaces God. So we are to honor man, those to whom it is due, Romans tells us. Above all these, the home, the government, the church. Above all of these, we honor the Lord God, we esteem him, we exalt him, we respect him, we highly value him above all else. So as I study what the Bible teaches about honoring man, I find that yes, we are to give honor. But I learned something else in my study of what the Bible says about honoring men, and that is this. We are never to seek honor. We are to give honor to those to whom it is due that God has established those who are in position that God says, yes, these men are to be honored. However, we are never to seek honor. If you'll study the gospels very carefully, you'll find a group of folks in there that were constantly seeking honor. constantly seeking to be highly valued of men, constantly seeking to be respected and highly esteemed. You know who they were? Pharisees. They went about looking for the honor. They would exalt themselves. And of all the people through the gospels, you'll find very few that were rebuked more sharply Then the Pharisees were for that very reason of exalting themselves and lifting themselves up. Let me give you a reference. Matthew chapter 23, verse 5 through 7. Jesus rebukes the Pharisees sharply. Because they're seeking the honor of man. They're seeking it. So we are to give honor to those whom it is due, that God has established. Give them honor, respect. uh highly esteem them, valuing them for their uh uh position and uh uh the the place God has placed them, but never seeking honor. Now let's come to our passage here, back to uh this little event In the life of David, where these men acted honorably, these men of Jabesh Gilead acted honorably in retrieving the body of King Saul from the open field bloodied, no doubt, bruised, and uh uh bringing treating that body with respect, bringing them back and giving them a respectful, honorable burial David, because these men acted honorably, he shows them honor. Now how did he do it? Real quickly, I noticed four ways that he he showed them respect. Number one, he publicly acknowledged their deeds. Look with me if you would at verse number five. Now I hope at home there. I hope you're following along with us. I hope you got your Bible out And uh join in with us here. Now look at verse five. And David sent messengers unto the men of Jabesh Gilead and said unto them, Blessed be ye of the Lord, that ye have showed this kindness unto your Lord, even unto Saul, and have buried him. The first way he showed honor to them was by publicly acknowledging their deeds. He publicly acknowledged what they did. You know, when someone acts honorably, when somebody does something, a deed that is a very honorable deed, I believe it ought to be acknowledged. I think it ought to be recognized. I think somebody ought to point out, hey, this person acted very honorably. This person did some very honorable deeds. And that's what David did with the men of Jabesh Gilead. He goes, wait a minute, these fellas acted honorably. We want to recognize that. We want to honor them. for their honorable deeds. Here's what we do too often. We are too often too often the dishonorable acts of people get all the attention Uh those that uh act dishonorably, those who act disgracefully, uh those who bring shame, they get all the attention. Now I'm not big on watching news. I try to stay up a little bit on what's happening just so I don't get blindsided sometimes. But uh I tell you, 99% of the news is exalting people who act dishonorably. I don't I don't think we ought to be putting pictures of folks Attacking cops and burning buildings down and su and uh tearing things up and rioting in the streets. We ought to have that information But all we're doing, you get these people in front of a camera, and brother, it just inflames it. We're honoring, we're exalting, lifting up Those who act dishonorably. How comes our news never finds somebody that's out there doing something good, something building? How comes they never get soul winners and people are feeding the poor and helping uh needy people and winning people to Christ and drunkards getting saved and churches where uh families get back together and get things right. How comes that never makes the news Because this whole world loves dishonorable things. They love the darkness. And you and I, as people of God, we've gotta we've gotta adjust our thinking a little bit We don't need to dwell and exalt and magnify and honor those who act dishonorably. Let's lift up those that do right. Let's lift up those that do good deeds. That's what David did His very first act is king of Judah, eventually king of the entire nation. Very first act. I want to recognize these men acted honorably, and we're going to publicly acknowledge that Too often we're so quick to find faults. Too often we're so quick to dwell on that which is negative, that which is failure. And uh just look uh so uh I put it this way, it's sad that so many of Christians dwell on the faults and failures of others. It's sad that so many Christians almost relish the idea of pointing out the failures of other people. David started out, he didn't point out failures, and he says, nope, these men acted honorably. I noticed in Revelation chapter 12 and verse 10. Last week Brother Williams preached from Revelation, and there's a statement in Revelation chapter 12 and verse number 10. where Satan is referred to as the accuser of the brethren. That's his ministry. I put in the margin of my Bible, Revelation 12, 10, I put in the margin of my Bible, Satan's ministry. The accuser of the brethren. You know what Satan loves to do? He loves to point out all the dishonorable acts that God's people do He loves to magnify the shameful say, oh, just accuse. Did you see what Letterman did? Satan accuses me before God. And you know what God says, yeah, I didn't see it, that's all under the blood. Jesus died for that. I tell you, we gotta get back to seeing uh the honorable and exalting that. So uh how did David honor these men? First of all, by publicly acknowledging uh their honorable deeds and um brought attention to that. The second thing he did to honor these men is he praised their actions. Again, verse number five And David sent messengers unto the men of Jabesh Gilead and said unto them, Blessed be ye of the Lord. Oh, what a statement. You know what he's saying? That word blessed there means this. Praised, uh lifted up, exalted, saluted. He's kind of saying this uh uh several uh a couple months ago, some of our uh uh one of our ladies in church is in the military and their their uh caravan was coming through Oakland. So a bunch of us went down uh to the intersection where they were coming through And we had flags out and waving, and brother, when they came by, we were waving the flags and we were saluting them. You know what we were saying? In a sense, it's kind of what David was saying. Bless you Ah man we thank you for that. We respect you for what that. And that's what David is doing. He's praising their actions Blessed be ye of the Lord. And then he mentions their kindness, that ye have showed this kindness. I tried to define kindness. I asked my wife, how would you define kindness? She said, uh look it up. And so I thought, well, how do you define kindness? And so I uh the first answer comes to my mind is being kind. But what does that mean? And the best I could come up with was performing good deeds, being considerate, or showing goodwill. And so David says, listen, you guys were very, very kind. And I just praise you for that. And I bless you for that. And I The Lord bless you and we salute you and uh uh uh we are grateful for what you've done. David publicly praised them. For the good deed that they did. He praised them for it. I tell you, praise is a powerful, powerful tool. It's a powerfully rewarding To somebody be praised for what they did. I'm telling you, you can encourage somebody just by coming and saying, thank you for what you do. Thank you for cleaning the auditorium. Thank you for running that bus. Thank you for singing that special. Thank you for running that vacuum. Just praising people. I tell you that as a powerful reward. in the hearts and souls of people. Praising is a powerfully rewarding and it is powerfully encouraging I'll tell you, you may just make someone's day by jotting a little note, sending a little text, something, and say, ah, I praise you, thank you for doing this, being my friend or whatever So David, first act as king, is going to honor these guys. How's he do it? First of all, he publicly acknowledges what they did Second of all, he praises them for what they did. Then number three, I notice here in verse number six, the first part, and he says, And now the Lord show kindness and truth unto you. What's he doing when he makes that statement? You know what he's doing? He's praying for them. He's praying for God's blessings to be upon them. He publicly acknowledges their actions, their deeds. He praises them for what they did, and now he prays for them. Lord reward thee. And now the Lord show kindness and truth unto you. He praised them He prays for them. I tell you, a great way to honor someone is to pray for them. I can't tell you how encouraging it is. Every now and then I'll get a text or get a message. Somebody will call me up and they'll say, Pastor Leatherman, I'm praying for you. Man, I'll tell you that that is good. One I mentioned this recently, not too long ago, but about a year or so ago, one Sunday morning, about five o'clock in the morning, I got a text from one of my preacher friends. They said, Brother Levin, I'm praying for you today And I just got up and I was like, well, okay, praise the Lord. That's great. They're praying for me today. About 15, 20 minutes later, another person, unrelated, another part of the country, I get a text, another preacher, friend, Brother Leatherman, I'm praying for you today. I said, wow, two in one morning. That's amazing. I got two friends and are praying for me. Praise the Lord. I was all excited. And I'm telling you, I got about 15, 20 minutes later, I got another one from another preacher from another part of the country. Brother Lemon, I just want you to know I'm praying for you today. By the time church started, I had gotten about six or seven texts that morning from different preacher friends all around the country Telling me where they're praying for them. I don't know about you, but I got paranoid about that time. I thought, all right, something's up. Uh the devil's up to something. There's something about to go down here if God's stirring all these people to pray for me. And you know what happened that day? We had a great day. God bless. And so I got thinking, I thought, oh I wonder if Satan wasn't up to something. God stirred these men to pray for me, pray for our church, to keep Satan at bay. And God got the victory and the glory. Who knows what goes on in the spirit world? But I know this. One of the best ways we can honor someone is the Pray for them. Pray God's blessing on them. Pray God shows them kindness, as David said here for these fellows. Pray that God shows kindness. Let me challenge you. Find someone this evening before you go to bed. And just pray for them. Ask God to lay someone on your heart. Think of someone. And honor them by bowing before God and saying, God, show them kindness. God, help them, strengthen them, reveal yourself to them. There's no greater way to honor somebody. Maybe there's someone who's listening that's lost. And you're in your sin. You're you're uh if you die in your condition, you're separated from God for all eternity. Horrific place called hell. I tell you, there's some people who care about you and honor you and are praying that you would be saved. You can't get much higher honor than that, than somebody asking God to save your soul. So David honored these men. He publicly acknowledged their deeds He praised them for their actions. He prayed for God's blessings. And then fourthly, and I thought this was interesting, he propositions them for future service. Now it doesn't expressly say that, but I think it's implied in say in uh David's statements In the last part of verse 6 and verse 7, look what it says here. Verse part 6 says, Now the Lord show thee kindness, show kindness and truth unto you. Now look listen carefully to what he says. And I also will requite you or pay you back or reward you. I also will requite you for this kindness because you have done this thing. David's saying, listen, I'm going to reward you for this. I'm going to honor you with this. I'm going to requite you for this. Look therefore at ver- Look then at verse 7. Therefore Now let your hands be strengthened. Be ye valiant. For your master Saul is dead, and also the house of Judah have anointed me to be king over them. You know what I'm wondering? I got a sneaking suspicion, and it looks to me like David is laying some groundwork to bring these guys in and work for him in his administration. Keep your, he says there, let your hands be strengthened. Be ye valiant. For what? I think David's saying, I've got a place for you. I'm going to requite you. I get a position. I tell you what, David wanted people working under him that showed honor that these guys showed to their pre their previous king. He says, if they're that honorable, if they're that brave, they're going to risk their lives to show respect and honor to the body of Saul and bury him respectfully. Brother, I want those guys working for me. I want those guys on my team and in my administration. It seems to imply to me that he's telling him, I have a place in my administration for you. These are the kind of men that I want working for me. I think that's what David's saying here. And so honoring those who honored Saul. How do you honor men? How do you honor a man? David did it by publicly acknowledging their deed. Hey, if somebody's been a blessing to you, if somebody's done something for you, if somebody's helped you Why don't you just mention that? Why don't you say it? Just say, hey, so-and-so was a blessing to me. We've done this in church here on Sunday nights over the years. We'd every now and then Have a special testimony service. Somebody in the church that's been a blessing to you. Somebody in the church that's helped you or or been special to you. And we'll have people stand up and testify about other people all through the church. That's a good way to honor folks. Acknowledged, publicly acknowledged what they did. And then David praised them for what they did and just said, You guys have been so kind. He prayed for them And then he said, you know, he gave him opportunity, hey, I want to be a blessing back to you. I want to requite you for this. And um so honoring people, find someone to honor Think of someone God lays on your heart and try and show them this honor that David showed. Let me recap just real quickly and we'll end. Honor is to be given to those to whom it is due. Honor is to be given to those to whom it is due. In the home, in the government, in the church, and of course the Lord above all. But honor is never to be sought after. The honor is never to be pursued on my part. Jesus rebuked the Pharisees sharply for that very thing. And then all honor is ultimately to be given to the Lord God Almighty, uh uh unto the King Eternal. Immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honor and glory forever Amen. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask you'd help us to honor those to whom honor is due. Help us, Lord, never to seek honor for ourselves, but to die to self and to be minister to not seek to be ministered unto, but to minister and give of ourselves to others. And Lord, I pray you'd help us to give all honor. Above all, give it to the Lord Jesus Christ, the King eternal. And so help us, Lord. I wonder if they're in your home, their heads bowed and eyes closed. I wonder if maybe we shouldn't ask the Lord to just help us see what people, see the honorable things that are being done. See the honorable folks. that are serving you faithfully and not exalt these dishonorable, but exalt those that are doing honorable things to whom it is due. And then, Lord, if there's anybody tuned in and um uh that is unsaved, that does not know for sure they're on their way to heaven, Lord, our prayer Is that they would turn to the Lord Jesus Christ and trust him as their own personal Savior. Find forgiveness of sins, a new life here on earth, and an eternal life in heaven. Oh Lord, we ask you would bless. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen