James chapter four, we praise the Lord for a good day. And uh we look forward to what the Lord has in store for us this week And uh one uh little funny story, uh we were out at the meeting, uh Brother Mark was referencing in Milford and just so many classes on children's ministry and various aspects of the ministry at the Great conference out there. And uh one class I was in, they uh they were talking about the money cupcakes And the one fellow was telling something that happened at their church. And it's just a little thing, fun thing we do and try and get the stir the kids to come on out and um he said they were doing money cakes and the lady that cooked the cupcakes misunderstood What he said, and uh they had a lot of different b I mean they have like twelve hundred kids ride the buses in. So they're making all these cupcakes. They got people over and they put in little coins, quarter, dime, you know, a dollar bill here and there And what they'd like to do is every now and then they'll put a little twenty dollar bill in just to spruce it up a little bit. Well the one lady that made the cupcakes made I don't know how many dozen cupcakes, I mean scores of them And she misunderstood and put a $20 bill in every one of them. And so the bus worker is driving home and they're giving out these cupcakes and every kid's opening up and 20 bucks. 20 bucks. 20 bucks. And these kids are going nuts and he's like, Good night, we're and uh so but the problem was they ran out of that lady's cupcakes and they had to get into another batch that just had the dimes and quarters So he said half the buck half the bus all got a twenty dollar bill in their cupcake, then all of a sudden they realized, uh oh. And uh so they waited until the kid got off the bus and said, here's your cupcake and take off. So anyway, it was I thought it was funnier than that, but um so I'm gonna transfer my membership to that church and get cupcakes. Um alright, what did I say? James chapter four. Thank you. Alright, if you would notice, let me get here, I was talking away. James chapter 4. Notice with me, I just want to read verse number 10 very quickly. The Bible says, humble yourself therefore humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord. And he shall lift you up. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. I think this verse is probably the key verse. To victorious, mature Christian life. If we can get a hold of this one thought And apply it to our lives on a consistent basis, I'm telling you, we will grow, we will see God's blessings And God will honor us. How to be honored by God. Let's pray. Father, I ask you to bless our time in this passage. Or we looked at it a little bit last week and I hopefully set the groundwork. And now as we look how to apply it to our lives, I pray you'd help us. Father in heaven, I present my body anew to you, and I yield my will to your will, and with all my heart I ask that you would fill me with your Holy Spirit, speak through me tonight as we always ask. I pray that we would be a humble people. I pray that I would be a humble pastor. And that our church would be a truly and biblically humble church. We want your blessing. We want you to honor us as you desire to. And so convict us where we need conviction, Lord. Change us where we need changing. Alter our thinking. where our thinking is incorrect, and that we can see life and see ourselves as you do and be a humble people. I ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. I believe pride is probably the one sin condemned by God above all other sins. We think of sins that the Bible says are an abomination to God. And we think of some horrendous sin, sodomy. Abortion, murder, abomination to God, adultery, abomination to God. But the Bible says that pride Is equally an abomination to God. God hates pride as much as he hates any other sin you and I can name. Sin is pride is condemned by God as much as any other sin, as I just said. We made this statement last week. I want to reiterate it here. Pride turned angels into devils. Pride turns men into monsters. It really does. It really does. Pride has destroyed more nations than any invading army has ever destroyed. Pride has ruined more ministries than any false doctrine has ever ruined Pride has destroyed more marriages than any strange woman has ever destroyed. Pride. It must be our number one enemy. We must hate it, we must fight it with every ounce of our being. In the years I've been in the ministry, 22 here at Mountain Lake, 30 this summer, it was 30 years I've been in what I consider full-time Christian ministry. And I have seen pride, I have seen pride take over a man. And I'm number ones over the years that come to mind as I make that statement. Where a godly, humble Christian man loves the Lord, living for God, walking with God, and for one reason or another, pride creeps in And takes over that man's heart and absolutely destroys his testimony, destroys his influence. And I've watched it as in the ministry as a pastor, youth pastor, evangelist. I've seen that man's joy deteriorat, deteriorate, deteriorate until he's absolutely miserable. I've seen his lightheartedness and his love for God deteriorate, deteriorate, deteriorate down to anger and frustration and misery. Pride destroys people. It ruins testimonies. It corrupts influence. God hates pride. It is an abomination to God. On the other hand, we have humility Humble thyself, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. Humility is the one virtue I find in Scripture, honored by God above all other virtues. It is the one virtue God looks for. And the heart and life of his children. In Luke chapter 14, verse 11, the Bible says, Whosoever exalteth himself shall be abase. But he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. In Luke chapter 18 and verse 14, and we're going to go to that passage here in a little bit, but again, the Lord Jesus said this. Everyone that exalteth himself shall be abased. That word abase means knock down. But he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. I went through and I found scripture passages dealing with humility. And I'm telling you, we could sit here for an hour. just looking up verses and verses and verses where God exalts humility, where God urges his people to humble themselves before the Lord. Let me just give you a few. Psalms 138 and verse 6, the Bible says this, though the Lord be high Yet hath he respect unto the lowly, but the proud he knoweth afar off. The idea behind that verse there is the Lord is high and lifted up. He is mighty, he is majestic. But the humble man, he respects that man that humbles himself, that woman that humbles herself. But the proud, that phrase he knoweth and far off, kind of has this idea, he pushes them aside. Psalms Proverbs 15, verse 33: The fear of the Lord is the instruction of wisdom, and before honor is humility. Proverbs 16, 19, better it is to be of a humble spirit with the lowly than to divide the spoil with the proud. The Lord says in his mind, it's better to be with the outcasts and the misfits of society. And humble yourself and to be with the movers and shakers of society. God has no concern for that. Pride and humility. Proverbs 18, 12 says, Before destruction, the heart of man is haughty. And before honor is humility. Proverbs 29, 23, the Bible says, A man's pride shall bring him low, but honor shall uphold the humble in spirit. So Isaiah 2. 11, the lofty looks of a man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness of man shall be bowed down. We go down through here, Matthew 23, 12, and whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted. 1 Peter 5. 5 It says, be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud and giveth grace to the humble. Humility is honored by God, I believe, above perhaps any other virtue. Humility. It's what God looks for. Humility is one thing God cannot resist. How many folks here, and I was going to save this statement for the introduction invitation time, but I'm going to put it out here. How many folks here you have something very, very urgent a burden, a need, a desire of God that is very, very urgent in your heart and life. And by that I mean something, maybe a family member Who desperately needs God to do something in their life, maybe a need, a life-changing need you desperately need God to be involved with. How many folks here you would testify, yes, there's something in my life where I desperately need God to do something, a desperate desire. Anybody here like that? You know what the answer to that is? You know how to get God's attention concerning that need? Do you know how to get God's focus concerning that need? Humble ourselves before God. That gets God's attention. I hope I'm not irreverent in making this statement. I've said it many times over the years, but humility is one thing God cannot resist. I want to show you something that amazes me every time I read it in 1 Kings. Would you turn back there with me? Now keep your place in James, because I want to outline this verse here in a little bit. But I want to show you in 1 Kings chapter 21. I said at the beginning of the message, I believe humility, humbling ourselves before the Lord, is the key to spiritual maturity, to having God's blessing, to growing. in my faith. Pride will kill all of that. And one thing God cannot resist, the one thing he looks for is humility. And when God sees a man or a woman humble themselves before him, he cannot resist. Blessing them and working. 1 Kings chapter 21. And I want you to, I'm going to begin reading in verse 25. How many people recognize the name Ahab? How many people like Ahab? I don't like Ahab. I hate to say it, but it's true. I don't like him. That guy was nasty. If we were contemporaries, I wouldn't like him. If he was one for president, I wouldn't vote for him. In fact, I would vote for someone against him. Ahab was nasty. In fact, look what verse 25 says about Ahab But there was none like unto Ahab which did sell himself to work wickedness in the sight of the Lord. In Ahab's mind, it was more important to get stuff than it was to have God's blessing. Getting his way and his desires fulfilled were more important to him than being right with God. He sold himself to do wickedness. In the sight of the Lord, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up. His wife didn't help things. In fact, she made it worse. Look at verse 26. And he did very abominably In following idols according to all things, as did the Amorites, whom the Lord cast out before the children of Israel. He operated the same way the heathen world operated. He had the same mindset the heathen world had. I mean, this guy was yucky. I don't like him at all. And it came to pass, verse 27, when Ahab heard those words, that he rent his clothes, put sackcloth upon his flesh, fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went softly. Wow. And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishvite, saying, Seest thou how Ahab what humbleth himself before me? My thinking, now this is my cr my sin-tainted thinking, my thinking was God would say so. He's wicked. Nobody's been as wicked as this guy. Nobody's been as as nasty and abominable as this guy. I don't care if he humbles himself or not. Seeeth how Ahab humbleth himself before me? Look at this is God speaking. Because he humbleth himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days. Wow. Somebody as wicked, as ungodly as Ahab is, if he humbles himself, it's like God can't resist. All right, I'll show him mercy. Now the end of the verse there, ver the last verse, he says, the evil is going to come on his children. There's still consequences to his action. There's still people hurt. But his humbling himself before the Lord brought God's mercy on Ahab. That amazes me every time I read that passage. It's like God's respect and God's God's love for man humbling himself will prompt him to pour out such great mercy even on a man like Ahab. Humble humility is one thing I believe God cannot resist blessing. God cannot resist honoring it. What do you need from God? What do you need God to do? Am I talking to someone tonight that's messed up really bad and you say, I really, really want to get back and make things right? The beginning step is humbling yourself before God. God cannot resist it. God will bless that and honor that. The surest way up in God's eyes is down. The surest way to be honored by God is to humble myself before God. The surest way to find forgiveness from God, we learn from Ahab. is to humble myself before God. The best way to find mercy from God is to humble myself before God. 2 Chronicles 7. 14, what's the very first ingredient If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face I love our church. I love Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. This is my life. God is blessing us. God is doing great things in many ways in Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. But down in my heart, and my wife and I pray every night nearly, I pray God send revival to our church. Send revival. And the beginning of revival is when we, I humble myself before God. It's the first ingredient. It's the first ingredient to correcting whatever's wrong in your home is humbling yourself. The first stage in correcting whatever is wrong in my life and in a church or in a society and in any circumstance. The first step in getting God involved is getting my pride out. And humbling myself before God. By the way, there's no salvation without humility first The very act of acknowledging the fact that I am a sinner under before a holy God, under his judgment, the very act of putting my faith in Christ is a matter of me humbling myself and saying, Jesus, I need you to forgive me and cleanse me and save me. The one chief characteristic of Jesus Christ, the outstanding characteristic of Jesus Christ is humility. Did anybody here ever feel like I do sometimes? You ever feel like, boy, I would love to have just been back there and just to see what he's like. Anybody anybody ever feel that way? I would love to go back in time and just, I've often wondered, I wonder what Jesus' personality is like. We have his, we read what the Bible records of his sermons and the conversations he had, but what was his personality like? What was his facial expressions like? Often wondered, I wonder what his voice sounded like. What was he like as a person? What do we pick it up? The Bible gives us a little insight in Philippians. Turn there with me if you would. Philippians chapter number two, we find out Jesus the chief characteristic of Jesus' personality. According to Philippians chapter 2, if we would have the opportunity to meet him when he was on earth during his period there, recording the gospels, and we would have opportunity to meet him I think one of the things that Kathy and I would say to each other as we were walking away from hearing him preach or seeing them in action or meeting him a little bit, I think one of the things we would walk away saying, you know what stands out about me uh to me about Jesus? He is a humble man. Now I get that from Philippians chapter 2, and notice with me, if you would, beginning in verse number 5. God's word says, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. I mean, he's God But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant. And was made in the likeness of man. And being found in fashion as a man, he what? Humbled himself. And became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now, there's a key word in verse 9. Wherefore, because he humbled himself. God hath highly what? Exalted him. Oh, sounds like our text Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. He that exalteth himself shall be abase, but he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. It's exactly the principle here. Because Jesus humbled himself, the Bible says, God hath highly exalted him and give him a name above every name. That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth, that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. You talk about being exalted. And that word wherefore says, because oh, he was God, he thought it not robbery to be equal with God. There was no untruth when he claimed deity But he humbled himself. Let me ask you a question. Would be Jesus been just to demand every man, woman, and child die and go to hell? Could he have been just in doing that? Sure, we deserve it. He would be absolutely just in doing that, but he humbled himself and said, No, you know what? I'm going to suffer the loss. I'm going to take the judgment for them. I'm going to pay the price that they owe. He humbled himself, and because he did that, God highly exalted him and gave him a name above every name. He says, by the way, did you catch verse 5? Let this mind be in you. In other words, I'm to adopt that same attitude. I'm to humble myself before God. I'm to uh uh humble myself. And God promises in other passages that he would lift us up. So James chapter 4 and verse 10 even applies to Jesus Christ. Humble thyself, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. Exactly what took place with Jesus Christ. It's the reason Jesus is exalted today, the reason he'll be exalted for all eternity. It's because he humbled himself and became a man. Now, here's my outline. Let me give it to you real quick, and we'll be done. James chapter 4, verse 10. Are you back there? Notice, first of all, our personal responsibility. Humble thyself. This is a conscious act on my part. This is a deliberate decision I make. I am going to humble myself. It is a conscious, deliberate decision I make to humble myself before the Lord. Can I suggest this? It's a difficult decision to make. Sometimes God allows things to happen in our lives that humbles us, right or wrong. I've preached some sermons that afterward I was awfully humbled. I've had some experiences that humbled me. That's not what he's talking about here. He's talking about a Christian like you and I making a conscious decision. I am going to humble myself before God. I'm going to repent from my pride. I'm going to push out pride and all its characteristics. I'm going to push that out of my life. I'm going to confess it and forsake it as sin. And I'm going to deliberately humble myself before God. That is not easy. That takes faith. That takes character That takes some strength and integrity for a person to deliberately humble themselves before God. The reason I say that is because our flesh will fight humbling itself with every ounce of its being. That old sinful nature hates humility Despises it, will fight it with every ounce of its being. So humbling myself before God is not an easy thing. My flesh will fight that tooth and nail. The world despises humility. You don't have books on how to succeed in the corporate world. On by humbling yourself, it's always, you gotta make it, you gotta be better, you gotta be the best, be the earliest there and the last to leave, you gotta be this, that, and the other God says the way up is down. That's a difficult decision to make on the part of the believer to say I will deliberately Go against my flesh. I will go against the thinking of the world. I will rebel against Satan's influence, and I will humble myself before God. Humble yourselves. Now, our natural man, our sinful nature, wants to humble others. I'll make sure my wife is in her place. I'll make sure that other, I'll make sure they're in their place. They're going to get what they got coming to them. That's what our sinful flesh wants. That's not the Spirit of God. Humility says, I'll die to self. Our natural flesh wants to humble others. Wants to put others down, wants to put others in their place, wants to deal with others. God says, no, no, no. Nowhere in the Bible are we commanded to humble someone else. We're always commanded to humble who? Ourselves. Ourselves. It is satanic. It is of the flesh to go around and try and humble other people. To humble ourselves means to make ourselves low. The word, that phrase, humble yourselves, actually comes from one word And it means this, to make yourself low, to reduce myself, to put myself in a position of submission, to put myself in a lower rank, to become unassuming. It's a lengthy definition of that phrase, humble thyself, humble yourself. I cannot blame someone else for my lack of humility I cannot blame my nationality or my heritage or my bloodline for my pride. My pride is my own stinking sin. God hates it. And God teaches us to humble ourselves. It's a decision I make. It is a deliberate, conscious act on my part. Violating my own flesh, violating the world's principles, rebelling against Satan's influence, saying, I'm going to humble myself before God. I'm going to submit myself. I'm going to reduce myself. I'm going to make myself low, lower my range. So number one, it's a personal responsibility. Number two Notice the position required. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord. Not in the sight of man. This isn't some show he's to put on. We've all met people over the years that put on this big show of humility. Anyone know what I'm talking about? Oh, I'm just nothing. Oh, I'm just a lowly, lowly Christian. Are you all paying attention how lowly I am? Does everybody see? Oh, how humble I am Oh hogwash. That's not humility. Humble myself in the sight of who? The Lord. Not putting on some show. That's what the Pharisees did. Read Matthew chapter six. He says, Listen, if you're going to do your alms, if you're going to do all this stuff, do it quietly, privately before the Lord. Don't go announce how humble you are. Don't go announce on how great a Christian you are. around how generous you are and how good you are to people. That's hogwash. That's all in the Greek. They're doing in the sight of the Lord. He sees it. He knows it. It's before the Lord. Genuine humility does not advertise itself. You know, it's funny as I was preparing this message and this thought went on and I was going to try and make it part of the uh invitation and this was my thinking. This tells you how sick I am. But um This was my thinking. We're gonna end and we're gonna pray and work towards being the humblest church in Garrett County. After I thought that I thought, wait a minute That don't work. Nobody's gonna we're gonna put a we're not gonna put it out on the marquee, the humblest church in town. We missed the point. Humble thyself where? In the sight of the Lord. That's where genuine humility is. Genuine humility is not concerned with the eyes of men. It's concerned with the eyes of God. Genuine humility is not seeking the praise of man. Genuine humility is seeking the pleasure of God. I want God to be pleased with my attitude. I want God to be pleased with my frame of mind. I want God to be pleased with my actions and my interactions with others. So it's in the sight of the Lord. Humility, first and foremost, is between God and I, but it affects my relationship with others. So, the personal responsibility, there's a personal responsibility, humble thyself. There is a position required in the eyes of the Lord. And then last of all, there's a promise to be received. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord. Here's the promise, and he shall lift you up. I tell you what, being honored by God is a far greater honor than to be honored by any man on planet Earth. Uh several weeks ago we saw, I don't forget where we were, I think you were with me. Um there was a thing on the the computer they were showing a live presentation of the president was giving what's the award they give military the highest congressional medal of honor Did anybody happen to see that? We caught that live. They were this fellows in Afghanistan or wherever, and they were honoring them. And I thought, man. And the guy's standing there, the president's putting that thing on him. I think it's uh they hang it over his neck, is that correct? Or kind of a cross, and they were putting that on him, and he's standing there, and you could just see the tears swelling up, and the people are there, man I started crying, you know. I don't cry much, but uh I mean it got me. I thought, what an honor Just a guy that signed up to be in the military and did a great thing for his country. And he was honored. So I was preparing this message. Think about God honoring you and I. Dennis Leatherman. Jesus Christ, the creator of the universe. Well done. Good and faithful servant. Man, what an honor. Say, how do you do that? How do you attain that honor? Humble yourself. Oh, this is, hey, you can go around demand your own way. This is my right. I'll get what's Coming to me. I'm gonna do what I want. I don't care how it affects anyone else. I don't care what it costs. I'm getting my way or it's the highway. Go ahead. Go ahead. I wouldn't want to be in your shoes when you stand before the judgment seat of Christ. The Bible says, humble yourself in the sight of the Lord and He Will lift you up. He will honor you. That word honor has the idea of that that word uh he shall lift you up. That praise has the idea of honor to exalt to a higher plane, to to infuse with happiness and prosperity. It's interesting if you read very carefully when you read through the Bible, notice how God refers to his greatest men and women. The men and women that he honors the highest. Notice how he refers to him. He always uses this title, my servant. David, my servant, Moses, Paul, a servant of God, It's never my leader, Moses. It's never my uh my uh my leader David. It's always my servant, my servant, my servant. That is the frame of mind that God honors. The most honored men and women in God's kingdom. are those who humble themselves before God and man. I got thinking, and I don't know that this is accurate. It might not be that great of an illustration, but I was trying to think, who's the most humble person in a woman in the Bible? I thought Mary, the mother of Jesus. Do you ever read what they call her magnificent? What she says? She goes, Who am I? I'm nothing. Why am I chosen? She is, if not the humblest, one of the humblest women in all recorded scripture. And yet she is honored so highly. To be chosen to give birth to the Messiah. I'd venture to say there was plenty of very proud women in that day. Jewish women, believing women, very proud. Oh, yeah, I mean like. And every one of them was passed over. And God said, there's a humble, godly, teenage girl. I'm going to honor her and let her give birth to the Messiah. Now where do you and I fit into all this? When God sees your actions, God sees my actions, when he sees my way I'm thinking, when he sees what I'm doing, does he say there is a humble servant of God? Or does he see us and say, nope. No no no no no. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord and he shall lift you up. One of the greatest missionaries in my mind is Hudson Taylor. He was asked to speak at a church in Melbourne, Australia. The moderator for the service got up and introduced Hudson Taylor, used elegant, big, glowing terms And um he then it came time and he says, and here I present to you our illustrious guest, Hudson Taylor. Hudson Taylor stood there quietly for a moment. And with a soft voice, he opened his message and said Dear friends, I'm just a little servant of an illustrious master. I thought, what a great attitude What a great attitude. George Whitfield is probably my second favorite preacher in all of history, Alex Spurgeon. Whitfield was an amazing, amazing man. He had some issues with John Wesley on a few doctrinal issues that were pretty hot and there was a lot of s is controversy going on. Whitfield refused to get caught up in it. Now, my opinion is Wesley, for whatever it's worth, Wesley kind of got caught up in it. Wesley said and did some things that weren't the most mature Christian response, in my humble opinion. Somebody approached Whitfield. They said, what do you think? They said, do you think you will see Wesley in heaven? Whitfield said, I'm afraid not. Everybody thought, I knew it. He doesn't think Wesley's saved. And then he finished his statement. I'm afraid not. For Wesley will be so near the eternal throne, and I will be at such a distance, I doubt I will ever get sight of him. Wow. Humility. When we get in our head that others are wrong, others are bad, others need to be put in their place. Pride has taken over. And God says, humble yourself. You deliberately go against the nature of your sinful flesh. Go against the thinking of the world, go against satanic influence, and deliberately on purpose humble yourself before God, not drawing attention. And God will lift you up. God will work it out. God will bless it. God will put it in place. Do you see now why I think this verse is so vitally important to our Christian life? If you ain't got humility, you ain't got nothing. As far as God's concerned. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to help us. Help me. To humble ourselves deliberately on purpose. Holy Spirit of God, help us, convict us, do not, God help us to not allow pride to creep in. Teach us to die to self on a daily basis. Heal our homes. Revive our church. Grant repentance from sin is our prayer, God. And above all else, teach us to humble ourselves. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. We're going to give invitation here in a moment. What a tremendous way to finish out Thanksgiving weekend. Thanksgiving weekend. Deliberately humbling ourselves before God and saying, God, I put myself down, I put myself in submission, I put myself out of the picture, I exalt you and put you in the picture. And what God might not do. That loved one might get saved. That need might be met. That life might be transformed. That problem might be solved if we would just humble ourselves before God. Lord bless us and hear us and help us in Jesus' name. Let's stand together, heads about eyes are closed. Kathy's going to play a few verses of invitation