We're going to look at verses twenty through twenty-seven, Proverbs chapter four, twenty through twenty-seven. I'm going to read verses 20, 21, and 22, then we as a church will read verse 23 together out loud in unison, and then I'll finish 24 through 27. Verse 20. My son, attend to my words, incline thine ear unto my sayings. Let them not depart from thine eyes, keep them in the midst of thine heart, for they are the for they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh. Twenty-three together Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Put away from thee a foreword mouth and perverse lips far from thee. Let thine eyes look right on, and let not And let thine eyelids look straight before thee. Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established. Turn not to the right hand nor to the left. Remove thy foot from evil. Let's pray, please Heavenly Father, again, we do thank you for loving us. We thank you for Jesus, our Savior. Father, we just ask that you would give our pastor a complete filling of your Holy Spirit And speak to our hearts where you see fit, Father, and I pray that we would be receptive to your word, which you have for us today. In Jesus' name, amen. In the hath another I'll say the wild seas no more. But a bust face are the wild stormy teeth And Jesus I'm safe ever. My soul inside exile was held on life. Sobird and whisten and distressed till I heard a sweet voice Saying, Make me your choice, and I entered the cave of rest. I think my soul in the haven of rest. I assume the while sees no more. The tempest may sweep for the wild stormy deep And Jesus, I'm saying evermore. I yield myself to his tender embrace. So face taking hold of a word, my father's self And I anchor my soul. The haven of rest is my void. I think goodbye in the hat. I'll sell the vile seas no more that I bust may sweep Or the wild stormy deep in Jesus. I'm safe everm. Amen. Amen. Good job, Kathy. Thank you. Appreciate that. If you would take your Bibles and turn back to Proverbs chapter four. And uh I'm just gonna read the one verse that we read together again. And uh Proverbs chapter four and verse number twenty-three. I get a call from a charity organization and uh they were asking if I would donate some of my clothes to uh starving people around the world and uh I told them to get out of here because if they could fit in my clothes they weren't starving and so You gotta watch out for these charity things. Proverbs chapter 4 notice verse number 23. Let me get my microphone on. I agree with James Kent when he says one of the great things he looks forward to in heaven is not having sound systems. And so we'll get hooked up here. Proverbs chapter 23, or chapter 4, verse 23. Keep thy heart with all diligence. For out of it are the issues of life. The Bible says we're to keep our heart with all diligence. And the reason we're to do that is because it is out of our heart, all the areas of our life. That is the root of all of those. So I've entitled the message very simply this morning, How to Keep Your Heart. Let's pray and ask the Lord to speak our hearts. Father, thank you. For what a the blessing this service has been to my heart already. God, how you blessed through the singing and the fellowship has been sweet. And we ask now, as we look into your word I pray that all that's taken place up to this point has prepared us for this moment now. We open our Bibles. And Lord, we open our hearts and our minds to your word, which is your will for each of us. Father, I again this hour publicly acknowledge to you and the congregation That God, I have nothing in and of myself of any spiritual or eternal value. So Lord, I want to be out of the way and I yield myself to you. My will, I yield to you, my mind. I present my body anew this hour. And I ask that your Holy Spirit would fill me, that you would speak through me to each of our hearts. Lord, you would help us to see the importance of this statement you've given us here. Again, bless this message, I pray, with all my heart. In Jesus' name, amen. If I remember correctly, Andy Clemens, when he served in the Army served in Fort Knox. Is that correct? Now am I correct in that you've guarded the money? So you never got to got to it at all anyway, okay. Fort Knox, and I thought of him as I was preparing a message this week, Fort Knox in Kentucky Is said to be the most secure location on planet Earth. The article I was reading. The most secure location on planet Earth. It holds, as I'm sure you're aware of, the uh at least a large portion of the United States gold reserve. Um I read some things about Fort Knox. This article I have, which I copied, it says that our nation's gold reserve at Fort Knox is housed in A two-story building, and that building is constructed of granite, steel, and concrete The building itself is 105 feet by 121 feet and is, according to this, and Andy you can correct me if I'm wrong here, apparently it's 42 feet above the ground level Inside this building, there's a two-level steel and concrete vault that is divided into various compartments. Listen to this: the vault door. Just the door weighs more than twenty tons. The combination on this vault that houses the large portion of our country's gold reserve, the combination, not one person is tr entrusted with that combination. There are various staff members, high-level staff members, and each one has to dial a separate combination which only they know And the other person doesn't know the other parts of the combination. The vault casing is constructed of steel plates. Steel I-beams and steel cylinders laced with hoop bands, whatever that is. And all of this is encased in concrete The outer wall of this thing is constructed of granite, which is lined with concrete All the materials used on this building, listen to this, 16,500 cubic feet of granite. Four thousand two hundred cubic yards of concrete, seven hundred and fifty tons of reinforced steel, 670 tons of structural steel. At each corner of the uh structure, uh there are sentry guard boxes and uh similar to what uh these guard boxes. are also at the entrance gate. A driveway circles the building and steel fence marks the boundaries of the site. That's pretty impressive. I'm not going to try and get in there Now why would they do that? Why would our country go to the expense And go to the effort to secure this building to such a degree. Well, the answer is obvious. Because what is inside that building is incredibly valuable. What is inside that building is very, very, very important and must be secured. With that in mind, that picture in your mind, the security of this gold reserve, look with me if you would at Proverbs 4, verse 23. God says Keep thy heart with all diligence. Why? For out of it are the issues of life. Proverbs 4, verse 23, is one of the strongest admonitions given to us by God in all the Bible. God says this matter of keeping your heart is very, very important. He says, because the heart is of extreme value in your life. You read through the Bible and I enjoy and I've made it a uh practice for the last uh probably fifteen twenty years to read through my Bible once a year. I have a reading schedule again in Genesis and in Revelation and uh I've been doing this for many, many years. I've enjoyed it. It's been a great blessing All the times I've read through the Bible, I've noticed that God speaks often about finances. In fact, more so than what some people would care to admit the Lord addresses are finances. The Bible speaks about our possessions. And if I understand the Bible correctly, I believe I do in many of these areas, God tells us it is very wise. On our behalf to guard our investments. There's nothing wrong with making sure your finances that you have, whatever amount they may be, there's nothing wrong. In fact, it's very wise to make sure those finances are secure, that they're safe, that your investments and what you do with your money You do in such a way that uh it is safe and secure. There's nothing wrong with uh making sure our possessions are safe. You ought to put locks on your doors, you ought to keep your valuables in safe. God says all of that, but Nowhere in Scripture does God deal as earnestly and urgently with anything as He does with our heart. As important as it is to keep our possessions secure, and that's right. It's foolish not to. As important as it is to secure our homes God says, more so, it is important to guard our hearts, our hearts Nine hundred and sixty-three times in the Bible, God addresses the heart of man. Your heart, my heart, is very, very important to God. And one of the strongest admonitions in the Bible, as I just said, Is this admonition here that we are to keep our heart with all diligence? Now, let's take a moment, just look at that word keep. I underlined it in my Bible. Actually, I have this whole verse underlined, and I circled the word keep. I did a little study on that word, and this is what the word keep means. I hope I have you with me here. I hope I have your attention. The word keep means to guard. It means to protect something. It means to secure. I'm going to keep my money in a safe place. I'm going to guard it. I'm going to protect it. I'm going to make sure it's secure. That's the idea. That's one of the meanings behind this word keep. But as I got studying this word keep, there's another aspect to it. When you think of uh when you think of keeping something secure, your idea is to keep um uh outsiders out. Right? You follow what I'm saying? I put my money in here so these people out there can't get to it to protect it from intruders. But as I study this I realize God is saying that not only are we to keep our heart from bad or evil intruders But we are to keep our heart, and the other side of this definition is to keep in check, is to keep, is to restrict Much like anybody here ever been to the zoo? Anybody here ever been to the zoo? Um yeah we were downtown uh the other day and uh very much like the zoo. We're at the parade. And um but anyway You have a man-eating lion, and they keep that lion in a secure place so that men don't get in there and hurt the lion. No. You keep that line in a secret place so it don't go out get out and wreak havoc. And as I studied this passage, and by the way, last Sunday morning, a week ago today I was reading in my personal devotions. I try to read a proverb every day. Last Sunday was October 4th, so I read Proverbs chapter 4. And in the morning, as I was reading this, that verse just stood out at me And uh I've just felt impressed, I believe it's the Lord, that this is the message God would have for us this Sunday. And so I've been dwelling on this all week long, and I've been uh studying this and uh giving attention to this And as I studied, I began to realize there's an aspect to this verse I hadn't noticed before. God is telling us not just to keep the evil influences out And by the way, we need to do that. You are crazy. You are crazy if you don't have some sort of filter in your life as to what you allow to come into your life, what you allow yourself to be influenced by. If you're just open and unguarded, you're crazy. You're asking for trouble. Sometimes a church like ours get criticized for having standards. We have certain things that we believe the Bible teaches that Christians are to do And are not to do. You know what those standards are? Sometimes we refer to them as our convictions. You know what they are? They are filters. They are a way of guarding our hearts and lives. We don't want negative influence to come in, so our lives are destroyed. We don't want negative influence to come in. So that uh we can be effective in our service for God and live our lives as God intended us to. But the other side of this verse isn't keeping our hearts safe from external advances. This is the interesting thing. He's saying guard your heart, keep your heart under check. Don't let that thing get out and get loose. Isn't that interesting In fact, look at your Bible there again. Keep thy heart. And then with that, the next phrase, with all diligence. Now, I don't know how your mind works, but I read that with all diligence. And I pictured in my mind it's something you should do diligently. I mean you need to work hard at this, protecting her heart keeping it under wraps, so to speak. Keeping bad influences out. Keeping that thing under control. You need to do it with all your diligence and boy, just uh really all your strength, work at that thing hard But I got studying that word diligence and I looked how it's used throughout the Bible, and it actually has the idea of this. The phrase all diligence means to keep under guard. So keep your heart with all diligence. Keep your heart keeping it. To keep under guard. It means this. To put in prison. Now we won't take time to do it, but if you get home, you get if you get you a strong concordance and you ought to have one, you can get them on your computers now, electronic. And you can look up words and how they're used throughout the Bible. And that phrase, all diligence, in Genesis, particularly chapter 40, and various other places throughout the scripture, is translated To keep in prison or in a ward. How many people remember the story of Joseph? Remember Joseph? Uh he had the dream, the stars bowed down and all that. His brothers got jealous. He had the many co coat of many colors. They took him through him in a pit and uh sold him. E everybody remember that story? And um he gets down to prison uh gets down to Egypt and um Uh he gets h who buys him? Potipher and uh the power of his wife c claims that uh he um uh tried to rape her. Everybody remember that story? If you remember it, why don't I have to keep telling it to you? And um uh he claims to get raped. Uh she claims he raped him. Of course he didn't and uh they take him and they threw him into Same word. All diligence. God is saying that we need to keep our heart in prison. We need to keep our heart in check. God is telling us in very strong terms. This is not a suggestion. He's not telling us this is just a good idea. God is saying to man You need to keep your heart in all diligence because out of that heart, every issue of life is affected. We must guard our heart from harmful influences. And by the way, a little child isn't able to do that of themselves. So that means the parent is to help guard the child's heart from ungodly influences, harmful influences. You know, it's sad that we live in a day and actually It's been this way for a long, long time. When kids absolutely have in many cases have absolutely no restrictions, absolutely no guards They just can do whatever they want. They're exposed to everything on the television, in the music, on the computers, and their hearts are absolutely being eaten up by this ungodly world. So God says in very strong terms, you need to guard your heart from external influences. But in this passage here, he's telling us we need to keep our heart in subjection. We need to keep our heart in strict secure condition Just like Fort Knox has that gold secured from bad men trying to come in and take it. We need to guard our hearts so that it doesn't get out. And cause damage. Psalms, we're not too far away. Keep your place here in Proverbs. Give away. Come back to Psalms chapter 12 and verse 7. Psalms one hundred and twelve and verse seven. Don't know who the human writer is of this, but we know who the author is of this. It's God Almighty I think I could use a little more monitor up here for the sample. Notice chapter twelve 112 and verse 7. He shall not be afraid of evil tidings. His heart is what? Fixed. You know what he's saying? My heart doesn't just run loose. My heart isn't just free to go wherever it wants. My heart is fixed. That word fixed there means Firmly established. I put it, I gave it this definition. Anchored in concrete. That's the idea of this word. He says, I'm not afraid of evil tidings because I have my heart secured. It's fixed. It's anchored in concrete. Uh uh there's some truths, there are some principles, there are some uh scriptural truths given to us. That I have planted my heart into, and it is not going to wander, and I don't have to be afraid of what happens in life. Take your Bible if you would again. And it's not far away. Turn over to Psalms chapter 57. Psalm chapter 57 and verse number 7. We do know who the human pen is of this, King David. And King David is being pursued from Saul. And Saul wasn't out to try and be a blessing to David. Saul was out to kill him. Now look what David says under the inspiration of God, Psalm 57 and verse number 7. My heart is what? Fixed. Same word. It is firmly established. My heart is set in concrete. It is not movable It's not going to be here one day and over there another day. It is established. And look what he says. Because his heart is fixed In fact, he says it twice, my heart is fixed, O God. My heart is fixed, and because of that, what does he say he's going to do? What does it say there? He says, I'm gonna sing and give praise. Saul is out there trying to kill me. Saul is chasing me up and down these mountains. of the wilderness of Israel. I'm living in caves. I'm sleeping under the stars. I've got to have a spear by my side, a sword by my side every moment of my existence because this king of Israel is a madman and he's out to kill me, but I will not allow my heart just to take off. I've grounded it in some scriptural truths. I've grounded it in some principles. And in the midst of all of this, I can sing and give praise. Isn't that something? Guard your heart. Keep it secure. Don't just let it go. Now the question is this, coming back to Proverbs chapter 4. Here's the question. God says, and again, I want to try and emphasize the earnestness, the seriousness that God is saying to you and I. And by the way, this isn't just for grown-ups, this is for young people too. Amen. This Bible is not written just to adults, it's for all ages. Teenagers and young people, and I tell you, teenagers, man, you've got your whole life ahead of you. You better get your heart fixed. You better get that thing secured, or you are gonna blow it bad Now here's the thing about life. Here's the thing about life. We have one shot We can't go back and do it over again. We can't get to the end of our lives and say, man, I made a mess of that. I think I'll start over. It doesn't work that way. You've got one life to live, you have one opportunity. to invest my life either for God or for whatever. And if I, whatever I do with it, when it's said and done, that is it I tell you what grieves my heart as a pastor is to see young people absolutely not giving any thought of what their life is. or what they're going to be or what they're going to do. And they just let anything in the world take their heart here, there, and everywhere. And I see them grow up and potential and opportunity is squandered. And here I am 15, 16, 17 years later, their pastor, and their lives are out there a mess. Because they didn't guard their heart. They let every little thing that comes along take their heart Every uh you have young men, every little girl flashes her eyes, she has no principles, she has no convictions, she has no morals about her, and boy, she just takes his heart and destroys them. Am I right or wrong? Same thing with girls and guys and money and things out there. Liquor. God says you better guard your heart. Listen, whatever age we are now, you may be an older person, you may be young like me. Amen. That got me so fired up I can't remember what I was going to say. Whatever we're at in life, whatever point we're at in life, from here on out, that's all we got left. And God says you better guard your heart because out of your heart come the issues of life. Now let me try to explain what I'm talking about, what I believe God's talking about here, and I want to give a few points a few thoughts on how to guard our hearts how do I keep my heart where God wants it to be Number one, I put this down. I guard my heart by understanding the significance of my heart The significance of it. Now, of course, you understand we are not talking about the physical muscle in our chest. My father had open heart surgery here about five weeks ago. They replaced one valve, repaired the other. They opened his heart And uh by the way, he's doing well. We appreciate everyone's prayers. Made a statement the other week. He says, Man, I can't he said I really feel great. I can't believe they chop my heart all up and I feel this good. I said, Dad, they didn't chop your heart all up We're not talking about the physical muscle in our chest. We know that, right? That's obvious. God is speaking about What we are, our heart, the core of our being, that which makes us who and what we are, our heart, what we really are. Now the world completely misses the significance of the heart. The world says If a man a man does what he does because of society, the society he lives in And if somebody messes up, it's society's fault. And if somebody life is a disaster, it's society's fault. And we are what we are because of the society we live in. Or the world will say something like this. A man is what he is because of, and it's similar to society, but they'll say because of his environment. Boy, you know, if uh he had a better environment to grow up in, if he lived in a a little n a nicer part of town, if he had a nicer house, if he uh lives in a rural area instead of urban, or if he lives in an urban area instead of a rural area. It's his environment that determines what he is. Or society will say he is what he is because of his parental background. Well, the reason he's like that or she's like that, well his parents did this and they didn't do that, and uh this, that, and the other, and He is what he is because of his history growing up. Now listen, I'll be the first to admit that society and our environment and our background growing up, that has effects on us, right? Sure it does. That is a factor. But the truth of the matter is we are what we are because of the condition of our hearts. I can show you illustration after illustration after illustration of people who grew up in good homes, in nice society, in a very friendly environment, and turned out bad. And we can show you people and give illustration after illustration and testimony after testimony of people who grew up in horrendous homes. Who grew up in a bad society, in a terrible environment, and they turned out to be somebody of benefit to this world. Listen, if you are going to blame who you are and what you are because of your past, because of how you grew up, because of society, or because of the environment you live in, you will never be anything more than What you are. If you're blaming everything else, then you are never going to take responsibility for actions. You'll never amount to anything. You will only be a victim the rest of your life. And I am not interested in being anybody's victim. Amen. Somehow we live in a society where it's it's noble to be a victim. Brother, I'll tell you what we are, what victims we are. We're victims of our own stinking hearts. God says the heart is very significant. It is out of your heart that the issues of life flow. You are what you are. You are the kind of person you are. Not because of your background, not because of society, not because of your environment, but because of the condition of your heart. Your heart. Better guard your heart with all diligence. You better keep that thing under wrap because that heart is going to determine who and what you are. That heart, the condition of your heart, is going to determine what your life is going to be like in very many ways. The significance of our hearts God declares that man does what he does or is what he is because of the condition of his heart. Because of the either protection or lack of protection he's given to his heart. Because of the discipline or lack of discipline to his heart determines what he is. Well, the reason I'm so unhappy is because how everybody treats me. No, the reason you're unhappy is because you're not guarding your heart. David was being pursued by a madman trying to kill him every moment of the day He said, but my heart's, I've got it protected. I've got that thing fixed. I've got it anchored. It's not just free. I'm not afraid. Fear is gone. I can sing and give praise to God. So the significance of our heart, the significance of our heart, more than anything else we do. More important than anything else we do is the guarding of our heart, putting it under lock and key, protecting it with all diligence. Now as I said, what are we talking about, the heart? The heart is the source of my desires. The heart is the source of my decisions. My heart determines above all else what I am as a person. And we neglect to guard our hearts to our own peril. We neglect to guard our hearts, and we will pay a heavy, heavy price. I see it all the time as pastor. Lives destroyed Because a heart wasn't guarded. You see it, marriages destroy. Because a heart wasn't guarded. Just run. Marriages, homes, ministries. People hurt. Hey, the Bible's very clear. There are people who die and go to hell. Because they don't guard their heart. By the way, hell is still a very real place as taught in the Bible. Jesus spoke of an actual, real, literal place called hell. And as I study my Bible, I find people die and go to hell because they do not get their heart guarded. Just let it go. Just let it go. I'm telling you, Proverbs chapter 4, verse 23 is one of the most earnest admonitions given to us in the Bible. God says, whether you're a 13-year-old boy or whether you're a 73-year-old woman, you better guard your heart. You better guard your heart. Because out of your heart come the issues of life. Come back to Proverbs if you're not there. Go with chapter 23 with me. Proverbs chapter 23 And notice with me verse number seven, Proverbs twenty-three and verse seven. This is kind of Restating a little bit the significance of the heart. And notice what God says. Proverbs 23, verse 7. For as he thinketh in his what? As he thinks in his heart, in his innermost being. That word thinketh there means his calculations, his reasoning, the way his heart, his innermost being, processes things. Look what it says. For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he. It doesn't say as the level of education he has. Now, education is a good thing. You read through Proverbs, it says, get knowledge, get wisdom, get understanding. Education's a good thing. But you can have a great education and have a bad heart. Amen So we're not diminishing education. What we are saying is the importance of the heart, the significance of the heart. You can have a great bank account and a bad heart. Right. Is there anything wrong with having a nice bank account? No. The Bible speaks about it. But the important thing is, as I said, you can have a lot of money and have a very little heart. Have a sorry heart. And God says, listen, as a man thinketh in his heart, so is he. What the condition of my heart determines what I am. The most significant aspect of my being is not my personality. I tell my wife all the time, and I've prayed for years, I wish I had a better personality. And I'm serious about that. I've prayed, asked God, help me have a better personality. I know I'm good looking, but I need a good personality to go with it I wish I was a nicer guy. I was teasing with the teens and they said, uh they said, you're not very nice. I said, I never said I was a nice preacher. I wish I had a better personality. But he doesn't say the most significant aspect of our being is not our personality. And we ought to seek to have nice personalities. Amen? Amen? Yeah. He doesn't the most significant aspect of our being is not our intelligence. It's not our physical condition. And listen, we ought to try to be as intelligent as is possible Uh we ought to be the Bible says bodily exercise profits a little. I tell you, you you gotta work at having a physique like mine Doesn't just happen, you know, you gotta work at it. Eating big meals out of eds and stuff like that. The most important aspect of our being is not our personality, it's not our intelligence, it's not our physical condition. But it is our heart's condition. That is what determines what we are. In 1 Samuel, God was going to replace Saul as king And so he sent Samuel to anoint the new king. And at this point, the new king, unbeknown to Samuel, was just a child. God knew who he wanted. And so he gets Jesse and he brings his boys by Samuel the prophet. And one of them is boys strong, tall, uh tall, dark, and handsome, intelligent. Reminding me of somebody very dear to me. But um he said there's one guy and Samuel the prophet says, Oh, surely this is the guy. Look at him. Good grief. He looks great. He's intelligent. He's gifted. This is the God. And God rebuked Samuel sharply. You know what God said in 1 Samuel chapter 16 and verse 7? He says, don't you look at his outward appearance. Now listen to this statement that God says. Now think about it and apply it to yourself. Man looketh on the outward appearance. But the Lord looketh on the what? The heart. God says He can look as great as can be, He can have all the outward appearance you want, but when it comes to actually being somebody I'm looking on the heart. That's what the person is. What their heart is is going to determine how they talk, how they act. What they are as a person, what their heart is, is going to determine what kind of leader they're going to be for my people. What his heart is Is going to determine what type of husband he is to his wife, what type of father he is to his child, not his intelligence, not his personality, not his physical appearance, but his heart Determines what kind of person he's going to be. God says, I'm not looking in the outward appearance. Now that's not to say we shouldn't try and look nice. Amen? And there's some folks I think need to work on the outward appearance a little more. But God says that's not what determines what you are. That's not where I begin. God says when I'm going to work in a man's life, when I'm going to choose someone, when I need to determine what they are, I'm going to start with the heart, because out of the heart are the issues of life. The heart determines whether they're going to be honest or not. The heart determines whether they're someone of character or not. The heart determines whether they're someone of Compassion or not, not the way they look, not how they dress, not Not whether they have the latest style, not whether they can work out with barbells, but what is that heart like? The most significant aspect of our being is our heart. The heart of man, that's what we are. So if I'm gonna guard my heart, first of all, I need to understand the significance of it. You know why our country spends so much effort into securing The Fort Knox, because what is inside there is very, very important to the economy of our country And you know why you and I need to guard our hearts diligently, keep that thing from wandering, keep wrong influences out, because what our heart is, is very significant to our lives. Determines what we are. It's out of it the issues of life. Number two, we need to guard our heart by understanding the status of our heart. Now, here's the thing. Why do I need to keep my heart in jail, so to speak? I can understand why I need to protect my heart from evil influences out there. You all agree with me, there are evil influences out there, right? You agree with me on that? So we say, well, I can understand why I need a protection from external influences, but why do I need to keep my heart in check? Why does God say I need to keep it, so to speak, in a prison? Under wraps, why do I have to keep it in chains, so to speak? Well, we need to understand the status of our hearts. Now, again, the world misunderstands the status of a man's heart. The world says man is basically good. The world says we're all born with a clean slate. And it comes back to the first thing misunderstanding about the slaves arch. The world says we're all aboard with a clean slate and society gets on there and per parents and friends And education, environment, that all makes us what we are. Now I agree, all those things are a factor. But the Bible is very clear, we are not born with a clean slate. We are not born basically good. We do not have, to use one philosopher's wording, a spark of divinity within us. Can I show you what the Bible says that the status of our heart is? Look, take your uh uh I'll just turn with you with me if you would, real quickly, to Matthew chapter 15 Matthew chapter 15. If you've got your Bible, I want you to see this. I don't want you to take my word for it. I want you to see it. Now while you're turning there, if you can how many folks here are able to do two things at once? Raise your hand. Multitask. Rebecca can. Well, I'm impressed. Alright. While you're turning to Matthew chapter 15, listen carefully to Jeremiah chapter 17. Verse number nine says this, the heart is deceitful. Now, right there, that's a truckload. It says our hearts are deceitful. How many people here ever did something you never thought you'd ever do? So man, I never thought I'd do something. You know why? Your heart's deceitful. He thought it was better than what it is. I never dreamed I'd say something like that to somebody. You know why our heart's deceitful? But it doesn't stop there. Jeremiah 79 says, the heart is deceitful. Listen to this next statement. The heart is deceitful and, God speaking, desperately wicked. Not very flattering, is it? In fact, we're going to look at Matthew here in a moment. In fact, I need to turn there, but uh I can't multitask. We're going to notice here in a minute, but the fact of the matter is, nowhere does God praise the natural condition of the heart of man. Not one place in the Bible does God say, you know, man's basically good Not one place in the Bible, listen to this. Not one place in the Bible does God say, yeah, man's got a good heart. God never says that. All God says about the heart of man, it's deceitful, it's desperately wicked. Look at Matthew chapter 15. And verse number seventeen with me if you would. This is how many people have a red letter edition of the Bible? Anybody know what I'm talking about? That means the letters in red are spoken from the lips of the Lord Jesus Christ If you have a red letter edition of the Bible, you notice that verse 18, 19, and 20 are in red. Jesus is saying this. But those things, verse 18, which proceed out of the mouth, come forth from the heart, they and they defile the man. Look what he says, verse 19. For out of the heart, look at this, proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornication. Thefts, false witness, blasphemies, these are the things which defile a man. He doesn't say all these ungodly things these fornications and murders and blasphemies. He doesn't say they come because of the the society man lives in. He doesn't say they come because of the lack of education, because of the lack of finances. He doesn't say these come out because of the way he was raised. He said they come out because that's what your heart is. It's desperately wicked. It's deceitful. It's defiled. Listen, we th if we think we're good, then we have a misunderstanding of the condition of our heart. I mean, I'm talking about standing before God. Not a pretty picture, is it? Defiled. Not to be trusted. The source of everything that corrupts us is our heart. Look at that list again, verse 19. Evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, deaths, false witness, blasphemies. What an ugly picture! God says that's what our heart is. And when we read Proverbs chapter 4 and verse 23, and he says, You better keep that heart under wraps, you better keep it in chains. You better keep that heart secure, not just from outside influence, but you better keep it from getting loose starts to make a lot of sense when we realize what the condition of our heart really is Starts to make sense when we realize how corrupt, how the potential of the potential of evil That lies in every one of our hearts. Can I give you a caution? And I say this often. We better be careful not to say something like this. Oh, I would never do that. Better be very careful. So, how do I guard my heart? Well, number one, understand how significant it is. It determines what I am Understand the condition of that heart, the status. It's corrupt. It's defiled. Number three, quickly, I understand if I'm going to guard my heart, I must understand the assault on my heart. Most critical place for Satan to assault man is his heart. The area of our being, me as a person, Dennis Leatherman, the one aspect of my being more the most in tune with Satan. Is my heart. Think about that. My heart. You read that list in Matthew, what the Lord Jesus said about the condition of our heart. That's more in tune, that's more lined up in tune with Satan than it is with God. So when Satan attacks me, and by the way, lest there be any confusion, there is an actual real being named Satan. Very real, very literal. Now I agree. I'm not looking for the devil behind every bush, and we can't the devil is the world's greatest scapegoat. We blame everything on the devil. When reality comes out of our own heart, but the Bible is clear that when Satan assaults us He's after the heart. That's where he has an inroad. If Satan has a undercover agent in our beings, it's our heart. Our heart in its natural condition is an ally of Satan. Are you with me? You say that's pretty harsh. No, that's Bible. Let me give you some evidence. In Acts chapter 5 and verse 3, we won't turn there. You have two people. I believe they were saved. Ananias and Sapphira. Everybody's donated money to the church and giving donations. The church is booming and they're growing and they're reaching souls. And man, people are just giving, they're selling their possessions and bringing the money in. Ananias and Sapphira Get it in their heart. Hey, we'll sell our property. We'll give X number of dollars that we get from our property. We'll keep back portion of it for ourselves. But we'll just tell them we gave the we gave all the money. Problem with that. One, they didn't have to sell it in the first place. God didn't tell them to do that. It's their own free will. Number two, God wasn't making them give all the money. They only wanted to give half, fine. Just give half. But they lied. And they came down to the front of the church and they put whatever money it was into the offering and they said, This is all the money we got for our property. And they were lying. It wasn't all the money. God killed him on the spot. And in confronting them, Peter says, under the inspiration of God, he says, Satan hath filled thine heart. To lie to the Holy Ghost. Satan had an ally in the life of Ananias and Sapphira. Satan had a foothold. Satan had something that was in tune with him that he could work with. destroying them and it was their heart was their heart Judas an unsaved man never was saved He betrayed the Lord. And he said, the Bible says in John 13, too, Satan put into the heart of Judas the idea of betraying Jesus. Satan had an ally in the life of Judas. Satan had a handle in Judas's being, and it was his heart. So we need to understand that our heart is going to be under assault. If we do not diligently guard our hearts, Our lives are going to be destroyed. And I am with this. If we're going to guard my heart, I need to understand the significance of my heart, the status of my heart, the assault on my heart, and number four, if I'm going to guard my heart, I must understand the salvation of the heart of man. Over and over and over, God says, man needs a new heart. I'm reading through the uh book of Jeremiah right now, and over and over, God says, I need to give you a new heart. You need a new heart. The old heart's bad. The old heart's deceitful. The old heart's corrupt. The old heart is an ally of Satan. You need a new heart. You need a heart for the things of God. You need a heart that is in tune with the Lord. You need a heart that is pure and good and right. And your natural heart is not that way. You were born in sin. You were born a sinner. You need to be saved from yourself. You need a new heart. The heart of man is so corrupt and so dangerous. The only hope of having a relationship with God is getting a new heart. I like Romans 10, verse 9 and 10. That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the mouth, confession is made unto salvation, and the heart for the mouth is uh for the mouth of confession is made unto salvation, and the heart man believeth unto righteousness. The heart. The heart. If I'm going to guard my heart, if I'm not going to destroy what I have left of my life If I ever hope to stand before God and hear Him say, forgive it, come into my your rest, if I ever have any hope of living for God and having a relationship with my Creator, if I ever have any hope in life of entering heaven, I've got to get a new heart. I need to be saved through faith in Christ. By the way, once we are saved, if we want to maintain our fellowship with God, we need to continually submit our heart to God. We need to confess our sins. It's the heart. Let me ask you a question. How is your heart this morning? Have you received a new heart by trusting Christ as Savior? Has God put in your heart and soul a desire to please God and live for it? Do you know for sure that when you die, the sinful heart, all that has been forgiving and cleansed, and you know you're going to heaven? Don't let a bad heart take you to hell. Trust Christ. Let Him create in you a new heart. Become a new creature. Those of us who are saved, we have that matter settled. No doubt about it. For me is May 7, 1979. Settled, I know that. Hey, let's keep our hearts submitted to the Lord. Let's keep that thing secure. Don't let that old evil corrupt heart get out and take control again. Let's live by the new heart Let's walk with God. Be sweet and humble and submissive to the Lord's will and to his word. Let's do what he says. How many people recognize the name Steve Irvin? Anybody recognize the name Steve Irvin? He was an Australian. And he was known for in fact I think he had some TV shows. He was known for catching snakes and alligators and all and now everybody how about uh all right, did I jog him what The crocodile hunter. I think it was the crocodile hunted. Steve Urban handled crocodiles, handled snakes. I saw one time where one bit him Steve Urban, 44 years old just a couple years ago, died suddenly. Not because a snake bit his hand. Not because an alligator bit his leg. Not because some lizard bit his ear. Steve Irvin died by a stingray. As far as I know, doesn't even have teeth. But that stingray does have a spear-like thing. And he was swimming in there with him, and that thing unexpectedly pierced his chest and pierced his heart. And killed him almost instantly. His heart was not guarded. And he died. Listen, this matter of the things of God, this matter of the Bible and doing what God says is very, very important. Don't just play with it Don't just think ah that's for opas ah that's for religion I'm telling you this is for real We better guard our heart. We better know we're saved. We better, once we're saved, we better get submissive to the Lord and keep that heart right where God says it needs to be.