With me, 2 Corinthians chapter 8. We'll start this there for a few moments. And the rest of us, can you do two things at once? I want you to go back with me to 1 Chronicles 29. And uh This message has got a little difference to it. I really never presented it in this way before. And I just want to encourage you. And as we do this faith promise giving, get to know the missionaries better this week and uh get to know each other. But the bottom line is at the five-day business meeting on how to reach the world for Christ Through the local church. Your preacher's done this so many times. He's better at it than 99% of all missionaries that I deal with. He's better than a lot of the mission speakers because it's his church. He's invested his life in this. Now the Bible says this in 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Now you're in set you're in 1 Chronicles Chapter 29 and then 2 Corinthians chapter 8. Let's take a look at chapter 8 for just a moment. And I just want to give us a couple of words of encouragement. And I don't want you to get ants this week. Ants. How many's ever had ants in their house? I'll take care of those ants. You know, and your ants are still froze up here. Good night. Ants. And how many of you have ever come to a church service and and uh preacher gets ready to preach, announces his topic, and You may get some ants in your mindset. That's just what it stands for. A negative thought syndrome. Another negative thought syndrome. Oh no, here we go again. Well, let's take the ants, get it, and set them outside and take care of those this week And listen to the messages this week for encouragement. And the Bible says in 2 Corinthians 8, verse 5, talking about giving, grace giving, faith-promise giving, missions giving, it says, but first gave their own selves to the Lord. How to give commissions. Then you look at verse 11, it says this in the same chapter, in the same context, now therefore perform the doing of it. Giving commissions. Look closer in that verse. That as there was a readiness to will. You gotta have the right will about this. Hey, I'd love to go with him eating at the Outback. He took me to Australia today. I hate going to that Orthodonis Faroo Canal. How about you? I always look forward to going to church. Not everybody does, okay? And I want you to catch this with me. I have to have a ready-to-will, and there may be a performance also out of that which you have How do you give to missions? You give it because you give yourself to God first. It's the will of God to do it. You will perform it in verse 11, and you'll never give anything unless you already have it. Now listen carefully, and God's going to bring it to you. Look at verse 12. First, it says. For if there be first, you gotta have a willing mind. There are just some people you can't trust. Is that true? There are some people you don't want to trust. I say IRS and the hair on the back of your neck goes up already. All right. Am I right? You're going to get a refund. Well, the hair goes down a bit. But there's a catch. You're going to have to pay twice as much next year. Then the hair goes back up. A lot of us get very cynical in our in our world. But I want you to understand how to give the missions, you must have a willing mind You must give yourself to the Lord, for this is God's will, and he wants you to do it. So how do we do this? You know, you don't have to turn it, but it says in Acts chapter 20, verse 35, and Paul says, I have showed you all things how that so laboring you have to support the weak and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said it's more blessed to give. than to receive. Woo. It's more blessed to give than to receive. So tonight what we're going to do is take a look on how to give How does it work? And whether it's in New Guinea, Australia, or in here in when am I, Maryland? In Maryland, I want you to understand it's all the same. Different languages, but it's all the same. Three weeks ago I preached at a church for a month, Gospel Light Baptist Church. They did not have faith promised giving. They're doing it now Church sixty years old. They didn't understand the concept. They were where you were twenty some years ago. Myself, two or three other directors from other missions boards, they brought us in there to speak and And uh they did it uh uh took about a year, so that they get out the promised cards and they're looking like, what is this? And and it's above the tithe and and you know, and uh the first uh church runs about eleven, twelve hundred, and the first hundred givers Uh they had 90,000 problems. Uh the rest of the church, now they're about 105,000 in their first year. And I said here tonight, preacher You got a church one w one eighth the size, maybe one tenth the size, and the figure you gave tonight is a picture and a portrait of how to give to missions. 150 people you average, one seventy on Sunday morning I'm sitting there doing the maths and say, good night. Them people give more than a thousand apiece. I'm accounting. Hog, dog, frogs, and kids. Oh, you're good at what you do. All God's people said. And we're just starting. We're just beginning. Don't ever get comfortable. Don't ever set that goal ahead of time. Let God work on your heart young man that down there and he he's never been through this before and and he's looking at this thing and and uh he listened to the preaching. A guy from all points uh preached, Brother Morrison and uh a couple other directors preach with us and And a couple guys from Macedonia, all saying the same thing, you know, and and uh and he said, God got the hold of my heart, brother D Long. And uh he talked uh to me the other day on the phone and he said I only make thirty-two thousand dollars a year. And he says I give about eleven percent of my tithe, you know. And all I understand is this this this thing is above that. Is that right? Yeah, it is. Well, I promise God next this next year that I'm going to give a hundred a month to missions. And I said, well that's really good. That's fantastic. He said, you're not going to believe this preacher. I got two guys come up to me uh and he works uh there at the church and he don't have much he he wor he don't have much money. He wears the same pair of pants three days a week This is a poor college kid that's out of college. He walked in the other day and he said, You're not going to believe this preacher, the five days after I turned that card in and prayed about it. And I know God's going to take care of it. Two men approached me. and said we want to pay you $100 an hour in your free time. You're only going to work ten hours a month. We want you to do this for you. We will pay for everything and we will double your pay next year. Can can can can you can you do this for us? He said, My own time? Yep. How many hours a month? Ten? How much an hour? A hundred? And then the young man began to cry. He said it is real. God will supply every need according to his riches and glory. You know what he told me? I wish I started that five years ago. So I want to encourage you tonight before we get into the message that you're doing good, but we need to do better. How do we do that? Amen? So number one, I want you to catch with me, in 1 Chronicles chapter 29, David's taking the largest offering, I believe, in all the Bible. Raised a little bit over four billion dollars. And then how and to give, I want you to catch this with me. I'm gonna go verse by verse. It won't be boring. We'll be done by ten o'clock But I want you to understand, we this woke some of you up. And so if you're here at ten o'clock, you'll be by yourself. But I want to teach you something tonight. I want to show you God's word Because I'm telling you this, it is more blessed to give and to receive. Christ didn't say a word from Acts chapter 9 till he gets eleven chapters later. And when he's dealing with it later, he says in chapter 20 and verse 35, it is more blessed to give than to receive. Man, it got my attention. He's talking about people given to the cause of Christ. And David here, back in 1 Chronicles chapter 29, he could not give or he could not build the temple But boy, he could pay for it. So he started an offering. He started this offering and God was in it and God told him on his heart. And in that offering, I see five things. And I want you to catch it when I say by today's standards, it was over four billion dollars. That's a lot of money. Let's take a look at this and let God teach us and how to give. And we want to realize that David's building a temple here And God He's commanded us to reach the world and we do missions biblically. Tells us in the book of Matthew, Mark, Luke, John, clearly through Acts and and First and Second Corinthians. And I just want to sh show us today take an Old Testament thought. And apply to our world today. Number one, how to give, give liberally Now some people have a hard time saying that. Look at verse 7 in our text. It says that they gave for the service of the house of God 5,000 talents. and 10,000 drams of silver, 10,000 talents, and of brass, 18,000 talents, and 100,000 talents of iron. This is about 190 tons of gold and about 380 tons of silver. Good night. Do the math, unbelievable. Uh you've lost me here, DeLong. If we should put a present-day market value on this gold and silver, just these two items alone is well over four billion dollars And I want you to understand, and what best describes verse 7, I think, is this. The word that comes to mind is liberally. It's not what a man hath not, it's what a man hath already. 2 Corinthians chapter 9. Now let's say this boy here gets paid $10 a week, and this boy gets $100 a week. And this boy gets $1,000 a week. God doesn't measure because he can only give one dollar or two and he can only give thirty or fifty and he can give five hundred. It's what a man has. It says in 2 Corinthians chapter 9, as a man purposeth in his heart, can I tell you you can never outgive God? And it shows here in verse 7 to do it liberally. You know, I think of the our liberality does not depend on the size of our pocketbook. or the size of our bank account, or the size of our checking account. The liberalness, I call it, in our hearts depends on the condition of our hearts. It says in 2 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 11 and 12, you first must have a willing mind. How many of you folks ever bought something new in the last two years? Okay. I bought a house about five years ago and I I tell you what, I got it for two point seven percent That don't even cover the closing cost on the house today. I don't know if you've seen the rates. There's seven way up there and stuff, and it's just crazy. And when I look at that, I go, my goodness. I'm glad. I'm glad that, man, I got that when I did it. Then my house value went up by from $100,000 to about $325,000. Wow. I went to buy one just like it. That's about $550,000. It ain't worth that much, is it? Isn't it better to give that stuff to give your money to God instead of taking care of self? Now we can take care of self, but we're pretty liberal on ourselves and our things. Sometimes we get pretty sensitive with the things of God. I want to encourage you tonight, the word liberally, regardless of your financial situation, you can be a liberal giver. Let me step out over here for just a moment. Watch this. The poorer the person per capita, the better the giver. I've watched it over the years. The poorer the person, the better the giver. Now I've I've got friends, very wealthy friends, are fantastic givers, but that'll be like 10 out of 100. Most of my people are poor, 100 poor people will probably outgive 10 rich people. I'm just saying that's how it works in my world. Be liberal. Be liberal. You know, even a child will come and ask for something. If a child's not related to you, you'll you'll give it a dollar. If that's your child and they ask for a dollar, especially if it's a grandchild, I'll hand my wife will hand them twenty. Because that child belongs to her. Don't we belong to God Almighty? And he asked David, could you take an offer? And David gave liberally. In 2 Corinthians chapter 8, they gave above and beyond. It's amazing. But God first Touch their hearts. Number two. Not uh liberally, but number two. Look at the second thing here. It it's also, can I say this sacrificially? Look at verse 8. And they which uh and they with whom precious stones were found gave them to the treasure of the house of the Lord. The word that I think of here in verse eight is sacrificial. They didn't just give the a pair of socks with holes in it. When I was at Bob Jones University Every hallway, we had there a missionary drum, a 50-gallon barrel, preacher, at the end of every hallway, at the top, on every floor, I was on the third floor, and it's called the mission barrel. And in that mission barrel, all the boys would give used socks and used belts. You never found anything new in there. Amen. And it was usually worn out or had holes in it That is not sacrificial giving. Now I want you to catch in verse 8 in my text today, and with whom precious stones were found gave them to the treasure, a treasury of the house of the Lord by the hand of Jehu the Gishmanite. He was the bookkeeper given to a their their ministry here. Their mission was to build a house for God. And they with their precious stones, they gave them. I just want to encourage you, when you learn to give sacrificially My God will always supply all your needs according to his riches and glory. And I want you to catch this. When you sacrifice for God, and I don't call it a sacrifice. When you trust God in faith, faith promise giving, God always will give an increase. Can I jump to number three quickly here? I want you to see this joyfully. Look with me in verse 10. I want you to catch us verse 9 and 10. It says in my text, it makes this statement. And the people rejoiced, for they offered willingly. Because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord. And David the king also rejoiced with great joy. I'm telling you, you're not given to Pastor Leatherman. You're not given to Dan Delong. You're not given to the Guam Ministry. You're not given to the Filipino ministry. You're given it to God Almighty to reach the world. to go into the highways and hedges. And it is about soul winning. It is about witnessing. It is about discipleship. And I want you to understand God has been so good to us and He's added to us when He wants us to do our giving, He wants to make it joyfully. The young man I told you about earlier did not really trust God on it. But he said I I did it anyway, Brother DeLong. I filled my cart out, turned it in, I was prepared to mow yard, uh get blah uh c collect cans along the side of the road. I was gonna I'd get a second job and get that hundred dollars a month. And he said, God gave me twelve thousand dollars And I only promised him uh one you know twelve hundred of that. You think about that. He said, Man, it's a hundred and one. I I just want to encourage you, it's not to make you rich, it's to make you a thing. He said, I I I think I'm gonna probably give About 50% of that, because I wasn't counting on God to do that. I think I preacher, I said, what are you saying? He said, I'm going to give that twelve hundred, and I think I'm going to give about six thousand more on that. What do you think? He said, I can get by. I said, you do exactly what God puts on your heart. Boy, put a smile on his face. Put a smile on his heart. And I'm telling you, joyfully, God, you see this offering here. They were willing and joyfully. Now I had one preacher say, God does not like stingy givers. You know, I know some he said, I know some people will give, but they won't give it willingly, but God will take it. You know. So you might as well give it joyfully. You know, Bobby Roberts and I was on a hospital visitation about 20 years ago, and we walked in a hospital room and And uh woman had been out of church about six months. He looked at her and said, Virgie, where have you been? Skipping church. What are you doing in the hospital? Well, I wasn't tithing to the church, so I guess I'm tithing here. I wasn't given to missions there, so I guess I'm giving here. Brother Bobby says you get on the right side of this thing and put God first. You'll not only get your health back, you'll watch God bless you on every angle. You know while I'd live long enough to see God when when you give domissions, you'll he'll put a joy in your heart. And I want you to understand God loves a cheerful giver, and these people rejoice. Can I enjoy and encourage you tonight at your church here? I've been watching this for 20 years. Not only a friend, I'm one of your missionaries, I'm one of your employees. Can I say that right? Uh uh B-I-M-I and and doing Camp uh Bemi and doing BEMI Connect and uh recruiting missionaries and a candidate school director and uh go to Papua New Guinea and Australia. I just can't get it out of my system. But I cannot do one thing without about forty-five, fifty churches like you supporting me And I'm telling you, you may never get to New Guinea, may never get to Guam, but people are saved, lives are changed, worlds are touched because of your sacrificial, can I say joyful? And I want to say this on top of that, liberal giving to God Board number four, and I'll be ready to close here in just a moment. You gotta give willingly. And what does that mean? I'm telling you. I'd make a lie detector sweat if I told you I enjoy going to the dentist office. I don't. I don't like to go there if you pay for it for me. Amen. I just how many like to go to dentist offices? You do, a couple of you. Okay. Couple weirdos in here. But anyway. How many going to that doctor's office for that annual physical You you know, you know, I think we older people we live in physicals, right? So all we get is got another physical coming in and and and you know, and I was talking with a gentleman tonight. You get past sixty, you get stipping places you didn't know you had places, am I right? And you know, you wake up in the morning step, hey, you're still on the right side of dirt. You know, and sometimes you you get feeling pretty bad about that stuff. If you're not careful, you'll lose your joy. You'll lose your willingness to do anything. The Bible tells me here in verse 9 in my text, it says they offered willingly. I'm telling you, he did not beg them. He did not kosher them. He did not give a big speech He said, there's the plate God wants us to build the temple. And I want to ask you a question tonight. What is the purpose of your giving? The purpose of our giving is to provide the means to properly do the work for God If we preach the gospel to every creature in our generation, and this is God's commandment, we go into highways and hedges, I'm telling you, two-thirds of this world's population would not be sitting in darkness You'd be setting in life that they'd have it given to them. And I just want to encourage you, the work of God will never be offered or never be held back because there's no money. The will of God will be held back because there's not a willingness to do God's will. Our mission's giving at BIMI Pastor has went up mm from like two point six million a month to four point two million. And we got the same amount of missionaries, less or people were coming missionaries. During the pandemic, the mission giving across the country, just with our mission board, unbelievably, four or five thousand churches unbelievably is giving to missions. Willingly stepping up and joyfully. We just need more missionaries. Now I don't say all this to give you a big head, but you're doing the right thing. Never lose that willingness to do what God puts in your heart to do. And I'll give you the last thing and add this on this thought. They give humbly. Humbly, I love this. Look at verse 14. I don't think one of you want to get up and crow like a rooster. I don't think one of you want to get up and say it's me, my, and I. That's why this is happening. This is a very humble church. I want you to take a look at what it says in verse 14. Listen to David about this offering, the largest one I believe ever recorded in Scripture. But who am I, says David? And what is my people that should be able to offer so willingly after the sort? For all things come of thee. Hey, you give it to us, God. And of thy own have we given thee. You've given it to us. We're giving it back. For we are strangers before thee and sojourners as we're all our fathers, our days on the earth, or as a shadow, and there is nothing abiding. Our Lord, our God, all this store that we have prepared to build thee a house for thine holy name cometh into thy hand, and it is all thine own. You gave it to us to give back to you. This is amazing. Look at verse seventeen. I know also, my God. that thou triest the heart and hast pleasure and uprightness, as for me and the uprightness of mine heart, I have willingly offered all these things. And now have I seen with the joy thy people. Which are present here to offer willingly unto thee. Isn't that amazing? This is amazing stuff I want to encourage you. I told you how to give tonight. Liberally, sacrificially, joyfully, willingly, humbly, and Pastor, I could give you all kinds of New Testament verses. But when I read this, Two things come to my mind. Here's the first one. And this giving, it does bring God pleasure. It does bring God pleasure. You think God's got a pleasure button? Yeah, He does. I like blueberry Pop-Tarts. I love them. You got a bunch over there in the cabin for me. God bless you. And uh I ate so many the last seven years that I passed a kidney stone last spring. And uh they figured they did a study on it and it was uh they said, You've been eating a lot of berries the last several years? How many ever passed a kidney stone in here? Good night And I said, well yeah. Is it a dark berry? Uh-huh. Is it a blackberry or a blueberry? Are you kidding me? And they said you've got to lay off those. Those things, it's so too good. I love them. Well, it creates kidney stones, and you've passed a couple this spring and you don't like them. To lay off the blueberry pop-tarts, you won't get kidney stones Man. Okay, I switched the strawberry I like good coffee. I do not promote Starbucks. But how many people have ever had a medicine mold tea in here? Get one. You'll go ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho, ho. It'll bring you pleasure. The other day I put a suit on preacher, hadn't worn for two years, reached in the left-hand pocket, hundred dollar bill A guy gave me, you know, out in Kansas preaching a couple of years ago for God to have it in there. Pleasure. Honey, we're going out to eat. Amen. Amen. Amen. Got home the other night and got my wife a box of chocolates. Going a week preaching. I wrote a card. Roses are red, violets are blue, and honey, these all are for you. And she looked at me and said, all shucks. No hassle in my castle. Pleasure. You guys ever wet a line to go fishing? You're stepping away from everything and you you don't know if you're going to catch anything and that seven-pound large mouth basket's on there and kind of jumps in the boat with you Pleasure. Go deer hunting. Hundred point buck walks by. You've been in the woods two minutes. You're sitting there go, hey. Now listen to me, folks. When you bring God's pleasure, it only comes by one way, and that's willing obedience. Humbly given it to him for his honor and his glory. That'll bring a peace that we call Passes all understanding. He calls it in Philippians a sweet smell, a a savor, just a blessing. The second thing it brings as I close tonight? Not only pleasure, But it brings, this is tremendous here. Catch this. God's provision in your life. Provision, provision, provision. You say, Brother Dan, what do you mean by that? You know it says in verse 9 of my text tonight, and I'll close with this thought. Verse 19 says, And give unto Solomon, my son, a perfect heart. Verse 19, to keep the commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statues. and to do all things that to build the palace for which I have made provision God used David to make the provision to build the house of God. God took pleasure in David doing it And God provided provision, and David could provide for God, and God provided for David, and David provided for God, and David gave God all the glory. Isn't that amazing? Let's rewind our tape tonight as we close. It says this about God's provision. I have seen the young in Philippians in Psalm 37, 25, and how am I now old? Yea, have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor received begging bread? God will never have us do that when we have him come first in our life. God tells us in Luke chapter 6, given it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, running over, shall men give into your bosom for which the same measure that ye meet wherewithal shall be measured to you again. He what goes around comes around. I'm just a newspaper boy. Amen. As a man purposely in his heart, so let him give. Not give good. God's always going to bless this. But Philippians chapter 4, verse 19 says this. But my God Shall supply all your need, according to his riches and glory, by Christ Jesus. God takes great pleasure. That's the result of giving He pleasures in you. He wants to be with you. He wants you to do this because it brings him pleasure. Number two, it brings you provision. So you can take care of what God wants you to do. His name is Tao Arber. You can close your Bibles. Pastor Tao was a teenager like you boys in my church back in Papua New Guinea. He came to my Bible college. He took over a church that had been abandoned by the U. S. missionary. And he took it over. He was like 21 years old, scared to death. A church of about 50 people He was my Timothy over there. And he took that church. I helped him with it and built our church, helped him with it, and that church grew to about 600. And he had a little Christian school. And uh he had a very poor church. The average offering there was less than $100 a Sunday. They were street people I said you need to do missions, but we don't have any money. You need to do it. It'll build you. We're poor. It doesn't matter about your poor. Well, we don't have nothing. Well you got nothing to lose then. Amen He thought he was going to have a about a hundred dollar offering come in in twelve months. He did a missions conference. I preached it for him. Last night I was there. They did their faith promise and preacher they promised 12 Almost 12,000 Kina for the year. Their average income in that church per week was twenty dollars U. S. These are street people. He had a stroke the fifth year in. I'm over there preaching the conference again. He cannot use the left side of his body. He's laying in a bed. I can show you pictures of it. I might get into it this week if I had a chance. And I said, God will use you. Just do not get, don't quit, don't give up, stay in there, hang in there. He was only 43 years of age when he had that stroke. That was about eight years ago. Now his church runs close to a thousand. He has a Christian school of about 225. What he's done every year since we had that talk is 14 independent Baptist churches. You talk about villages. There's thousands of villages in New Guinea. In a 10-mile circle, his church has started eight new independent Baptist churches in the last 12 years. All paid for, not by anybody from the US of A. I've never given him one penny. That church has done it on their own. And you know what? He figured out. He said, when you please God, preacher, God always provides. But what we got to do is be liberal, be sacrificial, be joyful, be willing. Be humble and watch God give the increase. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. I don't know your hearts tonight, but I I just want to give a little different message than I normally preach. The joy of giving or how to give. God wants us to be liberal in our giving. That's how we do it. You may think it's sacrificial, but that's how God wants it done. But he wants us to be us to be joyful. That's how we give. God loves a cheerful giver. We have to be willing. You've got to have that willing mind, it says in 2 Corinthians. You gotta be have that willingness, and you've got to be humble, and God will always take pleasure, and God will always provide Lord, tonight I don't know the hearts of the people, but your Bible tells me in Luke chapter 6, given it shall be given unto you. Good measure, pressed down, shaken together, and running over. And you tell us, Lord, in Acts chapter 20, verse 35, it's more blessed to give than to receive. Who can say, Brother DeLong, Pastor Leatherman, God has worked on my heart tonight? I want to continue to take part in the faith promise giving of this church. Would you pray for me that I would do God's will in this matter? Could you raise your hand? Pray for me. Hands all over. Hands all over. Thank you. Pastor, I'll give you the invitation.