The fair we were Kathy and I were able to slip out uh Monday and Tuesday. We went down to um Winston-Salem, North Carolina, down to the National Sword of the Lord Conference. We just got back this afternoon And it was interesting. I was walking through. They have the gymnasium area there all set up with displays in different ministries and booksellers and stuff like that. And I was walking around looking at the different schools and whatnot. And um uh I'm walking down and uh heard this somebody behind me this little commotion and I heard a lady said Brother Danny Brother Danny Brother Danny I said, that can't be me. And uh I looked around here. It was one of our bus workers from way back when I was in Bible college. And uh brother it was his wife, but brother and Mrs. George Goss is his name, big old fella And uh she goes, Brother Danny, I said, oh. And uh we got talking a little bit. She goes, come and see George, come and see George, lo and behold, he's working with the Amazing Grace Ministry with affairs. He's the director of Tennessee. And uh he goes, Oh, he's a big old fellow. He goes, Oh, my butt's captain. Oh he picked me up. So uh that was a blessing. And uh we got talking about fares and I told him ours was coming up and we're looking forward to it Alright, Matthew chapter 6, oh I gotta read these. Brother Ken gave this to me. This one is so appropriate A preacher was nailing up boards on his fence when a little boy came by stopped watching him. He noticed this old boy was watching him. He's nailing boards up on his fence. And the preacher kinda looked over at him and said, Oh, getting tips on how to fix a fence, huh, sonny? The boy said, No. I'm waiting to hear what a preacher says when he whacks his thumb with a hammer. I always say, Praise the Lord. That's what I say. Matthew 6, verse number 16. I'm going to read down through verse number 18. Moreover, when ye fast, be not as the hypocrites of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. I underline that part that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you that they have their reward But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head and wash thy face, that thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy father, which is in secret. And thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. I've entitled this, How to Fast. Let's pray and ask the Lord to challenge us and bless us. Father, thank you for the word of God. Lord, you've uh included this section in this sermon on the mount, and uh obviously you have instructions for us, or you want to include this, so we ask tonight As we look at this portion of Scripture, that you would speak to our hearts, help us to understand what you're saying, why you're saying it, and what it means to us. And I pray, Lord, that you would speak through me now as you always desire That it would not just be me up here talking, but you would be speaking to our hearts and teaching us. Uh your Holy Spirit be teaching us. So I yield myself again this service, this hour, ask that you would fill me with your spirit, dear Lord, and speak through me. Of course, the Lord is talking to believers. He's talking to disciples He's gathered in the realm, and he is discipling his disciples. He goes through the first ten, twelve verses there as we study, and he tells them what kind of attitude, a genuine disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. We call them the Beatitudes And he's going through and says, this is what uh uh your attitudes ought to be and God will bless you for it. Then he goes over and he talks about our witness, our purpose here on earth. We're the salt of the earth And uh we are the light of the world. And he comes down through here. He talks about what genuine righteousness is. The Pharisees had an outward righteousness. He says, your righteousness needs to exceed that. And you get to chapter 6 And he's going through these different uh aspects of Christian service. He talked about charitable giving, charity. He calls it alms. Talks about prayer, extended portion, about how to pray, pray, how not to pray. Now he brings up another subject, and he brings this up, and it's the subject of fasting. Now before I get into that, as I was overviewing this and getting ready for the message, I kind of put it together, it dawned on me. There is a very, I put it this way, very real and present danger that every one of us as Christian faces. How many folks tonight you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. That's I assume is the majority sound like it. If we're saved, we have a very real danger in our Christian life. And I think as time goes along, the longer we know the Lord, the longer we're a Christian, the greater this danger becomes. And it is this. The danger of falling into hypocrisy. In other words, the danger of getting to the point where we become more concerned about looking right to people. Then we are about being right with God. It's very easy to after the novelty of the Christian life is worn off and after we've established A bit of a testimony, maybe with our brothers and sisters in the church or among other churches even. We get that testimony established, we've excited, the novelty has kind of worn off, it's become Part of our life now. It's a new lifestyle we've been living for a while. And if we're not careful, it's very easy to slip into going through the motions and doing things so that we appear right Uh so and sometimes we'll do things so that people will praise us. We learn in our Christian life that if I do certain things, Christians really like that And they'll applaud that. And so I get to the point where I do those things, not so much because I want to please God, but because I want people's praise. It's called hypocrisy. We get where we're more concerned about outward righteousness as long as we look outward right, and then we get negligent and careless about our inward righteousness We start cutting corners here and indulging this and neglecting that inwardly, but outwardly, we work very hard, making it look like everything's good, everything's righteous. A danger of being more concerned about our appearance as a Christian than my condition as a Christian You say, what in the world does that have to do with fasting? Well, notice here, if you would, in verse number two of chapter six, here he's talking about alms, about doing charity. And he says, he says, therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound the trumpet before thee as the what's the word? Hypocrites. Then come down to verse number five. And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the Hypocrites. And I noticed in verse sixteen now he's picking up fasting, and he says, moreover, when you fast, be not as the hypocrites. Three times He says, in these categories, charity, giving alms, prayer, fasting, and all these areas, he says, don't be like the hypocrites. That tells me there's a danger of us becoming like what? Hypocrites. Remember, he's talking to his disciples. He's not talking to Pharisees. He's talking to folks who have trusted him as their personal Savior and beyond that have said, you know, I'm not just going to trust Christ as Savior. I'm going to commit my life to live for him. I'm going to be his disciple. And he says here you've got to be careful. Don't be like the hypocrites. Don't be like the hypocrites. Don't be like the hypocrites. Hypocrisy kills us. It kills God's power. It kills our testimony. It kills our relationship with those who know us well. They see the hypocrisy. They know what we are behind doors. And they know the image we present. And so in putting all of these together, the warning I see over and over is don't be like the hypocrites. And that tells me that must be a very real danger for disciples of Christ to be like hypocrites. Years ago there was a Kodiak, if I remember a Kodak, cameras. There was a Kodak commercial and it said this, if I remember it correctly, the m the whole thing of it was image is everything. Anybody remember that old commercial some Mm-hmm guy reminded me of myself, but uh some handsome guy and he'd be doing all this stuff in the end it said image is everything. That would be a good motto for hypocrites Image is everything. Substance is nothing. Condition of what my condition is is nothing. As long as I look good. As long as people praise me, as long as long as people think highly of me. And so there are very, very real danger here. Now apparently these three areas Prayer, almsgiving, charity, and fasting are areas where hypocrisy is prevalent. Because that's the first thing he says about it. When when you give alms, don't be as a hypocrites. When you pray, don't be as hypocrites. When you fast, don't be as a hypocrites. Apparently there is an association there Now we come down, we looked at in depth at the prayer aspect, we looked at the almsgiving, the charity. Now he addresses the third of the three, fasting. And he's basically giving us in simple form terms how we are to fast. And and particularly how we are to fast how our fasting should be in relation to other people. That's the whole subject of what he's saying here. Um how many people would agree with me? Food is a high priority in life. Yes. Very high priority. The food the food expenses are a huge portion of the budget. Right? Especially if you got teenagers at home. Yeah, or becoming teenagers or Jacob in your home. Uh uh food is a high priority in life. Food is actually uh very large in our nation's economy. The food industry and all that's involved in it, grocery stores, restaurants, shipping the food, producing the food, that is a huge part of our national, uh the economy, the economy of our nation. Food. So what does it mean to fast? Basically, very simplistic definition of the word fast means to go for a period of time without food. I think when the Lord addresses fasting, he's addressing a part of life that is huge for us. We need it to stay alive. It's part of our life. We have a whole room in our house devoted to food, preparing it and serving it. And so he's touching on something that is uh is uh touches our everyday life fasting Whatever form it takes for whatever reason he's talking about fasting. Now I got a few points here on this, and uh I'll go through them and uh we'll see if we can learn anything about it. The first thing, number one, I put this down, I notice our Lord's assumption. About fasting. Now, I touched on this earlier in the series when we got to this section, but I want to mention it again now. Verse number 16. Look at the first statement. What look at the words very carefully. Moreover, if ye fast. Right or wrong? Yeah, it doesn't say if ye fast. Moreover When ye fast. By the way, the word more over there has the idea now moving right along. He talked about prayer. He gave the model prayer there. He talked about that. Then he talked about the importance of forgiveness. Tack that in with prayer. Now he says, moreover, and now moving right along, the next thing I want to address is this matter of when ye fast. Not if ye fast. I'm not gonna do not raise your hand I'm going to ask you a question. I want us all to think about it ourselves. Did I fast last week? Did I fast last month? Have I fasted last in the last year About the last five years. Have I ever fasted as far as the Bible addresses it? If I understand this correctly, I'm just telling you what the Bible says here. The Bible very clearly presents fasting with an assumption that disciples of Christ are fasting. Fasting throughout the Old Testament and New Testament was extremely common. I went down and wrote, uh, put down a list of folks throughout the Bible that fasted. Moses fasted. In Deuteronomy 9, verse 9 through 18, we have a record of Moses fasting for an extended period of time. David fasted, 2 Samuel chapter 12. Elijah fasted. Ezra fasted. Esther fasted. Darius in Daniel chapter 6 fasted. Remember when Daniel was in the lion's den, and Darius was very concerned, and the Bible says he fasted. And prayed that God would spare Daniel's life. Of course, God did. Daniel fasted when he was praying. He wasn't getting an answer. He had questions and prayed and fasted. Jesus fasted before he faced the temptation of the devil in Matthew chapter 4. Paul fasted after he got saved. He spent a period of time fasting. And it implies throughout Scripture that he fasted many, many times, maybe on a regular basis. I thought it was interesting in Acts chapter 13, verses 1 through 3. At least the leadership of that local church there at Antioch, at the very least, the leadership of the church spent a period of time in fasting. I have a feeling the entire church was fasting and praying. And what came out of that was the first missionary journey. They were calling out, God was calling out missions And I thought it was very interesting. In fact, I gave some serious thought to parking there, maybe preaching some sermons on that, fasting and missions. I see there's a connection there, at least somewhat, throughout Scripture. Fasting was associated with things of someone going through a period of great grief. They would fast. If they were in a time of great sorrow, when they were facing tremendous needs, when they were overwhelmed with danger or circumstances were overwhelming them, they would pray and fast. As we mentioned in Acts chapter 16, when they're about to uh uh embark on a great endeavor, is sending the very first missionaries out. And the phenomenal success of that first, second, and third missionary journey, they fasted as they began a new endeavor, a new outreach with the gospel, taking ground back from the devil, so to speak. They spent their time fasting and prayer. I can find no indication in the Bible anywhere. Where fasting is no longer something for today's believers to practice I can't find anywhere the Bible says, all right, fasting's over. That activity no longer is part of the Christian life, no longer part of your relationship with God. I don't see where it's ended anywhere However, on the other side of that coin, I can't find anywhere in Scripture where we're commanded to fast. I don't see anywhere where God requires of us to fast. But I do see an assumption. On God's part, that his people, like throughout Bible history and church history, will fast at least some times. It's clearly assumed by God. So, I can't stand up here and tell you or myself or anybody. Yes, you must, it's required of God that you and I fast. I can't say that. I can't say that God uh commands us to fast. I can't preach that. I can't find it in the Bible. But I do see, as I said very clearly, God assumes that we are. No other instructions there around that other than I guess circumstances would dictate and our relationship with God would be a factor and what uh what not, but fasting is assumed by God on the part of his believers. So in the Christian life, in the Christian growth, and Christian ministry and dealing with the issues and the events that God allows to bring into our life Fasting is definitely something that Christians can and perhaps should be involved in. The Lord assumes it's taking place. So we have the assumption, our Lord's assumption concerning fasting when ye fast, not if. The second thing I notice here, particularly in verse 16, is our Lord's concaution. Concerning fasting. We have the assumption. Now we have the caution. Look what he says here. When ye fast, he starts out as he did the other subjects with the negative: be not as the hypocrites Of a sad countenance, for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. His primary concern here, he starts out, the very first concern the Lord has, he's there on this mountain, he's talking to the disciples, no doubt several hundred, perhaps several thousand disciples And his first concern on the subject of fasting is that they do not do it for man's attention. Do not fast so that people hold you in high esteem. The word appear here For they be not as the hypocrites of a sad countenance, for they desigure their faces that they may appear unto men to fast. The word appear, I've got looking that up and how it's used in other places in the New Testament, and um it has this idea to bring out into the light. The idea is something is hidden, it's in the dark, you can't see it, it's behind some stuff. And you're going to make it appear to men. You pull it out in front so everybody can see it. And the light shining down on him, it's visible to everybody, observes whatever this is. He says, Don't fance like that. When you're fasting, don't put it out in front of everybody for everybody to see the light shine out. Oh, they're fasting. See, that's how the hypocrites do it. The word appear means to bring out into the light. Along those lines, another definition is to uh to bring out before people's attention or to put it in front of their eyes. So his caution, his very first statement when he brings up the subject of fasting is: listen, don't be like the hypocrites. They want to bring their fasting out in front of everybody and make sure everybody knows I got the impression, I was looking up the word appear there. This is the word picture. I try to picture well how is that used? This is the word picture that came to my mind, um, and I don't know a whole lot about this, but uh kind of like a fashion show. I've never in my life been to a fashion show. But I've heard about them. And so what happens on a fashion show? They have a Runway, right? And so for the plains to land, and um have a runway, and um the ladies come out there Right? Isn't that how they do it? So I so it that's what Kathy told me. Of course I'm being silly. But that's the idea I got from this word appear. What the hypocrites do is when they're gonna fast, they're doing some sort of Christian activity. They're doing some sort of Christian devotion to the Lord. They're fasting. And the Bible, people all through the Bible fasted. It's a good thing. He's not discouraging them from fasting. He's assuming they are. He says, but when you do it, don't do it like these hypocrites do. They come out in front of everybody and they'll show us here how what in a little more detail what they do. But they want everybody to see and know, I'm fasting. I'm fasting, to appear before men. Fasting is not to be done for man's attention. It is not to be done for man's praise. I put it this, it is not to be done even for man's awareness. By the time we get done looking at this, I came to the by the time I got done studying this, I came to the conclusion, if I understand him correctly People shouldn't even know when I'm fasting. Shouldn't even know. It it doesn't involve other people at all, other than maybe the object of my prayers that is concluded with the fasting And so our Lord's caution here, and look at some of the things he says here. He says, be not as the hypocrites of a sad countenance. Now they look gloomy. When they started fasting, I was practicing looking of a sad countenance. I looked the definition up. It was only just a simple little definition. It's not used very much. And it simply meant this to look gloomy I was gonna I won't do it, but I was gonna have Pastor Grant come up. He has tremendous facial expressions. You ought to look at the dating picture. I just look at I start laughing every time I see it. I laugh every time I see his picture. But especially on no But to look gloomy. What how do you look gloomy? Look at the person beside you and look gloomy. Sad countenance. Just like some of y'all always look. That's what they did to look gloomy. They're going to fast, they're going to look gloomy. And then it says they look at this. They disfigure their faces. What in the world? I looked up the word disfigure there and this is my definition. I took a conglomerate of all the ways it's used and I put it together. This is my conglomerate definition. They made themselves look like they were dying is the idea. They're sad countenance. And then um uh they wouldn't I I guess in you put it in context maybe I'm using my imagination here a little bit. If they're ladies they wouldn't put their makeup on And they look very, very sad. And uh their hair was they do nothing and they just if they were men they wouldn't shave, you know, and they just oo They look terrible and the definition I could come up with looked like they were dying. Why would they do that? Why would you look so sad and so gloomy? I mean they're going to great lengths To make sure everybody knows their fasting. And so my question is, what in the world would looking very, very sad and look like you're dying, what would that have to do with fasting? Now I don't know. I can't say this dogmatically, but I think the implication is they want everybody to know they were fasting, and they want everybody to think they are so devoted to God. They've been fasting so long, they're on death's doorstep. Oh, I've denied myself so much. Oh, I'm about to die. And of course everybody would say, wow. Look how devoted they are. Look how committed they are to God. And it was all sham. It was all a phony. Hypocrites go to great pains. To get people to think that they are something they are not I found a lot of times they will go if if somebody is maybe they're unsaved or they're backslid or whatever, but they're trying to appear spiritual. Now this isn't true across the board. And we all are guilty of this to some extent, but sometimes if a person is not right with God, they're not in fellowship with the Lord, term is backslidden, but they want everybody to think that they are right with God. And they are in fellowship, and everything is good with them in God. And they want people to think that what they tend to do is go overboard in trying to appear spiritual. And what most people end up doing is going, oh, brother, it's so obvious. And I think that's what the Lord is warning against here. So listen, when you fast If your fasting is to make people, ooh, oh, well, he's something, she's something, well, if that's your purpose And that's not fasting at all. Don't do it that way. Don't be that way. They wanted to make sure everyone knew. They wanted to appear that their devotion to the Lord, their fasting, was so intense it was affecting their health And it's like Jesus is saying, he's saying, see those hypocrites, that's all what they do? Don't be like them. Don't do that. Were they question? Were the hypocrites actually fasting? Yeah, I think they were. Look, he says, when you fast, be not as the hypocrites. That they appear to men to fast. I think they're actually fasting, but did they get any response from God? No. They were probably going without food. Now, knowing what we know about them here and what the Lord says, I would be suspicious they were sneaking some food in when people weren't looking. Hey, it's their prerogative. They don't have to. They could eat. The whole the whole the whole thing with them fasting, with the hypocrites fasting Wasn't about eating or not eating, wasn't about their devotion to the Lord or being though. The whole thing was about what people think of me And that's the danger we fall into. If we're not careful, we get so worried about having this appearance. of being a certain kind of Christian when we're not. So you say, all right then I'll just I'll just act like a carnal Christian. No, the answer is get right into the Lord So he cautions concerning their fasting. Um all they got. Did they fast? Yes. Did they get any response from God? No. You know what they got? What does the Bible say they got? It's all they got. They got men's praise. Look what it says. Verily, I say unto you, they have their reward. What did they want? Attention. What did they get? Attention That's all they got. They didn't get answered prayer. They didn't get the attention of the Lord. They didn't get any blessings of God. All they got was people saying, well, ooh, oh. I'm telling you, that is about as shallow as you can get. You and I must never confuse people's attention with people's respect. A lot of people that get a lot of attention have little or no respect of the people that they're getting their attention. Uh you send a you go downtown when the streets are crowded and have a clown walk through downtown, he gets a lot of attention. He didn't get any respect. He's just a clown. And I'm telling you what the world is drilling drilling into a lot of our young people's heads. is you go to these extreme things and do extreme oddball things so that you have everybody's attention. And maybe you get everybody's attention, but you do not have anybody's respect. Same thing true with you and I as religious. Um so the Lord's saying, listen, these people are going to extremes, they're disfiguring their faces, they're They're a sad countenance. They're putting on this big show, an elaborate thing, so that people see them and people think there's something. And he says, that's all they're getting. That's all they're getting. Fasting is not about others. Fasting is not about myself. Fasting is about the Lord. And approaching the Lord. Let me give you my third thought here real quick. Is everybody okay out there? Good. Anybody hungry? Number three, our Lord's correction concerning fasting. So he makes the assumption that you're actually doing this, talking to his disciples. Then he gives the correction, don't be like these guys over here. He gives the uh uh caution, don't be like these over here. Then he gives the correction. Verse 17, look. But thou, when thou fastest, as opposed to the hypocrites, anoint thine head and wash thy face. First he's addressing the method. Alright, we're going to fast. And all I'm going to address as far as what fasting consists of is simply going a period of time, long, short, whatever it is, I'm going a period of time without eating. Now, in my relationship with the Lord, we'll get to that here in a minute. So I'm going to fast for the Lord, and how do I do it? Well, he says, I thought this was strange. Uh, when thou fastest, anoint thine head and wash thy face. Now, what is anoint your head and wash your face? That was something they did every day. That was just part of cleaning up, anointing their head, maybe putting like um dabber dan on the hair, you know, anointing their head, and um uh washing your face, get up in the morning, shh. Clean up. My wife says I brushed my teeth too long. And so uh we do all that. And and he's what's he saying? He's saying when you're fasting, just get up and do the same thing you always did. Don't do anything different. Don't don't put on a state, just brush your teeth, look good, smell good Look pleasant, ladies, the barn needs paint, put paint on it, you know Don't change your outward appearance. I think what he's saying here is don't give any indication to others about your fasting. Look nice. Smell nice. Alright. And by the way, that's a good principle to follow when you go soul winning and visiting too. Be normal, be pleasant. Don't walk into the room. Oh, what's the matter with you? I've been fasting for two hours. He's saying just go about. Don't draw any attention to the fact that you're fasting. Uh look nice and smell nice. So that's the method. Then what's the motive for fasting? Why would I mo what would my motive be? Verse 18, that thou appear not unto men to pass. All right, we understand that. But unto thy father which is in secret. Ah That tells me a little bit of the motive behind my fasting has to do with my relationship with my Heavenly Father. Fasting has to do about my relationship as a child to God, my father. What is the purpose? I put this down. And again, this could be a lengthy study. The purpose of fasting, as I understand it, is primarily for me to draw closer to God. So that I can understand my heavenly father a little better. So my relationship with my heavenly father is a little bit deeper. To establish a little more intimacy with God. Now I have to include in the fasting because it's we see it through scripture, it also includes I think that's the basis of it, coming to God, knowing God, establishing a more intimate relationship with my Heavenly Father. But I have to include in with that, because of what others did when they're fasting, making requests. For instance, the in uh Acts thirteen, the church, they're fasting and praying, and God is calling out laborers to go out on the mission field. So I'm asking I'm asking myself, when they're fasting and praying and ministering to the Lord, what are they fasting at? What is the request I think it goes back when the Lord said the harvest is great, but the laborers are few. Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, he would send forth labors. So the church was doing that. There's a whole world needed the gospel, and it's just beginning to be established and spreading out. And they begin praying and they start fast. That God would send for laborers. And lo and behold, out of their own church, God calls out Paul and Barnabas. And they send him out. Mark goes along. No doubt there was others with him. So fasting is primarily my walk with my Heavenly Father, my relationship with my Heavenly Father, but it also includes requests. Darius fasted, although it's questionable at the point whether he knew God is the uh the Lord, but he was fasting so God would spare Daniel. Daniel was fasting so God would answer his question. You go through. So fasting also includes making a request. This is the way I see it. Again, I try and get a picture in my mind to illustrate it. I mentioned y uh Kathy and I were able to go down to the Sword Conference Monday and Tuesday. Monday night, uh this is fun. Um I dropped Kathy off at the door. She she says, I'll go in and get a seat, you go park the car. I said, okay. So I go park the car, come back, I'll go in the door, and I can't find her anywhere. I get a little text. Bing. I'm second I'm I went in the door, second row. uh from the front. Alright, I look, there's thirteen doors in that auditorium. So I'm going around all the doors, two rows from the door around I don't see her anywhere. She goes, I'm to the right of the pulpit. So I go all the way If you've ever been there, this place is massive. So I go all the way to the other side, I'm walking around looking, they're singing, Dr. Smith about the preach. I'm looking around. I don't see her. I don't see her. And the millers, Gerald Miller's family, they're all there. I said, I can't find Kathy. We'll help you. And they're all looking around. And I said, I can't find you. Second row on the right of the pulpit. Okay. And uh we're look this has nothing to do with the message, by the way. And uh We're looking all around. I and finally I sit down, Dr. Smith preached a message. I said, I don't know where she's at. I can't I've I can't find my wife. And so finally she's a bing comes up. Oops, I meant the left side of the pulpit And she was the second row from the front on the left side of the pulpit by the door. So anyway I'm sitting there in the back all by myself, worried, can't find my wife, and I look up there, I see the back of Fred Schindler's head. I said, Oh, there's my buddy. I haven't seen him in a long time. We support him of course. He's been here many, many times. And so afterward went and caught up with him and um Yesterday, after the morning session, we sat down and said, we have to have lunch together. Now, this is what I'm trying to illustrate, what fasting is I met a lot of other preachers there that I know. I don't know them real well, more like acquaintances than real friends. And you know how our conversation went, hey, how you doing? Oh fine, how are you? Good Oh, how are things going? So and so. Oh they're going great. How about you? Oh yeah, they're going real good. Same people say, oh that's wonderful. Yeah, we had Bible time. Yeah, so did we. How about that And I'm kind of looking around while we're talking and a little distracted and we're just talking to say, well listen, take care. Good seeing. And we go our way. That was the depth of our conversation. He's seeing other people going by, waving while other people are going by, he's distracted, I'm distracted. We're just greeting each other, very nice, but we're not real close, but we're acquaintance. Fred Schindler and I have known each other for years. My dearest friends in the world. We sat down. And you'd have thought the whole place was empty. It was just him and I. Well, the ladies were there talking. How are you doing? How are things going? He talked about his health, what God was doing in India. It goes over there a lot. His plans for future. I was talking about things here and what we're doing. And I mean we had one of those heart-to-heart conversations. Or we just shared our hearts with each other. And as far as the rest of the world concerned, it did not exist. And I'm telling you, that was a fulfilling, joyful, heart-to-heart connection with a very dear friend. Had a little food there, but that was not the object. The object was him and I sharing our hearts. That to me is what fasting is. When I come to God and a huge part of my life is food and I push all that aside and all the distractions are put aside and it is not for I could care I didn't even think about anybody else seeing us talking All it was was Fred and I talking. And that's what fasting is. I come to my Heavenly Father, and food is no longer an issue in my life, and all this other stuff is not an issue. I am focused on God. I am sharing my heart to Him. And he's responding, he's rewarding me by sharing with me It is a time of intimate, it is a time of developing an intimate relationship with my Heavenly Father. Lo and behold. Everybody look in the back of the church. Stand up, gang. Look at this. Ho! And the Lord rewards them. Good to see you, brother and sister and kids. Wow. You just ruined my message. Talking about fasting, brother. And then last of all, I'll give you this we gotta quit now. Our Lord's coronation concerning fasting. This is one so devoted to the Lord that he pushes aside the regular food, a never necessary aspect of life, and he gets God's attention. He says, God will reward him secretly. God rewards him by giving him what is profitable to him. Now, we're not told how often to fast. We're not told how long to fast. Moses fasted 40 days. Others fasted various times. We're not told how often, we're not told how long, but it is assumed that we do fast. And when we do, it's nobody else's business. It has nothing to do with people thinking anything of me. It has everything to do with interacting with my Heavenly Father and developing my relationship with Him. If I have burdens and needs and fears, I'm pouring them out to Him. But food and distractions are put aside. Does that make sense? Does that make sense? Fasting. I've done it occasionally over the years. In college we did uh more often than after. Sometimes the situation I'll go for a little bit. But does I see in the Bible, God's assuming we're doing this God's assuming we're focusing on Him and developing our relationship with Him, even to the point where at times we have to push aside the necessary parts of life just so we can zero in on God. And that's what he's talking about. So I don't know how to give an invitation other than let's pray and ask the Lord to help us have a desire. To develop our relationship with our Heavenly Father, our walk with Him, that we can get to the point where we can connect heart to heart, and I can just talk to Him as a friend And God responds in kind. Amen. Amen. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I don't know how you might use this in our lives. I know I was challenged preparing it, Lord, concerning fasting and my walk with you. So I pray you'd stir us. We're asking for revival in our hearts, in our lives, our church, our ministries. And maybe you'd touch a few hearts tonight. Maybe you'd stir a few of us at least to give this a consideration. And maybe make it part of our Christian life, our Christian growth. And so help us, Holy Spirit, stir us and challenge us, from the youngest up through the oldest. In Jesus' name. Let's stand together.