Psalm thirty-three verse number eighteen. It's good to be back. Uh we had a wonderful trip down with uh Brother Bartley in St. Lucia and uh we arrived there uh a week ago Tuesday. We got back this past uh actually got home on Wednesday. and had a great time down in St. Lucia. The Lord blessed. The nice thing was apparently all their snow had melted before we got there. And so uh that was nice. And uh we got to do um A lot of good work canvassing and we got a great, great report tonight. I'll tell you this, there was three things I never in a thousand years would have dreamed I would have done uh ever in my life, let alone do on this mission trip. And so we'll show you some of those tonight and just amazing, amazing things and some tremendous blessings. We appreciate everyone that uh prayed for us and um everyone that helped uh invested uh your prayers and your finances to make this possible. I really want to encourage you back tonight. I think you'll really enjoy the presentation and see what the Lord is doing down there. And um I want to encourage you to do that. Psalm chapter 33, I think I'm a little bit strong up here, Brother Jamie. Verse number 18. I'd like for us to read verse number 18 together. I read this in my devotions the other day, and uh this verse just kind of stuck out as I read it, and I thought I'll try and develop a little message here around this. Verse eighteen, the Bible says, Read it with me if you would. Ready? Here we go. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him upon them that hope in his mercy. I put in the margin of my Bible those those who have God's attention The eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, and that hope uh upon them that hope in his mercy. I don't know about you, I would like God's attention. I want God's attention. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us. Father, it's been a good day. The singing's been a blessing. The fellowship has been a blessing. And now we have our Bibles open, Lord, and I ask, dear God, that you would speak to us from your word. We believe with all our hearts that this is your word. And we pray you would help us. Lord, if there's someone with us or maybe someone listening in electronically that does not know Jesus Christ as Savior, God, my first and foremost prayer. Is that they would understand how desperately they need the Lord Jesus Christ. And you'd open their hearts and spiritual eyes to see what you've done for us and believe with what you've done for us and trust you as our own personal Savior. Lord, those of us that know you as Savior, I pray you'd challenge us and help us, instruct us from your word how we ought to live our lives as Christians and how we ought to think and uh approach things, the perspective we ought to have on ourselves and our lives. Lord, I can't help anybody myself, so I yield myself to you. Present my body anew, yield my will, and I pray with all my heart that you would speak through me. Dear God, and that you would be the preacher and teach us, I pray in Jesus' name. Amen. I tell you, it's a great blessing to me personally to read the Bible as a whole, but especially uh I I especially enjoy reading the book of Psalms and the Book of Proverbs. I try to, if I don't do anything else, I'm traveling or if it's a hectic day or whatever, and maybe I can't get my full Bible reading time in in the day, I I try to make sure I read at least a chapter from Psalms and a chapter from Proverbs every single day. Of course, we ought to read the whole Bible. At some point we ought to read the whole Bible. But it seems like those two chapters, those two books of the Bible are especially a blessing to me personally. I read Psalm thirty-three, as I mentioned before, uh several days ago, a week or so ago, and um this chapter, as I said, was a real blessing And I wanted to look at it a little bit. If you look here at the chapter, come back to verse number one there, Psalm 33. If you'll notice right above verse number one, there is something not there. The title, there is no title there. If you look at the chapter before, there's a title. It says a Psalm of David Maskil, and that's a instruction for a musical instruction. If you look at chapter 34 Says a psalm of David when he changed his behavior before Abimelech, who drove him away and departed. So all of the chapters of Psalm but four have a title. There's four there's four chapters in the book of Psalms that do not have a title. Psalm 33 is one of them. And so we're not told very much about this chapter. Now I like to, if I'm going to study, particularly if I'm going to speak from a uh one of the Psalms, I like to try and do everything I can and find out as best I can who the penman was behind it. If I can learn what the circumstances were. Did you notice there in Psalm 34, he gives us a little bit of what the circumstances were when that Psalm 34 was written. And I think it helps us give us a little insight on what's being said and why it's being said and maybe how we apply it to ourselves. But we come to chapter 33 and we're not given any of that. We're not told who the penman is. We're not told what the occasion is behind it. Now, did you notice in Psalm 32 and Psalm 34, who is the penman? of those two psalms. Who was it that recorded those down? We're told. David. And so we might want to suggests we may come to the conclusion that because David ha is a penman of chapter 32, he's a penman of chapter 34, we could maybe assume that he is a penman of chapter 33 In fact, some ancient, I'm told that some ancient Bibles, the Jews had in years gone by, ancient Hebrew Bibles, they actually had 32 and 33 together as one psalm. And so Very likely David is the one that penned this. Regardless, whether it was David or someone else, we don't know who it was, but we do know this. This is what I'm trying to get at We do know this. God is the author. God is the author. Whoever God used to record it God is still the author behind it. In fact, God is the author of the whole Bible. Sometimes people will say, and I had somebody just recently I was out witnessing, I can't remember where it was I think it might have been down in St. Lucia. Brother Jerry's with me or at the bus stop. And we engaged a couple fellows there and and started talking to them. The one guy made this statement. He goes, Who wrote the Bible? And I said, well, God gave it to us. God is the author of the Bible. And he kind of scoffed at that a little bit. No, man wrote it, man wrote it. Listen, here's the deal. Man penned the Bible, but God authored it. The Spirit of God moved upon the old man, the prophets, and men of God, and he moved upon them and he directed them what they should write down. So whether we know who the penman is or not, whether we know what the circumstances or not As helpful as that might be, and whatever that may benefit us, we can be very, very confident that this is God's word and God has a message for us. That this chapter can help us tremendously. I think it's fascinating To me, it's just fascinating that God used at least 40 different men over a period of 1600 years. to record for us the Word of God. Now think about that. The way I illustrate that often is is this. Suppose you had a person 1600 years ago Carved out of wood a little or cut out a little piece of a puzzle, a jigsaw puzzle. They cut a little piece out and they put it up Uh twenty years ago by another guy cuts it out, puts it up. Maybe there's four, five, or six at a certain period of time they cut out. Maybe one guy cuts out several uh pieces of the bugle and they put them up And over a 1600-year period of time, 40 different people cut out pieces of a puzzle, and you take those pieces of the puzzle and you put it together, and they fit perfectly. And they make they come together and make a beautiful perfect picture. That is what you have with the Bible. Over sixteen hundred years, forty different men record down various parts of the Bible and it all fits together beautifully. And by the way, the picture the Bible paints is of the Lord Jesus Christ At all points to the Lord Jesus Christ. So what an amazing book we have. We were talking in Sunday school today about baby Christians. And one of the things a baby uh does, a baby does not understand the value of things. There'll be something very, very precious, and that baby will not understand how precious it is. I hope we all understand how precious this book is right here. The Word of God. And the miracle that this book is, the powerful living word of God. And so we come to Psalm 33. We don't know a lot of the background. We don't know the penmen, but we do know it's of God, and we do know it's for our benefit. And Psalm 33 will help us grow as Christians. If we look at this and understand it. Now, a couple things here I just want to highlight. If you look at verse number 15, here's another verse that stood out in my mind. Verse 15, it says, He, God He fashioneth their hearts alike. He considereth all their works. I put in the margin of my Bible, all men all around the world have the same heart needs. He fashioneth their hearts alike. We were down in St. Lucia this past week and working with people. You know what we found out, and somebody said this, might have been Derek, pointed out. You know what? He says, you know what I learned? I learned that people are basically the same everywhere you go. Everywhere you go. We've been overseas and different places on the mission field, and the issues are all the same. The culture may be a little different, the appearances may be different, color of the skin may be a little different, but the hearts of men are all the same The heart needs. Every single man, woman, and child needs the Lord Jesus Christ. And without the Lord Jesus Christ, their hearts are empty. Without the Lord Jesus Christ, they're in their sin. Without the Lord Jesus Christ, they have no future as far as heaven is concerned. They die in that condition. They're separated from God for all eternity. And so God fashioneth their hearts alike. Every person all around the world, throughout all of history, has had the same heart needs, the same heart needs. We do not know who the penman was that I said. We do know the author is the Lord Jesus Christ. And the theme. The theme of Psalm 33, as I read this over and over and looked at it, I tried to think, well, what is the theme? What's he saying here? And my conclusion as I looked at this and studied this, I believe the theme of Psalm 33 is this, praising God. Praising God, lifting our praise up to God. Look at verse number one there with me. He says, Rejoice in the Lord, ye righteous. Look at this statement. For praise is comely for the upright. And so I believe we have here uh the uh the theme is the praise of God. And we'll look at that here in a minute, and I've kind of broken the chapter down into uh an outline here so that maybe we can it can benefit us. But I want to say this. God wants his children to be successful in our Christian life. How many folks here this morning you're saved and you know it? Say amen. Amen. God bless you. If young people down here saved, we got old folks over here saved. Um uh and all points in between. Us young people are saved and you all bunch of old folks Saved, praise the Lord. But hey, listen, if we're saved, if we know the Lord Jesus Christ our Savior, I can tell you this, and I preached on it recently. God's for us God wants us to grow. God wants us to be victorious in our Christian life. Some people, I'm afraid, get the idea that well I'm a Christian, I'm saved, oh I've just gotta I've gotta hang in there, I've gotta hold on Just a morbid, sad, uh living the Christian life. No, no, no, it's not like that at all. Jesus says, uh, I want to give you my joy He says, The thief cometh not, but for to steal and to kill and destroy, but I am come that you might have life, and that you might have it more abundantly. I tell you, the devil is a liar. And the devil convinces folks, and sometimes he gets young people, he convinces folks that being a Christian is miserable And singing the hymns and praising God and having a Bible and living for the Lord, that that's miserable, and that's unhappy, and that's boring, and that's nothing. And the exact opposite is true. It's a lie of the devil that you're happy if you're living in sin and you're miserable if you're doing right. I'm telling you the most miserable people in the world are people living in sin. Just listen. Listen to the way some folks talk. They're angry, they're mad, oh you ought to be like me, you're s you're a stupid, dumb Christian. Then next sentence they're saying, I'm just gonna kill myself, I'm so miserable. Well why would I want to be like that? Why would I want to be like these movie stars and rock and roll rap singers and all of that? And they're miserable and they're killing themselves and they're drowning themselves in liquor and killing themselves with drugs I'm telling you, if you're so happy, why do you need all that self-destructive stuff? Then I turn around and I see some person, young person or uh adult living for God and giving the Bible. You know what? They're rejoicing, they're happy, their life has purpose. There's confidence. They're not so self-conscious. They don't know how to function. They got the presence of God. They have purpose in life. My point is this, the devil's a liar. And God is for us. And if we live for him and trust him, we can have the joy and the presence and the confidence. of God in our lives. And so God wants us. He wants his children to have a victorious Christian life. He wants us to be strong in our faith. He wants us to have the joy of the Lord in our life, regardless of circumstances. Regardless of the condition. And I really hope you've come back tonight, and we want to show you pictures of folks and introduce you to some people that are living in abject poverty, but that love God. And are rejoicing in the Lord and don't have the third of the things you and I have, but I'm telling you, they've got far more joy of the Lord than most of us sitting here do. And God's for us. And we don't have to have things. We don't have to have more stuff. We don't need materialism to bring joy to our hearts. We just need to trust God and live for Him and let Him bless us. The key factor in my spiritual well-being. God wants me to be victorious in my life. God wants me to be strong. He's working on my behalf. He's helping me And one of the key factors in being a good, strong, confident, victorious Christian, one of the key factors is this: my ability to praise God. My ability to praise God. Now, are there other factors? Absolutely. You know, Bible reading, faith, separation from world, all of that. But one key factor in being a successful, victorious, rejoicing Christian is my ability to praise God. My ability to be grateful. My ability to rejoice in the Lord, regardless of what my circumstances are. My ability to look beyond my circumstances and to see the love of God working on my behalf. Am I making sense? I get to the point where I can, I see, maybe circumstances aren't everything I would like them to be. Maybe I'm going through a valley. Maybe things are tough. Maybe my body is failing me. But if I get to the point in my Christian life, in my faith, and I'm able to look beyond that, and I see that God is still in control, that God loves me, that God has a plan, that God is working, and I can look beyond that and rejoice in what God is doing and who God is And get beyond the immediate things. That is so important in my Christian growth. That is so important. Some of us, here's the problem: some of us, all we can see is what's wrong. All we can see is what we don't have. All we know is what's not what I want, the things that aren't what I want. And we can never see beyond that and see all that God is doing. And all we have to rejoice in. When I get to the point where I see the Lord and I rejoice in the Lord, regardless of what's happening around me. That point, if I understand this passage correctly, when I get to that point, that's when I've got God's attention. I believe God is looking for men and women, Christians. He's looking for folks who are able to rejoice in him, not because of the stuff they have or the things they're they're experiencing, but simply because of who and what he is, that person has God's attention. That person is God's attention. Um Psalm thirty-three, as I said, is a psalm of praise. Now I've broken this ch I broke this chapter down into three sections. First of all Point number one in my message this morning is verses one through three is a call to praise. Look with me if you would at verses one through three, real quickly, a call to praise. Look what he says: Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous For praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with heart. Sing unto him with the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings. Sing unto him a new song. Play skillfully with a loud voice. This is God calling his people to praise him. God wants us to praise him. God wants us to rejoice in him. I believe we sang some of these great hymns this morning. Brethren, we have met to worship. I believe when we sing like that sincerely from our hearts, we're singing these songs to the Lord, happy am I. Jesus is mine forever. I believe we sing that sincerely from our heart. Maybe our hearts are broken. Maybe uh the debts are so high we can't even hardly breathe. We don't know what's going to happen. But I can stop and I can say, Jesus is mine forever, I'm happy. I think God's looking for people that can do that. His eye is upon them. That's who the Lord is looking for. And he's calling for all his people to do that. He's calling for Christians. He's calling us to quit our complaining and start praising. Quit our griping and start rejoicing in the Lord. We've got it pretty good. If you'll study your Bible very carefully, I did this years ago. I went through and took a highlighter And every place in the Bible where we were instructed to praise the Lord, I highlighted it with a yellow highlighter. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise the Lord. You know what I found out We are instructed in the Bible to praise the Lord more than we're instructed to do anything else. More than any other command in the Bible, we are commanded and called to praise the Lord. How many people believe it's important for Christians to go to church? Sure, absolutely. You're here today. Of course it is. You know, we are commanded to praise the Lord probably a hundred times to one as far as attending church. Huh? No, it doesn't mean we shouldn't attend church, but we ought to put a priority on praising the Lord, rejoicing in the Lord. Uh how many people believe a Christian ought to pray? Sure, absolutely. We need it Do you know we're commanded far more to praise the Lord than we are to pray? We go down the list, witness, read our Bible. We're commanded in Scripture to praise God more than any other command. So why do we go around so long faced? Why do we go around so griping and complaining and mad and fighting? I'm telling you, I'm telling you, God has done something for us. Nobody else in the world could possibly do. God has done something for us this world can never do for us Listen, you might gripe about Christianity, you might complain about going to church and all that. I don't think there's many here that do that, but some might. I'm here to tell you you are griping and complaining about the one one that loves you and has done more for you than anyone in this world will ever do. God's calling us to praise. God's calling us to praise. How many people here like it? If you do something for someone or you help them or some way and they come and they say thank you and they express appreciation And they kinda tell you how many people like that? Sure we do. You know what? We're creating God's image. God created us to praise him. Um did I mention we have new bathrooms downstairs all fixed up I'm so excited, I can't wait to get done. I'm gonna go down there. I tell you what, I just I just can't praise Mark and them and everybody that's part I just can't praise them enough. That's fantastic. You guys did great. Wait a minute. Jesus Christ suffered hell for me. He gave me eternal life. I can't praise him enough. That's what he wants. He wants us to rejoice in what he's done for us. Look what he says there in verse 1. He says, rejoice in the Lord, all you righteous. Look at this next statement. For praise is comely for the upright. He makes that statement several times through the book of Psalms. That word comely there has the idea of being attractive, of being beautiful. Praise is comely. In God's eyes, when you have a Christian, regardless of what the circumstances are, regardless of what difficulties they're going through, they're able to look beyond that. And see the Lord and say, God, you're so good to me. God, you're such a wonderful God. You saved me from sin and hell. You've given me eternal life. You love me no matter what I do. You patient with me. You forgive me God says that's attractive to me. That is comely. That's beautiful. I'm telling you, thankful, happy people are more attractive than miserable uh unhappy criticizing draping people. I don't care what physical features they have, a happy rejoicing person is more attractive than a miserable person. Right or wrong? Right or wrong. Sure. God says praise is comely. Praise is attractive. How many folks here have someone you'd like to see them get saved? Someone you care about, they're lost, maybe a family member, mom, dad, brother, sister, child, somebody Sure. You know what? We'll be a whole lot more effective witness if we go around and be happy, rejoicing Christians, rather than griping about everything and criticizing. Listen, I listen listen, I'll be the first to admit. There's a ton to gripe about Out there in the world? We're talking about our country a little bit and having an influence. I tell you, there's stuff to complain about in our country, huh? Sure. And we there's a lot of things happening that we don't like. But I'm telling you, there's nothing wrong with God. I tell you, that city we're going to, that country we're going to someday It's nothing about that to gripe and complain. And we'll have a whole lot more influence on the unsaved people around us if we start talking about how good God is instead of talking about how bad the world is. Follow what I'm saying? So God says praise is comely, praise is what God desires, praise is what the Lord is looking for. God wants us, I believe, to do two things. God wants us to trust him. Trust him. Follow his instructions. Do it. Just trust me. I'll tell you, I'll show you what to do. Just trust me. And he wants us to praise him. Trust God, follow his instructions, live for him, just trust him, and then praise him. Rejoice in him. Be grateful for what he's doing. Tell him how wonderful he is. Tell them how much you appreciate him. And genuinely appreciate the Lord. We were down in did I mention we were in St. Lucia this past week when I mentioned it? It's all you're going to hear about for about a week or two, okay? And uh we had an amazing time down there. We were in a And we'll show some of these pictures tonight and uh tell you about it. But we were uh in the church here, Brother West has it. It's about a year old the church. He's been winning people the Lord. There's a lady in that church, Miss Nora Miss Nora, you just look at her, you won't think much. She's the lady there, lives in the town of Dennery. But uh Wes led Miss Nora to the Lord about a year ago, maybe not quite that long, some time ago. He led her to the Lord. Miss Nora was a drunkard. Alcoholic, drunk all the time. And Jesus Christ, she trusted Jesus Christ as their Savior. Get this: Jesus took the drunkenness away from her. He delivered her from liquor. And her life has changed. And now she's sober. Now she's reading her Bible. In fact, we were at the airport. We got a message from Faith in the book. She goes, Miss Nora just called to tell you she's praying for you. Have a safe trip. She misses you. This is a lady a year ago who was drunk all the time. Monday night we're getting ready for the last service uh Christian life conference he had and uh Miss Nora comes up, uh just a little church, just a little A handful of people come. Miss Nora came. She brought her daughter. Remember that? She wanted her daughter to meet us. Her daughter made this statement. She goes, Mother's life is so changed. She goes, and this daughter's unsaved. And she says, I used to cry all the time because mama was drunk all the time. I'd just cry and cry for mama. She goes, now she's happy and sober. She's praising the Lord. She was at every service. What a testimony to the goodness of God. What if Miss Nora just go around graping and criticizing and complaining everything? That daughter wouldn't be impressed But Miss Nora is so grateful that God delivered her from sin, saved her soul. Praise is comely. It's beautiful, it's attractive, it's what God desires. And so the first few verses of this chapter, we have God calling us to praise. We gave out, and I think we ran out, but uh we gave out new prayer cards for Joy Wesson. Joy and Josh, we supported them a number of years. They've been missionaries in the Dominican Republic for 15, 16, 18 years, long time. He started a church down there. I've had the privilege of be with him a number of times and at his church and preach there. Um taught uh an institute module one week there for him. They run about, oh, I don't know, two hundred, hundred, two hundred in their church Last summer, most of us remember Josh drowned trying to save a couple teenagers who got pulled in a riptide, undercurrent. He drowned rescuing them Joy's had severe heart issues for years. She's had to come back to the States a number of times. Their son had leukemia. They had to deal with that with chemotherapy, Stephen. They've been through all of that. Now Josh drowns Tell you what, some folks would say joy has a reason to gripe. Joy has a reason to be miserable and unhappy and griping and complaining. You talk to Joy, you see every picture of Joy, you know what you'll notice on her face? Smile ear to ear. Rejoicing in the Lord. They made the decision not too long ago. She's going to go back down Dominican. She's going to stay right there where God's called them. They raised their kids there. And this morning, as I'm speaking, She's in the church interpreting for the deaf, playing a piano, serving God. Her kids are all involved, and just rejoicing in the Lord. Can I suggest to you, Joy Wesson has the attention of God? He sees that. That's attractive to God. That mentality, that spirit, that attitude That God is good, and I go through valleys and I go through difficulties and my heart is broken. But God is good, and I have every reason in the world to rejoice in Him and praise Him and be happy in the Lord. That's what gets God's attention. So the call to praise. Robert Morrison was the first missionary to go to China. When he stepped off the boat in the Chinese port there, the captain, who was an unbeliever, a skeptic, and really thought Morrison was a fool. He sneeringly said to Robert Morrison when he walked off the ship, actually I think he pulled him aside, and he made this statement to him. He says, So, you think you're going to make an impression on China? Robert Morrison, without hesitating, said, No, sir. He said, but I believe God will make an impression on China. And listen, you and I, uh in and of ourselves, we don't have a whole lot to offer, and it can be discouraging, it can be bad, but if we get our eyes off ourselves and get them on the Lord, we got something to rejoice in And we'll make a greater impression in the on this world when we're praising God than when we're griping and complaining. Right or wrong? And so number one, I notice here a call to praise. God wants us. God wants Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church to rejoice in the Lord. And when we see the world around us collapsing, and we see wickedness on every hand, we can look above it, and we can see a God that is good and loves us and blesses us, and we've got something to rejoice in. Got something to rejoice in. Number two, I notice in verses four through seventeen, and we won't go verse by verse through all of this, I notice a cause for praise. Well first of all, the call to praise And then God gives us the cause for praise. We have a good basis for praising God. There's a stupid song went around years ago and I don't deliberately listen to it, but you can't help but hear it y a while ago. It was like it went like this. Don't worry, be happy. And I don't know any more of the song than that, but I heard that. Don't worry, be happy. Don't worry, be happy. Don't worry, be happy Now that's wonderful. But it's empty. There's no what's the basis that they're offering to be happy? Let me ask you this question. An unsaved person doesn't trust Christ. They're living in their sin. They're just living, trusting in themselves, leaning on their own understanding. They're trusting their own heart. What basis do they have to rejoice in? Oh, you experience a little bit of pleasure of sin for a little while, and then the consequences come crashing down. Oh, you enjoy creation around here and what God has done for a little while, but then you die and spend eternity in hell. There's no basis for rejoicing, but you and I that know Jesus Christ as Savior, we've got a tremendous basis for rejoicing And he goes down through this passage, verses 4 through 17, and he gives us some reasons why we can rejoice. He gives us some basis, some cause, some solid reasons. Well, we can rejoice in. And I'll just go through these very quickly. But look at verse number four. Remember, he said verse 1 through 3:Rejoice in the Lord, praise the Lord, sing unto him. Why? Verse 4. For the word of the Lord is right. And all his works are done in truth. I put this down. One of the basis for us rejoicing in the Lord is because God is right. Now this may sound oversimplistic, but I'm here to tell you the devil is wrong. And the world is wrong And the world tries to convince us that we is no God and we evolved from s lower life forms, they're wrong. God is right. God is right. When we trust God and we take God at His Word, we are standing on the truth. The truth. Um, God is right. God is right. God makes no mistakes God makes no what a great song Ron Hamilton wrote years ago. I know that God makes no mistakes. Say, preacher, I don't understand everything that God's allowing to happen to me. Listen, I might not can explain the reason for all of it, but I know this. God is not making a mistake. I like what Spurgeon said. He says, God is too good to be unkind and too wise to make a mistake. God is right. I can trust him. Here's our problem. I don't know, I doubt if any of you have done this, but I've done this. God will instruct something, or I'll see clearly God wants, and my understanding says that's not right I think, I think, Lord, I don't think you're right. I think I need to do this. You know I found out every time that I argue with God, I'm the one wrong. Anybody learn that? Every time I disagree with God, when it's all said and done, God's the one that's right. Looks like I'd learn. Looks like we learn, huh? Alright, God. Before God says this, what? Ah you're right. You're right. You're right. So we got one reason we can rejoice in God is God makes no mistakes. He's right. Verse 4 says, He's right, his word is right. Praise God. I can trust him to always be right God is always going to do right. I like this statement. I came across it years ago, but I like this statement. God never says, oops. Aren't you glad? Do you ever have a barber cutting your hair, fellas, and he goes, oops What what do you mean oops? God never says looks. He's always right. He never makes a mistake. You and I will never go wrong trusting God. Can I tell you what breaks my heart as pastor? And I've failed in this so many areas myself, but I tell you what breaks my heart as pastor is I see Christians And people who are dear to me and the Lord loves them loves them and I think they love the Lord, but rather than trusting God And rather than letting God lead them and direct them and simply taking God at His Word and following His instructions, they take things in their own hands and they want to do their thing. And I'll say, Yeah, I know the Bible says, but And you know that never, ever, ever works out. In the end, it is never right. God is always right. That's why he tells us in Proverbs chapter 3, he says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and what's the rest of it? Lean not unto thine own understanding. We can rejoice in God because God is right. We'll never go wrong trusting God, and we will always go wrong by not trusting God. Let me give you another reason why we ought to praise the Lord, another basis, solid reason for it. Verse number five, because God is good. Look at verse 5. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. There's not a place on this planet that you and I can go where there is not the goodness of the Lord. That word goodness has the idea of kindness, merciful, gracious God never allows anything to happen to us that cannot be turned into goodness and bring glory to Him. Read the book of Job. Man alive. Job went through it. Job lost his family. He lost his possessions. He lost his health The one person in the light that he ought to have been able to trust in, the one person in his life that committed themself to love and support him, she his life turned against him. Curse God and die Job was alone. And as horrendous as his circumstances were, and as deep as that valley was, he went through. God turned that around, and God blessed him, and God has been using Job's testimony for thousands of years to encourage and bless people like you and I. What I'm saying is this, God can take any circumstance, any situation, regardless of how hopeless it may appear. And if we will simply trust God and let Him lead us and direct us, follow what He says, do what He says, and rejoice in Him, God can take that and turn that around and bring some good out of it. I'm telling you, there is not a marriage that is so horrendous that God cannot salvage it. There is not a child so far from God, so rebellious, so hard-hearted that God can't get a hold of and break that hard heart and and and and and and uh turn that rebellion around. There's not a debt so great that God can't pay. There's not a question so hard that God can't answer. Our God is good. He's good to us and we have reason to rejoice. We have reason to pray praise him if we'll just trust him. Then I notice in verse six through nine, uh another reason to praise the Lord, another solid reason and cause is is because God is powerful. Verse 6 through 9. Notice what he says here. He says, by the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the hosts of them, by the breadth of his mouth. Remember back in Genesis? And the Lord said, Lord God said, And God spake and it was so. God spoke this world into existence. What kind of power exists in our God that he can just speak a universe into existence? What incomprehensible power our God has that He can just speak a planet into existence. I can't fathom that. The power of the God that you and I have trusted as our Savior, the power of the God that you and I pray to is incomprehensible. By his word, he brought everything into existence. Then he goes on, he gathereth the waters of the sea together as a heap, he layeth up the depth in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. What an awesome God our God is. What a powerful God. Hey, he says the gates of hell cannot prevail against the Church of Jesus Christ. Our God is powerful. Satan himself cannot overthrow a child of God. One of the great truths in the Bible I rejoice in. And by the way, maybe everything in the world is wrong, but if you know Jesus Christ as Savior You can rejoice in this. You will never ever lose your salvation. I don't care what the other uh folks say. I don't care what the uh uh false religions say. The Bible's clear, I will never, ever lose my salvation. There's one thing I've been criticized as pastor for here in this area, it's been that we believe once saved, always saved. Yes, we do. The Bible's very clear on that. It's not a license to sin For the child of God, God disciplines his children. If a child of God gets in sin and rebels and disobeys, you mark it down, God will deal with that. But he will not take their salvation away. We are kept by the power of God. The God that spoke this world into existence is the God that keeps my salvation secure. There's not a devil in hell can overthrow God's, uh can overthrow the hand of God that you and I are held securely by. Satan himself cannot take our salvation from us. We're secure and safe. The power of God. I tell you what, that'll give you something to praise God for. You say, all my friends have forsaken me, all my family has forsaken me. I'll tell you what, your God in heaven hadn't forsaken you. Power of God, the goodness of God, the rightness of God, the righteousness of God. Praise God for His power. Trust Him. Follow His instructions. Another reason we have to praise God is because He is all-wise. Look at verse 10. The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. Say, oh, there's this false teaching out there. Oh, these politicians are telling these lies. I know it, and we ought to address it, but hey, don't worry about it. God's God, the truth is going to stand in the end. He'll bring the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever. The thoughts of his heart to all generations. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his inheritance. He goes all down through here, through verse 17. God's wisdom is uh the man, let me put it this way, man's greatest wisdom is foolishness with God. I tell you these great highly educated people, and there's no doubt about it, they're very intelligent as far as as the facts are concerned, but they're as dumb as a rock as far as truth is concerned. And we could talk about that. No nation can frustrate God's plan. Say, oh, what's going to happen to the church if USA collapses? What if USA goes socialist? What if USA uh falls and collapse, I'll tell you what, the church of Jesus Christ will stand. God's not dependent on any country. Not the military might of the United States, Russia, or China. None of them can withstand the will of God. And as much as we love our country, and as burden as we are for our country, and as much as we want to invest ourselves to try and turn this thing around and bring righteousness back to this land, as much as all that is important to us, the fact of the matter remains God is above it all. And God is all wise. God is all wise. The best thing America can do, look at verse 12. Best thing Americans do is make the Lord God Lord God of America again. And I tell you, that's not going to begin in the White House. It's going to begin at 1005 Broadford Road, Oakland, Maryland. Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. We need to get God back in our homes. We need to get God back in our church. We need to get the Word of God as our sole authority again. And trusting God and doing what He says. And then we'll see the blessings of God. You say, preacher, I want to praise God, but everything's wrong. Everything's terrible. I'll tell you, we've got a good reason to praise God because he's right. He's good, he's powerful, he's wise, and we can trust him. You know what I found out? This may surprise you, but I found out that God knows more about stuff than I do. I'm glad he does. I'm glad he does. So number one, we have a call to praise. God says over and over and over, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, praise ye the Lord, sing unto the Lord, rejoice in the Lord. It's what he wants, it's what he's looking for And he says, listen, you've got solid reasons to do that. It's not just, don't worry, be happy. It's no, we have good, solid reasons to be rejoicing. We have good, solid reasons to be singing unto the Lord. He is good to us. He loves us. He's right. He's powerful. Got every reason in the world to praise him. Did I mention we fixed the bathrooms up downstairs? I am so excited. I keep thinking about the bathrooms. Might have been that coffee I drank this morning. I'm not sure. But uh what if uh what if now this is hypothetical what if Mark would have been down there and just destroyed the bathrooms I mean nothing worked. It's all falling apart. It's dirty and it's they can't see the lights don't work and uh everything's a mess. And I start praising, oh Mark did a great job, boy it's fantastic. How many people say that's dumb? How many Why are you praising him? He did terrible. He did a rotten job. There would be no basis to praise him. Follow what I'm saying? If it was worse than what it was there would be no basis to praise him. But he did a great job. They're really nice. And I say, Mark, you did a great job. And we praise him for doing a good job because he did. What I'm saying is this: listen, we have a basis for praising God. God is good. And he's good to us and he's wise and he helps us and he forgives us and he gives us other chances and he shows us how to behave and what to do and he sees us through trials. And God is good, and we've got a message to this world. Jesus Christ is the Savior, He's a good God. And you know, some of y'all walk into work tomorrow and you're going to be griping about everything and criticizing everything, and the lost will hear you. And they'll say and they'll think in their minds their God isn't very good. What kind of God is that? Why should I become a Christian? They're not any happier than I am. They don't have anything more than I do. When you and I walk out and we see Lord and we know him, rejoicing in him, genuine, sincerely praising him, I'm telling you has an impact. And then last of all, let me give you this real quickly, uh the consequences of praise. And this is ver verse eighteen through twenty-two come in, particularly verse eighteen. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him. Now that word fear there isn't talking about being scared to death and cowering, ugh, he's going to beat me up. It's a reverential feel. You want to understand what that means? Pay attention in the Bible how the angels respond to God. Their fear of God. They worship Him. They reverence Him. They're not scared. They adore him. They stand in awe of God. Read Isaiah chapter 6. Read Revelation. Read about the saints and revelation around the throne of God, how they respond to God And then he says, they that fear the Lord, fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. I think, my opinion is that freer than him and hoping in his mercy is one and the same. And I'm confident that God is good and God is merciful and He's all powerful and I reverence that and I stand in awe. Of how good God is. And we do that. We have God's special attention. Behold, he says, behold the eye of the Lord. That word behold is pay close attention. Give me your attention. I've got something to say. God's eye is on them. That fear him and hope in his mercy, those that rejoice and praise him and stand in awe of him. Those who learn to rejoice in the Lord have God's special attention. Those who learn to hope in His mercy have God's special attention. Those who stand in awe, in reverence, humbly before God That's who God is looking for. That is the one that has God's attention. They have God's special care, God's special presence. They're used of God in greater ways. Again, and I'll show you a picture of this tonight. But we visited a church. I was able to preach in another church on Sunday night, another part of the island, Solid Rock Baptist Church. And it's a pretty established church. It's been there for a while. They have a national pastor and a good church. And you'll see pictures of it tonight. There was a lady that owned the building that the church is in. You'll see it. Come back tonight. I want you to see it. It was a bar dance hall type thing. Now very rustic, of course, but it was a bar dance hall. Drunkenness, immorality, fornication, wickedness. I mean just wickedness. We're all wickedness in that building at that bar, that dance club. Lo and behold, the lady that owned it got saved. God changed her life. She shut the club down, shut the bar down. gave the building to the church to use, and now there is an independent, fundamental King James Bible gospel preaching church in that building. The lady that, and she was in the service, we got to meet her. We had test, they had testimony time Sunday night, much like we do, and this lady stood up Now I didn't know all this at the time, but she stood up and she said, I'm so grateful to God that since I've been saved, I have never not had food on the table. Remember that? I've never gone without a meal. Now you've got to understand, in that setting, that's saying something. She goes, God has been so good to me. God has met my every need. I just thank and praise the Lord. For how good he's been to me. Later on, they said, you know, that lady used to run this bar. She was, she got saved, God changed her. I walked out of there. I thought that lady's got God's attention. She hopes in his mercy. She fears him. She's praising him for what God has done for her. I believe God has his eye on her. I tell you, it stirred my heart. I heard that, I thought, man, thank God for his goodness. I told my wife about it, sent her a picture. Kathy wrote me, texted me back, she said, uh, she goes, boy, I brought goosebumps When I saw that and realized what God is doing. You know what that God was being glorified in her testimony. God was being glorified in her praise. People were being blessed, and hearts were being stirred. I'm telling you and I, we might not have owned a dance club, we might not be a a bar owner in some poverty third world country, but we have experienced just as much of the mercy and grace of God as that dear lady did When we accepted Jesus our Savior, we got something to praise God for. We got something to rejoice in. Let's pray. Father in heaven. I pray that if Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church, Lord, if just pray, Lord, if we don't do anything else, God help us to praise you. Help us to take the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ into all the world on joyful lips, on joy-filled hearts. Because of how good you are. Our heads are bowed, eyes are closed. How many would say with me, Pastor Letterman? Too often, more often than I care to admit, I find myself negative, complaining. Seeing the bad, and I fail to see how good God really is. Or if I do, it's not as often as it ought to be. And I wonder how many this morning, as we begin a new month, would say, preacher, pray with me that I'll be filled with the joy of the Lord, that I will on purpose praise God for his goodness. I want to change my attitude. I want to change, I want God to change my perspective and start rejoicing and praising in the Lord as he wants me to. Is there any like that? By the uplifted hand, preacher, I need that. I need, God bless you, a bunch of hands around I tell you, good old-fashioned altar is a good place to come and humble myself before the Lord and say, Lord, you've been too good to me for me to complain. You've been too wonderful to me for me to gripe and be angry and fuss and fight. Lord, I just want to rejoice in you. I want to sing unto you. I want to praise you. Fear you and hope in your mercy. How many of this morning would say, Preacher, I know someone that's unsaved. I'm burdened for them. And I want God to fill me with his Spirit and fill me with His presence in such a way that they'll see Christ in me. And they'll see the hope of God's mercy in my life. When I share the gospel with them, they'll be open and hear that. Is there any like that, preacher? I want my testimony to be that God is good. And that they'll believe and be saved. How many by the uplifting hand? God bless you, hands all around. I tell you, old-fashioned order is a good place to bring up unsaved folks and pray for them. Is there someone here this morning to say, Preacher, I'm not saved? Hate to say it, could even be a church member. I've never genuinely trusted Christ as Savior. I've gone through the motions. Maybe you're never even gone through the motions, you're lost. If you die in your sins, you know you'd be separated from God for all eternity. This morning you say, Preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about where I spend eternity. I don't want to go to hell. I want to know that Jesus is my Savior. Is there any like that by the uplifted hand? Preacher, pray for me. I'm very much concerned about where I spend eternity. I don't want to die and go to hell when I know I'm saved. God bless you. How about it? Are there any others? Preacher, pray for me. God bless you. Any others, preacher, pray for me. I'm concerned about that. Now, Father in heaven, I've seen hands, Lord, lots of hands. You know our hearts. I pray, Holy Spirit of God, that you would stir us. That we would be a people of joy, rejoicing in the Lord. We'd be characterized by the joy of the Lord in our lives. I pray, Lord, for every hand raised. I pray for everyone that has an unsaved loved one that you would use us to bring them to Christ. Lord, a couple hands are raised for salvation. I pray they'd settle that today, that you would help, and not leave here with any doubts or questions about where we spend eternity. Pray this in Jesus' name. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed.