Pointed out that the history of the world is a history of war. Begins with Satan's rebellion against God and carries on all the way through to the book of Revelation. From Genesis to Revelation. Mankind's history is a history of warfare. We noted last week, we pointed out from verse number one, he says, Whence come wars? and fightings among you, he begins with the premise of the reality of war. He's not talking hypothetically here He's not saying, you know, if there would happen to be wars and fightings among you, he doesn't say, you know, there might be a situation where this might be. He goes, no, where are these coming from? They're present They're very real. In Psalms thirty-three and one hundred and thirty-three and verse one, the Bible says how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity. God wants his people to be at peace with one another. God did not create man to fight. He did not create man to war. Fighting and war is a result of the entrance of sin into man's experience. It's a consequence of man's rebellion against God and really Satan's rebellion against God We noted that all through Scripture we find God's people fighting with God's people. And use biblical language, these things ought not so to be. Nevertheless, we find it. We went through the the the disciples fussed with each other. In the book of Acts, you have Paul and Barnabas fussing with each other. In Corinthians, in Galatian, the church at Galatia and the church at Ephesus and the church at Philippi. We had church members fussing and fighting with each other in the best of churches. There was wars and fightings to some extent. We've seen nations. Now what I want to do tonight, and Lord willing, very briefly We looked at the reality of wars and I think we had a sober awareness of the reality of war in in homes and churches and nations. Tonight I want us to consider at least one aspect for the reasons there are wars and fighting. Again, if you would notice verse number one, he says, from whence come Wars and fightings among you. Where do they come from? Why is this? What causes contention between God's people? What causes one nation to take up arms against another nation? What causes a community to be divided because of their race or their income level or whatever it might be? What causes Warfare and fighting. It seems like he's saying here, it looks, uh, and then he says, Come they not hence He's giving the answer in the form of a question. And I think what he's doing here, he's saying, listen, the answer is so obvious, you know what the answer is. Come they not hence, even uh your lusts that wore in your members? And so Again, it's like the answer in James' mind. Again, he's writing under the inspiration of God, but in his mind, it's like the answer is so obvious here. I don't have to tell you what the answer is. You know what it is. Don't they come from our lust that warrant our members? So one of the reasons there's war, one of the reasons there's fussing, one of the reasons husbands and wives go at each other, one of the reasons brothers and sisters go at each other Uh it's always the sisters' fault in that case, but um uh one of the reasons that Race different races fight each other. One of the reasons nations go to war with each other, one of those reasons, is the lusts of the flesh. Come they not hence, even of your lusts, which war in your members. Now there's a second reason that for wars, you come down and um Uh verse number two, and we're not going to get to this tonight. We're going to make this a separate message. But he says, even of your lust, which war in your members, ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have, ye cannot take, ye fight in war. Yet you have not because you what? Ask not. So there's two reasons for war. There's two reasons people fuss. There's two reasons people fight. One is the lust of the flesh, and the second is a lack of prayer. And if we could learn to get over the lust of the flesh and not live by the lust of the flesh, and learn to pray and trust God, I believe wars would cease. And so let's look at that first one, the lusts of the flesh. Once come they, uh come they not hence, even of your lusts? That war in your members. The word lust, the basic definition of the word, and uh is simply to desire something strongly The word lust, now it has negative connotations in our mind, and justly so, but the word lust itself is not a bed. concept to simply desire something strongly. That in and of itself is not wrong. We're going to notice that here in Galatians in a few minutes. But what he's referring to here, and most of the time when the Bible refers to the lust, particularly the lusts of the flesh, he's talking about self-centered desires. When my flesh, my sinful nature, strongly desires its own way, its own gratification Its own demands. When those lusts, when that intense desire dominates me, when that controls my actions, controls my thinking, controls my speaking, when that takes place. Wars and fightings are not far behind. And so one of the reasons we f we uh uh fight in war, one of the reasons for war is the lust of the flesh. And by the way, if we can figure out what causes the fighting, maybe we can figure out how to stop it. And if I know that my flesh, the loss of my flesh, is what's Making me have such a difficult time to get along with my spouse is what's making me have such a long time hard time getting along with a church member or uh getting along with a different color person or getting along with another nation Then maybe I can deal with that. So he says, Whence come they not hence? Isn't it obvious? Even of your own lust, that war in your members. Now When he says that war in your members, there's various ways we can take that, I think he's simply talking about our body, our flesh, these lusts, these strong desires. That are just warring in our body. You see the a Christian is a Christian is kind of schizophrenic In a very real way. I mean I struck a nerve with Robin obviously there. And uh you if you knew everything that's going through my mind I know I'd like to say, but I won't do it. Um But we've got we've got almost two type personalities in us. We've got, when we got saved, the Spirit of God moved in us, and he gave us what the Bible refers to as a divine nature, a new nature. That's holy and desires to please God and live for God. And we have another aspect of us, we still have that old nature, that old sinful nature, that fleshly nature, and that wants its ways. And so we could, at any given time, we may be living under the influence of the flesh, dominated by the flesh, or we may be yielded to God and filled with the Spirit and under the control of the new nature. And so we have this constant warfare going on. You've heard the old illustration, it's very, very old, about the um uh the Indian gets saved and he's speaking to the missionary there and And he's having a hard time, and the missionary talks to him. He says, he says, Pastor, he says, I have two dogs living inside me that fight. One is a good dog and wants to do right and please God. The other one is a bad dog and wants to do wrong and please myself and my flesh. And they're fighting at all times with each other. And the missionary said, Chief, which dog is winning? He said, the one I feed the most. It's pretty insightful on the Indians part. And so he says, where do these wars come from? These wars come from the fact that we have a fallen nature, we have a sinful nature And that sinful nature, that flesh, is very, very selfish. The flesh wants its way. I read a quote this week, and I don't remember who it was that said it or even where I got it from, but they said this. This world is in a selfish mess. Brother, that's an understatement of the day. This world is in a selfish mess. The root cause of war is sinful, selfish desires. The world is a selfish mess. Our cities Are a selfish mess. From the leadership, the mayors and the government leaders all the way down to the streets. Flesh and self dominates. Um I hate to say this, and I really honestly don't believe it's true here, but there's a lot of churches in our world that are a selfish mess. Just living for self, living for self. Um I hesitate to say this, but uh I believe it's true Been around for a little while and I don't know if one church fussed, one church split and messed church fessed up That could that fuss, that fighting could not have been averted if everyone involved would have acted under the influence of the Holy Spirit. If they would have been filled with the Spirit and dealt with no matter what it was, false doctrine, whatever, it could have been dealt with in a way under being filled with the Spirit, exercising, displaying the fruit of the Spirit, and solved that problem without fussing and fighting. Because force and fighting comes from the lusts that are in our members. It's rooted in our selfish nature. A lot of our homes A lot of our homes are selfish mess. Selfish mess. So home ought to be a haven of rest. And for so many cases, even among Christians, the home is a battlefield. It's a warfare. And it's not because of the presence of the Holy Spirit in the home, it's not because we're yielded to the will of God in that home, it's one reason we're living in the flesh. Selfish. We want what we want, when we want it, how we want it. The flesh, what what the flesh, my sinful nature, and we're and it's true for all of us. How many folks here? You're saved, you know it. Say amen. I'm talking about all of us. We have a sinful nature that wants what it wants when it wants us, regardless of the cost. Regardless of the consequences, this old flesh wants what it wants And uh uh my flesh gets its gets a desire for something and it wants it, and as far as the flesh is concerned, doesn't care what the consequences are. Doesn't care what the cost is. Doesn't care gets who who gets hurt. Doesn't care what vows may be violated. I want what I want. And that produces wars and fightings. I got thinking about Achan. Anybody recognize the name Achan? Joshua chapter 7. Now God was very, very clear. He was going to give them victory. Israel was going to have victory. They were in the promised land. God made it very, very clear. But Israel's responsibility was simply to trust God and obey him. Do what he says. And they got to Jericho and God gave a phenomenal supernatural victory there. And he says, listen Uh you're gonna have opportun Of course I'm putting this in my own words. He's kids, you're gonna have opportunity for plenty of spoils down the road. You're gonna have homes, you're gonna have houses, you're gonna have fields. It's gonna be just this whole place is gonna be like milk and honey. That sounds awfully sticky to me, but uh uh is it's going to be wonderful. But in this battle, in this context, do not take any gold, silver, anything. All that goes to the Lord To start out. It's basically the simple biblical principle that God gets the first fruits. Later on you'll have plenty, but trust me and do what I say here. Well, Aiken gets in there and he's doing fine as far as we know. He's fighting the battle to have phenomenal victory and there's uh no casualties and it's just uh an amazing thing And something catches Aiken's eye. It's a little gold, not a little, a bunch of gold. And a bunch of silver, and a beautiful Babylonianish garment that is exactly his wife's size. Now the Bible doesn't say that, but that's what I think And I'd like to believe that there was a part of Aiken that said, I'm going to trust God, I'm going to do what's right. It's not worth it, I'm not going to do that. But he says later, after he's found out, and you know the story, but he makes this statement, he says, I saw. And the eye is the gateway to the soul. And the eye is part of the flesh. And he saw that gold and that silver and that beautiful garment. And the old sinful nature, the old flesh, says, I want it. And he says, I coveted it. I desired it. And now his thinking has been affected. His desires have altered his thinking. And now it doesn't matter what the cost is, doesn't matter what God said, doesn't matter what promises He made, He wants that gold, He wants that silver, He wants that garment, that old lust of the flesh, that war in our members. And so what's he do? He takes it. He's very deceitful. He hides it, thinks nobody knows. Listen, you and I cannot hide our sin from God. You can hide it from your parents, you can hide it from the kids, you can hide it from your spouse, you can hide it from your boss, you can hide it from the church, you can hide it from the preacher, You can hide it from every person on planet Earth. You are never, ever, ever, ever gonna hide your sin from God So he doesn't care what the consequences are, he doesn't care what the what what how how it may violate his integrity, he doesn't care. The flesh wants what it wants. He doesn't care it's going to cost them future victory. He doesn't care it's going to cost lives. The flesh wants what it wants. This is the point I'm trying to make. Our flesh is selfish. And our sinful nature is selfish. We at our very core are selfish beings. There's a very famous, fairly famous general in our military, a leader in our military. I don't know if he's a general, he's a leader in our military. I think he is. And just within the last couple years He stained his reputation and he actually lost his position. I think he actually ended up uh uh breaking our nation's laws. Because his sinful nature, I'm not suggesting he saved, but his sinful nature, all mankind has, desired a woman that was not his wife. And he got to the point where he did not care what marriage vows he had taken. He did not care How it would affect his reputation, he wanted her even to the point where he jeopardized national secrets, national security. And he was publicly humiliated and removed from position. What I'm saying is this, our flesh is a very selfish and very powerful. And when our flesh is allowed, it will take what it wants regardless of what the circumstances are. And so he says, you know where these wars and fightings come from? Come they not hence, even of your lusts, which war in your bodies? Um, would you agree with me this whole world is at war with God? That's obvious. When you have national political parties publicly booing God, It's obvious that mankind is at war with God. And the Bible, in the Christian nations, the Bible's being thrown out. You know this world is at war with God. This world is at war with God the Father. Satan, I want to suggest to you, is at war with Jesus Christ, God the Son. Read Matthew chapter number four. And you have Satan attacking Jesus Christ and tempting him and his whole effort there of course it's futile, but his whole effort was to derail Jesus Christ and even uh destroy and kill him if he could possibly before the Lord fulfilled his purpose. Satan hates Jesus Christ. When we were at the fair we had our booth set up and um One of the things we have to catch people's attention and and kind of draw them over there and engage them in conversation is a thing and and it's the name Jesus reversed Did anybody go by and see that? And you kind of have to look at it a little bit to pick it out. You know, it's just you you don't just see it right away. Some people do. And so people would sit there. I had a I had a group of teenagers there, about five or six of them, and I'm horsing around with them doing some stuff. I said, Can you read what that says? I asked them, I said, What you use the smartest out of this whole crowd? They all raised their hand I said, all right, let's find out. Who can tell me what that says up there? And they're all standing there looking at it and looking at it. So I I started having fun with that. I said, first of all, you have to kind of cross your eyes a little bit So they're all very earnest. They all kind of cross their eyes. And I said, I don't see it. I said, all right, you gotta tilt your head a little bit. So they got their eyes crossed and they're tilting their head And I said, and these people are walking by, I said, a bunch of mentally handicapped kids there, right? And uh they're walking by, and then I said, He put your tongue out a little bit All of a sudden they say, uh oh, you're messing with us. It's the name Jesus. But it's reversed. And when they have a hard time with it, I would say this to them: what that says there, Satan hates. What that says. What I'm trying to say is this Satan hates Jesus Christ. Satan is at war with Jesus Christ. Why is it, why is it it's okay to use Jesus' name in vain at schools and public things, but you can't use his name in prayer? If a young person in a public school uses Jesus' name as a curse word, there's nothing wrong with that. The atheists don't complain. But if he uses Jesus' name in a prayer, suddenly that school is being sued. Why is that? You know why that is? Because Satan hates Jesus. You can talk about Allah all you want. No atheist sues anybody for talking about Allah. Nobody takes ask Allah to damn anything Nobody uses Allah's name in vain. It's only Jesus' name. You know why? Because Jesus' name is the name above all names and Satan hates it. So Satan is at war against Jesus Christ. This world is at war against God. But the war underlying all of that that affects you and I Is the war, is the war, uh, is the lust that war in our heart That warfare going on in our heart between the flesh and the Spirit of God that indwells the believer, that is the war of the worlds. Because the war between the world and God and the war between Satan and Jesus isn't going to defeat me unless I allow the war in my heart to defeat me first. You follow what I'm saying? We got three enemies, the world, the flesh, and the devil. The world can't touch me, and the devil can't touch me unless I allow the flesh. Elect it. You follow what I'm saying? I've said this before, that Satan's greatest ally is our sinful nature And so the war underlying all these other wars is the war that goes on between our flesh and the Holy Spirit. Now, here's where I want you to turn over to Galatians chapter 5. And notice where we keep coming to Galatians 5 often. I've been doing this more and more in recent years. I think Galatians 5 is such a key passage on living the victorious Christian life. Galatians chapter 5, verse number 16, the Bible says, This I say then, walk in the Spirit. And ye shall not fulfill the lusts of the flesh. Do you see a conflict? You have the spirit, you have the lusts of the flesh. I'm walking, I'm living under domination, I mean work, I'm living in cooperation with one or the other, either the Holy Spirit of God or the lusts of my flesh. Now look what he says in the next verse For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, lead this, and the spirit against the flesh. He's talking about an internal spiritual conflict going on here. In other words, my flesh lusts, desires to control my life, to be in control. My flesh wants to call the shots. My flesh wants to determine what I say and don't what I don't say. My flesh wants to determine how I talk. My flesh wants to determine what I say to people around me. My flesh wants to determine what I listen to, the kind of music I want to listen to, the kind of uh uh entertainment I want to watch. My flesh wants to control that At the same time, the Holy Spirit of God lusts against the flesh. The Holy Spirit of God wants to control me. The Holy Spirit of God wants to dominate what I say and how I say it and when I say it. The Holy Spirit wants to control the things I listen to and the things I look at. How I use my time and how I spend my money. The Holy Spirit wants to control me. And the flesh lusts of the flesh wants to control me. And these are contrary one to the other. What's the tenth commandment say? Somebody tell me. Thou shalt not what? Covet Thou shalt not covet. You know what he's talking about? My flesh desiring things that are not legitimately mine. And I think, this is my impression, the tenth commandment is basically a summary of the previous nine. Thou shalt not murder. If I didn't covet, I wouldn't murder someone. Shall not steal. If I didn't cover it, I wouldn't steal. I shall not lie. If I didn't cover it, I wouldn't lie. I think what he's saying, telling us there is listen, you keep that flesh. From dominating you keep those lusts of the flesh from controlling you. Thou shalt not covet. It is our sinful, selfish desires that undercuts the peace of God. Take your Bible if you would, and we're going to look at a few verses, and I'm going to quit. Matthew chapter number 16. Would you turn there with me? We're going to go through a few of the Gospels here and look at a few statements the Lord Jesus made. Matthew chapter 16. And look at verse number 24 with me. We're going to go to Matthew, then we're going to look at Mark and then Luke real quick. Matthew chapter 16, verse 24. Then said Jesus unto his disciples. Are you there? Everybody there? 24. Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, look at this next statement. Let him what? Deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. What does he mean when he says deny himself and take up his cross? The word deny simply means to refuse. Uh if you've ever worked in a business and you were in charge or responsible for purchasing things and sometimes a business will have a purchase order or whatever and they'll make a request and they'll uh say, well we need uh we need uh uh this piece of equipment and they submit it to the accounting or whoever finances and we make a a request for an order and they look at it and they look at what it is and they look at the finance and they say we cannot afford it. And they'll stamp that thing denied. Request denied. And when the Lord Jesus says, if you want to be my disciple, if you want to live in victory, If you want to be the Christian I saved you to be, you've got to learn to deny yourself. In other words, those sinful natures, that sinful desires, when they came up When they come up, I have got to learn to say no. Listen, a lot of fussing would cease if God's people just learn to say no. I'm not going to act that way, I'm not going to respond that way, I'm not going to say that I'm not going to react in kind. You do not fight, in the spiritual world at least, you do not fight fire with fire. Fire trucks don't go around with flamethrowers on the back. They go around with what? Water. And so when I get in a situation and perhaps the other person is operating under the lust of the flesh and they're acting according and displaying the works of the flesh and they're doing all of that. Mind to flesh wants to respond in kind and wants to fight fire with fire. But God says, no, you don't fight the flesh with the flesh, you fight the flesh with the spirit. And it diffuses it. And so the Lord's saying, deny yourself. You want to be my disciple? You're not going to go around fighting everybody. You're going to go around You're going to deny yourself. We're not going to respond. When they persecute you and all that, you're going to pray for them. When they curse you, you're going to bless them. When they speak despitefully of you, you're going to pray for them You deny the flesh's desire to respond in kind. Deny himself and take up his cross. You know, there's a price to pay to be a good Christian. Plus God ain't nobody gonna treat me that way. Hey, if Jesus would have done that, we'd all be in hell right now. Jesus Christ said, God forgive them, they know not what they're doing Jesus, the greatest peacemaker ever was. Take up your cross. What is my cross? My cross is a price I pay to trust and obey God. And so he says, deny yourself. One of the reasons that there's wars and fighting among us is the lust of our flesh. And Jesus says you've got to deny that. Now we won't go Mark chapter eight verse thirty four says the exact same thing. Luke chapter nine verse twenty three and twenty four says the exact same thing. Three times Lord says deny yourself deny yourself deny yourself that guy at work you show up tomorrow he's gonna hit give you a hard time he's gonna try and pick a fight with you and you've been picking fights with him the whole time and you guys have been going at it going at it going at it Tomorrow, as a child of God, why don't you walk in there and say, I'm going to deny myself? I'm not going to respond that way. I'm going to be Christian about this. I'm going to be mature about this. I'm going to have the trust of the Spirit of God to fill me. I'm going to display fruit of the Spirit here. And not respond in kind. Um Lu in 1 Corinthians 15, 31, we won't turn there, but uh uh Paul said this, I die daily. What's he say? He said I'm not gonna let the flesh control me. I'm not gonna flesh. What's the reason for wars? Because of the lust of the flesh. You know, we live in this world trying to produce peace. I just, this past year or so has absolutely, I've just been dumbfounded about the condition our country is in. And how we as a nation, as a population, respond to situations is so infantile, so immature and childish. Listen to me, they can try and control guns, they can ban flags, they can restrict speech, and on and on and on. But until the old sinful nature is dealt with, we're going to have issues between people. Just blows my mind that the solution to shooting people is banning a flag Uh what in the world? What what who's who's doing this? Is this children? The flesh, the flesh. Every conflict would not exist if one or more members operated in the fullness of the Holy Spirit Operated in the fruit of the Holy Spirit and not in the lusts of the flesh. In 1960, several Israeli undercover agents orchestrated the daring kidnapping of one of the worst. Of the Holocaust masterminds, Adolf Eichmann. They captured him in his South American hideout and they transported him to Israel to stand trial. There, the prosecutors called a string of former concentration camp prisoners as witnesses. One of the prisoners that was called to be a witness was named, and I'm not sure I'm saying his first name correctly, Yehel. Deiner, D-I-N-U-R, Deiner. He had a miraculously escaped death in Auschwitz. Now listen to this. On the day he was to testify, DeNore entered the courtroom and stared at the man in the bulletproof glass booth The man who had murdered his friends personally executed a number of the Jews and presided over the slaughter of millions of others. As the eyes of the two men met, victim and murderous tyrant, the courtroom fell silent, filled with the tension of the confrontation. But no one was prepared for what happened next. This was a newspaper report of it. The fellow that escaped the concentration camp began to shout and sob and fell collapsed to the floor. People began to ask, was he overcome by hatred? Horrifying memories? The evil of his face? What was it that caused him to collapse later? He explained. He said he was interviewed in sixty minutes by um uh Wallace, Mike Wallace. In that interview, he said it was because Eichmann, he said, this is why I fell apart and lost it Because when I saw Eichmann, he was not the demonic personification of evil that I had expected. Rather, he was an ordinary man, just like everyone else. This danar, this prisoner that had escaped had pictured in his mind as Eiffan as being some monster and some hideous devil He said, when I walked in, I saw he was a man, just like everyone else. And he said, I came to the stunning realization that sin and evil are the human condition. I was afraid about myself. I saw that I am capable to do this exactly like he. His remarkable statements caused Mike Wallace to turn to the camera and ask the audience the most painful of all questions. How was it possible? For a man to act as Eichmann acted, was he a monster? Was he a madman? Or perhaps something even more terrifying? Was he normal? Danar's shocking conclusion was Eichmann is in all of us. You know what he realized? You know what he learned in that courtroom? He learned that every single one of us have a sinful nature that is so hideously sinful. That if it got what it wanted, it could perform the most monstrous active uh uh atrocities. We are sinful beings Our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. And until we understand that, and until we learn that this flesh cannot have its way. This flesh cannot control me. I must not allow that. I must deny it. I must die daily. I must live yielded to the Spirit of God. And the Holy Spirit dominating, controlling my words and my thinking, and my actions. And until that point, there will never be peace. There will never be peace. There isn't war because guns exist. There isn't war because people are different. There isn't war because some countries have oil and others don't. There's war because man is a sinful being. Whence come these wars and fighting among you? Come they not hence, don't you know? Our own lusts that warrant our members. Let's determine this coming week that we're going to live every day, yield it to God, submitted to the Spirit of God, and do everything in our power, God helping us. to mortify the deeds of the flesh, die to self, and walk in the spirit. Amen? And that'll make a difference. I tell you what, that'll change our homes That'll change the workplace. That'll change everything. There's not one conflict going on in the world that if the people would live in the Spirit, be saved, and walk and live in the Spirit, that conflict would cease immediately. So let's pray and let's ask God to help us