And beginning in verse twenty, the Bible says, Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children, with her sons, worshipping him, and desiring a certain thing of him. And he sought and he said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, the other on thy left, in thy kingdom But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask. Are you able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They said unto him, We are able. And he saith unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with, but to sit on my right hand and on my left is not mine to give But it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my father. And when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren. But Jesus called them unto him and said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them. But it shall be to but it shall not be to so uh so among you. But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister, and whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. Let's pray Father in heaven, thank you again so much for your word, and I fear sometimes we take it for granted, uh, Lord, that your word is with us and that we can seek it any time we like in your in in this uh in in this country and we're free to do so, we're free to gather and uh and uh look into your word together. And so God we ask uh that uh you would uh help us to come to terms with that and help us to see that uh we really do have a great privilege here and So Lord, open our hearts and our minds to what you would have for us this morning out of your word and let the truth sink in and guide our lives individually as needed. And uh we ask that uh you would uh be with Pastor, uh be our preacher this morning actually, w is uh is our is our prayer. And Father, we do ask that uh if there be any in our midst that doesn't know Christ as Savior, Lord, we do ask that today would be the day, the greatest day of their life, that they would accept Christ as their personal Savior. We do ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. I every other wall shot, no tender points, and he saw. I need me, I need me, every I need me, all blessing down with God. I need everyone to your wife temptation to surf our I come to me I need the everywhere most holy one Finally I've been done. I need me, oh I need me, and we are I need the Let me know my favorite my God. Amen. Amen. Good job, ladies. If you want to take your Bibles, turn back to Matthew and uh chapter number 20, Matthew chapter number 20. Last time I was in a movie theater was nine the summer of nineteen seventy-nine. I got saved that May, about a month or so later, they came out with a movie it was called the uh Jesus. I think it was was what it's called, ended up becoming pretty popular and a lot of organizations use it for evangelism in other countries, the life of Jesus. And uh but that was the last time I was ever in a movie theater, so I can't vouch first hand for this, but several years ago I read where um uh with the advent of cell phones and different things and uh society's uh manners deteriorating. Uh I read where s movie theaters had begun at uh I'm I'm told that uh many of them had begun at the beginning of a movie or when they're starting a show uh that they make announcements and ask folks not to talk on their cell phone or or to turn them off and those type of things and folks not to walk in and out during the movie because it interrupts others and uh is distracting from the show going on. And uh I was thinking about that this week, and you know, what goes on in the preaching time is a million times more important than anything Hollywood is going to show up on that screen And if the world views the uh the presentation of their movie as so important to ask folks not to do that, we would uh uh I would like to uh think that uh the preaching of the word of God is far more important. And so we just ask that folks be real careful about during especially during the preaching time, walking in and out uh, you know, and and um texting on their phones or uh calling grandma or ordering pizza, you know, to have it ready when you get out and those types of things. So Uh we would just appreciate your help there with that. And uh you never know. There may be a person right around you that God is really working on their heart and what's being presented may be the very thing they need to help them in life, and we don't want to do anything that would distract. or um uh or take away from that. Uh I'm a little bit old uh old fashioned um and uh uh I'm quite curious, is there anybody here that has an iPad? Anybody know anybody that owns an iPad? A couple people around, a few folks around. Anybody know what an iPad is? All right. A few more. How about a tablet? Anybody have a tablet? I've got a one Right here, a little yellow paper one. Uh no, electronic electronic tablet. Anybody have a tablet? Raise your hand. Boy you guys are in the stone ages uh electronically How many people recognize an Etch a sketch? Ah there we go. Etchasketch is the previous generation's tablet, an iPhone, and I came across some Etchketch tech support. So how many people know what a etch a sketch is? Do you remember that? Little knobs? I mean it was fancy, little knobs you turn them. Person called in, my etch a sketch has a distorted display. What should I do? The answer is pick it up and shake it. Next question. My Echa sketch has these funny little lines all over the screen. What should I do? The answer? Pick it up and shake it. Question, how do I turn off my etchasketch? Answer. Pick it up and shake it and then set it down. Question, my etchasketch has lines that prevent me from doing my art project. Answer. Pick it up and shake it. Um question, how do I delete a document from my etch a sketch? Answer. Pick it up and shake it. Uh how do I keep from losing my etch a sketch document? Stop shaking it. So there you go. Matthew chapter 20, if you would, I'd like for us to read together, beginning in verse number twenty-six, if you would read with me, and then down through verse number twenty-eight. Matthew chapter 20, 26 through 28. Read along with me, would you? Ready? Here we go. But it shall not be so among you But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant. even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. Now if you would, turn over to chapter twenty-three. Same book, just a few pages over. I think I have it on, Brother Dave. There we go. I had it off. Uh chapter twenty-three of Matthew and I'm going to read verse 11 and 12. And then we're going to come back to chapter 20. That's where we're going to do our work this morning. Exalt himself shall be abased, and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted I'm tired of the message this morning, How to Be Great. How to be great. Turn it off. Is that what you're telling me, Dave? It went off. Okay. I'll shake it. See if that works. I think we're gonna have to go without it, Brother Dave. How to be great. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, I ask, Lord, that you would bless our study in your word. I pray that you would take some truths and principles here for our lives, and I pray your Holy Spirit would apply them to our thinking and and to uh how we live our lives that we could be the people you intend for us to be. Lord, I look out in the crowd and I see an overwhelming majority of folks who profess to know Christ as Savior. And Lord, with that being the case, we want to be the Christians that you intend for us to be We want to live the lives that we were created to live. Lord, we stand before you at the judgment seat of Christ as believers, or we want to hear you say, Well done, thou good and faithful servant. So Lord, fill me with your spirit. Speak through me this morning to all of our hearts. Lord, I need what's given here as much as anybody. So speak and have your way. In Jesus' name we ask it. Amen. Am I coming through? Yes. Um the word great or greatest produces a reaction very, very often. Um, if I were to say this morning that the Pittsburgh Steelers are the greatest football team that ever existed. See what I mean? See what I mean? Uh I have a preacher friend of mine called me a few weeks ago and we were talking about situation and he said uh I said what's going on down there? He lives down in Baltimore. He said, Well I just bought a boat. And uh I said, Really? I said, Bring it up here, Deep Creek, we'll go out fishing. He goes, No, it's for the ocean. This is uh to go out in the bay and out in the ocean. I said, In that case I'll come down there and we'll go out and go fishing. And uh he says, yeah, he said, come on down. One requirement is you have to wear the colors for the Baltimore Ravens to get on this boat. I said I said I would die a thousand deaths before I ever do that So my point is this, boy there's a sweet spirit in this place today, you know. My point is this, when you say something is the greatest, it provokes a reaction Um you you get talking about the greatest car manufacturer. Right. You get a reaction there. Fix or repair daily, you know. I had uh I had a Chevy, a Chevette. Remember the Chevettes? I'd pull in the gas station, say fill the oil, check the gas. And um no that was the Vega. That was the Vega, that's right. The shove it. Uh I called it my bet. Chauvet. It's my bet. And y and the ki the teenager said, Yeah, you gotta shove it to get it going. And um but you you say you say something is the greatest, you get a reaction. Uh you say, well so and so is the greatest politician. And boy, you're gonna get a reaction. You say uh somebody even uh somebody say, Well that guy's the greatest preacher And boy you'll get a reaction there. Uh when I was uh in Indianapolis and we had different preachers through and he would bring some good great preachers in the country through the church there And um one guy was mentioned, another fellow in the church said, I wouldn't walk across the road to go hear that guy preach. And uh he was a good preacher, good man, and faithful to the word of God. So that term greatest Whenever you use that term, it provokes a reaction. In fact, it did with the disciples here. Come back to chapter 20 and look with me at verse number 24. Now the situation here is uh um uh James and John, their mother came to the Lord Jesus Christ In verse number 20, 21, she says, Grant that means my two sons may sit one on the right hand and the other left in thy kingdom. What was she wanting for her boys? She was wanting greatness She wanted them, and I think she had missed the point that Jesus was making earlier, but she wanted greatness for her boys. And notice the reaction on the part of the other disciples in verse number 24. And when the ten heard it, they were moved with what? Indignation against the brethren. That really ticked them off. When they heard her asking for greatness for her sons, that bothered them. In fact, the word indignation there has the idea of deeply offended. Strong resentment. These guys really got angry that this mother would want this greatness for their sons. And so I want to make two statements concerning this whole idea, and then I have two thoughts to the message itself. So my first statement or observation, maybe you'd want to call it, is this. God's assessment of something does not equal man's assessment of something. In other words, the way God sees something is not the same way that man sees something. Or we could say it this way: God's values do not equal man's values. God's priorities do not equal man's priorities. In the context of our message this morning, what God considers to be great It's not the same thing that man considers to be great. We have a survey we take once a month, we get a group of folks together, go out in a neighborhood, we take this religious survey. I think it's the greatest survey that's ever been made. Good reaction there, yeah. I was looking for a reaction. But one of the questions on this great survey is Are God's standards of right and wrong the same as man's standards of right or wrong? And you know, we're out here asking people of all different stripes and backgrounds and s uh standing in society. I mean just as ver as as uh uh diverse a group of people as you can get going door to door and I have yet To have somebody, regardless of their religious experience or whatever, say to me, yes, God's standards of right and wrong are the same as man's standards. It seems like, at least my experience and around here anyway, it seems like there is an innate understanding in the heart of man. That God sees things differently than man sees things. That God's standard of right and wrong God's standard of greatness is not the same as man's standard of greatness. Look with me at verse number 25 in Matthew 20. Notice what the Lord says. Jesus called them unto him. Now, the mother brought this issue up about the greatness of her son seeking greatness. Jesus responded. Uh the other disciples got very upset and Jesus is addressing the disciples. He calls them unto him. He sees there's there's uh discord and there's uh indignation and resentment here within the crowd. So he gets the he gets the bo the bo the fellows together and uh he says unto them, he said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles Exercise dominion over them. And they that are great, in the eyes of the Gentiles, the world, exercise authority upon them. Then verse 26 he says, but here's a contrast, it shall not be so among you. Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. You see what Jesus is saying? He's saying in the world, their understanding of greatness is void to have power, to have authority over others, have people do things for you. But the concept of greatness in the eyes of God is the exact opposite, is to serve others It's to give it. Now, I would venture to say, crowd this size, I'm talking to some folks, that you are struggling in your Christian life. Maybe you would even use the word defeated in your Christian life, and the reason is this: you're operating from man's perspective on life rather than God's perspective on life. I'd venture to say it's a very real possibility. I've talked to some folks this morning. You are operating by the world's values rather than God's values. Maybe your priorities in your life are what the world decides are priorities, as opposed to what God says should be our priorities. Maybe you're maybe there's some among us here that our understanding of greatness is closer in line with the world's definition than what God's would be. So, my first observation is I study this passage here and look at this, and I read this in my devotions, which is what prompted me to preach on this I see that God's assessment of greatness and man's assessment of greatness are two different things. And when we go by the world's assessment rather than God's, we get into trouble. We have problems. My second observation is this: God, and this caught my attention: the Lord Jesus did not rebuke the disciples for seeking greatness. He didn't say to them, you guys ought not to seek greatness. In fact, look at verse number 25, we just read this. He says, this is what the Gentiles Verse twenty-six, but it shall not be so among you. Look at ver look at this. But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. That little phrase, whosoever will be great, has this idea. Desires to be great. You have a desire to be great? You want to be considered great? He doesn't rebuke them for that. He doesn't say you shouldn't have that desire, you shouldn't will to be great. But what he does do is he corrects their understanding as to what greatness is. Hey, there is nothing wrong with the young people here, the older folks, senior citizens, um uh middle-aged, uh like me, and um I guess I would be middle-aged, is that right? Dave? Don't ask your wife, she don't know. Um, middle aged? Uh what's middle aged, Brian? Really? You want to highlight I'm on the high side of Middle Age, huh? These people are so great. I forget what I was talking about. Whatever age a person may be in, the Lord doesn't say, hey, there's nothing wrong with seeking greatness. There's nothing wrong with a young person saying, man, I want to be great in my life. As long as we are operating by God's definition of greatness. So the Lord doesn't rebuke them for seeking to be great. He doesn't even rebuke their mother, the verse number 20, the mother of Zebedee's son. He doesn't rebuke her for seeking greatness for her children. Now he does question her whether she really comprehends what she's asking for. But he doesn't rebuke them for wanting to be great. He simply corrects their understanding of what greatness is. I want to submit to you, going by God's definition of greatness here, God wants all his people to be great. If it's following his definition of greatness, uh, he simply had to correct their understanding of what it means to be great in the eyes of God. And all through Scripture we find men and women who were great men and women, not by the world's standards, but by God's standards People that submitted themselves to God, humbled themselves before God, and trusted Him and obeyed Him. And let him use them to help others. And boy, God exalted them. I think of Abraham, the father of the faithful. Uh by the world's definition of greatness, he was a knucklehead. Left uh left his home and and family and Apparently it's very successful business, very wealthy man, and went out looking for a city that he didn't know where it was or where he was going, just left The world would say that's foolish. God said that's a great act of faith. I'm going to use him to start a great nation and be a blessing to the world. Moses forsook all that he had as the stepson of the Pharaoh and uh uh and fled and and uh made a rash and went out there and trusted God. And boy, the world would say that Moses, he's crazy. But he trusted God, and God used to be a blessing to millions of Jews to get them out of that slavery and out into the promised land. We think of David. What about Esther? Peter, Paul. There's nothing wrong with wanting to be great. As long as that greatness is what God can say. I'm afraid too often we as Christians are satisfied with mediocre Christianity We're not satisfied. We don't have the desire to be great as far as what God considers great. And that's what the challenge is. Now, here's the question, and this is what I want to answer from the Word of God. How can I be great in the eyes of God? How can I be great by using the definition that Jesus gave of greatness? Well, number one. First thought is this, there is a prerequisite to greatness. There is a prerequisite to greatness. Uh I have a couple of them actually. Number one, I put this down. My perspective must be drastically altered. I must see myself. If I'm going to be great in the eyes of God. Now, are you with me? Everybody with me? If I'm going to be great in the eyes of God, and that's a good thing to desire. Then I must see myself as someone who has been created to serve rather than be served. I want to be great. I must see myself not as someone who is created to, I must see myself as someone who has been created to give, not to be given to. I'm gonna be great. Don't go to be great. Look at verse 26. But whosoever will be great among you, let him be your what? Minister, what does the word minister mean? It simply means uh I I gave it this definition, I looked a bunch up and how it's used other places in scripture, and I I came I put this I bundled it together into this definition One who meets the needs of others. You want to be great Then change your thinking on what greatness is and realize that you're not created. I don't exist to have my needs met by others, but rather I exist to meet the needs of others. To be a minister. Again, I reworded the definition a little bit like this: one who attends to the needs of others. Someone who is great in the eyes of God see themselves and their purpose in life. As to meet the needs of those people around me and not to live my life being demanded, demanding that people meet my needs, that people attend to me. But rather than I attend to others. Look at verse 27. He says, this, and whosoever will be chief among you, another word of another way of saying, be great. Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your wife. Servant. The word minister in verse number 26 and the word servant in verse number 27 have two different meanings. The word minister means to attend to or meet the needs of others around me. It's a very general term. In fact, it's the same word as this translated other place in the New Testament, deacon. It's a title often given for pastors. It applies to all Christians that want to be great. Is to be a minister, to minister to others, to attempt to meet the needs of others, attend to the needs of others. But the word servant in verse 27 is a much, much stronger word. In fact, we're not real familiar with this terminology in our day and age, but in years going by, many years by, it was understood what a servant is In fact, this would also be translated other places in Scripture to be a bond servant. Now, a bond servant was what I'm going to describe as the lowest position a person can have. It is someone who is a slave to someone else, and they have absolutely no hope of ever escaping that slavery. They have absolutely no chance in life of ever being anything other than a slave to the person that owns me. That's the idea behind the word servant. You want to be chief among men? Then be their servant. Be their servant. Lowest position a man can have. It's used to describe people who are so in debt to another that they have no hope. Of ever paying off that debt other than the whole life lived to meet the needs of the one they're indebted to. That's strong words. God says, you want to be great, then you assume the lowest position of mankind. We're studying the life of Peter in the Sunday school hour. And the Lord made a powerful object lesson, presented a powerful object lesson of what he was trying to say. And when he introduced the Lord's Supper in that upper room, the Bible says he took his outer garments, laid them aside, he got a towel, and he went around to the twelve disciples, and he began washing their feet. What was here's the King of Glory. Here's the creator of heaven and earth humbling himself. To vile, sinful, corrupt man, and of all things, washing their feet. What was Jesus doing? He was displaying his greatness as far as God concerns greatness. God's definition of greatness. I grew up in a different denomination. I wasn't saved and get saved because I was 19. Did I ever tell you about how I got saved? But the denomination we grew up in when I was little, they would have footwashing. Once a quarter or whatever, once a year, I forget how often they did it. Um it's a good thing we washed our feet at home in between, because it was long periods of time in between But um we had foot they had footwashing. And I always thought it was kind of interesting when uh whenever we knew it ahead of time, they announced it ahead of time, they promoted foot washing. this date, uh this time we're gonna have footwashing, we're gonna have footwashing. It's a pretty good sized church. And uh the night before we were having foot washing, guess what mom did? She scrubbed our feet and uh trimmed our toenails and uh man she'd get the old pliers out and dig up underneath the toenails and get that toe jam out and we're screaming and she's uh scrubbing with uh with uh SOS pads at I mean. We went in there foot washing, our feet were s you could eat off our feet. And uh they were so clean. Now, were they doing that because our feet were dirty? No, they're having fun. They were trying to illustrate something Now, I don't see it, it's not an ordinance, I don't see it as an ordinance for a church. But they were trying to give an object lesson of what the Lord considers greatness to be. So, my perspective, I have to view myself and others and my role in life. If I'm going to be great in the eyes of God, I need to change the way I'm thinking. About myself. I need to change the way I think about my relation to others. And I am not on this planet to be served. God has created me to serve. And when I get that in my head, then I'm in a position where I can be great in the eyes of God. I can be great in the eyes of God. So number one, I put this down under the prerequisites for greatness. Number one, my perspective has to be drastically altered Number two, I put this down. My position must be clearly understood. Again, the world's definition of greatness is to rule over others. The world's definition of greatness is having others do things for me. Boy, Hollywood and and uh those who the world considers great. out there movie stars and musicians and and uh all these people uh politicians in the world consider straight they always brag about and talk about having their entourage Anybody know what I'm talking about? They're entourage. What is their entourage? It's this team of people that go with them everywhere, and boy, they just do everything for them. And they make sure everything's in place and they'll just walk through the uh through the airport and their entourage is there is keeping the peasants away. And making sure the gates are ready and making sure they can do that. And oh, what a great person. They had a position. They have an entrepreneur. God says that's not what greatness is. Greatness is not ruling and being served, but greatness in the eyes of God is serving. God's greatness requires dying to self, dying to self Uh I heard somebody made a statement. They were joking, uh, but they came in and somebody had parked in their parking spot. I won't tell you who it was. But you can hear them laughing when I say this. Uh and they and they were joking, You park in my parking spot and all that. And it reminded me, Dr. Lee Robertson used to tell a story, and I've told it here several times, of a lady who was very offended, the great Highland Park Baptist Church. huge auditorium and she had one spot and she came in and there was visitors sitting in her spot and this lady was highly offended And this lady was very indignant and met Dr. Robertson afterward. He I've heard him tell this several times. And he said, uh she approached him and said, I am never coming back to this church again. He said, Why? What's the matter? She said, somebody sat in my seat. Total strangers sat in my seat. And Dr. Iverson just said, you need to die to self. And she huffed off. And he said God took that little statement and brought great conviction to heart and life. And next week she came back and said, Dr. Robertson, I'm not leaving this church. She goes, what's the matter? She goes, you were right, I need to die to self. And changed her whole perspective on her role and her position. Interacting with others requires dying to self. The world says to be great, you must submit to my will. And then you then you then I am great. If you submit to my will, that is greatness. But God says, no, greatness is me submitting to God's will and serving others. Those who humbly seek, those who humbly serve the most. Are the greatest in the eyes of God. So what is the prerequisite to greatness? I I I I think it's a good thing. If I understand this passage of scripture correctly, and I think I do, God wants us to prerequisite seek greatness. God wants us to be great. Not in the eyes of the world, but the eyes of the Lord And we need to pursue that and seek that greatness. But to do that, we must meet the prerequisites, uh have my thinking altered, my perspective altered, and my Position clearly understood. And number two, the second thing this morning is is what is the pattern for greatness? I get that from verse 28 Jesus set a pattern for greatness. Look with me at verse 28. Even as the Son of Man came. Now this is totally unrelated to the message, but as I was studying this, this stood out. Even as the Son of Man came, you know what? This is unrelated, this is just an aside, but that suggests to me the pre-existence of the Lord Jesus Christ. The wording there suggests to me that when Jesus was born in bet in uh Bethlehem, that that wasn't his beginning. It was him coming from another place. And so when it says here, even as Jesus is presenting himself as a pattern for what greatness is in the eyes of God, He says, even as the Son of Man came, and again this implies their pre-existence, not to be ministered unto But to minister and to give his life a ransom for money, for many. The Lord refers to himself. As a pattern that you and I can follow if we want to be great in the eyes of God. Even as the Son of Man. That word, even as. Has the idea of in the same way, just like Jesus came to earth Not to have people serve him and minister to him, but for him to serve others and minister others in that same way. God says, you and I have been created. We exist not to be ministered unto, but to minister and serve others So, what's the pattern? Let's look at Jesus here and break this down a little bit. First of all, I see content submission. Content submission. The Son of Man came. Let me ask you this. From our understanding of Scripture, what was Jesus' position before he came to earth? What was it like for For the Lord Jesus before he came to earth? What was his existence like? What do you think? He was perfect? Would you agree with me? He was exalted in heaven? Sure, he was the right hand of God the Father. He was worshipped of angels. He was adorned. There's nobody blaspheming his name in heaven There was nobody questioning his word and throwing accusations and trying to challenge him. And he left all of that and submitted himself. He said, I came to do my Father's will. And he completely and contentedly submitted himself to the will of God, came down here, took upon him the form of a man, and served others. Gave himself for the good of others. The Bible says he went about doing what? Good. He went about doing good. He ministered to others. And he was content with that Submit himself to God. He left the glory of heaven and the worship of angels to come down and serve and minister to man. Sinful mankind. I put this down. Self-will and stubbornness has no room in God's definition of greatness. Self-will. This is what I want. This is what I need. This is me. My There's no room for that. And God's definition of greatness. I thought of King Saul. How many people are familiar with The story of King Saul. King Saul saw himself as someone great. And he died in shame. Set aside of God, rejected from the kingdom. God wouldn't answer his prayers. God wouldn't intervene on his behalf. And God set him aside and said, I've chosen another. To be king whose heart is after me. Saul saw himself as someone great, became stubborn, self-willed. He was going to serve God, but he was going to serve God his way. He was going to be king, but he was going to be king to be served by others. And he died in shame. So Jesus said, here's the pattern for you. If you want to be great, here's the pattern. First of all, I came down not to do my own will, but the will of him that sent me. You need to be content in your submission to God. I need that. I need to decide that God, I submit my will to your will. And I am content with that. Whatever that involves, however that involves service, God, I am content with that. The flesh resists that. Am I right or wrong? Flesh says, oh no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I'm going to die to self. I need to mortify the flesh. And submit to God and say, God, I'm content in serving rather than being served. Then he gave another aspect of his pattern. Here it was not only content submission, but continual service. Again he says, But even as the Son of Man came, not to be ministered unto, but to minister. Come over again to Matthew 23. Let's read those verses again in connection with this. Verse 11 and 12. He that is, verse 11 of Matthew 23, he that is greatest among you shall be your servant. And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abase. But he that shall humble himself shall be exalted, shall be great. I found, and I've been guilty of this I found that many most Christians want to serve God, but in an advisory capacity. Right? I want to be, uh we want to be on God's board of advisors. And give her opinion. We were at we were at Men's Mountain Getaway last year and the fire was dying out, and uh so everybody's just kind of looking at it in the woods. So I stepped up, nobody said a word. And uh finally, I being the hero of all my illustrations, I stepped up and uh I started putting fire on there. All of a sudden, everyone had an opinion about how to put the wood on the fire I all of a sudden had a board of advisors right there. I didn't vote any of them on. They were just all of a sudden there. And isn't that how we are with God? So often we don't want to submit to him, we don't want to do what he says, but boy, when something starts happening, we've got our opinion, we want to give it. And I've been guilty of that. Uh he says, listen, you got to minister. Submit and then serve. That's greatness in God's eyes. I can't remember if it was Brother Jerry or Chip. One of the two. You guys went down to BIM I to the camp and were doing working on cars for the missionaries fixing their cars up. And great, great ministry. And and w one of you guys came back and said Dr. Creed was there. And uh you had finished the and I wasn't on this trip, and they'd finished the and Dr. Creed was coming by picking up the plates and putting them away. And said, Man, here's a director. You know, a great man in many ways, and come around cleaning up after their plates. You know what? That is what he's talking about here. That mentality of uh giving ourselves. I was reading about how many people recognize the name D. L. Moody? D. L. Moody. Great man? Great man. Great man of God. Um D. Al Moody uh had a large group of European pastors up in Massachusetts. Dr. Moody used to have these big Northfield conferences, he called them. And they would bring in preachers, kind of like we have sword conference and that type of thing, except on a huge, huge scale. And preachers from all around the world would come into these Northfield conferences. And they'd preach and pray and seek revival and just promoting the gospel. In the late 1800s, there was a group had come from Europe, a group of pastors were at this conference. And apparently at the time there was a custom in Europe that when you stayed in a motel, you would set your shoes outside the door, the room, and the the somebody would come by uh and uh I guess the servants of the motel or whatever would come by and they would shine their shoes overnight while they slept Well, in Northfield and the motels they had there, hotels that all these guys were staying in, they had no arrangements for that. And after the first night of their preaching and their great conference, it was late at night And the story goes that D. Al Moody came into the hotel or where they were staying, and he saw all these shoes lined up outside the doors of these preachers' rooms. And he knew immediately because he had been over there, he knew what they were thinking, that the servants would shine their shoes for them. But there wasn't any servants. That's not the way we did it here. And so he didn't want the preachers from Europe to be embarrassed or make them feel bad for assuming that. So he had some Bible college students, some preacher boys. That uh that were staying there were a part of commerce. So he went and gathered up all the shoes. And he went to these preacher boys and said, hey, this is the situation. Explain to them. Let's shine their shoes for them so that they're not embarrassed and uh things will go. And the Bible college students all stared at him. And gave what he called pious excuses why they could not shine these preachers from Europe's shoes. So Moody returned to his room, gathered up all the shoes, and alone in his room, the world-famous evangelist spent the night. Shining the shoes of the preachers from Europe. The only reason any I'm telling this story now that anybody even knew that this happened was one of Moody's friends walked into the room late late at night saw the light on, came into the room, make sure he was alright, and here's all these shoes, and Moody, two, three o'clock in the morning, shining these shoes up. Next morning, when the foreign visitors opened their doors, their shoes were there, shined and ready for the day, and they never knew That it was D. Al Moody himself that had shined all those shoes. They assumed it was a servant. It was a servant. And it was a great, great man that did that. The only reason we even know this now, over a hundred years later, is because a friend came in. And saw him doing it. He never referenced it, never told anybody that he had done that. That may explain a little bit the greatness of D. L. Moody. Want to be great? That's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. But make sure you understand what greatness is. It's being a servant. Content submission, continual service. And then one last thing, complete dedication. Look again at verse number 28, Matthew 20. Even as the Son of Man came, not to be ministered unto. But to minister, and he could have stopped there, and we get the idea, but he takes it another step, and to give his life a ransom for many. Complete dedication. Serving others on the part of the Lord Jesus Christ was not a part-time occupation. It was the purpose for his existence. The whole reason he came was not to be given unto, not to be ministered unto, but to give his whole life and his life itself. For others. Others. Others. The word ransom there has the idea of putting something in place of something else. We've heard stories and read uh stories about people who kidnapped some wealthy, a child of a wealthy person. And they hold that person for what? Ransom. And what they say is, you give me a million dollars and I will replace your child. You replace that and your child with that million dollars. I have your child, you have the million dollars, let's replace the child with the million dollars, ransom the child. And then you can have them back. The Bible says Jesus Christ came to minister to others and to be a ransom. In other words, Jesus Christ came not just to heal our sicknesses, not just to make our lives a little better. But he came literally to take our place in the judgment of God. And you and I, as human beings, are sinful beings. And we've broken God's law, and we are guilty before God, and we stand under the judgment of God. That's where we are naturally. And Jesus Christ came to take our place, to be our ransom. On that cross, he took the judgment of my sin upon himself He took the judgment of our disobedience, the most vile, perverse person you can possibly think of that has ever lived on this planet. Jesus Christ has become ran became ransom for them, took their place under the judgment of God, and suffered hell for them. And was buried and rose again. That is greatness. That is service and ministering to its ultimate degree. Paul had a little bit of that same greatness when he said in Romans that he wished that his countrymen, his uh brothers, according to the flesh, would be saved, and that he would gladly be accursed. If they could be saved. In other words, Paul said, I would give up my salvation, I would suffer hell. If that would bring salvation to them. Christ came to serve man to the total dedication of his life. No half-hearted greatness in God's kingdom Hey, we must not confuse knowledge with greatness. You can memorize that whole Bible and be a peon in God's kingdom. Greatness is serving, humbly, submitting. We must not confuse gifts and abilities with greatness. Sometimes and and I think pr pastors have a tendency to be vulnerable to this, is that maybe God has gifted them this speaking abilities or maybe uh uh intellectual. I mentioned recently uh I know of a preacher used to brag on his IQ, how great a higher IQ he had Listen, it's not my IQ, it's not my gifts or abilities that makes a per that makes me or anyone else great. It is my submission to God that is great. It's my service to others. Don't confuse knowledge or abilities or experience. Preacher, I've been around the block a few times. Well, praise God. But let's use that experience to serve others. God dealt with my heart in this message this morning. In fact, there's three messages recently. I don't take this on. I hope you understand what I'm saying. But three messages I've preached lately that God has been working me over. One is on working hard. Another one is this message here about serving others. Serving others. I read a how many people recognize the name David Livingston? David Livingston Livingston. This is what I was going to say a moment ago. It's my prayer as I studied this and God dealt with my heart that me individually and us as a church. That we would be a serving body of believers. This is what I mean. That our community would be better off because of our presence. Follow what I'm saying? I'm not saying build bigger houses for good night. Our country has plenty of big houses. Not drive better cars. I'm talking about pure lives. Knowing Christ. Follow what I'm saying? Giving of ourselves to others. Helping people. David Livingston, great missionary in Africa, somebody figured out that he had walked over 29,000 miles throughout the jungles of Africa. Walked! Taking the gospel from village to village to village. His wife died early in his ministry. Back home in Scotland, his brethren there gave him all kinds of a hard time, made false accusations against them that were ridiculous. By the time he was into his ministry, he was half blind. He died on his knees praying for the salvation. Of the village he was working at. I mean, literally, on his knees praying, he died. They found him, stiff, on his knees. He wrote this in his diary. Lord, send me anywhere. Only go with me. Lay any burden on me. Only sustain me. Sever any tie from me, except the tie that binds me to your service. And to your heart. What a great man. What a great man. He did not live his life to be ministered unto or to be served. He lived his life only to serve God and take the gospel to others. I want to be great, but I want to be great according to God's greatness. I think I can honestly say one of my strongest desires in my life, and I I know I'm talking to people who feel the same way, I'm no doubt. Is that when that day comes and I stand before the judgment seat of Christ and see Jesus with my eyes? And to hear him say, Well done, Dennis Leatherman, you were great. You were great. I need God to do a lot of work in my heart. To see that happen. Huh? Let's pray. Father in heaven, help us not to seek to be served or minister unto you, but help us to give ourselves. Be a blessing and a help to others, bring people to Christ. Not to seek our own comfort, but to seek the glory of God. We want to be great, Lord, but we want to be great in your eyes. For your glory. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many would say, Preacher, you know I'm Got some areas in my life that I'm looking at them from a wrong perspective. I need to see God's perspective on my issues and my struggles and my life and You say, preacher, pray with me. I think God could turn things around if I just see it his way. You say, preacher, pray with me that God will help me get the right perspective for my life And and God's working in my life. Is there any like that? Preacher, pray with me. I need God's perspective. God bless you. Bunch of hands around. I'm telling you, that will turn things around. I bet