Can you please not let the hour, okay, distract you from the message? We're going to be brief, but I do want to make sure that you hear you hear the message. John chapter 21. I love the story of Peter. Oh, what a what a joy. You know, uh uh Peter encourages me, preacher, because uh because uh I I think the way for God God can use us in spite of us a lot of times. Yeah, amen. And uh here in this chapter twenty-one We have verse 18, where Christ says to him, Verily, verily I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdest thyself and walkest whither thou wouldest, but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee. and carry thee whither thou wouldest not. This spake he signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me. Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved, following, which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee? Okay. Peter seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do? Jesus saith to him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Follow thou me. Then went this saying abroad among the brethren that that disciple should not die. Yet Jesus said not unto him, He shall not die. But if I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? Let's pray, Father, help us now in these brief moments as we go and consider the motivation factor of Peter. And Father, encourage our hearts to help us each to leave here a little more dedicated, a little more determined to faithfully fulfill your purposes here on this earth. Before I preach, would you pray? Would you ask God? God in the next few minutes, speak to me. Right there where you're seated. Just go ahead and ask Him. God, speak to me. I want you to change me. I want to leave a little different. Thank you, God, for answering prayer. And this we thank you and this we ask you in the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. You know the story of Peter. I love to preach to a church that's experienced in the scriptures. I remember the day of his call when Christ said, I want you to cast the nets into the deep. Peter partially obeyed. He took one net. He didn't want to get them all dirty again. And he threw one net out there. And of course, remember the net broke because there was fish for nets, and God had said nets, and Peter just didn't net. But Peter is so impressed, he he left off there and he said uh he forgot what he'd been seeking all night and it was so frustrated, but now he had it, but he didn't want it anymore because he said, uh, this is better, and he left, he abandoned the whole business Just abandon it. And Christ said, Peter, follow me. I'm going to make you a fisher of men. Now Peter can sometimes open his mouth at the wrong time uh guilty. I remember when Christ cursed the fig tree and Peter said um he was surprised because Christ said You know, he went up looking for for for figs and he wasn't looking for mature figs. It was the time of of year when they were just supposed to be little green figs starting there. And so he went up there and he said, hey, there's no figs developing on this tree. And he cursed the tree. The next day they came out, the tree was all dried up, and Peter was surprised. By the way, that surprise is really insulting when you think of it. Peter, after you've seen the blind see and the lepers healed and the dead raised, aren't are you still surprised that what he says happens? I remember it was Peter up on the Mount of Transfiguration. By the way, if if there's a video in heaven, I want to see that one. That's got to be something special. There's Jesus with Moses and Elijah. And then Peter's so excited he said, let's make three tabernacles. And oh wow. You know, he was putting Moses and Elijah on the same level with Christ. And Moses and Elijah disappeared. We don't want anything to do with this, you know. And a voice came from heaven, this is my beloved son. You know, hear ye him. And Christ so many times had to say, fear not, fear not, you know. And uh and that every once in a while Peter came out with with a with a pearl. Once Christ said, Are you all going to abandon me too? Peter said, Where would you go? You have the words of eternal life. You know We came to that last supper. Disciples really don't understand what's coming. Christ is trying to prepare them. He told them. Those same people that shouted that day, Hosanna, Hosanna, laid down the palm trees and they're clothes to receive the king. In a few hours are going to be shouting, crucify him. It's interesting that Peter said, Christ said, one of you is going to betray me. And all the disciples said, Lord, is it I? Is it I? Peter wasn't sitting close because John, the disciple of Jesus, had his head right there on Christ's chest. He could even hear the heartbeat. Is that close? But Peter must have been a little bit awake because it said he made signs to him. You ask him. So John said, Lord, who is it? And by the way, that's interesting. Because John didn't have that doubt. He said, who is it? Christ said, He to whom I gave the Sop, and you remember he gave it to Judas. And uh Peter began to brag. He said, Lord, he said, no. He said, these guys, they they might betray you, but I wouldn't. He said, I'm willing not only to die for you, I'll go to go to prison with you, I'm willing to die for you. Christ said, no, you're going to deny me three times. You're going to deny me. And he said, uh, no, no, no, you don't know what you're talking about. I'm I'm you're only just omnipotent, uh God, omniscient God, but uh, I'm not gonna do it, you know. And uh they went up to the garden and Christ had that group of three, that intimate group of three. And he went apart with them, and then he left them and he went off to pray. That's where the scripture tells us he sweat, as it were, drops of blood. And he was not horrified by the pain of the cross. He was horrified by the sin, mine and yours. The Bible says he came back and the three were sleeping. But he didn't get on to James and John. He talked to Peter. Peter had been the braggart. He said, oh, you couldn't pray with me one hour? You know, it's almost like the fellow that said to his girlfriend, he said, I'd be willing to cross the fires of the volcano to be with you. I'd I'd cross the winds of the hurricane to be with you, and I'll see you Thursday if it's not raining. He talked to the talk. And and interesting when Judas came in to betray him. We talked about it this morning, how Christ called him friend. But Peter wanted to prove it. I don't know where he got the sword. Either he carried it with him or he took it from one of the soldiers there. I don't know where. But he I I tell you what, he is a better fisherman than he was a soldier. So uh he took off that the the the the the uh servant of the high priest's ear and uh my uh pastor Mike Norris was telling me how that must have happened. Uh he must have swung it trying to take off his head and the servant must have ducked and just got the ear as he came by, you know. But Christ said to know Peter, he who lives by the sword dies by the sword. You know. Then the scripture says Peter followed him from afar The Bible says John, the disciple whom Jesus loved, was with Christ the whole way. Matter of fact, John was at the foot of the cross. Some people said everybody abandoned. No, they didn't. There was one who didn't. John was right there. Okay. But the when when John saw that Peter was outside, he left Christ's side and arranged Peter's entrance, but Peter didn't go all the way in beside Christ. He began to warm himself at the fire in the patio. G. Campbell Morgan has said that you can't warm yourself at the fire of the enemies of God without sooner or later betraying you. They asked him. You're one of you're one of you you're with him. He denied it Scripture says the second time, they denied, and the third time, and the and the third time, one of the relatives of the of the of the man whose ear he cut off, and Peter began to use the vulgar language he had learned as a sailor. With vulgar language, he denied it because they had accused him. No, your speech betrays you. You talk like they do. So he went back to his old language. We don't hear from Peter for a while. John's at the foot of the cross. I find it very interesting that Christ was so understood John's love for him. By the way, John didn't get preferential treatment. Scripture says, draw an eye to God and he'll draw nigh to you. The reason John was the disciple that Jesus loved is that John was the disciple that loved Jesus the most. Yeah. But uh uh I find this very interesting that right there as Christ is suffering, he's thinking of others. Thinks of those who crucified him. And said, Father, forgive them. He thought of the thief that was crucified with him, said, Today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Then he began to think of his mother, and you understand Roman law, that evidently Mary had no other son that was above the age of adulthood that could legally be responsible for her. Now Christ is dying. We know that Christ had brothers, okay? As a matter of fact, one of the books of the Bible, James, was written by the half-brother of Christ, same mother, but not the same father, okay? Uh because Christ had no human father, only God. And Jesus said to Mary, and interestingly he spoke to Mary first. Said, Mary, woman, behold thy son. This man will treat you as if he were your son. And then almost as an afterthought, he said to John, and John, behold, my mother. That's a big commitment, by the way. You know, I love this man. We're friends. But before I I obligated him to that kind of commitment, I'd talk to him first, and then and and then see if see if it was available to do it. But John just had that kind of relation with uh with Christ that Christ knew he'd do it. So he went ahead and talked to Mary first and then to John Next time we hear about Peter's at the day of the resurrection, it's interesting that when the ladies came, they were talking how they're going to remove the stone. And uh they got there and it was already removed, not so Christ could leave, but so everybody else could go in and see that he wasn't there. And uh the angel appeared, why seek ye the living among the dead? You remember that wonderful, wonderful story? And then it's very interesting. The angel said, go tell his disciples and Peter. Name Peter by name. Because see, Peter didn't consider himself a disciple anymore. Peter's in the position of I've blown it. Thank God for second chances. If God gives you a second chance, run to it. Run to it. So they came and told Peter, and he took off running. And the scripture says that John got there first, but he didn't go in, and then Peter came up behind, and the scripture says that he went on in. Brother Sisk has talked a lot about the, Don Sisk has talked about the napkin. You know, and the symbolism of the napkin, I'm sure you've heard of that, that when the master left the table, if he was trying to say to the to the servants, everybody else, please don't touch this, I'm coming back, I'm not finished with this meal, don't take my plate. He'd fold his napkin real neat, put it beside the plate. But if he was done, he just kind of tossed it to the side. And Christ on purpose had folded the napkin that they'd put over his head as a sign. Okay? And the Bible says, when John saw, he believed. And while Peter's sitting over there saying, oh, this is terrible. Things have gone from bad boys. First, I denied him. Now he's crucified. Now they've stolen the body. John's looking in there and saying. Oh, he did it. He's not done. He's coming back. And and so the next thing we see is Peter going aficion. The first part of this chapter. Three reasons you can't go back to fishing, okay? Number one, nothing for you there. Fist all night didn't catch anything. Yeah. Number two, the harm that'll do to others. Peter went back to fishing, a bunch of the disciples went with him. And number three, can't go back to the old life because Christ has everything. I would love to have been there that morning when Christ appeared on the shore and said, Little, do you have any meat? They're all frustrated. By the way, it's reminding Peter of the night of his call because that's the night that he also fished and caught nothing. Christ is so merciful and generous. This time he didn't say nets, he said cast the net. And this time the net didn't break. Amen. Nothing won't give him a chance for personal bees. Let's just get it all in. John's standing there in the boat, and John's the first one to recognize him. He said, It is the Lord. And when Peter heard that, the first thing he thought is, uh-oh, because he'd taken his clothes off. Interesting, the further someone gets away from Christ, the more the more they start uh revealing their body. Okay. And so he had to get dressed again. And the next thing you know, he forgot about the catch again. John's a diligent man. He's diligently trying to get all those fish to the shore, but Peter he just abandoned all. He just jumps in and goes swimming. And have you ever thought about this? Do you think Christ didn't know how many were coming for breakfast? Of course he did. So why didn't he have enough cooked? And the answer is he wanted to give Peter a second chance. He said, you know, we're going to let's get some of those fish we just caught and cooked them too. Peter jumped up By the way, I like a man that takes those second chances. He jumped up, he goes plowing. You would have had a harder time stopping him than some of these football players that are rushing out there. You know, he goes over, he gets that fish, and comes back When a man gets discouraged, God always takes care of his physical needs first. Look at Elijah after he ran from Jezebel, after he blew it. Fed him. He'd get some rest. Got a long way to go. Before God addressed the issue of Peter's denial, he fed him. After he fed him, he says, let's get down to business. He said, Peter, do you love me with that pure heavenly agape love? More than these? There's one time that you said, you love me more than these. Do you love me more than these? And Peter answered back, I love you with Philao, with the human love, with the brotherly, paternal feeling. Peter, God Christ said, well if that's true, I want you to get back to what I called you to do. Feed my sheep He asked him the second time. This time, if you notice the wording, he said, do you love me with that heavenly perfect love at all? Not more than these, he said, at all. And this time Peter responded, I do love you, with the fraternal brotherly love. Christ said, if that's true, get back to doing what I called you to do. And then the third time he asked it, and this this this is this is hard for Peter, because when a Hebrew wanted to emphasize something, he didn't raise his voice, he just repeated it three times. That's why the scripture says God is holy, holy, holy. Because it wanted us to know that's his first characteristic. And then it does say God is love, but it never says God is love, love, love. But it does say God is holy, holy, holy. So when he asked the third time, this is the equivalent in our culture of texting in all capitals. Okay. And this time he said, I don't not only doubt you love me with the perfect heavenly love more than these. I don't doubt that you love me. I doubt you love me with them more with the love that you're professing to me. You love me with the brotherly love. Peter said, Lord, you know everything. He said, you know everything. He said, I think I love you at least with that much. And Christ said, then get back to doing what you're going to do. And then in our text we just read, he said, barely, barely Again, he's repeating to emphasize. He said, I have good news for you, Peter. You promised you were going to die for me. You promised you'd be willing to die for me? Guess what? You're going to get to. Let me tell you how you're going to die. And by the way, uh when the Bible speaks we say, Thus saith the Lord. When history speaks, we say, conjecture You know. And history tells us that Peter did die, a martyr. History says that he was crucified, and that before they crucified him, he said, uh, I'm not worthy to be crucified like my Savior, head up. Would you crucify me with my head down? And history says we obliged him. I don't know if that's true or not, but that's what history says. One thing I do know, the Bible says that he did die a martyr. That's Bible. Because Christ told him that it was going to happen right here. That's good news. Because he's like saying, yeah, Peter, you blew it. But guess what? You get another chance. You'll get to die for me. You'll get to prove that love. Then he said something that should have been unnecessary. He said, follow me. Jesus takes off, Peter goes behind him. Peter noticed that somebody else was following that Christ hadn't spoken to. The disciple whom Jesus loved. And the reason Christ hadn't said to him, Follow me, is because he'd never left off following. He is still following. Peter says, What about him? And Christ said, Mind your own business. He said, if I want him to live until I come back, he said, What is it to you? You follow me. Now here's the thing. The question is love. The question I have for you tonight is how much do you love him? When our son Benjamin was a little boy, if you'd said to him, Why are you obeying your dad and out there working in the garden and doing these things? he'd say, Because if I don't do it, it hurts. Well that's a motivation. Yeah. Then later on, uh with our children, I don't this probably happened with you too, their appetite appetites outgrew my budget. And we had to answer. It's a offensive word to some people, but it was work. And so a gardener didn't like Benjamin. He took the job. Why are you out working now? Because I want the reward My dad got Parkinson's. My second mother, my dad's second wife, I called her my second mother. I never called her stepmother. She was my dad's second wife. I called her my second mother. She called me one day. She cared for dad. She'd been his caregiver for years. She said, Danny, I got I I got bad news. He said, um, the doctor says I have ovarian cancer. Now I'm going to go into the hospital here in just a few days. They're going to go in and see how advanced it is. She said, I always thought your dad would die before me, but now maybe not. He says, who's going to take care of that? I said, don't you worry. Don't you worry. We'll take care of them. She said, what about Las Pato? What about the conference? I said, they're going to wait And my second mother went to heaven and we moved into dad's house. Our son Benjamin is now uh almost 18 years old. He came to me one day and he said, uh daddy I've been praying about it, and I'm not going to go to Bible college this year like I planned. He said, why not? He said, because God wants me to take care of grandpa For two years. Benjamin put a bed right by his grandpa's bed. Grandpa didn't get up and go to the bathroom without Benjamin holding the hospital belt so he wouldn't fall. For two years he'd sit there and feed him when he couldn't move the fork. And guess what? Who was going to discipline him if he didn't do it? Nobody And who was going to reward him for doing it? He spent two years of his life, never got a penny. So why did he do it? Because he loved his grandpa. I'm here to tell you that, yes, if you don't serve Christ, it hurts Yes, when you do, he rewards, but that's not why. The question is, do you love him? Do you love him? I can't tell you how happy I'm to be with you. What a joy it's been to be here. And I thank you for the love for Christ I've seen in this church. I've seen it all day. I know many of us here love him. And I saw it this morning in those little slips that came in. And we said, I love you. I'll give a dollar more. I'll give give uh fifty cents more. You know, I I'll I'll do a little more for Jesus. That's the most important question. Well, the time's up. Y'all have been good listeners. I thank you so much. But we're going to close with the invitation now. And all I'm going to ask you to do is this. There may be some people here who have been holding out a little bit on God. You know what God wants you to do, but you've been holding out. I'm just going to ask you to take that next step Let's take that next step. Do a little more. Let's see if we can make the next uh thirteen months, December and 2018, uh be a year we do more for Jesus than we've ever done. We spend more time with you than we've ever spent. And let's show that love we have for him. Father, thank you for allowing me to be here. Thank you for the privilege. I ask now, Father, that your Holy Spirit would take the your word and seal it in our hearts. Father, I do love you. I do. I ask that we would we would collectively and individually come to the place where we hold nothing back from you And we just we just give it all. Father, thank you for your patience with us. Oh, just like Peter, you're so patient with us. Thank you for the privilege of serving you. Nobody's looking. How many can say, Brother Dan, in the presentations and the messages of this day, God has spoken to me in Sunday school? God has spoken to me God's asking me to make some changes. And I'm not going to say no, I'm going to do it. If that's you, could you raise your hand up high? Oh, what a blessing. What a blessing. So many, many, many, many, many hands. many hands. Let's all stand if you would please. Before we come forward, uh I'd ask you this. Is anybody here to say, Brother Dan, I don't know If I died go to heaven. I'm not sure all of my sins have been forgiven. I need I I want Christ to save me. I've never asked him to do that, but I was sure like that. I I want to do that. If that's you, would you raise your hand? Is there anybody? Is there anybody? Is there anybody? Pianist is going to play. Listen, if God's spoken to you, let's do some business with God. Come on down to this old-fashioned altar or up just kneel there at the bench or do what you're going to do. But if God's spoken to you, come on, come on, don't wait. Pianist is going to play.