We have some brochures with us tonight. You notice we have our Christian school. That Christian school is basically for Kenyans, but we also do have some students from Burundi and also from South Sudan. We have sixty refugees that are in Kenya uh students that are uh attending our school. Uh some of these guys are twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five years old, never had a chance to go to school before Uh and now they're in our school and some of them in the fourth and fifth and sixth grade uh getting education for the first time in their life. Uh they think they're there getting education. Well what we know is that we're giving them the gospel. Uh and we're seeing some of these young men that have already been in civil war, they've already fought in rebel armies, but now they're in the school uh and they're getting education and they're g uh but they're at the same time some of them are getting saved. Uh and they're coming to know Christ as their Savior. And if I can give you a name to pray for is a boy by the name of Peter that I'm just so burdened for. He's coming up to our school. Peter has scars across the top of his forehead where he went through some different things Uh but he got saved and got he got saved. Uh and here just a handful of Wednesday nights ago he came up to Pastor Olo after the service and asked a bunch of questions And here's what he said. He said, I need to know more about this Bible. He said, because one day God might let me take the gospel back to South Sudan Uh and so that's our goal, that's our purpose. Uh but with that, uh with the poverty, it's just very difficult for a lot of these kids to get an opportunity to go to a school such as ours. Uh we've we've built the buildings, we've we buy the land, uh, we provide as much as we can. But they also have to do their part. And so it costs them about $25 a month to go to our school is what it costs them. And it costs way more than that to run the school. uh but it cost them about twenty-five dollars a day. And so uh Brother Mickey and I uh just felt burdened uh to start a ministry called Hope for the Future of Africa, because our children are the future of America, the future of Africa And so we have a scholarship program. If you'd be interested maybe in helping one of these children uh uh to get an education, if you want to talk with me about that after the service, you have any questions about the way it's set up. uh and I'd like to be able to give you one of these brochures. But uh we also have new prayer cards. Uh if you didn't get one, we try to give out as many as we could before the service. Uh and so if you didn't get one, please see us at the service. We'll make sure you get one All right. Thank you very much. Thank you, Pastor. We're squeezing every ounce of juice out of Brother Hip uh Hall we can, and he's going to sing for us. You re good to go? Yes, sir. Amen. Sing in Kenyan? I'm going to. Oh. Okay. All right. Today is is uh August the 22nd. And on August the 24th, 1988, I trusted Christ as my Savior. And uh I was a seventeen-year-old boy just starting my senior year of high school. I had made a f uh a false profession of getting saved when I was twelve years old. uh or when I was five years old. Uh but when I was twelve, I went to a youth camp and I heard preaching and I really understood the gospel really for the first time at twelve years of age. At that at that point I knew I'm not saved. I knew I needed Christ as my Savior. Here was the problem. I had just preached in a preacher boy competition and won the trophy. And I thought, how can I tell these people that I'm not saved? And so I carried that burden and that guilt for five years. and never trusted Christ as my Savior until August 24th, 1988. It was on a Tuesday night. An evangelist by the name of Tom Williams was preaching a revival meeting in our church, and God said it's either tonight or never. And so I remember going forward in that service and uh just pouring my heart out to the Lord and trusting him. Uh and I've never looked back from that, I've never gotten over that salvation. And uh I know that one of the keys of living for the Lord is staying near the cross and not forgetting uh that wonderful story uh uh and my testimony of how I came to know Christ as my Savior. Jesus keep me the cross There are precious fountain, free to all a healing stream. flows from Calvary's mountain in the cross In the cross be my glory ever Till my raptured soul shall find rest beyond Thou river Yes Pamsa la banni waj o cavari Waponier Damoe, Ba msa la ba Humo si fa hatanita Mahali Parra in the cross Be my glory, till my raptured soul shall find Rest be on the River. Alright, let's get our Bibles out. Give him a little chance to shift gears here a little bit. Let's get our Bibles out. I don't know, whenever a missionary's been faithful in the field, God's using them. Whenever he stands in front of me with an open Bible, I pay attention to what he has to say. And let's ask the Lord to really speak our hearts and challenge us tonight as Brother Hallcombe. Well even let's open our Bibles tonight to the book of James, chapter number two. The book of James, chapter number two, it never fails. Uh I try before I come back to the States, and especially when I know I'm going to be in different churches I try to prepare uh ahead of time. Many times on the road, uh it's hard to find good quality study time uh to really uh prepare and and and and study messages and so I try to do that before we leave Kenya uh so that I'm prepared. and I can just kind of restudy what God's already uh given to me. And so uh I have a few mission uh messages prepared for this time in the States and uh but we're driving today and as we were driving uh and came into Friendsville, Maryland. And of course that's not a new place to us. We're from West Virginia, and so we've been over this way a lot over my lifetime. uh in the I don't know how many times I've been through Friendsville, uh hundreds of times and probably in my lifetime. I've at least been past the exit. Uh and so today for whatever reason the the name of that of that exit just jumped off uh the sign uh at to me and uh I'd really begin to think about uh God being my friend and uh thinking about the friends that I have. I'm I'm thankful for my wife. Uh my wife is my very best friend uh on on this side of heaven. And she is my best friend. We've been married almost 29 years. This November will be twenty-nine years And uh uh it's uh it's just been good. I think we've been on we've been on a honeymoon for twenty nine years. And uh it's just been good. I I I was able to marry my very best friend and I I don't know if she can say the same thing or not, but I can. Uh and so uh And I get a privilege to serve Lord the Lord with her on a full time basis every day. And uh I think about the friends that God has allowed me to meet over the years. I I consider your pastor a friend. Uh we've uh we're Facebook friends and we're we're ministry friends and uh probably just because of distance and and time we don't know each other probably as well as we'd like to if we had the the opportunity. Uh but I consider us friends. Uh some of you that are here tonight that I know Uh some of you uh kids, I I see some of the kids that are here that we've seen at church camps over the years and activities, and uh I would consider you guys my friends. Uh and so, but I'll tell you what, there's no friend that I have like God And uh I know I consider God my friend, and and I have to stop and I thought about this today as we were driving in, and so uh this is a brand new message, just want to live uh this is the extent of my outline uh and the extent of my thought. And I and I I thought about God God and I thought about him being uh me being his friend, but I wonder, man, is does God look at me and does he ever does he ever look at me and does God ever say, That's my friend Here in James chapter number two, look at some verses here, and then we're going to jump to the book of Genesis with the thoughts tonight. But look at verse number 21. It says, This was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seeest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect. And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, Abraham believed God And it was imputed unto him for righteousness. Now watch this last phrase, and this is what I want us to think about for a few minutes tonight. And he was called the friend of God. And so while we're thinking about a few things tonight, I know that maybe we might call God our friend, but how do I become a friend of God? And it says there in verse number 23 before we jump to the book of Genesis, it says that Abraham believed God Uh I hope you're here tonight and you have a testimony that you know the Lord Jesus Christ is your Savior. Uh n that having salvation, being born again, uh is simply just believing God. It's believing in what God has said. Uh it's a believing in what God has provided. God's already done all the work that that needs to be done in order for us to be His friend. He sent His Son, Jesus Christ, and Jesus Christ died on the cross and shed his blood that we might be able to have the opportunity to be forgiven of our sins. Uh and I'll tell you, it doesn't take much convincing for us to understand the fact that we're a sinner. Uh we're we're just dirty, rotten sinners and and as sinners, we know that the wages of sin is death. Uh and there's there's a great punishment that that awaits us. Because of that sin, and we're in need of a savior. Amen. We're in need of a savior. I can't save myself. I can't save you. You can't save me. Our best friends can't save us. We need a savior. There's a church. There's no church. There's no offering that we can give that can save us. There's no baptism tank with the sweetest of water that could ever save us. We needed a Savior And so God sent his only son, Jesus Christ, into this world. And he died on the cross. He paid the penalty. He paid for that wage of that death so that we could uh escape uh the penalty and the torments of hell. Now the Bible says, if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thy heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. And so how does somebody become that friend of God tonight? You become the friend of God by simply believing in your heart that you're a sinner in need of a Savior, and believing with all your heart that Jesus Christ is the way, the truth, the life, and that you can't come unto the Father except by him, and then calling upon the name of the Lord to be saved. And if you've never done that tonight, you're here at at the at the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church on a Wednesday night, man, we would love nothing better. uh then for you to come know Jesus Christ as your friend tonight, to know God as your friend, and for God to be able to also say, That's my friend. And so with those thoughts in mind, go to Genesis chapter number twenty-two. And so uh Abraham was called The friend of God. And so the sound guy tonight doing his job asked me, he said, Do you have a title for the message? I haven't even preached it yet. And so I had to think, I said, give me a minute. And I and I I said, well, here's the title of the message. How can I be called a friend of God? How can I be called a friend of God? Look at Genesis chapter 22. We know the story here. I want us to read down through the accounts of the story of Abraham and Isaac. We'll just read down through here and then make some application tonight. Verse number one says. And it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham, and he said, Behold, here I am. And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son, Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains, which I will tell thee of And Abraham rose up early in the morning, saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and claimed the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went unto the place of which God had told him Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes and saw the place afar off, and Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass, and I and the lad will go yonder and worship and come again to you. And Abraham took the word of the burn uh the wood. Of the burnt offering, and laid upon Isaac his son, and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife, and they went both of them together. He said, Behold the fire and the wood, but where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together. And they came to the place which God had told him of, and Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood on the in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife to slay his son, and the angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham, and he said, Here am I. And he said Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me And Abraham lifted up his eyes and looked, and behold, behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns, and Abraham went and took the ram and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son. And Abraham called the name of that place, Jehovah Jirah, and it is said to this day in the mount of the Lord it shall be seen. Well what a story. And and I know if you've been in church for any amount of time, you've been in Sunday school, you've heard this story. We've probably all seen the flannel graph and the pictures and Planograph, that's an old story. Wh where'd that word come from? Uh we you probably you'd never view kids on it with flannelograph. What's that? Uh it's better than D V D Uh it's in high it's HD high definition, very vibrant, you'd love it. Uh but anyway, we would not get distracted. Uh we know the story, we've heard it, we've heard it preached, we've heard it preached from in different angles in different ways. It's a great story of just God's provision of providing himself. And it's a great salvation story. And it's a great story of faith. And as we read there in James chapter 2, Abraham believed God and he had faith in God. And so because of that it was imputed unto him for righteousness, uh, and then he he got this testimony, he got this uh this uh this name that he was known as That he's the friend of God. And so tonight I want us to consider just a few things in these verses of how can I be called a friend of God? Well, look at verse number one again. It says it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham and said unto him, Abraham? And he said, Behold, here I am. Listen, how how can I be a friend of God? I I don't the best way for us to become a friend of God is just to make ourselves available. Uh I tell you I got saved on August the twenty-fourth, nineteen eighty-eight, uh, and and I went from August and I remember the first days and weeks and maybe even a few months of being saved, and I remember even as a teenager the change that came over me, uh the language that I used before All of a sudden now I didn't want to use that language. I couldn't wait to get to church uh to be involved in in visitation on Saturdays in the bus ministry. And uh we We worked on a bus route even before I was saved. But now all of a sudden it was exciting. It was new, it was fresh. But it didn't take long for all the newness and all the freshness to wear off And although I was the friend of God, I don't know if God could at times really look at me and say, Well, that's my friend And I think one of the reasons maybe God couldn't say that is because I was afraid to make myself available to God. And God looked down and he called out Abraham's name and he said, Abraham! He already knew his name. He already knew him. I'm thankful that God knows my name and He's wrote it down in the Lamb's Book of Life. And he has a charter. He has a role. He has a list. And my name is there. And I have no fear of standing before him. for him and opening up those books and my name is there. Uh he knows my name and I know that in countless uh uh youth activities, youth conferences, and then as an adult uh and a young adult in church services and revival meetings and missions conferences God was calling my name and he was saying, Hey Scott! Scott! Hey, Scott! Scott! And he called my name and called my name and called my name. Uh and I sat there. And I didn't listen. Oh, I was saved. I I knew Christ as my Savior. I knew I'd been born again, but I was afraid to just simply make myself available and say, God, here I am. What do you need, sir? Reporting for duty, whatever you want me to do. You need me to do, I'm here, I'm available. And listen, you know, God's God is, I I know what in my personal life what I was afraid of. I was afraid because I knew if I make myself available God's going to call me into the ministry. And that you know, and that that's a fear of a teenager. That's a common fear of a lot of men. I can't make myself available, because if I really make myself available to God and I put myself out there, I might find myself one day sitting on the platform I might find myself, and I was a West Virginia guy, I was a blue jeans and t-shirt and a boots, and I thought, man, if I make myself available, man, I might have to wear a tie one day. And so I remember sitting in those services and just, no, God, okay, I'm tithing, I'm giving the missions, I'm faithful, we don't miss church, and we're we're involved, but I'm not here. I'm not available. And I'll never forget my I we were living in the state of Illinois, but that's another whole long story. My my family left West Virginia, moved to the state of Illinois, that's where I got saved, that's where I met my wife That's where we got married. My wife's from northern Vermont. We met in Illinois. Only God can do that. And so we lived there for a few years, and I'm and God's calling my name. He's calling my name. I said, No, God, no And so I thought, here's what I'll do. I'll move. If I move to another state, God will stop calling my name. And so we moved to the state of Vermont and moved up there, my wife's family, and we went to a certain church there. We got involved, we got into the church, we were active, my wife was playing the piano, I was helping leading the singing, leading the choir, uh, and here's what God was doing. Hey Scott. Hey Scott. Man, I got something more I want you to do. I need you, Scott. Come on. And he's calling my name. And I know I'm not here. And so you know what I did We moved to another church. Well, we moved to another church. Maybe he'll give up. And so we moved to another church. We had lived in Vermont for two years and was members of two different churches. One one year, move the next the next year. And you know what God kept doing? He kept calling my name. And he kept calling my name, and he kept calling my name. So you know what I did? I moved. We moved a third time. Pastor, we lived in in northern New England for three years, and during those three years we were members of three different churches. We tithed, we gave the missions, we went to church, we were there, but we weren't we weren't available. We were only available for what we wanted to do. We were only available for what we were comfortable doing. We were only available on our agenda. And we never came to the place, I never came to the place where I said, okay, God, here I am. What do you really want me to do? So I'll never forget we moved back to the state of West Virginia. Now we move back to West Virginia. And I got a job working for the Clarksford Casket Company, delivering hardwood caskets to funeral homes. That's how I know a lot of these towns over in Maryland. Uh I delivered caskets all over West Virginia, Pennsylvania, Ohio, into Maryland. Uh I've been to Cumberland, Maryland sometimes three and four times a week, uh coming across the the interstate there. So we're very familiar with this area Uh and so I'm delivering caskets, delivering caskets, delivering caskets. Uh finally one day, I was in the southern part of West Virginia, and I'm delivering caskets. And I carry this picture with me. This is Saddleback Mountain in West Virginia. Some of you West Virginia folks, you might have to cross your heart and stand up and salute. This is the promised land of West Virginia. August of 1996, I'm delivering caskets, and even while I'm delivering caskets, I'm hearing God's calling my name. And I'll never forget the day that I just pulled over on this scenic overlook. And I got out of that delivery van and I walked to the edge of that scenic overlook and I said, okay, God, here I am. Whatever you need me to do, whatever you want me to do, wherever you might ask me to go, here I am. I'm available. From now on, it's not about me. It's not about my agenda. It's not about what I want to do. It's not about what I want to accomplish. God, it's now it's all about you. And you know what I became that day? I believe I moved up on God's list and said, now that's my friend. You think about the friendships you have. You know, we're we're prone as humans. We have our friendships, but we have them with strings attached, don't we? We ha we have our friendships and we'll only let uh allow a friendship just to go so far. We'll allow a human friendship that it's going to have limitations There there's going to be exceptions. There's going to be strings attached. There's going to be things that within that friendship, there's things that your friends don't know There's things maybe with some friends you won't do. There's maybe some things with some friends that just maybe not even appropriate to do. But with God, He's waiting for us to just let go and say, okay, God, no limits. No exceptions, no strings attached, no agenda, my hands are off. Here am I. What do you need me to do? Unless I I know it's a Wednesday night, I know maybe you've you've worked hard through the day and you you've had a rough week, and I don't know what the physical or the spiritual or emotional needs might be tonight, but I do know this God will never be able to fully work through your life, and God will never be able to fully work through this church until everybody just says, okay. Here I am. Here we are. And then God can move in and begin doing his work. Now watch what happened with Abraham. We'll jump jump down to verse number three. And Abraham wrote God told him what he wanted to do in verse number two. Abraham rose up early in the morning, sat on his ass, took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clay the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went unto the place of which God had told him. How can I be called a friend of God? I can be a friend of God by simply making myself completely available. And then there in verse number three, he simply just went where God told him to go. If I'm going to be a friend of God, I've got to be willing and ready to go anywhere. Listen, I'm sure that my my my wife and God bless my wife and I Uh we both grew I grew up in rural West Virginia. She grew up in rural uh northern Vermont uh and just alongside the road in the woods. Uh I grew up at the end of a holler in West Virginia. Uh we we you know this is a nice suit. But I but this isn't me. Okay? I'm way more happy in a in a remote village of Africa. Uh elect no electricity, we're fine with that. No running water, we're okay with that We can deal with those things. But we had no idea. We had no idea, no dream whatsoever. I remember coming home that August day in 1996 and telling my wife, listen, here's what happened today. I told God I'm his. And whatever he needs me to do, we're doing it. And I knew right away, and God said, you already know what it is. I want you to preach. And God told me to preach. And we had no idea where's that going to take us? W w wha how's that how's that going to unfold? Uh, if if you would have told me In 1996, that one day I was going to be able to walk on foot, because that's the only way you can get in there, that I was going to walk on foot and cross over into the border of Eastern Congo Where there's rebel armies in the mountains and at night you can watch the the lights of their fires and that I would get to walk through the jungles of the Congo and eat a monkey And go down go down Lake Tanganika in a little five-foot wide boat by maybe twelve-foot wooden rowboat uh for fifteen hours through the night? You're crazy. God has taken us places and allowed us to do things for Him that we never ever imagined. But see, if I'm going to be a friend of God, I've got to be willing to go anywhere. And you know what the fear is? Here's the fear. Here's every every teenager probably sitting here, every wife sitting here thinking, God, don't call my husband, I'm not going to the Congo. God doesn't want you in the Congo. But you know where God does want you? He wants you at church. So where where can I go? You can go to church. You can be faithful to the house of God. You can go on visitation. You can go to your neighbor's house. You can go to the nursing homes. You can go to Walmart and pass out the track Uh you can just go wherever God might lead you to go. Uh and just be used of God and just go and just go and just be willing. God, where do you need me to go? Uh who do you need me to speak to to uh I'll never forget sitting outside of a big lot store in Fairmont, West Virginia, and my wife had gone into the store and uh uh you know how it is, men, she needed one or two things. Uh and I was there almost an hour uh waiting in the vehicle. Uh and as I'm sitting in the vehicle, I'll never forget this this colleague James Boy, probably from Fairmont State University, came out of uh out of the out of the store And he's he's in a black, all black clothing, black fingernails, black makeup on his face, hair spiked probably this tall, all the way down the middle, just black and and I remember sitting there in my vehicle and I I remember thinking, just grief. What is this? Sky knows isn't West Virginia. This isn't New York City. What's I mean I'm thinking all these thoughts And the Holy Spirit of God just said, Okay, now get out of your vehicle and give him a gospel tract And I remember for several seconds, and it seemed like an eternity wrestling with the Lord and trying to justify all the reasons that this guy doesn't need a track and doesn't deserve a track. God said, go. I remember getting out of my vehicle and walking over to that young man. He was just getting in his car and said, Hey man, and he turned around. I said, No, it's okay. I said, uh I just want to talk to you about something And I told him exactly what had happened in my vehicle. I said, I saw you come out of the store. I said, and here's what I thought in my mind. And I was just honest with him and told him. I said, but you know what God really just smacked me about that. Because there's a God that loves you just as much as he loves me. And talked to that young man for a few minutes and gave him See when if we're going to be a friend of God, not only do we have to make ourselves available, but we've got to be willing to go anywhere It might just be simply visitation. It might be somebody in a parking lot someplace that just needs a gospel tract. It might be a door that just needs knocked on. It might be a youth group that needs a youth pastor. Just to be willing, hey, I'm just going to go And I'm going to be available to God. And and God if you'll open the door, I'll go through it. If you'll open up the opportunity, I'll go through it. And just have an attitude in your Christian life and through your church that I'm I'm God, I'm available and I'm willing to go anywhere. Now watch what happened with Abraham because he made himself available and because he was willing to go. Watch what happened in verse number nine. And they came to the place which God had told him of, and Abraham built an altar there and laid the wood in order. And bound Isaac his son and laid him on the altar upon the wood. Can you imagine? And Abraham stretched forth his hand and took the knife. To slay his son. I can't even imagine This is probably another reason why why God did not have him take his wife along. This would have been a worse day. I cannot imagine God telling me, take your son, build an altar, tie him up, lay him on the altar, and kill him. But remember, Abraham received the title, he's the friend of God. He was a friend of God because he made himself available. And see, when you make yourself available, now all of a sudden you have no idea. Now I'm available. Where am I going to go? And you also have no idea what God just might ask you to do. See, as a friend of God, I've got to be willing to go anywhere. And as a friend of God, I've got to be willing to do anything. You know, I think about some of the people that we read about in the Bible and some of the things that are just like, wow, how'd that play out? You know, can you imagine being Noah and there's never been rain on the face of the earth, you're not even near water, and God asks you to build a boat that's bigger than a football field? He was a friend of God. He was willing to do anything. Could you imagine there there you being a being a young man? uh going out to check on your brothers at war uh and getting there and finding out there's a uh an over almost a ten foot uh giant uh out in the field, uh and you're just gonna grab a slingshot and a couple of rocks and and going down to to fight him. No, when you're a friend of God's, you'll do anything. When when you're a friend of God, you'll go anywhere. When you're a true friend of God, you'll just make yourself available. And so listen, what what what would God have you do? God would have you read your Bible, God would have you pray. God would would have you uh tightened. and would have you to give the missions and God would have you be a witness. These are the things that God wants you to do. And if you're going to be a friend of God, you're going to have to be willing to just go anywhere, make yourself available, and say, God, I'll also just do anything. My wife has had to eat termites. They taste just like peanuts, so don't get nervous It's it's all it's all here. It's not here or here, it's all here. We we we've had to eat termites. Uh I sat in the Congo and was served a meat and uh found out it was a spider monkey that had just been killed that morning. You'll be willing to do anything. Uh I I'm not a big fan of boats. Uh I really am not. I I'm a fisherman, but I'm a bank fisherman. I uh I like I'll fish from the bank Uh my dad is a canoe guy and I've I've survived and endured uh outings with dad on the canoe, but that's not my favorite thing to do. And so here we're going to go into the Congo and down Lake Tanganyika to a place called Tazimiya, where a group of people had been praying for over 40 years A Bible Baptist Fellowship Missionary in 1970 had gone there and led a handful of men to the Lord, and civil war broke out. And he had to leave. And when he left, he left those men with his Bible. And said, just keep preaching the gospel. There's now ten churches in that region that have been, they're just preaching points, uh, and these guys don't know anything. Except for the gospel. They have no idea what the rest of the Bible is about. And so but they've been meaning, and you saw those people singing at the end of the video? That's those people. They've been praying for since 1970 Uh they've been praying that God would uh let them meet a Baptist missionary that would teach them the rest of the Bible. Uh and so uh these Kenyan men that we send over into the Congo They met those guys. Brother Robert Mickey and I have been able to go there. We went back in February uh and spent eight days there in that village uh preaching the gospel. Listen, to get there you have to ride on a little small motorboat for fifteen hours through the night. Uh and wow, it's rough. And then when we got there we walked several miles back in to over the mountains to this these villages. Hey, what? Willing to do anything? Willing to go anywhere. Why? Because you make yourself available to your friend, to God. Listen, what are you willing to do for the Lord? If he tells you to witness to a certain person, are you willing to do that? If he asks you to teach a Sunday school class, are you willing to do that? If God needs you to sing in the choir, are you willing to do that? If God needs you to help with a with a bus ministry, are you willing to do that? If God needs you to read the Bible every day and just study His Word, are you willing to do that? Are you willing to pray? Are you willing to tithe? Are you willing to give permissions? Are you willing to just simply be faithful? uh to the house of God. And so if we're going to be a friend of God, we've got to be willing to do anything. Now watch verse number twelve. And we'll finish tonight. And he said, Lay not thine hand. Thankfully, verse 11 is there. The angel of the Lord called unto him out of heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham! And he said, Here am I. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son. From me. See, if we're going to be a friend of God, not only do we have to be available and just willing to go anywhere, do anything, but I think God's also looking for his people to just be willing to give everything. See to Abraham, uh this boy was everything. This boy was the seed. This boy was the future, this boy was the promise. Ah this boy was the promise fulfilled and and this was the bo the boy that was uh was was the future of the nation of Israel They didn't know all that yet. They didn't know all the ins and outs and the ups and downs of how God was unfolding this. But he did know this. He was promised a seed Uh he tried to bypass uh God's plan and try to create his own uh heritage and God said no I'm going to give you one a son through you and your wife in your old age in a miraculous way And then he asked him, after several years passed by, to sacrifice that son on an altar. And Abraham was willing to go, Abraham was willing to do, and he was willing to give. everything that he had. And so, you know, the work of God is it's a big work. It's a big work. And it demands that we give. And when I say give, and I'm always excited, and one of the first things I did when I came in here tonight, I knew that your pastor always posted over here on the wall about your faith. Promise giving and you know sometimes here's what happens sometimes. Sometimes we we consider our our missions program and missions ministry in our churches and we think it's all about the money You know, really it's not about the money. It's not about the giving of the money. Really, it's about the giving of ourselves. And when I give myself and I finally just say, okay, God, here am I. Here I am. I'm available. God, I'll go anywhere. God, I'll do anything. And God, I'm willing to give anything. Now listen, that that that giving will include your time. Listen, how how b uh how busy are we in 2018? I don't I don't care if you're if you're retired or just starting out in life. Life is busy. We we uh we have so much technology And so much toys and things that should make life so much simpler, but it just seems like we're we're busier now than we've ever been. We can't we can't even hardly keep up and And it almost seems like if you do take five or ten minutes to yourself, you almost feel guilty of taking to five or ten minutes because you could have been doing something else Could have been cutting my grass, I could have been going grocery shopping, I could have been visiting, I could have been studying, I could have been doing this, and we're just busy, busy, busy, busy. But you know what the work of God takes? The work of God takes time And we've got to be willing to give it. Uh man, we have so much talent, uh, physical abilities that God has given us. And I in in young people, a lot of young people here tonight. And I'm all for it, and I love activities and I love sports and I love you know, fishing and hunting, I and I I love all those things. But if we're not careful we can we can give all of our abilities to those things Uh and if we're not careful, we'll miss out using our abilities on computers and video games and and all these things uh instead of using the God-given about uh uh uh talents and abilities uh for God And just give God your life. Give God your voice. Give God your energy. Your OCD, give it to God. You have ADHD, give it to God. God can use that. He needs a lot of people with ADHD. He needs you. So give yourself to God. He can use you in a miraculous way if you'll just give your life to him. uh into his work into his service. Listen, that doesn't mean everybody's going to be called into the ministry. Not everybody can pastor a church We need good, faithful men in the church that have just said, okay, God, I'm working at the gas company, I'm a coal miner, I'm doing this, I'm an insurance salesman, I'm a doctor, I'm a lawyer, I'm a police officer, uh, but God, my life is yours. And I'm giving you my life to live for you. And God will use us. But God, I'm a housewife and I'm a mother, and maybe I work at Walmart, I'm doing this. Give yourself to God. The work of God demands, if we're going to be a friend of God, that we make ourselves available and say, I'll go anywhere, I'll do anything, and God, I'll give everything for you and for your service. But we also know it does take finances. It it takes finances to to make to keep the lights on at your church and and to buy uh tracks and to buy bumper stickers and to have things for the children and things for the youth. And it somebody has to give And so listen, I I I don't know about you, when my life's over, I don't really care about you know all the accolades that maybe I've accomplished or things that we've done, but I I I want to be known I would love for it to be said, he was a friend of God. And I hope that God can look down, and God can look down and say, that's my friend. I remember when he made himself fully available to me, and he was willing to go anywhere, he was willing to do anything, and he gave everything to serve me. Listen, I'm uh we don't we fail him. We're we're gonna fail, we're gonna falter. Uh but let's remember, God's our friend. He's counting on us to be faithful to our side of the friendship because he sure is faithful to us. Amen? Let's pray. God in heaven, we thank you for the time together this evening. Thank you for your goodness to us God, we thank you for your grace and your mercy and for your love. God, we thank you for the gift of salvation. God, we thank you that somebody came our way and gave us a gospel track. Somebody came and preached the gospel to us. God, there was a church in our neighborhood that cared about us and our children and took the time to share with us the good the good news of Jesus Christ. And God, we thank you that you've given us a great task, a great command, a great commission as a church to go into all the world and preach the gospel. And Lord, I know that the Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church is a church that's serious about missions and serious about serving you. And so, God, I know that the message tonight is not going to fall on deaf ears. God, you you want to be our friend. You want a deep, close friendship with us. And God, I pray that Lord will just let go of ourselves. We'll make ourselves completely available to you tonight. Lord, maybe there's somebody here that needs to be saved. God, I pray that your Holy Spirit would work in their heart and draw them to yourself. And that God tonight would be their night of salvation. God, maybe there's a husband, maybe there's a young man that's that's feeling the call into the ministry. God, I pray that tonight you might call them. And that God tonight they would surrender uh to that call and just give themselves over to you. God, I b maybe there's a a lady, maybe there's a a wife that just uh is hesitant about giving herself and giving her husband, giving her children, maybe over to you, God, that tonight all of us would just say, Here I am. and make ourselves available and God be willing just to go and do and give whatever it takes, whatever you ask, whatever you need, God, for your honor. And so, God, as you've spoken to our hearts tonight, help us to be obedient to what you've told us to do in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you, Pastor. We've been challenged now in the last month repeatedly about making ourselves available. Brother Harding was right down along these lines. And now, Brother Hall, tonight again. And God's speaking to us. God's calling us. I wonder how many tonight say, preacher, I want my whole life to be available to the Lord, wherever, whatever stage you're at in life, young, old, in between. You say, I want what I am, and what I have is my life. I want to be totally available to the Lord. Any like that by the uplifted hand. That's my testimony. I sincerely want that. God bless you. Now a lot of us would say that's what I want, but I don't know that that's where I'm at. Maybe God's been dealing with your heart about just being fully surrendered. I wonder if some tonight say, preacher, I I want to be surrendered and I want to be obedient, but I know there's some areas that need to be addressed. That I'm not obeying the Lord or God's dealing with my heart and I need to make that decision. Any like that this evening, this matter of obedience. I know there's some areas there. How about it? Uplifted hand. How many like that? I know there's some areas. And then be willing to give it all. Willing to give it all. I think tonight would be a good night to find a place in altar and just put myself on that altar. Here I am, Lord. I'm yours. Take me. Whatever you want. Whatever it is. I'm yielded to you. Is there someone here tonight say, preacher, I'm not saved? Just be honest. I'm not saved. And I need that settled. About it. Any like that? Preacher, pray for me. I've gotta I've gotta make this right. Any at all? Now, Father in heaven, we give the invitation, Lord, this powerful challenge. I want to be your friend, Lord. I pray you'd help all of us. To take those steps and have that attitude. In Jesus' name. Amen. Let's stand together. Heads are bowed, eyes are closed. Jennifer's playing our invitation. How about this old-fashioned altar here and just make it just that, an altar Say, Lord, I'm yours. I take my hands off. However you lead me, however you direct me, however you want to use me, whatever stage I am in life.