Was God. His eyes were on eternity. His eyes were set out on uh on uh uh to be with the Lord and so that's what the case is here these people are rejoicing he says bless are you When you're persecuted, you're reviled for my sake, for righteousness' sake. Be glad. Rejoice. Be exceeding glad. How in the world do you do that? Because your reward is in heaven. Your focus is on heaven. Now tonight I want to look at, real quickly, how do we respond when somebody persecutes us Uh persecution comes to America. Let's just give a uh what may seem like a fantastic scenario. Uh Muslims take over America and they outlaw Christianity And anybody that's going to be a Christian is going to be thrown in prison, publicly executed, maybe beheaded or whatever. Let's just imagine that scenario. How do we respond to that? The Lord gives some very specific promises here in that type of situation. Now I want to step back here and reiterate These promises, blessed are ye, verse 10, verse 11, blessed are ye, these promises are conditioned. They're limited to those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. All of God's promises in the Bible are conditional. Even the promise of salvation, God will save a soul, but they have to first what? Receive him as their Savior. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, thou shalt be saved. And so when he says, Blessed are ye when you are persecuted, this promise, he doesn't promise his blessings on those that are persecuted because they're rude. Or because they're hateful or they're arrogant, or because they're not very tactful. He says here, blessed are ye when you are persecuted for righteousness' sake. And then verse 10 he says, For my sake. And he other verses he makes that same condition. And so his promises here are for those of us. That, Lord willing, our faith is strong, persecution comes, and we say, you know, I'm just going to trust God. I'm going to do right. I'm not going to deny my faith. I'm not going to disobey my God It's better to obey God than man. You do what you want, but I'm going to obey God. That persecution comes on. That is who the promise is to. Not the person that's out there mouthing off and thinks they're better and self-righteous and criticizing and being uh uh hateful to people and all of that and then people get mad and react. That's not who the promise is to Um and so uh uh humility and compassion are part, I think, of what has taken place here. These are people very humble before the Lord, they're very compassionate, they're very They're wanting to do right, they love the Lord, they love other people, 101 people Christ, and as persecution comes on them, then he gives that promise. So what do we do You say, preacher, uh they said that I had to quit going to church at work. Uh they told me at work I had to quit going to church, I had to quit praying, I had to deny Christ, or I'm gonna lose my job, and uh they're gonna government's gonna come take my house. And I'm no longer allowed in Garrett County. How do I respond to that? That's what the issue is here in these passages. These passages are not talking about how I'm persecuted. That's irrelevant. Whether they're in Iraq chopping heads off or somewhere else thrown in prison or whatever the the the how of the persecution is not the issue. Who is doing the persecution is not the issue. Doesn't matter. How I respond to persecution is the issue in the passage here. That's what the Lord is focusing on. So that's what we want to notice. First of all, my response, number one, if you want to jot these down, I think they'll be helpful. Number one I put this down. Do not retaliate. When persecution comes, as a Christian, I do not retaliate. What does it mean to retaliate? What comes to your mind? When I say don't retaliate, what? Pay back, get revenge. Don't go back on. The word itself means to return evil for evil. Another definition means to return wrong with wrong. In other words, somebody says, you're a Christian, all right, we're going to beat you up because you're a Christian. You're praying to God, you're trying to live by the Bible, we're going to slap you around for that Well, I don't retaliate. I don't they they do whatever they want to do, and then I come back and say, all right, well, I'm going to get you back for that. A Christian does not retaliate. If you read very carefully here the life of the Lord Jesus Christ You never find Jesus retaliating. Somebody did evil to him, whatever. He never retaliated. And we're to be like the Lord Jesus. And so when persecution comes, when persecution would come to the United States, would come to Garrett County, and I mean the real deal. One thing we do not do, we do not retaliate. Now, uh, that does not mean we cannot defend ourselves. We just had classes on that. What's the difference? I want to get your take on this. What's the difference between defending myself and retaliating? There is a difference. What would the difference be? Right. Softly they start like protection, not you're doing it evil against Exactly. Defending myself is simply protecting myself. Retaliation is saying, all right, I'm gonna get back at you for what you did. For instance, let's do it this way. Uh I go up and knock on someone's door. And uh they they they say, Who is it? I say, I'm Pastor Leatherman from the Mountain Lake Baptist Church. And they say, I hate Christians, there shouldn't be any Christians uh in the world. I'm gonna kill you. They kick the door open. He sticks a gun in my face. Now, I the Bible does not forbid me from defending myself. And so I do my little circle, my passive aggressive, and um Like I learned Friday night. And uh I protect myself. That is protecting, that's defending myself. Retaliation would be, oh yeah, you hate Christians, boom, boom, boom, boom. That would be retaliation. See the difference? Christian does not retaliate. I just get myself saved. I get out of there. I can I can do that. Nowhere in the Bible are we commanded to pursue persecution We're never commanded to look for it and enjoy it. If we can avoid it, we should. Turn your Bibles with me if you would, just later in this chapter, or I'm sorry, chapter 10 and verse number 16. You see Some ways, kind of passive ways that Jesus defended himself. He didn't ever retaliate it He never lashed back, never lashed out at him. But he did do some maneuvers that were, if you look at him, I see them as defensive movers. Matthew chapter 10 and verse number 16 Here he's instructing the disciples. This is um along these lines. But look what he says to the disciples. He's sending them out. They're going to go out and preach the gospel. Um look at verse uh uh let's see, where am I at? Sixteen. Look at verse fifteen. Um He says, more tolerable for the I'm sorry, verse 16. Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of what? Wolves, would you agree with me? He's telling them he's putting them into a dangerous situation. Would you agree with me on that? Putting shape in the midst of wolves, for the shape, is very dangerous. So he's telling these disciples, I'm sending you out. You're sheep going out there in the midst of wolves. You're going into very dangerous situations. Your lives will be endangered. Persecution. They're going out for the gospel's sake. Look at his instructions to them. I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves. What's his very next statement? Be ye what? Wise as serpents. What's he saying? He's saying don't be dummies. Don't be stupid. You get out there, you're going out preaching, but listen, pay attention to the situation you get yourselves in. Be very, very careful about that. You've got to be wise. Don't be dumb. Just walk into a situation. You be wise. But look at his next statement. And what? Harmless as doves. In other words, don't retaliate. And if they're gonna if it's going to come down on you, you have no option, you have no choice, there's no way around it, and uh that persecution comes on, all right. But listen, be smart That is a, in a sense, I see here, a defensive maneuver somewhat, just being smart, how can I accomplish, how can I obey the Lord without bringing all of this on me? He says, be wise as serpents. Now come over to Luke chapter 4. And here the Lord's life is threatened. He doesn't retaliate, but I do see a sense in which he. Defends himself in a passive way. Luke chapter four, look at verse twenty-nine. I'm kind of on a little ro rabbit trail here, but Brother Bowman got me stirred up on this. But uh look at verse 29. Uh and they rose up Look at verse 28. And all they in the synagogues, when they heard these things that Jesus was preaching, they were filled with what? Man, they are furious at him. And rose up and thrust him out of the city. Now look what they're about trying to do to Jesus. And led him to the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong. They're going to throw him off the cliff head first. What are they trying to do to Jesus? They're trying to kill him. He is in danger. He is being, very real sense, being persecuted. Now what does he do? Does he turn around and push all them off the hill? No. Look what the Bible says. But he passing through the midst of them went his way. Now to be very honest with you, I'm not sure what that saying happened there that he passed through the midst of them Some people suggest that he just miraculously uh evaded all of their attempts to kill him and he just kinda went through and for whatever reason They never touched him or whether he somehow slipped out another way and and slipped away, I I can't tell you exactly how that played out. But I do know this. He defended himself in a sense. Do you see that? He didn't let them just do to him what they wanted to, throw him off the cliff. He got out of there. He got away from it. And so my point I'm trying to make is this. When persecution comes upon us, we can defend ourselves. We got the CLA, the Christian Law Association. There's nothing wrong with saying, hey, this is illegal. You can't In America, you cannot discriminate against me because I'm a Christian or whatever. And we can defend ourselves, go to law. But we are not to retaliate. Boy, those guys hate Christians. We're going after them. We're burning their house down. We're going to take them out before they get us. No, no, no, no, no. None of that. And so the first thing the world retaliates. That's what the world does Further, eye for an eye, boy, they come back. Oh, yeah, you'll pay sevenfold for what you did to me. That's the world's thinking. Christians do not retaliate. So we get we get persecution whenever that day comes. I don't we see little of it, I think, today in some uh minor ways perhaps, but that comes on us. We don't retaliate. We don't retaliate. If we have options to defend ourselves, great, but we don't retaliate. Number two, put this one down. Do not resent the persecutor, or do not resent the persecution itself. Don't get resentful. And I hate that guy. You know what he did to me because I'm a Christian? That's resentment. The Lord expounds on this a little later in the Sermon on the Mount. Come back to Matthew chapter 5. Verse uh ten, eleven, and twelve, he says, Blessed are you when uh uh when you're persecuted for righteous sake. Uh there's the king of them, Blessed are you when men revile you, persecute, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake, rejoice and be exceeding glad. We don't resent the person persecuting us or treating us that way because of our faith, because we're living for the Lord. Verse 43 of chapter 5. The same sermon. Later on, it's kind of like the Lord comes back to this subject. And he kind of expands on how we're to respond. And uh he's telling us, don't resent that person. Don't resent what's happening. Look at verse 43. You've heard that it's been said that thou thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemies. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, pray for them which despitefully use you, and what? Persecute you. He's saying, listen, you don't resent them. You pray for them. You love them. You you uh bless them. Look, he goes on, verse 45, that ye may be the children of your father which is in heaven. For he maketh his s for he maketh the sun to rise on the evil and on the good. He sendeth rain on the just, on the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same? Even sinners do that. And if you salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do you not even publicans so? But be ye therefore perfect. That word perfect doesn't mean sinlessly flawless, but mature, complete, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect And so what is he saying here? He says, you don't resent those that are mistreating you and doing these things. You don't hate them. We don't uh get bitter in our heart because I'm treated this way and these people are doing this No, no, no, no. Uh, we avoid that at all. Uh I like the Apostle Paul. I look forward to meeting him someday. I think, this is my take on him, and you know, I don't know, I'll find out when I get there, but I think Paul was somewhat sensitive You read about him, he'll make statements like, you know, Demas forsook me. It's like it bothered him. He says he makes statements that no one stood with me. And I got the impression that bothered him a little bit, that people abandoned him and and demas forsook him. Uh he said another place, All men have forsaken me. Nobody's standing with me. No uh uh and uh I don't know. I just have the impression that Paul was sensitive. It hurt him. When people he wanted Christ, people he worked with invested in, and they would walk away. And I tell you, in the ministry that does hurt, that happens. If somebody won to Christ, somebody worked in somebody see great potential in trying, and then they walk away from it all, or they say or do hateful things to you, you know that hurts. But you have to be careful that we don't get resentful Turn with me if you would, again, we're going to look at a number of verses here. Turn with me if you would to Philippians chapter 1. And here we find that Paul learned not to get resentful, even though it hurt him And even though it's like I said, at least in my mind, he's a pretty sensitive guy to this stuff. I mean he was bold as a lion and he was just, you know, fearless and and all of that But um he was a sensitive guy. Uh and look in Philippians chapter 1, and we see this where he learned not to get bitter about it, not to get resentful. Verse 12. Philippians one twelve. But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which have happened unto me the abuse, the persecution, the imprisonment, the unjust treatment he had have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. What's he saying? He's saying the fact that I was persecuted, thrown in jail unjustly, stoned, rejected, all of that, hey, it's helped advance the gospel. He's not bitter about this. In fact, he goes on, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and all other places, and many of the brethren in the Lord waxing confident by my bonds. are much more bold to sperk speak the word without fear. What's he saying? Saying other people see me being mistreated and I'm not getting bitter and I'm just staying faithful and now they're more bold. It's encouraging others to stay faithful Now read on. Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, some also of goodwill. The one preached Christ of contention, not sincerely. Look at this, supposing to add what? Affliction of my bonds. What are they wanting to do? They're wanting to make it worse for Paul. And they're out there mocking him apparently and just preaching, you know, imitating and mocking him It's hoping that it'll make it worse for him. Look at his response. I can't stand them. I hate them. I'm bitter against them. No, that's not what he says. He says, but the other of love, knowing I'm set for the defense of the gospel, what then? Notwithstanding in every way, whether in pretense, they're trying to hurt me, they're ill intentions Or in truth, Christ is preached and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice. He didn't resent it He understood that people being unjust to me and mistreating me, if I will avoid getting resentful, if I won't let bitterness set in, It'll advance the cause of Christ. It'll help. So uh and uh we see that with Paul and Silas. Remember they're in prison, they did nothing wrong, they're beat and and jailed. I preached on it Sunday morning, and uh at midnight they did what In the Philippian jail. They sang praises to God and they prayed. What if, now I got thinking about that when I was preparing this, what if Paul and Silas had gotten resentful What if they got thrown in jail, beat up, I mean bloody mess, they did nothing wrong, the only thing they did was obey Jesus Christ And they got in there and they would have gotten resentful and they would have gotten bitter and they would have gotten angry and they hated those people that did that to them and they hated the jailers and all that. What would have happened? I tell you what wouldn't have happened The jailer would have never got saved. And because of that, millions of others would never have gotten saved because of the jailer's testimony of getting saved. And I wonder had a message Sunday morning. We all just sat here. You see what I'm saying? When that persecution comes, we're mistreated for our faith in Christ. Uh one, we don't retaliate. You'll pay for that. We don't get resentful. We don't hate the person. We don't get bitter. I put this down, number three, uh we don't feel remorse. We don't feel remorse, and this is what I mean by that. We have to watch out getting for feeling sorry for myself. Oh, I'm treated so bad. Nobody knows how much I suffer for Christ. And uh getting that self-pity party going, oh, this is so terrible, they're treating me so bad We've got to watch out for that, because I'll tell you what that leads to. We start saying, oh, it's not worth it And then we start giving in. And I'm telling you, self-pity will destroy a Christian testimony. It absolutely will. Oh, this is so terrible. Oh, I'm just, oh, this is just awful. I'm just useless. I found one person, there's probably others, but uh just quickly I found one person in the Bible that did that, and God set them aside. Elijah. Remember Elijah? Prayed down fire from heaven, killed all those prophets of Baal. I mean just incredible. Jezebel steps up, what you did to those prophets, I'm going to do to you, and he goes running for the for the uh wilderness. And there he starts thinking, oh, I'm the only one living for God. I'm the only one suffering like this. Oh, I'm the only one If you'll read your Bible carefully, God doesn't do much with them after that. Not long after that, he called Elisha, and Elisha steps up into the forefront. And so we get feeling self-pity and we get, oh, woe is me, oh, this is terrible, and we get all remorseful. I'm telling you, our testimony is going down the drain. So number one, we don't retaliate. Two, we don't get resentful. Number three, we don't have remorse. Number four, we come back to our text, we do rejoice. We do rejoice. And this just amazes me. This has to be God doing it in our hearts. Because I don't know. I'll be honest with you, I know me after 54 years, I know me a little bit. I've lived with me for 54 years now, so I know a few things about myself. I have a tendency, if I don't watch it, just me and my own natural sinful self, I have a tendency to get resentful. Somebody treats me bad. If I'm not careful, I can hold a grudge there You know, that just eats at me and sets inside there and I don't like I don't let it go. And I need to take that and just put at the older. The Lord taught me that shortly after I got saved And um uh so this is something what he's telling us to do here is something God has to do in our hearts, to rejoice. Look at the wording he gives in verse 11. Blessed are you, men revive you uh verse 12. Rejoice and be what? Exceeding uh glad Good night. He doesn't just say be happy. I've got some extracurricular sound up here, brother. I don't know what it is. I'm getting resentful about that. But um He doesn't just say, hey, be happy, you know, smile. Brin and bear it. Just, you know, it'll be all right. Someday it'll get to heaven. Don't worry. Just hang in there. Doesn't say that He says, rejoice. The word rejoice there is interesting. It means be glad. It means this. Greet it joyfully. Now picture get a word picture. Picture a scenario where you're greeting someone or something joyfully. What I thought of was back about a week or so before Christmas, a white pickup truck pulled in our driveway, and our son and Sarah came in with a little grandbaby in her arms and that door came open. It was, ah, Kidley! We greeted them joyfully. That's the concept in this word. It's used in uh Matthew chapter 2 and verse 10, when the wise men came out and they saw the star, it said they rejoiced with exceeding joy. Same word. Wow! Alright, we're gonna have videotape this. We're gonna take you uh by the head and we're gonna cut your head off because you're a Christian right in front of the whole world. And rejoice. React the way Kathy and I reacted when the grandbaby came in? What are you talking about? I'm telling you, that's grace. God gives that grace. Exceeding gland. You're going to lose your job. We're going to repossess your house. You're going to work in a slave camp in Siberia For no other reason than you're a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, or you deny the Bible, you tell us you hate Jesus, that He's not God, you say the Bible is full of lies, you publicly say that, or you're losing everything, you're going to jail. And what am I supposed to do? Rejoice and be exceeding glad. So you get out gospel tracts down at the parade, and we're going to come The thugs are going to come in there, they're going to beat you with baseball bats, and you're going to be a bloody broken mess. You'll be in a hospital for a year's longer. And say, rejoice? How in the world do you do that? We think of persecution as an obstacle to the gospel. Right? You think man alive, if persecution comes in, we won't be able to give the gospel out as much. But that is the exact opposite of the Bible's presentation of it. The Bible and history has proven the church is healthier when it's under persecution. The church is purer, less worldly, when it's under persecution. The church is stronger When it's under persecution. The Bible bears that out. The church, the New Testament church, the book of Acts, it was born in persecution. I mean intense. thrown in jail, executed, beaten, left for dead. Why? Because they believed the Bible and they were sharing their faith with others. That's the only reason they weren't robbing people, they weren't murdering people, they were doing right and living for God, and they were uh beaten severely, persecuted severely, and the church grew And they were strong. In Acts chapter 8, I got a minute or two left. Come over to Acts chapter 8. Now our idea is, man, if persecution comes to America, we won't be able to reach people with the gospel. I see in the Bible the exact opposite's true. When there's no persecution, we can To be less aggressive. We tend to be more laxadasio. Look at Acts chapter 8. Look at verse 1. Saul was consenting unto his death. And at the time there was a what? Great persecution against the church, which was at Jerusalem. And they were all scattered abroad throughout the region of Judea and Samaria, except the apostles. Sounds like Acts 1. 8 a little bit to me. And devout men carried Stephen to his burial and made great lamentation over him. Persecution is great. It's intense. One of their key men, one of their deacons, is killed. Because of preaching the gospel. As for Saul, he made havoc of the church, entering into every house, hailing men and women, committing them to prison, committed them to prison. This is terrible And therefore they that were scattered abroad went everywhere hiding the Word of God, not letting anyone know they were Christian. No, they went everywhere doing what? Preaching the word. The exact opposite happened. So persecution, rather than being an obstacle to evangelism, rather than be an obstacle to Christian growth and strengthening our faith, it has the very exact opposite of that. Somebody said this many years ago, an old church father back hundreds of years, thousand or so years ago, he said the blood of martyrs is the seed of the church. What did he mean by that? He meant that when persecution comes down on Christians, they get stronger in their faith, and the church grows greater than when there is no persecution. The church stays strong by persecution. Back in 1989, I was on staff in Indianapolis at the Thomson Road Baptist Church. Pastor Slutz was my pastor. I was assistant Perestroika, the wall came down, remember all that? Gorbachev was big news and all of that. And uh I think it was 1990, a team of independent fundamental Baptists went to Russia, first time since the Cold War And they were could gum, they got visas, and they went and visited churches that up until that point were underground churches. They visited pastors that were just released from the prisons because of their preaching the gospel and they just got out. And he spent almost a month over there. He came back and he was telling us about it. And I asked what I said, what stands out in your mind about the Christians there? He said this, the depth of their faith and commitment puts us to shame. He said, these guys are for real. Nobody's playing. It's not a show. It's either obedience and suffering or compromise. And he goes, these guys obey. And he came back. He says, I'm ashamed of myself and my commitment to Christ compared to these guys, my obedience to the Word of God. And he made this statement. He said, persecution in Russia has made the church strong. Made it strong. How many folks here, like me, are praying for revival in our country? Anybody here? I'm praying for revival. I want God to make us what we ought to be. In studying this, I paused a little bit. I wonder if the road to revival requires persecution Prosperity sure hasn't brought revival, has it? Freedom hasn't brought revival And we're praying for and we're seeing us losing our rights. We're seeing an increase of persecution. And we're seeing it here in America coming down on Christian. I saw an article yesterday. where a Christian Virginia Christian family has to defend themselves for teaching the Bible. They have to explain why they believe the Bible or they're not allowed to teach their kids anymore I'm telling you, and I'm wondering. We're asking God for revival. I'm wondering if He isn't answering our prayer. But he's doing it in the way that requ is required for revival to come. Now I'm not trying to be a doomsday, I'm not trying to be sensational, but I am saying this. Freedom, prosperity, technology has not brought revival. And you look in the Bible and you look in history And the thing that brought revival was intense persecution. And my question is, do we really, really want revival? Say well I want revival, but not if I have to be persecuted for it. Then we're not going to have revival It's the way it is. Jesus said, rejoice, be exceeding glad. Next week we'll look at why, and that's part of it. Another aspect of this We have to ask ourselves, what is more important to me? Ease and security or being right with God? What's more important to me, comfort and safety or the glory of God and souls being saved? Probably for the average Christian America, ease, security, comfort, safety is priority number one. And then if I can bring glory to God and obey Him without sacrificing that, well I'll bring I'll try and win souls and I'll try and do that, as long as I don't have to sacrifice any of that. Or says, oh no, no, no, no, you're missing it. The other aspect of this is this. The gospel is never taken to unreached people by Christians who are committed to safety. Did you get that? If you have a Christian who's committed to safety, that person will never get the gospel to unreach people. You know who I admire? Luke Knickerbacher. And Jamie. They go to Nepal. And I don't know why, but that's always when he was here and they presented their work up here on this platform a year and a half ago at our missions conference, something touched my heart, and I thought they are going. to a dangerous place, very real possibility, they give their lives for the gospel. He's already shared the gospel with hundreds and hundreds of children there. We saw the testimony. If Jamie, if if Luke and Jamie were committed to safety and ease and security, those kids would have never heard the gospel. But they said, no. Obeying God and living for the Lord is more important. And I believe that's what the Lord is telling us here. Persecution comes, don't get resentful, don't get angry. If you can avoid it, great. But brother, when it happens, rejoice and be glad. To obey this verse, I'll be honest with you, I looked at it and I thought, God, I don't know. I think to obey that verse, when the Lord says, rejoice and be exceeding glad, if I'm going to obey that, I need the power of the Holy Spirit. God, I need you to fill me with your spirit so I can do that. Because in and of myself, I don't know I can do that. I need the Lord to do that. And you read these great men, you read Box's Book of Martyr and others that are given their life for the gospel, you find they were spirit-filled men and women who loved God and were sold out to Jesus Christ. The other thing is I thought I need the filling of the Spirit and number two I need to ask God to give me boldness. You know what I've how many times have I hesitated to give a gospel tract to a lady at Walmart because I'm afraid of what she might say? And then I read this passage and I think what in the world's wrong with me So, sobering, isn't it? Let's ask the Lord to fill us with his Spirit, to help us grow in our faith. Hey listen, if we can, through the courts and whatnot, keep this stuff off our back, I think we should. If we can pass through the midst and avoid being thrown off a cliff, Jesus did that. Let's just determine that if and when it comes, Lord, I want you to fill me with your spirit, and I'm going to rejoice, be exceeding glad, understanding I get a reward coming in heaven. Amen? Let's pray. Father in heaven. Lord, we uh this is this is sobering to me, Lord. It's challenging. We see it in our world around us, not in theory, we see it in real life. We see uh we hear rumors of it in our own country. And we ask, Lord, that you would help us as individuals. I pray that you would stir Mountain Lake Independent Baptist Church. I'm asking you, God, that no matter what comes down, we're faithful, that we are dedicated to the Lord Jesus Christ, and that we would rejoice, be exceeding glad. And be a testimony for your glory. We need you to help us. We need you to give us boldness, dear Lord. In the meantime, in these peaceful days, help us to just be bold. And we need you to help us. Our heads are bowed, our eyes are closed. How many say, Preacher, I am praying for prayer, uh praying for revival? And I understand what that might mean, and you say, but I really want revival. And I pray that God would give me grace. To uh to rejoice in whatever that requires. Any like that by the uplifted hand preacher, that's my desire. Now it's so easy to raise our hand and say that, but we need God to help us We've got to get close to the Lord and walk close. And we need every area to be right. We can't compromise in any area. It has to all be right. And the Lord will help us. Father, bless us now as we go into invitation. Let's stand together.