Chapter five if we would take your Bibles. Matthew chapter five. Praise the Lord for beautiful weather. How many people saw woolly worms anywhere? Anybody see any woolly worms? I saw I don't know what they travel in herds or flocks or whatever they go in. But uh Monday I was going out south part of the county and on this little road, come around, and there must have been twenty or thirty of them within a twenty yard stretch of road just crossing over is like a migration of them. And uh so Brother Harry and I and somebody else, we were deciphering what's going to happen this winter by the bully worms and the colors on them and uh reminded me of a fella that um uh weatherman kept saying it was going to be a real bad winter, cold, high winds, snow, it's going to be terrible. And uh he just kept saying this and predicting this horrible winter. Somebody asked him, they said How do you know it's gonna be like that? He says there's an American Indian, there's an Indian down the road. That guy is chopping wood and stacking it up and and just going crazy. So they went down to the Indy and they said, How how do you know it's going to be a bad winter? He says, The weatherman keeps saying it's going to be a terrible, terrible winter. So I can tell you how to find out what this winter's gonna be like. Wait and see. Chester and Linda are leaving Monday. I know what their winter's gonna be like I hate them. No, not really. Matthew chapter five, verse number thirty-three. Again, of course, this is Jesus speaking here. Again, you have heard that it hath been said of them, said by them of old time. Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but thou shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths. But I say unto you, swear not at all. Neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth, for it is his footstool, neither by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king, neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black But let your conversation be yea, yay, nay, nay. For whatever is more than these cometh of evil. I've entitled it, I've entitled the the message for lack of creativity how to swear. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask you to bless our study of this portion of the Sermon on the Mount. I pray that you would um Uh teach us about our words, about our oaths, our promises, and uh pray you challenge our character I yield myself, my will again to you. I present my body anew. I ask the Lord as always that you would speak through me and that you would be our teacher, you would be the preacher, and our hearts and minds be open to your word and your will for us Help us to be better Christians as a result of the truths presented here is my prayer. In Jesus' name, amen. We are now on the fourth illustration of six. That the Lord is giving, and he's illustrating a truth he presented in verses 17 through 20. And I keep reviewing this because I want to keep before us what this is all about In verses 17 through 20, he was telling the folks that the Pharisees had uh, and I'm putting this in my words, but the Pharisees had a very superficial righteousness. They presented themselves as very righteous. He says very superficial. He says your righteousness, if you want to be accepted of God, if you want God to uh be pleased with you and accept you, your righteousness has to exceed that of the Pharisees. And he gives these six illustrations here to expose the hypocrisy of these Pharisees. Uh they uh as we've been saying, as long as they had the outward, as long as this show was out there, as long as the outside of the pot was clean, they didn't give any thought to what the inside of the cup was like As long as the outside of the sepulchre was whited, it didn't matter that they were dead bones inside. They never gave that any thought. And the Lord says, no, no, no, to be accepted by God You have to have a right heart, you have to have a righteousness, really, that you and I cannot produce ourselves, that the Lord has to give us. So he's illustrating this. Apparently, these subjects, these six subjects that the Lord brings up as illustrations of how our righteousness has to be more than just superficial Apparently these are important issues in the Christian life because he does more than just uh illustrate. He goes and explains what he means, for instance Uh the first one he says, uh you've heard him say of old, referencing the Pharisees' teaching, thou shalt not kill. He says, But I say unto you Whosoever is angry with his brother. Then he goes and elaborates on that. So he doesn't just make a statement. He elaborates what he means on these things. So we have these six subjects here That he uses as an illustration, but in doing so, he elaborates on that subject So that tells me something, and I didn't really pick this up before, but that tells me something. That tells me that these six subjects are very vital in the Christian light. These are something important to us that he would draw of all the illustrations he could use, he draws these six and he elaborates on each one. Let's see if you agree with my conclusion here. Would you agree with me? It would be important then Christians not murder people. Yes, that would be important. I hope that none of us murder people But the Lord elaborates and he says you shouldn't even have anger in your heart. So that tells me it's probably important for Christians to manage their anger Keep that under control. Keep that submitted to the Spirit. Then he goes to the next one. Adultery. Would you agree with me? It's important that Christians not commit adultery. No, it's Pharisees. But then he elaborates, he says, listen, you shouldn't even have lust in your heart. You shouldn't even go around, you know, even looking on a person to lust after them. And so he goes on. Divorce and remarriage Here, this subject that we're looking at here has to do with perjury and honesty. And we're going to look at that in a little bit. He gets down to vengeance, will be the next one, and kindness and forgiveness. Then the last one is hating our enemies. He says, hate them, hate your enemies and love your friends. He says, no, no, no. You need to love your enemies. And so every one of these subjects, apparently, the Lord considers to be very, very important in our Christian life. And I take this away from this. Christianity is very practical. Christianity should affect the way we live. Affect not only just the way we live, Christianity affects what we are as a person. And that's what he's addressing here. Some people would say, you know, lust and beginning angry and, you know, honesty. uh divorce and remarriage, being kind. There's bigger issues in the world than these things. They say, for Pete's sake, we've got racism. And we've got violence, we've got conflict in the Middle East, uh, we've got all these issues, and surely God isn't concerned about whether I tell the truth all the time or not, or whether I have some lust in my heart or not, uh surely uh uh But who can't why would I worry about what words I'm using when we have all these huge issues? I want to suggest to you that what man considers big, God doesn't always consider big And what man considers small, God sometimes considers large. This is what I'm trying to say. As Christians, everything we do is important. As Christians, everything we do has an impact on the world. I'm suggesting to you, if this whole world, and I'm not talking about lost or saved, I'm just talking about mankind in general If this world would live by the principles of Scripture, we would not have racism. We would not have conflict in the world. We would not have all these issues. So what you and I are as Christians is profoundly important. Remember earlier in this sermon, he said, ye are the salt of the earth. You are influence in this world. We were years ago, and I've mentioned this uh various times over the years, and this was a long time ago. Uh our boys were small. Sam and I were out at Harrington Lake, we were fishing And it was up and evening. It was just a beautiful night. And it was real still. And um that water was like glass. And we were over on the um uh the building side of the lake if you're familiar out there and then the other side there's a dam breast over there and there's a little area for fishing. Well Sam and I were over here actually we were over by the dam right or uh on this side of the dam. And we're fishing and just spending a pleasant evening. We're outside. It's just beautiful. We were the only ones there except For about two or three other people who were on the other side of the lake, all the way on the other side, on the other side of the over spill It was one of those nights that was just still and every word said carried across that water just as if they were standing right beside you. Now get the picture. It's a beautiful place out there. The water's still. Sam and I, he's probably five, six, seven years old, something like that. We've got our lines out and we're just enjoying ourselves there. And these two, three folks on the other side of the lake. Every word was absolutely filthy. I mean the language was unbelievable. The things they were saying and the words they were using and the The stuff they were talking about. And this is coming over. And here I'm sitting with my son. And we're outside, you know, we get away, go out there to get away from that type of stuff And finally we fished and finally we just uh they packed up and they came across and uh by this time I was steaming. I was just steaming. And he comes across and he says, hey, are you catching anything? And I remember I said, I said, by the way, I said, I really do not appreciate the language That you guys were using. I said, I'm here with my young son in a public place, a family-friendly thing. I really don't appreciate you talking like that. Well, he comes down the hill to me And he says, listen, he says, we live in a very evil world. And I said, I agree with you. And you did absolutely nothing to make it any better. At that he just walked off. And the fact uh the point I'm trying to make in telling that story is this: you and I ought to make things better. The way we talk and how we live and how we interact, it ought to make things better in the world. Not indulge or nurture that evilness. And so we are watched by the world. We have an influence in this world. We are the salt of the earth. The world is watching us. How many people here, maybe you work in a place and uh you ever had employee uh uh fellow um Coworkers is the word I want. How many of you ever had coworkers and they commented on your Christianity? Anybody here ever had that happen? Maybe positive, maybe you're negative. Did you ever hear this? Well, I thought a Christian would do something better than that. You know what they do? They're watching us. They listen to the words they we say. They pay attention to our actions. Like I said, if mankind lived by the principles of God's word, of Scripture, there wouldn't be racism, there wouldn't be conflict. I suggest to you, if mankind lived by the principles of Scripture, we wouldn't need courts. We wouldn't need all that type of stuff if we lived by the Word of God. But the problem is the world cannot live by scriptural principles because the world has a sinful heart. And that's the point the Lord is making. The work salvation that the Pharisees were presenting is inadequate. What you and I The morality that you and I can come up with, well, don't kill, don't commit adultery, you know, don't forswear yourself. That is inadequate for salvation. I have to have a complete transformation. That's the point the Lord is making. I need the new birth to give me a new nature so that I can do these things that He's teaching here. Um only the new birth can replace anger with peace. Only the new birth can take that lust out of my heart. Take the dishonesty out of my heart, take the vengeance out of my heart, take the hatred out of my heart, and replace it with purity and goodness In the presence of God. Only the new birth can do that. I tried so hard before I got saved, that was five months leading up to my salvation. I've referenced this a lot. I tried so hard to do right. I tried so hard to To be what I thought I should be, and I failed and failed and failed and finally I realized I need a saviour to save me from my sins, to save me from my bitterness, to save me from this sin. And so that's the point the Lord is making. Now, as I said, we get to the fourth illustration he gives And he says here in verse 33, he says, Again ye have heard that it has been said of them of old. He's not referencing Scripture, he's referencing what the Pharisees have been teaching about Scripture And he said, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but thou shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths. That's what the Pharisees taught. Don't forswear thyself, but perform to the Lord. That's an important phrase, I believe. Perform to the Lord thy oaths. So let's look at this. I want us to notice, first of all, I only have two points to the message, 16 subpoints, but only two points. The first one is this. I want us to notice the corrupt teaching of the Pharisees. Now, verse 33 looks pretty good on the surface. Thou shalt not persuade thyself, but thou shalt perform unto the Lord thy oaths. Now, the corrupt teaching of the Pharisees. The first point under that is this: the precept that is at hand. What they were referencing, this was actually the Pharisees' comments, their commentary on the third commandment. And the third commandment is, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. In fact, let's look at a couple verses. Keep your place here. Come with me back to Exodus chapter 20. And we're going to look at Exodus, Leviticus, and Deuteronomy. We're going to look at a verse in each of these. The third command, Exodus chapter 20, Genesis, Exodus. And I'll give you a chance to find it. Now what I did in Exodus chapter 20, you have the Ten Commandments listed. I underlined them in red and numbered them. That way I can reference them real quickly and easily in my Bible. Just remember Exodus 20 You go there, and if you have a mark, you can see the Ten Commandments very easily. Verse 7 of Exodus chapter 20 is the third command. Matthew 5. 33, Jesus is quoting the Pharisees' commentary on the third command. Third command is this: thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in what? In vain. Now what does it mean to take someone's name in vain? To take something in vain? It means what? What if something's vain, it's what? It's empty, it's meaningless, it's just nothing to it. In other words, don't use God's name in a meaningless way. Just shallow, just using his name. And that has many applications. The context the Lord is referencing is using God's name in a vowel, in an oath Or God's name in a promise. And we'll explain here in a little bit. So it says, Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. And he makes a statement, for the Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. Come over to Leviticus, if you would. It's restated a little differently in Leviticus chapter number 19. Exodus, Leviticus is the next book. Chapter 19 and verse 12. This is God giving instructions to Israel. Leviticus 19, verse 12. Again, I have this verse underscored in my Bible. And ye shall not swear by my name falsely Neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God, for I am the Lord. Now here in this passage, we have introduced the idea of Swearing in God's name. Now, when we're talking about swearing, and I'll get to this in a little bit, we're not necessarily talking about saying bad words. But here he's referencing swearing as in taking an oath or making a promise And he says here that we should not swear by God's name what? Falsely important word. And he goes on, he says, Neither shalt thou profane the name of God. The word profane is very similar in meaning as the word vain in the verse one. Don't use it in a way that's demeaning, that's empty, that's shallow. And so we'll come back. We'll touch on that here in a little bit. Now come over to Deuteronomy. And I'm not going to try and expound these completely, but I want to reference them because when Jesus in Matthew 5. 33 Says, uh, don't forswear yourself. He's referencing back to what the Pharisees were saying about these passages of Scripture. Deuteronomy 6 and verse number 13. Deuteronomy 6, 13, thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him, and shalt swear by his name. That's interesting. Here he says, you should swear by his name. Leviticus said we should not swear by his name falsely. Exodus 20 says we should not take God's name in vain. And so these are the passages That the Pharisees, that Jesus is quoting the Pharisees' commentary on these three passages, on these three instructions. Now they're there Summary of that was what the Lord says, you have heard it said, Oh, thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thy oaths. Alright, so that's uh their uh that's the principle at stake, that's the precept that's being addressed. Now, what was the perversion of the Pharisees? How were they taking what the Lord had said in these Old Testament passages And perverting it. How are they twisting it or corrupting it? Well, they say this. Come back to Matthew. Now look here at what they were saying. Verse 33. Again, you have heard that it's been said of them of old. These Pharisees have been teaching you this for a long time. Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths. That phrase, forswear thyself. It has this meaning. This is what it means. Don't perjure yourself. Do not commit perjury. Now, what is perjury? Where generally do you hear the term perjury used in a court of law? It is when somebody is under Oath. They're under oath and they have sworn to tell the truth. Right? And if they lie They perjure themselves. Maybe it's in a congressional setting. We see that a lot in the news. People are under a committee hearing and they take a vow, take an oath, they swear to tell the truth. And if they tell a lie, it's perjuring themselves. So the Pharisees said this: don't perjure yourself. When you're under oath, Particularly before God, make sure you're telling the truth. In other words, if you are swearing in God's name to tell the truth, If you're making an oath or promising in the name of God to tell the truth, then and only then you're obligated to tell the truth If you promise something and you don't invoke the name of God and you don't keep that promise, then you're not held responsible. You're not obligated to keep that promise if you did not invoke the name of God, if you did not uh um uh swear in God's name So, in other words, you're obligated to tell the truth if you swear in God's name. If you don't swear in God's name to tell the truth, then you're no obligation to tell the truth. You're not held responsible for that. It's kind of like the same way of thinking. As long as you don't commit adultery, that's fine. Doesn't matter how you think in your mind. As long as you don't commit adultery, you're fine As long as you don't murder somebody, it's okay. God accepts that. Doesn't matter how much hatred and anger you have in your heart towards them. You don't murder them, you're okay. You need to tell the truth, but only if it's under a vow that God's name is invoked. Look again at verse 33. Notice he says, thou shalt not forswear thyself, don't perjure yourself, you're under oath, but shalt perform unto The Lord thine knows. That tells us that as long as you're under the name of God, you're invoking God's name, that you're going to tell the truth, then you have to. But if that's not there, then that's not, you're not necessarily obligated. This is what they were doing. Now I don't know if I was explaining that real well, but this is basically what they're doing. They were categorizing When I'm obligated to tell the truth. If it's under oath, then I need you need to tell the truth if you're under oath. If you're not under oath, You can pretty much say whatever you want, no big deal. You can tell the truth or you can lie. It's very similar to how many when you were kids would ever uh I'm gonna illustrate. Derek, come on up here I've been practicing this all day. Alright, Derek, he comes up here and Derek says, Man, I'm broke. Ah, uh, no problem. Derek, next week I'm going to give you a hundred dollars. Isn't that great? Next week I will. Alright, good. I'll see you next week. Take care, man. What did I do? I crossed my fingers. What what did we what did we say when we were kids? We'd say something, but if we crossed our fingers, we were not Obligated to do it, right? Anybody uh this isn't new, right? You all have done that. Or we cross our feet or we'd do something. Uh you know, the teacher says, what happened to your homework? Uh The dog ate it. And as long as my fingers were crossed, I could tell a lie. And I could just make stuff up. I'm not obligated to tell the truth. Where did we get that from? That thinking is exactly what the Pharisees were teaching. That's what they were talking about. Now, if your fingers aren't crossed, then you're obligated to tell the truth. If you bow under God's name, then you've got to tell the truth. But if you didn't invoke God's name in it, you can say whatever you want. It doesn't matter. And it's categorizing the truth. In these circumstances, then you have to tell the truth. In other circumstances, you don't necessarily have to. And that is their Perversion of what the Lord was saying, he actually, we'll see here in a little bit, and I hope I can explain this uh clearly and correctly, but you know, he wasn't saying you cannot take an oath. He was saying telling the truth is not limited to just when you take an oath. Don't categorize it. In other words, their concern was not whether you're honest in your heart, not whether your character has any integrity about it. That wasn't their concern, never entered their thinking. Their concern was as long as you have this legalistic wording, if you use these words in this situation, then you're obligated to the truth. And if you don't use these very specific words, then you're not obligated to tell the truth. It was all superficial. Had nothing to do with having a truthful character. It had nothing to do with being a person of integrity. Just had everything to do within certain legalistic circumstances. I'm obligated to do these things. And so it just falls into the same pattern. And the Lord is saying, listen, unless you're righteous, Mr. Exceed that type of righteousness, you're never going to be accepted by God. And so the the corruption, the corrupt teaching of the Pharisees was you use certain words and you're obligated to tell the truth. And by the way, that's religion today. In certain circumstances, and even within our circles if we're not careful, in certain certain circumstances, I have to be this way. Now when I'm away from those circumstances, then I can be the complete opposite. How many times do we, is our Christianity a little bit different in church with the people of God than it is out of church on the job? Why is that? Well, I gotta be happy, I gotta praise the Lord, and I gotta talk about God and all that when I'm in church. Wait a minute. Don't categorize my relationship with God to just the church time. It ought to be all the time. Right or wrong? Don't just tell the truth when you're under this oath and you've invoked God's name. You ought to be honest all the time And that's the point of what the Lord is saying here. And so the corrupt teaching of the Pharisees. Now let's look at the correction of the Lord. And he goes verse 34, 35, 36, and 37. This must be pretty important because he uses four verses to address what the Pharisees were teaching. This tells me that our words are very important to the Lord. The words we use, our integrity, is very important to the Lord, because he takes a fairly extended portion of scripture here. And he addresses this subject. I put uh three th three statements here under this the correction of our Lord. First of all, I put this down. Our words are sacred Now I'm using that word sacred a little loosely, but our words are sacred. I get this from verse 34. He says, but I say unto you, This is what they've been teaching. This is what I say unto you. Swear not at all. Neither by heaven, for it is God's throne, nor by the earth. For his footstool, neither by Jerusalem, the city of the great king, neither shalt thou swear by the head, because thou canst not make the hair uh one hair white or black. The Pharisees had this idea That if you swore, if you use God's name and you made an oath, then you're absolutely abdicated. If you use the temple, if you swore in the name of the temple, Then you were obligated. And they had these lists of things and varying degrees of obligation depending on what you swore on. Kind of like cross my heart and hope to die Is that the truth? Yeah, I promise the truth. Cross my heart and hope to die. Well, in that case, you are obligated a little bit to tell the truth. And so he's addressing that and he's saying, no, no, no, wait a minute No uh uh uh you what you say is sacred. Your words are are having uh are sacred as far as God is concerned. Now Let me stop here and address verse number 34 where he says, Swear not at all. Does that mean, is the Lord telling us that we should never ever make a promise? Is he saying we should never take an oath? Under no circumstance at all should he ever take an oath. How many people are familiar with a religious group called the Friends? Do you ever hear Friends? We know them better as what? Quakers. Anybody ever hear of the Quakers? There's not many around. I ran across a fellow actually in local uh several years ago who's a Quaker Their teaching was they took the Lord's statement here and they said, no sweat, no oaths, no promises. If they go to court and ask to raise their right hand and swear to tell the truth, they refuse to do that on religious grounds, and they get it from this passage. Now, is the Lord telling us we should never make a promise? Is the Lord telling us that at the wedding I should not take vows at my wedding? Is the Lord telling us that faith promise giving is wrong? We shouldn't promise to give a certain amount of money. Is that what he's saying? My answer is no. That's not what he's saying. You say, well, how do you have scripture for that? Well, there's quite a few places throughout scripture where great men took vows. Do you remember when Abraham, back in Genesis, when Abraham sent his servant to go get a wife for his son, he made that servant take a vow? That he would not get any wife from anyone other than his family. Abraham made his servant take a vow. Um, Jonathan and David took vows one to another You come down through here. It's interesting. In fact, are you there in Matthew? Are you still in Matthew? Come over to chapter 26 at the end of the book of Matthew. Here, Jesus is being tried. And he's before the high priest and Matthew chapter 26, and notice verse 63. Is the Lord saying we should never ever make a promise, never ever take an oath, never ever swear, not in cursing way, but swearing to tell the truth? Is he saying we should never ever do that? Well look at Matthew. 26 and and verse 63. Now this probably isn't the strongest argument, but it lends credence to what I'm saying. Look at verse 63 Or verse 62, and the high priest arose and said unto him, Jesus, answerest thou nothing? What is it which these witness against thee? And Jesus stood there silent. Now look what happens. But Jesus held his peace, and the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God. Aha, he's invoking God into this. I adjure thee by the living God that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God. He's saying this. In God's name, you tell us the truth. He's evoking a vow. Now, what did Jesus say? Did Jesus say, that sin, I'm not going to be part of it? No, look what thou Jesus answers. In that situation, with that statement that the high priest made, now Jesus responds. He wasn't responding before. Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said. Nevertheless I say unto you, hereafter shall ye see the Son of Man sitting on the right hand of power and coming in the clouds of heaven. Then the high priest freaks out. That's the Dennis Leatherman version of the next verse. They go off. But Jesus responded to the priest invoking God's name and demanding the truth. He was basically, the high priest was basically saying this. I want you to swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth. And Jesus responded with the truth. And so Is he saying we should never under any circumstances? I don't think so. In Romans chapter 9 and verse 1, and for sake of time we're not going to turn these. You can jot it down and reference them later. Romans 9-1, 2 Corinthians chapter 1 and verse 23, Paul took an oath. He says, he uh took an oath in the name of God. I'm telling you the truth. The Holy Spirit bearing me witness. I am telling you the truth before God. Now, is he taking God's name in vain? No, he's telling the truth. He's invoking God to be his witness. In fact, and again, this would be a fascinating study in Hebrews 6, verse 16 through 18, God Himself gives an oath Because he can swear by no other, none greater. God uses his own character to be witness that what he is saying is true. Now, would you agree with me? God doesn't have to have a character reference. The only person qualified to be God's character reference is God. And so he appeals to himself and he takes an oath of himself. So is the Lord saying here, no, don't ever Make a promise. If you get called into court as a witness in a situation or whatever it may be, and they ask you to swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help you God, is it wrong to do that? I'm saying to you, no, that's not what the Lord is teaching. Because we see other instances in the scripture where God allows that. He does not rebuke that. What is he saying? I think he's saying this. Do not make, I think this is what the Lord's saying. Do not make, let me word this correctly, do not make taking an oath. A requirement for me to tell the truth. You follow what I'm saying? Do not require a sacred oath for honesty In other words, the Lord's saying don't categorize your honesty. If you're going to swear, if you're going to vow Take a vow, you're going to make a promise in God's name, then you're obligated to tell the truth, but the other time you're not. No, no, no. Your level of integrity ought to be the same whether you're taking an oath or not Your word ought to be as good on the street corner as it is on the witness stand. Saying don't require, don't require swearing As an affirmation that what you're saying is true. Do not make oaths necessary on my part. For the truth to be told. Now, someone else, they might not know me that well, or in a court of law, it's especially important that there be truth. They may require of me for their peace of mind that I take an oath that I'm telling the truth. But as far as I'm concerned, I ought not to have to take use God's name, invoke God's name For me to confirm on taking the telling the truth, my word ought to be good without using God's name. Does that make sense And so the Lord is saying, don't categorize your truth. Your integrity ought to be the same all the time. The honesty ought to be there. You don't need to invoke God to tell the truth. Turn over to me if you're there's in Matthew still, come over to Matthew 12. The Lord makes a very sobering statement here. I tell you, this statement here ought to give us pause, make us stop and think, and be very, very careful. Matthew chapter 12, look with me at verse 34. I'm telling you, the Lord uses some strong language sometimes. Look at verse 34. Look at the opening statement. O generation of Vipers. He's not smiling real vague and saying something good's gonna happen to y'all today. He's not saying that at all. He's saying, you generation of vipers You s you le this is this is Dennis Leatherman version. You dirty low-down snakes. How many people would love it if Brother Leatherman got up and preached to you like that? Well, um anyway. Look at verse 34. Oh generation of vipers, how can ye, look at this, how can ye being evil speak good things? Look, for out of the abundance of the heart, the mouth speaketh A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things. An evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things. Let me put this, let me tack this on there as commentary. A dishonest man, out of the dishonesty of his heart, brings forth dishonest words. An honest man, out of the honesty in his heart, brings forth honest words. In other words, and I'm getting ahead of myself, in other words, our words are indicators of our character. Our honesty or our deceitfulness, dishonesty, is indicator of the condition of the heart I have. If I am dishonest in my words, Then I have a dishonest heart. If my words are untrustworthy, it means my character is untrustworthy. That's what the Lord is getting at. The Pharisees, if you invoke God's name, then you have to tell the truth. Doesn't matter what you are, rest time, cross your fingers, hope to die, whatever. Doesn't matter. The Lord's saying, no, no, no, no Because out of your heart is where your words are coming from. And if you're being dishonest at any time It's because you have a dishonest heart. Don't require invoking God's name to confirm that you're telling the truth. Now if they need to in the situation, it's not saying you shouldn't do it. He's saying don't require that. You ought to be honest Now look at the rest of this passage. This is where it gets sobering. Verse 36. But I say unto you, every idle word, every word that has nothing behind it. That men shall speak, they shall give account thereof on the day of judgment. How many words? Every word. Wow. Well, if I swear to tell the truth, then I'm going to tell the truth. Now the rest of the time, eh. The Lord says, no, no, no. Even when you don't invoke the Lord's name, you're still going to give an account of those words you use. The honesty and the truthfulness behind them. The substance of them. Look at verse 37. For by thy words Thou shalt be justified and by thy words thou shalt be condemned. Is that work salvation? No. He's simply saying that our words indicate our character. Our words are indicate our character. So our words are sacred. I put that down. I don't know why, Dave, but I'm all of a sudden getting real ringy here. Let me give you the last two here real quick. Our words are sacred, and I put this down. I wish we had more time. I'd like to spend time on this, but our words are to be simple. Come back to chapter 5 there. And look with me at verse 37. This is verse 37, he's summing up what he's been saying Let your communication be yay, yay, nay, nay. Whatever is more than this cometh of evil. In other words, let your yes mean Yes. And let no mean no. In other words, simply mean what you say. Don't deceive. Don't exaggerate. Don't leave parts out. Don't mislead through the words of you. Just be very. Our words should be very, very simple. I've found that honesty simplifies conversation. Honesty simplifies things. The farther I get from the truth, the more complicated my communication is of it. He asked a little kid, how'd you get those cookie crumbs on your chin? Uh, the cat. The cat? How'd the cat get cookie crumbs on your kit on your chin? Well, the cat was in the bathroom Really? So what does that have to do with cookie crumbs? Well the dog chased the cat and it just goes on and on and on. Simple truth is, if he was honest, he says, uh, I stole a cookie But he's trying to come up with this elaborate scheme that just gets more complicated as it goes because he's not being honest. The Lord says, let your words be simple. Honesty simplifies conversation. That's why evolution is so convoluted. It's not true. And they just have to come up with more and more and more elaborate figures and and theories and and formulas to get from point A to point B when the reality is the whole thing's a hoax. And so it gets so convoluted. And the Lord's saying, listen, if you have an honest heart, your words are simple. They're just honesty clarifies our conversation. I put this down. Christianity simplifies living. Person gets saved, their whole life is simplified. Man, as before I got saved, it was so confusing. I didn't know if I was coming or going, if I was on or off, in or out. And I got saved, and it's like, oh, life makes sense now See what I'm saying? The truth simplifies. Christianity simplifies our living and our speaking. Our character should be such that if we say something It requires no oath to be believed. Hey, if he says yes, then it's yes. If she says no, then you know the answer is no. If they said it's black, then you know it's black Very simple. I don't need to take God's name. I don't need to swear by God. I swear, I'm swear before God. I swear I'm telling the truth. You don't have to have to do that My words ought to be so honest that people, you don't have to swear by God, I know it's true. You've proven that. I'm just cross my heart and hope to spit And you don't have to do that stuff. That's what the Lord's saying. It would be very, very simple. And then last of all, and I already touched on this, our words are symbolic. In other words, they represent, they indicate my character. They indicate the words I use and the honesty, my honesty indicates my relationship with God. If you have someone that's dishonest, whether it's an adult, and we think of kids as being dishonest, you know what? I've been lied to by pa adults more than I've been lied to by kids. My honesty, my level of honesty indicates my maturity, the maturity of my Christian life. You're never going to have a strong, mature Christian that is dishonest. God is truth And if I know God and I'm walking with God and I'm in fellowship with God, I'm mature in my faith, then my words are going to be yay, yay, nay, nay. They're going to be true. We're going to be honest. That's what the Lord is saying. Now the Pharisees had all this theories and this legalism where they could just get out under this. And if you didn't say these words, then you're not of the And the Lord says, no, no, no, none of that. Just be honest. A young Christian man got a job in Boston many, many years ago. He's working in the office of some very powerful businessmen. And they were not believers. And this young man, he was adult, but he was a young man. He was very, very short. And these unsafe businessmen, scrupulous in many ways, would just make fun of the short little guy, the short little Christian. And he worked hard, he was fine, and uh he wanted someday to be a businessman, be a successful businessman. These guys made fun of him and they said, You will never, ever be a businessman. And he said, why not? Oh, you'll never be a successful businessman. He said, why not? Well, you're short, people aren't going to trust you. You're short, they're not going to look up to you. And they had all these reasons why this guy could not be, and all these things he could not do Because he was short and thus he would not be successful. He says, oh yeah, there's one thing I can do that you can't do. They said, what's that? He said, I can tell the truth. They were liars. He says, I can be pure in my speech He says, I can be trusted by the people I do business with. What was he saying? He was saying, I want to have character of integrity. And that's what the Lord is talking about. As Christians, we ought to be men and women, women of integrity. That what we say is so, that our word is good. How many people ever said this? Yeah, back in my day, man's word was good. They've been saying that since I was a kid, the grandpa said that back in my day. You know, back in Jesus' day, people's words still wasn't good. Fact is, without Jesus Christ, we can't live up to this level that the Lord is requiring. We need Jesus our Savior. Amen. Father in heaven, I pray you'd bless us, help us, that our yes would be yea, our nays would be nay, that we would be people of integrity and honesty in our homes. In our business, in our church life, in the community, that we could establish, not for show, but establish A testimony that people don't need us to cross our heart and hope to die, Lord, but they would believe us because we are honest. Our heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I would really like to have in my life as a Christian that level of integrity? I would like my testimony and my quote unquote reputation to be as such that people know That I am what I am, I'm real, my words are true. I don't need to swear, I don't need to take oaths and vows that my word is good. Is there any like that, like me, you say that's really what I want to be? That doesn't come naturally In fact, the Lord had to deal with all this tells us how deceive our heart is. So we need the Lord. We need to trust Him. Father, bless us and help us, I pray, in Jesus' name. Let's stand in the