One, um just to get you caught up, I want to go through the outline. This is just one um sort of message I've taken from the whole chapter. I broke it down and and uh what the setting is, and I think we're all aware of this, but uh uh at the end of Of 1 Samuel, uh we we found that King Saul was killed on the battlefield by the Philistines. It's a very brief battle, probably about a day is what it seems the Bible suggests. And uh King Saul was killed along with Jonathan. His death was uh a little unusual. He was wounded. And uh rather than allow himself to remain on the battlefield for the Philistines to come in and abuse him, which is what they would have done, they would have no doubt tortured him and and made his final moments horrible So he got tried to get his uh his uh armor bearer there to take his life, kill him for him, and he wouldn't do it. He respected the uh the man anointed of God, so the armor bearer wouldn't do it. And so Saul, uh, what did he do? He fell on his own sword. He set it up somehow and he fell down on it and uh and died. Uh David, and get to chapter one now, this is what we're looking at. David is um cleaning up the ruins of Zaglag after they had been raided by the Amalekites, his family had been taken, his all his men, his uh uh their households have been taken, all their possessions. David pursued him, got the uh rescued his family, rescued all their materials, their their possessions. They get back, and a messenger shows up uh in the camp in Zaglag there and brings David the news. That Saul had been killed. But this messenger, he's a young Amalekite fellow, his version of how Saul died and God's report, account of how Saul died are very different. And so that's what we've been looking at. We noted or a couple weeks ago the messengers report And I noted several things about his report. First of all, it was a curious messenger that an Amalekite would be concerned about the issues in Israel. So that was curious. He had a very questionable report. As I said, there was quite a few dip uh differences in his account and God's account and then we pointed out that he had a cold indifference. He really didn't care. His whole account was about himself. And so he was promoting himself. Then we noted uh David's response. And we noted several things about David's response. First of all, his response was rare, if you remember. He didn't respond the way you think he would. This is the man that's been trying to kill David for uh the last eighteen months, two years maybe, maybe upwards to three years. Saul's been chasing him around trying to kill him and David find out that this man, this king, Saul, that's trying to kill him is dead, uh, you think he might respond in rejoicing. You might think, oh, sh, praise the Lord. Oh, he doesn't do that. You think he would at least respond with relief. Whew, well I'm not happy he's dead, but at least I don't have to deal with that anymore. But he doesn't do either of those. It's a very rare response. Um he responds with he responds with great remorse, and that was our second uh thing uh point was david's remorse at saul's death and then we looked at david's rebuke of the Amalekite and he rebukes them for daring uh to take upon himself to kill God's anointing. Now I don't think the Amalekite actually did. I think day I think King Saul was dead when he showed up. But he put on as if he had. David had no reason not to believe it. That's the only information he had. So David rebukes him, and David administers capital punishment. And um he kills the Amalekite. Uh and so uh uh we had uh uh David's response was rare, David's uh remorse um at uh of uh the death of His rebuke of the Amalekite. Now, this is where we're getting to tonight. This is why I was trying to push through that. My fourth thought under David's response was this David's respect for King Saul. And that brings us to verse number 17. And I'm going to read down through the end of the chapter, so you follow along. And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son. Also, he bade them teach the children of Judah the use of the bow. And behold, it is written in the book of Jashu. Now, here's the lamentation with which David lamented over Saul's death. The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places. How are the mighty fallen? How it not in Gath, Publish it not in the streets of Ascalon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew. Neither let there be rain upon you, nor fields of offerings. For there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil. From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back And the sword of Saul returned not empty. Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, and in their death they were not divided. They were swifter than eagles. They were stronger than lions Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you with scarlet and other delights, who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel. How are the mighty fallen in the midst of battle? O Jonathan, thou wast slain in thy high places. I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan. Very pleasant hast thou been unto me. Thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women. How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished I've entitled it The Respect, David's Respect for King Saul. Let's pray. And let's look at this passage here. Father in heaven. Lord, this study of Saul, at least for me, has been tremendously helpful and challenging to live by a higher standard, Lord, to see things from your perspective. And to be yielded to your plan and purpose for our lives. I pray now as we look at David's lamentation over Saul, this tribute, this eulogy. I ask that you would speak to our hearts and, Holy Spirit, apply to our lives some truths and principles here so that we can grow in our faith, that we can be the men and women you saved us to be and you desire for us to be. I ask that you fill me with your Holy Spirit. I yield my will to you. With all my heart, I pray that you speak through me. You use my lips and my body to be a conduit to speak to our hearts, your word. And I ask this in Jesus' name, amen. You notice in verse 17, I kind of touched on it when I was reading. It says, David lamented with this Lamentation. The word lamentation has this idea, and the word lamented and lamentation, of course, come from very similar words. It means a lamentation is an act of wailing. out of deep, deep sorrow. It is um uh it can be genuine Somebody's lamentation, this wailing in sorrow for the death of a loved one or some tragedy, sometimes the people in the Bible would lament. over uh uh things other than just the death of a loved one. Uh and uh it it can and often and probably most of the time was genuine uh these people's sorrow and their wailing and going on about uh how brokenhearted they are. However, sometimes in the Bible and in history When people would lament something or they would lament with a lamentation, like it says here, sometimes it wasn't very sincere. In fact, as I understand, as I was studying this word a little bit and this idea of lamenting, back years ago, and I believe in some parts, particularly in the Middle East, it's still the case They have professional lamentors. If somebody died and maybe there wasn't many folks there and wasn't many family members Sometimes they would hire people to come in and lament with great lamentations. And oh, they would wail and they would have these little things they would go through and uh and uh just uh put on this big show. You see a little bit of that in the gospels with the Lord Jesus Christ where I'm thinking in particular, I don't have the reference on the tip of my tongue But uh I believe it was a fella's daughter died, and they were asking Jesus to come and uh to heal her, and he shows up and here she had already died And they're lamenting and they're wailing and going on. And Jesus says, Oh, quit your wailing. She's just sleeping. I mean just like that, the flip of a switch, they're laughing at them and making fun of them. You know, they went from tremendous sorrow and wailing to making fun and laughing. So uh, you know, you wonder about the sincerity of that Now, we have no reason to believe that David was just putting on a show. In fact, as we study this, I think you're going to see this was a genuine heartfelt sorrow on the part of David. And we learn a lot about David and um uh his uh uh attitude towards King Saul. We've seen it a little bit through here, but boy, it really comes out here in David's lamentation over the King Saul. A lamentation as I always study it uh is often takes the form of a chant. They would have some sort of poetic chant that they would go over and over. Do you ever see uh videos of down, I think it's New Orleans And sometimes they'll have a funeral. Anybody ever see that? They'll have the procession through the streets and they're carrying the casket and people behind are playing trumpets. and they're singing, they got these certain funeral dirges that they'll sing and go on, anybody know what I'm talking about? That's kind of the idea. Here. In fact, if you notice there in verse 17, it says, David lamented with this lamentation. In other words, it was a particular lamentation. David no doubt wrote this lamentation here, this funeral dirge, you might want to call it, or this chant, very poetic. And of course we would expect that from King David, right? Knowing many of the Psalms. He was a tremendously poetic man. It would be often be very dramatic is they would perform these lamentations or or uh or lament with these lamentations and uh very very emotional very very emotional So David's lamentation here is in the form of a Saul. Now I'm studying this. I'm looking at verse 17. David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son. And then you have that colon there. And you read this, and it seems like to me you should go from the end of verse 17, you should go right to the beginning of verse 19. The idea carries through. Let me read it that way. And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son. The beauty of Israel. And he begins his lamentation. I got looking at verse 18 there, and I thought, that verse doesn't fit I mean it's like it's completely another subject is injected in here. What are they what's he talking about? David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son. And then verse 18 says, and also he bade them teach the children of Judah the use of the bow. And behold, it is written in the book of Asher. And then he goes into the Lamentation. How many people like me think that's kind of out of place there? Anybody look at it? Yeah. And I I thought I thought, what in the world preach them the use of the bow? What does that have to do with anything? And it's in parentheses, it's not part of the lamentation that David's going to uh express here and I got study in it and I think I figured it out. I believe what's taking place here In verse number 18, David's Lamentation for King Saul that begins in verse 19, I think the title. Of this lamentation, this funeral song or dirge, I think the title of it is The Bow. Now with that in mind, look at it now. This is lamentation. And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan's son. And also he bade them teach the children of Israel The use of the bow. Teach them this lamentation. Teach them this song And behold, it is written in the book of Asher. Now, the book of Asher was an uninspired record. It was kind of a historical book. It's mentioned somewhere else in the Bible as a reference. one other time. It's mentioned in the Bible. And I'm told that the book of Asher was a book of historical songs and poems. In other words, songs and poems that had to do with the history of Israel. And they would record these various songs or poems as they were written uh particularly about the history of Israel, this Asher fellow would record these and had these in here. And I think what verse 18 is saying, for whatever it's worth, I think verse 18 is telling us that David titled his lamentation, The Bow, and it was recorded, it was placed into this book of Asher that's referenced there. Now it could either that or it may be saying that David later instructed the children of Judah to learn the use of the bow in honor and tribute to King Saul, because King Saul was apparently a tremendous archer. Apparently he was a very tremendous archer. And we know Jonathan was an archer, right? Because we read earlier, back in couple several chapters earlier, where Jonathan's shooting that arrow and you know to communicate to Paul And so Jonathan was a tremendous archer, and we have reason to believe King Saul was a tremendous archer. And so I think this is my take. This is my interpretation, my understanding of that verse 18 put in there. I think the title of David's Lamentation was The Bow. In honor of King Saul, and he wants the children of Judah to learn this, to be taught this, so they can sing and honor the king that was killed on the battlefield. So for whatever it's worth, uh uh I think uh I think that may be what's taking place here And so verse 18, then verse 19 pins picks up this lamentation. Now notice three times David makes, uses a phrase in this lamentation. In verse number 19, at the end of the verse, he says, How are the mighty fallen? I underlined that in my Bible And then you come down to verse number 25. How are the mighty fallen? In the midst of the battle. And then again in verse 27, how are the mighty fallen? Now he mentions that three times, that phrase, he repeats it three times. I think that's the theme of his lamentation. That's the theme of we could call this his eulogy Of King Saul. How are the mighty fallen? I think that's the theme there. Verse 19 through 27, I see that as David's eulogy for Saul and for Jonathan. It's a eulogy of praise and respect for Saul and Jonathan. And I want you to notice if you were paying attention when we read down through there Did anybody notice anything about this lamentation, about this eulogy? David Say writing this and singing this, lamenting with this over King Saul. Do you notice anything missing? In that eulogy. I'll see if you can get on the same brain brain waves that I'm on. I got looking at that, and I noticed there's something missing, there's something not mentioned in that eulogy. See if you can pick up what I'm thinking. Here's what I'm thinking. I notice he doesn't say anything negative about King Saul and that whole thing. How many people could have thought you could have come up with something negative to say about King Saul? Yeah If anybody could have, David would have had plenty of things he could have said negative and faults he could have highlighted and pointed out about King Saul, but yet you don't find any of it. Not one time does he say anything negative about King Saul. I thought that was interesting. Now, I know some folks would have felt strongly uh would have felt very strongly uh w obligated to point out some faults of King Saul Some people would have said, you know, I'm going to make sure everybody knows exactly how this guy treated me. I want to make sure everybody knows exactly what kind of rascal this guy was David doesn't do that at all. There's nothing negative about King Saul mentioned even remotely in this eulogy. He doesn't point out any faults. He doesn't highlight any areas of disagreement. I got looking at it and I noticed he doesn't lie. He doesn't say anything untrue. Did you ever go to a funeral? And the guy's up there talking and you knew the guy and they're saying all this stuff about him and you're saying that ain't true. They're lying about that guy. And uh, you know, I tr when I do funerals I try not to do that But uh David doesn't lie, but he just doesn't point out any negatives, he doesn't highlight any faults, he doesn't mention any of Saul's unkindness or injustice that he showed him. He's showing tremendous respect and honor for the God-anointed king of Israel and his son. And I tell you, we talked about that before, and David's response was very rare in how he responded to the death of a man trying to kill him. And here in this eulogy He's very, very positive, he's honest, but he shows tremendous respect and and tremendous honor uh for this king for King Saul and for his son Jonathan. You know, I think and uh you know people might have different ideas But to me, I've done scores of funerals. I've done so many over the years. And I don't believe a funeral is a place to trash the person That's a life that was lived. They've gone out into eternity. And uh we don't have to lie. People ask me, I've had people ask me, preacher, what do you do, what do you say when you have a funeral for an unsaved person? Somebody was a rascal. What do you say about them? Well I try and just point to Christ. I just point to Christ. They're in the hands of God. One preacher one time, there was two fellows in the town. And the two brothers, they were brothers, and uh as mean as snakes, cheat and lie, rip people off, everyone in the town could not stand the guys. They had a terrible reputation, they were just bad. bad fellas. And the preacher was kind of young preacher and the church was uh struggling. They needed money. They were wanting to do some expansion and and needed some finances and the one brother suddenly, unexpectedly died And the other brother came to the preacher. He's going to have a church service, church funeral, which seems strange. And he came to the preacher and he says, Preacher, will you do the funeral for my brother? And the preacher said, yeah, I'll do the funeral. He said, there's one condition. The brother said this. He says, whenever you do the funeral, you have to say that my brother was a saint. Well, the preacher knew he wasn't no saint. This guy was a rascal. He was a liar. He was a thief. He was a cheat. And the brother said, if you'll say in the funeral for my brother, say that he was a saint I'll give $10,000 to the church if you'll do that. The preacher said, I'll do it. $10,000, I'll do it. So they had the funeral, got up there, and they did all the opening stuff and read scripture. And finally came time for the message, and the preacher got up and he says, Everybody here knows this guy was a liar, he was a cheat He was uh unfaithful, he ripped people off, he stole, he was dishonest, but compared to his brother, he was a saint. So he didn't lie. But um I just thought that was humorous. But um So David gives this eulogy, this lamentation for King Saul. He doesn't highlight any of the faults or any of the injustice that King Saul does. He honors the king of Israel. Now let's look at that a little bit here. His eulogy and his lamentation of King Saul. First thing I notice I notice that he refers to the beauty of Saul and Jonathan. The beauty of Saul and Jonathan. Look at verse 19. The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places. Notice he refers to King Saul as the beauty of Israel. That's his reference in King Saul. The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places. How are the mighty fallen? Then he goes on, verse 20 and 21, he says, tell it not in Gath. Publish it not in the streets of Ascalon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph. Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you, nor fields of offerings. For there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, the shield of Saul as though he had not been anointed with oil. He refers to King Saul as the beauty of Israel. Again, there's no negative statements here. First thing I notice under his referencing the beauty of Israel is that David commends Saul's greatness. I looked up that phrase, the beauty of Israel. It has this idea. The word beauty there is also translated, it's the Hebrew word for a gazelle. How many people know what a gazelle is? The Israelites in the ancient days, gazelles were considered to be the epitome of beauty They were gracious, they were light on foot, they were a very attractive type animal, and they were considered to be a symbol of beauty and of elegance. And David is referring to King Saul as the beauty of Israel, the gazelle of Israel, the elegance. and attractiveness of Israel. The word beauty there is also the idea of an ornament. Putting an ornament on something, maybe on your car or a Christmas tree. What else would you put ornaments on? Uh I don't know. Huh? Refrigerator. Yeah. But what what's the purpose of an ornament? It's to decorate or to make the object what? More attractive. You got a car and you put a hood ornament on there, you know, you put a w what uh what kind of ornaments do people put on? Um longhorn horns, if you're in Texas. What Yeah, you put a ram on there, a dodge ram, and uh but then uh you put something on there to make it more attractive. What David was saying about King Saul was Now, you've got to think about this a little bit. He was saying King Saul made Israel attractive. He was the ornament, he was the beauty, the gazelle of Israel. Now I got thinking about that. That's uh quite a statement to make there. The beauty of Israel, the beauty of Israel. I think what he was saying was this, the death of King Saul was a heavy, heavy loss against the nation of Israel. And I think what David was referencing there was what Saul began as, and what he was intended to be. Saul was head and shoulders above others. The Bible says Saul was a very attractive man. And he, the potential he had In his position, with all his resources and all the gifts that God had blessed him with, he was the beauty of Israel. Now here's the tragedy of it. The beauty of Israel became awfully ugly. Became awfully ugly. I tell you, God has gifted us with various gifts and abilities, not all the same. And God intends for us to use them to be ornaments for the cause of Christ. Do you follow what I'm trying to say? And God intends for us to live our lives and conduct ourselves and interact with people in such a way that we ornament the we or we uh uh ornament the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. We bring glory to our Savior The idea is this, God intends for his people, people to look at you and I and say, my, what a wonderful Savior that person has. You follow? And though we know in reality Saul failed to live up to it, but he was he was a beautiful man and he had tremendous uh um potential there. This was a heavy loss. Saul and Jonathan were the glory of Israel. They were at least intended to be what made Israel attractive to the world. And so David commends Saul's greatness. He says, The beauty of Israel is slain in thy high places. How are the mighty fallen? What a blow this is to our nation. What a blow this is to the cause of Jehovah. What a blow this is to the people of God. Then he contained, he wants to contain the news of Saul's death. Look at verse 20. I thought this was a little interesting. He says, tell it not in Gath that the beauty of Israel is slain, that the mighty are fallen. Don't tell it in Gath. Publish it not in the streets of Ashtalon. Who lived in Gath and Ashtalon? The Philistines. These were the enemies of God. And he says, don't let the people, don't let those Philistines in Gath. That was where Goliath was from, remember. Don't let those Philistines in Ascalon, don't tell them That Saul is dead. Don't tell them the beauty of Israel is slain. Don't tell them that. Why not? Look what he says. Lest the daughters of the Philistines do what? Rejoice. Look at this. Lest the daughters of the uncircumcised what? Triumph. You know what I thought of when I got looking at that? And my mind went back to when David slew Goliath And then they pursued out after the Philistines, and they slaughtered the Philistines, and King Saul slain, uh slayed, um killed his thousands, and David slain what? And when they came back to Jerusalem, the streets were lined with the women, the daughters of Jerusalem, and they're singing out that song. Saul is slain as thousands, and David is ten thousands. And I think David's mind goes back to that, and he thinks, I don't want those dirty, rotten Philistines singing over King Saul the way we sang over the death of Goliath. And uh he's he's uh he wants this message contained. Uh there are some things, I was trying to think, how does that apply to you and I? I think there are some things that do not have to be broadcast There's some things we just don't have to get out and tell everybody about. Did you ever hear this? You don't have to put all your dirty laundry out in public. There's some things just best kept uh uh just best kept uh not outbroadcasting them. David did not want the enemies of Israel singing in the streets. Like Israel did at the death of Goliath and the Philistines. They just don't have to broadcast this. I tell you some folks get on this social media and they just tell you every nasty, dirty, n uh ugly thing Uh they get on, oh uh our church, our preacher's this and our our deacons are that and uh church but and you know that's not the pla that is not the place to deal with it Where are my wife? Where are my husband? My kids, my parents. That is not the way to deal with that. And take all the dirty laundry and hang it out there. Uh over the years, pastoring, you know, sometimes church folk mess up. Anybody ever? We always hear about the preachers messing up. I'm telling you, sometimes church folk mess up too And I learned something one time years ago. I got accused. You're covering sin, preacher. You're covering sin. I wasn't covering sin. They confessed it, forsook it, they made it right. I just didn't think everybody needed to know about it. I said, you're covering sin. I said, you know what? I am covering sin. You're exactly right. I'd like you, if you would, take your Bible and turn to Proverbs chapter number 10. You say, preacher, you're for covering sin? Yeah. Proverbs chapter 10, and look with me if you would at verse number 12. Proverbs 10, verse 12. Hatred stirreth up strife. All right, we see that. But look at the last part of verse 12. What's that say? Love, what? Covereth what? All sins. I looked up the word covereth. You know what it means? Cover it up. It means to hide or conceal. I like this definition. To keep from the public. Now, sometimes public sins need to be dealt publicly, right? But I want to suggest to you, the vast majority of the time, it's between an individual and God, and that's where it needs to stay. Love covers a multitude of sins. We won't go there. Proverbs, or 1 Peter 4. 8 says, charity shall cover a multitude of sins. Multitude of sins. Sometimes we just it takes a little bit of wisdom, but David is saying here, you know, we don't have to go and run our mouths, tell everybody in the world that the anointed beauty of Israel has been slain on mountains. Now they already knew it. He says you don't have to go talk about it. We don't have to go hang all our dirty laundry out. And I got thinking about that and looking that up a little bit, and I thought, boy, that's good advice for Christians in 2020. It's just say, all right, now you say, preacher, don't you have to sometimes? Yeah, sometimes if it's this has been my approach to it. Public sins are dealt with publicly. Private sins are dealt with privately. And I want to involve as few people as possible in the issue. And we don't have to run out. So um so David says, don't Don't go tell it in Gap, don't tell it in Ascalon, they'll just have a big time with it, and boy, they'll uh uh they'll just uh uh uh uh Who triumph in the streets and rejoice, don't tell them. So he commends Saul's greatness. He's the beauty of Israel He contains the news, don't tell it over there in the Philistines, and then he calls on nature. Now this gets interesting. Look at verse 21. Ye mountains of Gilboah, he's talking to a mountain. How many people, if you went out here to uh out here south of town, you went down to Kempton? You saw somebody standing along the road talking to a mountain, how many people would say, that guy's probably from West Virginia? Um, or uh that guy, he's some h his his elevator don't go to the roof. Or uh boy I just made a lot of enemies right there. Um uh anybody know uh boy there's something off David's talking to the mountains here. He says, Ye mountains of Gilba Let there be no dew, neither let there be rain upon you, nor the fields of offerings. For the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, the shield of Saul. Now he's obviously what? When he's talking to the mountains and saying this, he's symbolic. He's speaking symbolically here. He's saying, uh uh, listen, uh uh the gr the uh the the beauty of Israel has been Slain. Oh, I don't want there to be anything blessing. I want the mountains to mourn over the death of King Saul. David is appalled. That the God-anointed King of Israel would die in such a vile way. Look at the last part of verse 21. For there the shield of the mighty That's talking about King Saul, the shield of the mighty, is vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil. He says he just died in such a vile way, by such vile people, and he's grieving over how King Saul died. I don't know. How should a God-anointed king of Israel, how should he die? Let me ask you this. In our mind, where would be an appropriate place, an honorable place for the God-annointed king of Israel to die? Uh maybe on the battlefield here was a little bit I was thinking in a palace surrounded by his people, good old age. He served faithfully his whole life. He defeated the enemies of God. And now, just a good old age, he passes into the presence of God. I don't know. But David's saying this is not the way. This is not the way the king of Israel should have died. And uh so he uh He calls on nature to mourn over the death of King Saul. So, number one, I notice the beauty. David references the beauty of Saul and Jonathan. Number two, verse 22, he references the boldness Of Saul and Jonathan. Look at verse 22. From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turn not back, and the sword of Saul return not empty. Um, he's saying uh uh nobody accused Saul and Jonathan of being cowards. Now, Saul was awfully foolish in his administration. He was awfully foolish in his personal life. But one thing David highlighted was the fact King Saul was bold. He was fearless. Nobody accused him of being a coward. He struggled personally with envy and bitterness and how that affected him. But brother, on the battlefield, King Saul was right there. Jonathan was right there. They didn't back away. They didn't back down. And David highlights that. Then look if you would at verse 23. He notices the bond between Saul and Jonathan. And again, I found this interesting. Look at verse 23. Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, and in their death they were not what? They were not divided. I put in the margin of my Bible, Jonathan was loyal to his father, even in their death Now I got looking at this. I believe Jonathan loved his father very, very much In fact, do you remember back when we were studying when David came to Jonathan and said, your daddy, King Saul, is trying to kill me? And what did Jonathan do? He didn't believe it. He immediately stepped up to Saw Saul's defense that he wouldn't do that. He would tell me. Well, Jonathan found out, tragically, that David was right and Saul was out after him. In fact, Saul turned on Jonathan for a little bit there. But in spite of all of that, Jonathan loved his father and was intensely loyal to his father I find that a tremendous characteristic of Jonathan. What a fella. Notice what he says about both of them. Saul and Jonathan were lovely. We're lovely. Means in love, or it means they were loving to each other. And pleasant, it says. Jonathan, lovely, and pleasant in their lives. The word pleasant means delightful, sweet, agreeable. David had insight. He had been in their home. He had been part of their household. He had been around Saul and Jonathan for a long time. And he saw them interact, and he saw their attitude towards each other, and he saw how they treated each other, and overall, with some exceptions. Overall, David's assessment of Saul and Jonathan was they loved each other very much. They spoke very agreeably. They interact very pleasantly. They were pleasant with each other. Now, Saul said some awful things about Jonathan earlier, but I think that was an exception. David understood that was an exception that overall, and even to his death, even after he'd been chasing Jonathan's best friend. For years, Jonathan remained loyal and faithful to his father. And that tells me a lot about the character of Jonathan. I believe when he was right with God, I believe King Saul was a very pleasant man. I believe when his heart and mind was right, he was a very pleasant man. You know what I found, and I I hate to say it I found it in my own life. When I get out of sorts with God, a lot of times I get out of sorts with people. And I think when Jonathan was right with God, I believe he was a very pleasant, gracious man. You read early in his life and you see that a little bit. So they were both lovely, and then he points out they were both loyal. It says and in their death they were not divided In spite of Saul's failures, Jonathan remained faithful to his father. In fact, Jonathan was just as faithful to King Saul as David was. Isn't that something? These guys were of a kindred mind, a kindred spirit. And Jonathan was loyal and faithful to his father. There's something about being loyal to our fathers. You say, well, my father is not a very honorable man. That may be the case, but we're still instructed by God to honor our fathers and mothers. Regardless of their behavior, all that, we don't have to highlight it, we don't have to emulate them, but there ought to be an element of of honor there. And I just I just find that fascinating that Jonathan had such an attitude and such a relationship with his father. And then he points out they were both leaders. Look what he says here. Last part of verse 23. They were swifter than eagles And stronger than lions. Wow. What a statement. I thought swifter than eagles, the word swift had this idea to be out in front. They were out there in front just like an eagle is And then stronger than lions, the word stronger there has the idea of the ability to carry a loude. I think he's referencing leadership here. I think a good leader isn't in behind his men telling them what to do. A good leader is where? Out in front, leading them, swift as eagles. He's out there. Follow me, fellas Um uh I was out with my son, I tell ya, and I'm I'm not saying this to b bolster anything, I just an observation I made that uh he's got a team of fellas work under him and one thing I noticed when they're there cutting trees or doing whatever, uh Sam was out there in front working with these guys just as much. He could have sat in the four wheeler, like I did, and um uh said, You guys go do that. Uh but he didn't do it. He was out there in front leading them. And you know what? Those fellows gladly worked for him Uh uh and uh I think that's what he's saying about King Saul and Jonathan. These guys weren't afraid to get out there and lead. Uh and they're and they're stronger than lions. They carried their fair share I put this down. Leadership is not a position, it's a responsibility. People want to be leaders. Oh, I want to be leaders. I want to be in this position. I want to be in this position. Listen, you need to understand, leadership carries responsibility. And it's to be in the front and carrying the load and being a part of it. And so uh he he references their uh their leadership. And then last of all He refers to the beauty of Saul and Jonathan, the boldness, the bond between the two, and then last of all, the blessing. Look at verse 24. Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul. Now look what he says, who clothed you in scarlet with other delights, who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel. Well, he was a blessing to them. When Saul was right with God, he was a great benefit to Israel. They prospered, and they were successful, and he was a blessing to them And David, here's what David's doing, I think. He wants Israel to remember what a blessing King Saul was to you and how he helped you. Here's a tragedy Somebody you'll have a friendship with somebody for 25, 30 years, and one thing, one bad thing happens, and that whole friendship of all those years is trashed And you forget about all the blessings and all the good things that person meant to me because one thing bad happened and you lost it all. Anybody know what I'm talking about? And David doesn't want that to happen to Israel. His last years were not good. He doesn't say that. Everybody knows that. His last years were not good. Hey, don't forget what a blessing he has been to you. How he clothed you with uh um He says he clothed you in scarlet and other delights, put ornaments of gold. Don't forget what he's done for you. And then Jonathan, look at verse 25. How does the mighty fallen? Oh Jonathan, thou wast slain in thy high places. Boy, Jonathan was at the peak of his life in his high places. I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan. Very pleasant hast thou been unto me. Thy love to me was wonderful. Passing The love of women. David honored Saul, but I tell you, when Jonathan died, that hurt David. That hurt. He says his love was wonderful. The word wonderful means extraordinary, inexplicable. Jonathan and David had such a connection. They had such a relationship, there was no human explanation for it. It was wonderful. It was inexplicable. It was something God put in the heart of David and in the heart of Jonathan. This love. Did you ever hear this term? Anybody ever hear this term? A kindred spirit? Man, they just connect. And that's what David and Jonathan had. Now I don't even want to talk about this, I don't even want to address this, but we live in such a perverted day, they try to take that and twist that around to be some abominable perverse thing. It's not at all. David and Jonathan's hearts were knit together, and they were of one kindred spirit, even in a way that a husband and wife, hearts and minds Wouldn't attain. These guys were close. Here's what here's what I think he's saying. Jonathan's death hurt David He was distressed. He doesn't say that about King Saul. He honors King Saul. He reminds everybody, oh, what a blessing he was. But when he talks about Jonathan, a heart's distressed. He loved them dearly. He loved them dearly. There was a kindred spirit between David and Jonathan that was greater than even that between a husband and a wife. Alright, it's done. The mighty are fallen. Three times. How are the mighty fallen? How are the mighty fallen? How are the mighty fallen? Now I'm not suggesting David thought this way. But here's what we think sometimes. Somebody great, some situation falls, some man passes away, and we think the cause of Christ is over. The church is done. I'm telling you, Jonathan and Saul were dead, but God was still on the throne. And God wasn't done with Israel yet. And there's a whole nother chapter that this page turns, a whole new chapter in the history of Israel. I thought back when I was reading this, I got thinking back to when Dr. Lee Robertson resigned from Highland Park Baptist Church. This this great work, this tremendous man of God, and this was years ago. I don't know if many folks are familiar with it. I know Helen some folks have been down there And uh, you know what the whole student body, the whole church was, oh brother, this is terrible, this is terrible. Now the church eventually did go down. But what I'm trying to say is this, God, God, the cause of Christ doesn't rise or fall on one person The gates of hell are not going to prevail against the church. And one group passes off the scene, God raises up another. You say, oh, what's going to happen to the cause of Christ if America falls? You know, there's a real possibility America falls. I'm telling you this, the Church of Jesus Christ is not dependent upon America for its success and for its advancement. It's Jesus Christ is the head of the church. I don't want to see our country fall. I don't want to see us go down the road of socialism, all that But I'm telling you what, we might have to go through some hard times. We might face some opposition, persecution, but the church will go on. And I think God's going to show David that King Saul is dead, Jonathan is dead. But the cause of God goes on. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I ask that you would help us to learn from this. I just uh am so impressed with David's reason Respect and honor he shows to a man that tried so hard to destroy him. And I pray you'd help us to see you behind the events of this world and to trust you and um and to go on. I wonder with heads bowed, eyes closed, how many would say, Preacher, I need to get my eyes off of people And get them on Christ. Is there any like that? We look at people and we get so discouraged. We think, but we need to get them off of people, off the King Saul's, off the Jonathans, off the David's, and get it on Christ, because he goes on And we're temporal. Father, bless now, I pray, and help us to keep our eyes on Christ, to keep looking unto Jesus in all seasons of life. In Jesus' name, amen. All right.